28-05-2021||Kalaburagi||Covid-19 treatment still a mirage in Karnataka's Kalaburagi villages||The medical facilities in villages plagued by Covid-19-19 infections have gone from bad to worse over the last two months.  The residents of Alanga village in Alanda taluk allege that the officials didn't permit them to open a quarantine centre at the government school by collecting contributions from the residents to check the spread of the Covid-19.  However, Aland Tahsildar Yallappa Subedar (who is also in charge of Afzalpur), said that the Covid-19 patients were not ready to shift to CCCs. He said that the chaos reported last time may be the reason. "Now, the centres have been opened in well-equipped buildings," he added. Five ventilators at the taluk hospital in Afzalpur are lying idle in the absence of expert technicians. Though a Covid Care Centre (CCC) was opened at a BCM hostel in the taluk, the patients could not be shifted for a week as no doctor was deployed. Even though Shahabad, Kalagi, Yadrami and Kamalapur were carved out as new taluks two years ago, the hospitals here have not been upgraded as taluk hospitals thus far. Hence, people are dependent on the nearby taluk hospitals or district hospital, GIMS and ESIC hospitals in Kalaburagi for treatment. Ambulances in some of the PHCs are not in good condition for emergency services. Kurumayya, a resident of Hooda (B) village of Sedam taluk said the residents of the village were panicked when four people died in a single day. He said the vaccine had not been supplied on time nor village sanitised.  Kamalapur taluk's Mahagaon's Primary Health Centre medical officer Dr Vanishree Paga said that Covid-19 patients were being directed to Kalaburagi as non-Covid-19 patients were approaching the PHC seeking treatment. The Covid-19 patients from rural areas have to be admitted either at GIMS or ESIC hospital based on bed availability. The patients are being sent to the GIMS from ESIC citing a lack of oxygen cylinders. The work on setting up a permanent oxygen unit at the ESIC is going on at a snail's pace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/covid-19-treatment-still-a-mirage-in-karnatakas-kalaburagi-villages-991271.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Customs seizes gold worth Rs 13.2 lakh in Mangalore International Airport||Customs officers seized 262 grams of gold worth Rs 13.2 lakh at Mangalore International Airport. Based on intelligence and profiling of passengers, Air Customs of MIA intercepted one Siddiqua Miqdam Hussain, aged 27 years, hailing from Bhatkal, who arrived from Dubai by Air India flight IX 384 on Friday. Upon personal search and questioning, the said passenger was found to have concealed gold in paste form in his rectum. Gold weighing 262 grams of 24 karat purity valued at Rs 13,17,860 was recovered and seized. The Air Customs team was led by Praveen Kandi, Deputy Commissioner, and other officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/customs-seizes-gold-worth-rs-132-lakh-in-mangalore-international-airport-991010.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||KCCI writes to PM for relief to MSMEs amid Covid-19||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has demanded relief to MSMEs following the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. In a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, KCCI President Isaac Vas said the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has enveloped the Tier II and III towns and villages. The pandemic has created unexpected health challenges affecting the economy and its contributors, he said. Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), urban middle and lower middle class engaged in self-employment, small businesses or non-government jobs, and the scattered service sector have taken also taken a considerable beating. He felt that the packages announced by state governments do not have concrete, urgent remedies, and it is unlikely that relief can reach the affected at the earliest. The 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' packages of 2020 have not been announced for the second wave. As a result, the lower middle class, urban poor and even the rural poor are slowly bleeding and losing power to face the crisis. To help to save the economy, the central and state government should suspend the rise in petrol-diesel prices for the next three to six months, the KCCI said, adding that increase in property tax, vehicle tax, income tax, and GST rates must be halted and reduction in rates for one to two years should be considered. Vas urged the government to initiate measures to waive the Escom fixed charges for MSMEs and postpone payment of EMI of all loans of MSMEs without any compounding interest. He urged to extend the period of all compliance like submission of Form C for CST assessment, the period for construction of house property to avail Section 54/54F benefits. Further, he also urged to relax the NPA norms for loan availed. The RBI and the Minister of Finance should come out with innovative solutions for this testing time, he said. A special package should be announced for the travel and hospitality industry, including travel agents, hotels and the tourism sector, he said. The authorities should also initiate measures to reduce electricity and utility rates for the next 3-6 months and waive interest on arrears. Grant extension of due dates for filing tax returns under GST laws, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kcci-writes-to-pm-for-relief-to-msmes-amid-covid-19-991025.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Transgenders in Mangaluru get timely help from police, activists||The Samanvaya platform launched by the city police to redress grievances of NRIs (non-resident Indians) who are native of Dakshina Kannada district, in association with businessman Arun donated grocery kits to 80 transgenders in Mangaluru. Speaking after the event, City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that Samanvaya helpline number— 9480802300 had received calls revealing the plight of the transgenders following the Covid-19 pandemic. Businessman Arun decided to donate grocery kits containing 10-kg parboiled rice, dal, edible oil, and others to the transgenders. After getting to know the troubles of transgender persons, CCB Inspector Mahesh and DCP (Law and order) Hariram Shankar verified it through the association related to transgenders. Since the launch of Samanvaya, the helpline has received 22 calls seeking grocery kits, medicines, ICU beds, ventilators among other requests. By coordinating with various agencies, aid has been given for the callers. The food kits were distributed through various associations and the police personnel facilitated the process. The Commissioner appealed to the people to support those in need of help amid this Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/transgenders-in-mangaluru-get-timely-help-from-police-activists-991173.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Tough Covid-19 lockdown from today||The district administration has issued orders for a strict lockdown between May 29 and 6 am on June 7, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has passed the order in the wake of rising Covid cases in the district. As per the order, the people are allowed to procure essential items on two days in a week – Monday and Thursday — from 6 am to 12 noon. The order has been passed under Disaster Management Act 2005. However, milk booths, medical services, vehicles supplying vegetables and fruits from Hopcoms outlets and fair price shops are exempted. Except goods and emergency service vehicles, movement of other vehicles will be restricted. There was a huge rush at the markets and grocery shops to purchase required items. People in huge numbers were seen at the vegetable, meat stalls and bakeries. There was heavy vehicle movement in and around Devaraja market, Sayyaji Rao Road, and other places. The city police seized 265 vehicles for violating Covid-19 norms, on Friday. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta warned legal action against those violating the lockdown norms. He also urged citizens to cooperate with the police to eradicate coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-tough-covid-19-lockdown-from-today-991203.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC comes out with unique initiatives to fight Covid||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has come up with unique initiatives to fight Covid-19. With this, the authorities are confident in making the city ‘Covid-free’. The team, led by MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag, is all set to go to the ground level to contain the spread. Apart from conducting door-to-door survey, test through kiosks, micro-triage centres at apartment complexes are a few other initiatives. Confident of bringing down the positivity rate within a week, Shilpa Nag said, “We are identifying the cases at the initial stages with the survey and it is effective in containing the spread. The demand for ventilators will come down with the decline in severe cases.” For effective management, ward-level task forces have been constituted at all the 65 wards. The team is headed by respective corporators, environment engineers, revenue inspectors, medical professionals and police. Health inspector will be a member-secretary of the task force. Experts from World Health Organisation (WHO), from the state Covid team, have imparted training to the teams. The commissioner herself is trained administratively. Every day, they get ward level information on the number of positive cases, people under home isolation, primary contacts and others. They also take care of containment and micro sanitisation. People under home isolation are monitored and medical kits distributed, the commissioner said. The door-to-door survey is being conducted with complete safety measures. The enumerators are equipped with pulse oximeter and no touch thermometer. If there is a variation, Rapid Antigen Test will be conducted. RT-PCR test will be conducted only if RAT tests negative. The treatment will be started immediately if the patient tests positive, she said. The MCC has planned to take testing process to the ground level with help of kiosks, where basic test will be conducted. Four tests - blood pressure, sugar level, temperature and oxygen level, will be conducted at the kiosk. “We have 21 Urban PHCs and five Covid Mitras. With the kiosk, the testing process will be taken down by one more level. The civic body will decide on placing the kiosk, either at the ward war room or at the lanes,” the commissioner said, adding, with kiosks, the testing process can be centralised and avoids the movement of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-comes-out-with-unique-initiatives-to-fight-covid-991205.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||UoM: Free education to students who lost parents to Covid||The University of Mysore (UoM) has decided to offer free education to the children who have lost their parents to Covid-19. A decision was taken at the Syndicate meeting, chaired by Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar on Friday. Free admission will be given to five students each at Maharaja’s College, Yuvaraja’s College, Evening College. In addition, three students each will be admitted at PG Centre in Manasagangotri, Sir M Visvesvaraya PG Centre in Mandya, Hemagangothri in Hassan and Dr B R Ambedkar PG Centre in Chamarajanagar. If the number of applications are more, the students will be selected on merit basis, the VC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/uom-free-education-to-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-991206.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Devegowda hits out at Pratap Simha, challenges him to transfer DC||MLA G T Devegowda lashed out at MP Pratap Simha for lauding Sa Ra Mahesh and blaming officials over Covid-19 management.  Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Friday, Devegowda said, "The MP has claimed that except KR Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, all other 10 MLAs in the district, are not working. It is not possible for the people's representatives to work without the officials. We get credit because of the sincere officials.” Taking exception against the MP for criticising the deputy commissioner, the MLA said that it is not right for him to criticise the DC in front of the media. The MP, who had been appreciating the DC from several months has now been criticising her. He is creating differences among the officials and confusing the people. He has taken the responsibility from the last eight days. Is it possible to control Covid in a day or two? he asked.   The MLA challenged the MP to show his mighty by transferring the DC rather than blaming her unnecessarily in front of media. Reacting to this, Pratap Simha said, “I know my strength and have shown it through my works. I don’t need to transfer or blame the officials. I am maintaining good rapport with the officials, even with the DC. I had told her to visit the rural areas where Covid cases are high.” The MP said, "If the cases are under control, then why the lockdown was extended. Lockdown has been extended as the problem exists. It is inevitable to visit the rural areas to resolve the issue.” The MP said that he has appreciated the people who do their best. “I have lauded Congress MLA H P Manjunath, JD(S) MLA Mahadev and Sa Ra Mahesh, who has established 200-bed facility with his own fund. I definitely appreciate the people who do good work,” he said. The MP said that Devegowda is straight forward person and he knows him well. "I have respect towards him.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devegowda-hits-out-at-pratap-simha-challenges-him-to-transfer-dc-991208.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Zero Covid-19 cases in 343 Mysuru district villages||When Mysuru district has been reporting more than 2,000 cases every day and the total positive cases is nearing 1.4 lakh mark, 343 villages in the district have not reported a single case, according to the details provided by the district administration.  This might be an evidence for the increasing awareness among the people in rural areas. As per the data available, D B Kuppe in H D Kote taluk is the only Gram Panchayat that has reported zero cases. The panchayat has a population of around 7,000. There are 1,560 villages in the district, out of which 343 villages have not reported a single Covid case and are notified as green zones. Around 160 villages have cases above 20. H D Kote taluk is safer topping the list in highest number of green zones, with 119 villages not reporting any Covid cases. There are 26 Gram Panchayats in the taluk and D B Kuppe Gram Panchayat has zero cases. There are 212 villages and out of this, 119 are Covid-free, according to sources. In all, there are 266 gram panchayats in Mysuru district, including 37 in Mysuru taluk, 34 in Periyapatna, 45 in Nanjangud, 36 in T Narasipura, 41 in Hunsur, 34 in K R Nagar and 13 in Saragur taluk. Out of these, H D Kote and Hunsur have a large number of tribals. Most of the hamlets have banned people from entering, thus, preventing the virus spread. There are 1,560 villages in the district and 343 villages have reported zero Covid cases. Out of 196 villages in Mysuru, 17 villages are said to be Covid-free. Similarly, out of 219 villages in Periyapatna, 35 have zero cases; 44 villages in Nanjangud have zero cases out of 202; T Narasipura has 171 villages and only 7 with zero cases, Hunsur has 275 villages and 64 are Covid-free; there are 117 villages in K R Nagar and 22 are Covid-free, 108 villages in Saragur and 35 are Covid-free. According to an officer, most of the Covid cases during the second wave was reported from rural areas. The Health Department personnel and other authorities took swift action to combat the spread among the rural people, conducting several awareness programmes on following Covid norms. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has been aiming to make Mysuru Covid-free by July 1, as a mark of respect to the doctors, and corona warriors serving round-the-clock to combat the virus spread. Mysuru has a highest positivity rate of 41.32%, making the district administration to tighten the Covid norms announcing total lockdown from May 29 to June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zero-covid-19-cases-in-343-mysuru-district-villages-991209.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC A H Vishwanath finds fault with Covid-19 task forces headed by own party members||Slamming his own party leaders and government, for failure in tackling Covid-19, MLC A H Vishwanath said that the task forces, with various powers, formed with non-official heads in Mysuru, have no legal sanctity. “They are District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar’s illegal task forces. They are unnecessary and have no value. They are like Dasara committees, meant to exhibit their egos. Each task force head is issuing orders and directions to all the officials. There is no coordination and affects concerted efforts, badly. It is only creating differences of opinion and discord among officials,” Vishwanath said in a media conference in Mysuru on Wednesday. It has to be noted that an MP, a MLA, chairpersons of boards and corporations, of the ruling BJP, have been nominated, with major responsibilities, as non-official in-charge to manage the Covid crisis as per the wishes and directions of Somashekar. Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha is in-charge of supply and management of oxygen and also Remdesivir injections, Rural Task Force to check the spread of the Covid infection in rural areas, and the committee for taking precautionary measures against the imminent third wave of Covid. MLA S A Ramadass is honorary advisor to the District Covid Task Force. R Raghu, Chairman of D Devarj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation, is in-charge of the District War Room. Chairman of Mysuru Urban Development Authority H V Rajeev is in-charge of allocation and management of beds in private hospitals. L R Mahadevaswamy, Chairman, Zoo Authority of Karnataka, is in-charge of management of ambulances, to facilitate transportation of patients in need for hospitalisation. M Appanna, Chairman, Jungle Lodges and Resorts, is in-charge of facilitating hassle-free cremation of Covid victims in crematoriums under Mysuru City Corporation limits. At a time when Covid is declared as a ‘Notified Disaster’ under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, its provisions are applicable and binding on all, for mitigation, control and management of the pandemic. Any disaster, particularly Covid, needs coordinated, integrated and systematic response. The response cannot succeed, if it is disjointed and uncoordinated, lead by multiple-persons. Thus, the District Disaster Management Authority, is created under Section 25 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, with the Deputy Commissioner as chairperson. The authority should act as the district planning, coordination and implementing body. The authority alone has the powers to constitute ‘advisory’ or other committees, if necessary. Now, the non-official heads, patronised by the minister, are bypassing the authority and issuing orders to the officials directly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-a-h-vishwanath-finds-fault-with-covid-19-task-forces-headed-by-own-party-members-991212.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Stone Crushers Act: Karnataka HC asks state to frame rules||The High Court on Friday directed the state government to frame rules about annual regulation fees to stone crushing licences. The government had amended the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crusher Act by which certain crusher licenses entitled to deemed extension, subject to payment of an annual regulation fee. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, observed that the government is losing revenue by not framing the rules. As per section 5 (2) of the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers Act, with effect from 2020, certain crusher licences are entitled to deemed extension subject to payment of annual regulation fee as may be prescribed. “Though nearly a period of 15 months has expired, from which this section was brought in the statute books, even as of today the state government has not framed any rules for determining the annual regulation fee,” the court said. The bench directed the government's advocate to forward the copy of the order to the secretary in charge of the department concerned. The further hearing of the matter was posted to July 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/stone-crushers-act-karnataka-hc-asks-state-to-frame-rules-991213.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers’ body launches drive for early Covid-19 diagnosis||With a surge in Covid-19 cases in the rural areas of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, farmers associations have joined hands to lend a support to the rural masses. Rajya Raitha Sanghatanegala Okkuta, in association with Rajya Kabbu Belegarara Sangha, has launched ‘Gramina Janara Corona Seva Pade’, an initiative to create awareness on early diagnosis of the infection and its treatment. Under the initiative, teams comprising medical professionals, advocates and others have been formed to lend a support to needy people. In addition, a team of youths have been formed in both Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts. The team members include farmers leader Kurubur Shantha Kumar, surgeon Dr Shivakumar, Dr Pratibha Pereira and Dr Shyamsundar of JSS Medical College. Besides, retired deputy director for food and civil supplies S E Mahadevappa, advocate Ravi Kumar, writers Chinnaswamy Vaddagere and M Mahadevaiah have joined hands. The team members will help the officials to identify Covid-19 infected persons. They also create awareness about the treatment and instil confidence among the rural people. The team members will provide details of hospitals, symptoms of Covid-19, vaccination, isolation facility and also arrange telemedicine service for needy people. The volunteers establish contact between Covid patients and health professionals, taluk and district administration.   Shanthakumar said, "Rural people will be more comfortable with the volunteers, as the group is floated by farmers. The group is receiving good response from the people as many of them are calling, seeking help. In many cases, the group members arrange telemedicine services." "A farmer from a hamlet in HD Kote taluk had called for help and the volunteers offered him telemedicine service as there were no facilities nearby. The doctor attended the caller and prescribed him medicines. Now, he has recovered completely," said Shantakumar. Though the group was established for Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, many people from other areas are also calling for help. For support, call: 97400 69310.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-body-launches-drive-for-early-covid-19-diagnosis-991216.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM B S Yediyurappa reviews Covid situation in Tumakuru||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa took stock of the Covid-19 containment measures in the Tumakuru district on Friday. District in-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy apprised the chief minister about Covid curtailment measures in Tumakuru district. He said that the district was facing an acute shortage of oxygen and appealed to Yediyurappa to increase the supply. He also sought the chief minister to enhance the vaccine supply to thedistrict. Speaking to reporters later, Yediyurappa said that Covid cases went up rapidly in Tumakuru district and the situation was now coming under control. “Several steps have been taken for controlling the transmission in the district. I have directed officials to ensure positivity rate comes down to 10%,” he said. State-level Covid task force head and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan was also present. The chief minister later visited Siddaganga Mutt and held talks with the pontiff, Siddalinga swami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-reviews-covid-situation-in-tumakuru-991219.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||PU teachers threaten to boycott exam if not vaccinated||The PU teachers association has threatened that the teachers would not report for exam and evaluation duties if they are not given two doses of Covid-19 vaccination. Following the spike in Covid-19 cases and high rate of infections among the teachers in the last wave, Karnataka State Pre-University College Teachers’ Association has demanded the state government to vaccinate all teachers who will be used for examination and evaluation work this year.  “The state government should ensure completion of two doses of vaccination to all our teachers before assigning them examination and evaluation duties. We are firm on this decision and we will not be taking part in any such work unless we are vaccinated,” said A H Ningegowda, president of the association. Last year, 11 teachers, who were deputed on exam/evaluation works, had died of Covid-19. “We do not want any such incidents to repeat this year. If the government wants us to take part in the examination and evaluation work, it must vaccinate PU teachers,” Ningegowda said.  There are over 23,000-plus teachers working with government and aided PU colleges and 18,000 in unaided colleges. During 2020 exams the evaluation was conducted for 54 days as against the regular 20 days. Around 18,177 teachers took part in the evaluation work which was held at 53 centres across the state.  Meanwhile, the pre-university college teachers have urged the department to adopt digital evaluation and avoid physical evaluation of answer scripts this year considering the pandemic situation.  “It is not a difficult task if the department trains us for a few days before implementing digital evaluation. This will save time and also ensure safety of teachers. Instead of going to evaluation centres taking all the risk, they can evaluate sitting at their homes,” said another member of the association. The association has urged the department to take assistance from Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences and Bangalore University, which have successfully conducted digital evaluation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pu-teachers-threaten-to-boycott-exam-if-not-vaccinated-991221.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Aid for private school staff: Karnataka govt school teachers reject minister's request||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar's request to chip in government school teachers to help their counterparts working with private unaided schools, who are in financial distress, has not received a positive response. The Karnataka State Primary School Teachers' Association has passed a resolution in a meeting and decided not to donate even one day's salary. "It has been decided that if the government wants us to donate one day's salary, then the government should release the DA," said the office-bearers of the association. "Even if we decide to donate, then that should be utilised for the benefit of teachers' families, those who died of Covid or other people working for Covid-19 in the state," the association said. 'Humiliation' Meanwhile, the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said that the minister has humiliated the private unaided school staff by requesting the government school teachers to donate their salaries. In a letter written to the minister, the association stated, "This is the greatest humiliation for private school teachers. The government school teachers should realise that they are sending their wards to private schools. We have earlier also requested the minister not to drag in government school teachers into this. But by doing so, the minister has again proved that the government is not willing to come for the rescue of the private school teachers." The minister had earlier convened a meeting with the Government Primary School and PU College Teachers' Association requesting them to donate at least five days' salaries for the aid of private school teachers who are in financial distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aid-for-private-school-staff-karnataka-govt-school-teachers-reject-ministers-request-991232.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada: Mobile teams to visit villages as Covid cases surge||As Covid-19 cases are surging in rural areas, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has decided to reach people in villages through mobile medical units. On the direction of the state government, final year MBBS internship students, BSc nursing/BDS, MDS, Ayush graduates services will be availed under ‘Vaidyara Nade Halligala Kade’ initiative. The doctors will visit the villages to conduct swab tests and will also provide treatment on the spot if anyone is tested positive for Covid-19, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. The DC said that there is a rise in Covid-19 transmission in villages. The villagers have been hesitant to visit the hospitals for testing. Furthermore, Covid-19 testing centres are also situated away from the villages, which is also one of the reasons for the delay in treatment of those infected. The team with doctors, anganwadi workers, Asha workers will visit the houses. A Rapid Antigen Test will be conducted on anyone showing symptoms of Covid-19. The team of doctors and staff will also create awareness on Covid-19 and the appropriate behaviour to be followed. If an individual retuns a positive RAT result, then depending on the gravity of the situation, the doctors will decide whether the patient needs to be shifted to hospitals, Covid care centres or to remain in home isolation. A medical kit will be distributed to the infected as well, the DC said. The primary contacts of the Covid-19 positive patients will also be tested. Only those who have facilities for home isolation will be recommended the same in rural areas. The mobile team will also monitor the health of those infected in home isolation and upload details on the Quarantine Watch application. The mobile teams will be provided with PPE kits, masks, hand gloves, sanitisers, vitamin C, zinc tablets, hot water flask, a kettle for hot water, steamer and so on. In addition to this, they will receive a stethoscope, BP apparatus, glucometer, torch, thermal gun, oximeter, RAT kits, RTPCR/ VTMS kits as well. The DC said one vehicle will be rented for each Primary Health Centre for the use of doctors, paramedical staff and Asha workers to visit the houses. The Asha workers should visit the houses of the Covid-19 infected wearing PPE kit and N95 masks. The mobile clinic team should visit all the villages in the taluk within a week. All those suffering from cold, fever, cough will be made to undergo a Rapid Antigen Test. If the symptomatic individuals test negative, then their swab should be collected for RT-PCR test and minimum treatment will be commenced. The mobile team will visit three to four villages in a day. The DC said that gram panchayat president, vice president, members, teachers, Asha workers should coordinate with the team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-mobile-teams-to-visit-villages-as-covid-cases-surge-991246.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP lacks able candidate for Karnataka CM post: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, on Friday, observed that the lack of an efficient candidate in the state BJP for the post of the Chief Minister is also a reason for the BJP's high command 'not willing' to change the Chief Minister now. "I had information that the BJP high-command decided to change the Chief Minister while some MLAs also wanted that. They might have decided not to do that now due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation. Personally, I have no hatred towards B S Yediyurappa, but he is a miserable failure as the Chief Minister," Siddaramaiah said. "A street fight is going on in the BJP. C P Yogeeshwara wanted a portfolio suitable for looting. Efforts were made to change the Chief Minister as he could not get such a portfolio. I do not think that the BJP government would fall even if the leadership is changed,'' he noted. 'Bommai protecting Ramesh' Alleging that Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai is protecting former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in the sexual abuse case, Siddaramaiah stated that there was no instance of a rape-accused not arrested even after the victim's statement was recorded before the magistrate. "SIT chief Soumendu Mukherjee is also sent on leave, and a fair investigation is unlikely. Ramesh met Bommai, and he is moving freely. Bommai is protecting the accused, and he should resign as he has no morality to continue as the Home Minister. Ramesh should be arrested immediately," he said. 'Govt unprepared' "This government was not prepared to face the second wave of Covid-19, and preparedness to handle the possible third wave also is not seen," Siddaramaiah lamented. "Ministers initially lied about the number of patients who died due to oxygen shortage in Chamarajnagar. According to me, 36 people died there. Such deaths occurred in other places also. The government has totally failed in Covid management," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-lacks-able-candidate-for-karnataka-cm-post-siddaramaiah-991108.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jarkiholi case: No interference in probe, says Basavaraj Bommai||Following allegations by Congress leaders that the state government was unduly interfering in the investigation of the Ramesh Jarkiholi sex scandal case, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that the police probe was being conducted in an objective manner.  Bommai said there was no undue interference from the state government in the issue. “There will be a fair inquiry into the case. The investigation officials will submit their findings to the High Court,” he said. The Congress leaders were making baseless allegations in an attempt to influence the investigation officials, he retorted.  Further, Congress brushed the H Y Meti sex scandal under the carpet and had no moral authority to blame the BJP, Bommai charged.  ‘Six held for gang-rape’ Meanwhile, the police have arrested six people in connection with an alleged sexual assault video that went viral on Thursday in some parts of the country. Based on alerts, the city police started an investigation and were able to nab the accused within hours, Bommai said. A case has been registered in this regard in Ramamurthy Nagar police station and the police are on the lookout for more suspects. “The accused have spilled the beans on others involved in the incident,” Bommai added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jarkiholi-case-no-interference-in-probe-says-basavaraj-bommai-991198.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jindal land deal: Karma comes back to haunt BJP, says H D Kumaraswamy||The state government, which had decided to sell 3,667 acres to Jindal, has now rolled back its decision owing to pressure from different groups within the party. This is an illustration of why a political party should not have double standards, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said on Friday.  During the JD(S)-Congress coalition, the government had decided to execute a sale deed in favour of Jindal for the same piece of land. However, B S Yediyurappa-led opposition had protested against the decision. “The lease-cum-sale period of the land given to Jindal had expired. My government had earlier tried to execute the sale deed. However, Yediyurappa protested back then. Today, he is facing the same allegations he levelled against me,” Kumaraswamy stated. It is BJP’s culture to oppose for the sake of opposition and then go back on their stand when they are in power, he alleged. “With the BJP’s own party members opposing Yediyurappa’s decision, ‘Karma’ has come to haunt the party,” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jindal-land-deal-karma-comes-back-to-haunt-bjp-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-991200.html
28-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yogeshwar can quit govt if unhappy, says K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa has said that C P Yogeshwar was at liberty to quit the Cabinet if he was not satisfied with the style of functioning of the government. “Yogeshwar has described the BJP government as a government of three parties. This comment has hurt lakhs of BJP workers. There is no question of change of leadership in the state and all the MLAs are united,” Eshwarappa said. While admitting that there were “minor differences” in the state unit of the party, Eshwarappa said that any problem would be addressed in a collective manner. “The decision of the leaders is final and we will stand by any such decision,” he said. He said that any disagreement in the party should be brought to the notice of the central leadership, but should not be aired in public. Recently, Eshwarappa had written to the Governor alleging “direct interference” in his department.  Meanwhile, speaking to reporters in Chamarajanagar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that at present there was no issue before the government including change of leadership. “The leaders are committed to control the rising Covid cases,” he added. ‘No alternative’ Speaking to reporters in Hubballi, leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said that the lack of an efficient candidate in the state BJP for the post of the chief minister was also a reason for the BJP’s high command ‘not willing’ to change the chief minister at this moment. “I had information that the BJP high command decided to change the chief minister. Some MLAs also wanted that. They may have decided not to do that now due to the Covid-19 situation. Personally, I have no hatred towards Yediyurappa. But he has miserably failed as a chief minister,” Siddaramaiah said. “I don’t think that the BJP government will fall even if the leadership is changed,” he said. Alleging that Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai was protecting former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in a sexual abuse case, Siddaramaiah said that there was no instance of not arresting a rape accused even after the victim records her statement before the magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yogeshwar-can-quit-govt-if-unhappy-says-k-s-eshwarappa-991256.html
28-05-2021||National||Gujarat extends night curfew in 36 cities till June 4||Even as Gujarat continued to see a drop in Covid-19 cases, the state government on Thursday said the night curfew imposed in 36 cities will be extended till June 4. The state government had on Wednesday decided to relax the night curfew timings by an hour, while keeping the day time restrictions in place. As per a government release, instead of the earlier curfew timings of 8 pm to 6 am, the night restrictions on people's movement will be in place till June 4 in 36 cities between 9 pm to 6 am. Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot are among the 36 cities where night curfew is currently in place. Shops, shopping complexes, salons, APMCs and other commercial establishments are allowed to remain open between 9 am and 3 pm in these cities, it stated. Restaurants can only provide take-away or home delivery services between 9 am to 9 pm in these 36 cities, the release said. However, educational institutions, auditoriums, theatres, malls, community halls, water parks, spas, gyms, gardens and swimming pools, will remain closed in the cities, the release said, adding that these establishments were also asked to remain shut in the entire state. As in the previous week, there will be a total ban on all kinds of religious, political and social gatherings across the state. While places of worship will remain shut for public for another week, sports complexes and stadiums can operate without spectators, the release said. The public transport services can function with 50 per cent capacity in the state, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-extends-night-curfew-in-36-cities-till-june-4-990888.html
28-05-2021||National||EAM S Jaishankar to meet US defence secretary on Friday; China, Covid-19 on agenda||China’s continued belligerence along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India is likely to be on the agenda of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s meeting with the United States Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin in Washington DC on Friday. Jaishankar will also have meetings with United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai, apart from holding talks with his counterpart Secretary of State Anthony Blinken during his stay in Washington DC Austin and Jaishankar will continue the discussion they had in New Delhi in March, when the United States Secretary of Defence had visited India, Pentagon Press Secretary John F Kirby said in Washington DC, adding that they would exchange views on the “robust bilateral defence and security relationship” between India and the US. Jaishankar’s is first high-level visit from India to the US after Joe Biden succeeded Donald Trump as the American President. Austin, who was on a visit to New Delhi from March 19 to 20, was the first top US official to travel to India after the change of guard in the White House. Biden’s special envoy for climate, John Kerry, too visited New Delhi early last month. A source in New Delhi said that India’s “current security challenges” would come up for discussion during the meeting between the External Affairs Minister and the US Secretary of Defence. The stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh is still continuing, although more than a year passed since it started in the wake of a unilateral move by the communist country to alter the status quo along the LAC. The two sides earlier this year withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of the Pangong Tso lake, but could not yet agree on similar disengagement on several other face-off points along the de facto boundary between the two neighbouring nations in the western sector. As New Delhi’s ties with Beijing hit a new low over the military stand-off along the LAC, the strategic convergence between India and the US, particularly in the Indo-Pacific region, grew over the past few months. Biden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan and Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia had a virtual summit on March 12 to elevate the ‘Quad’, which the four nations had revived in 2017 to build a coalition of democracies to counter the hegemonic aspirations of China. Jaishankar and Austin are expected to discuss the future course of the Quad, apart from exchanging views on the Indo-Pacific region, a source in New Delhi said. Jaishankar is also likely to thank Austin for the role the US Department of Defence played to deliver oxygen concentrators, cylinders and medicines provided by the American Government earlier this month to help India respond to the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The proposal originally mooted by India and South Africa and now co-sponsored by 60 other nations at the World Trade Organization for waiving the Intellectual Property Rights protection on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs will figure prominently when the External Affairs Minister would meet he United States Trade Representative. The US of late extended its support to the proposal, albeit after its proponents agreed to revise it to address the concerns of the opponents that its scope was too broad. The negotiation on the revised proposal is likely to commence at the WTO TRIPS Council, which governs the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Jaishankar is expected to request Blinken to speed up the process for sending to India the anti-Covid-19 vaccines developed by AstraZeneca plc in collaboration with the Oxford University and available with the US. Since the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca plc is unlikely to be used in the US, the Biden Administration of late decided to send out 60 million doses of the jab to other countries. India is hoping to get a large share of the vaccines the US would send out to foreign countries – not only the AstraZeneca’s, but also the ones developed by the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson’s. Amid the shortage of vaccines in India, the External Affairs Minister is likely to stress on early delivery of the vaccines to India during his discussion with the US Secretary of State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-s-jaishankar-to-meet-us-defence-secretary-on-friday-china-covid-19-on-agenda-990889.html
28-05-2021||National||Pact signed between Bharat Biotech, Gujarat Covid Vaccine Consortium: Hester Biosciences||Hester Biosciences on Thursday said a memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed between vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and Gujarat Covid Vaccine Consortium (GCVC) for contract manufacturing the drug substance for Covaxin. GCVC comprises Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC), Hester Biosciences and Omnibrx Biotechnologies Pvt Ltd, Hester Biosciences said in a regulatory filing. As per the MoU, Bharat Biotech shall provide the technology for the production of the drug substance for Covaxin and GBRC will act as an advisor and mentor and will facilitate the technology transfer from Bharat Biotech, it added. Hester shall provide the complete infrastructure at its Gujarat plant for the manufacturing of the drug substance and Omnibrx shall act as a technology support partner, the filing said. "If everything goes as per the schedule, the drug substance would be available from August 2021 which will be supplied back to Bharat Biotech for producing Covaxin," it added. Hester has estimated an outlay of Rs 40 crore for this project, the company said. The entire process is facilitated by the Department of Biotechnology, it added. Shares of Hester Biosciences closed at Rs 2,717.55 per scrip on BSE, up 7.35 percent from the previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pact-signed-between-bharat-biotech-gujarat-covid-vaccine-consortium-hester-biosciences-990890.html
28-05-2021||National||2 dead, 5,000 more evacuated as cyclone-triggered rain pummels Jharkhand||Two people died in Jharkhand's capital Ranchi as their house collapsed amid incessant rainfall under the impact of cyclone Yaas, which had rampaged through the state after causing extensive damage in West Bengal and Odisha, a top official said on Thursday. At least 5,000 more people were evacuated from low- lying areas near rivers flowing above the danger mark in East Sighbhum, in addition to the 15,000 who were shifted to safer shelters, he said. Close to eight lakh people have been affected by the cyclone and copius rain triggered by it, officials said. "Two persons have lost their lives in house collapse due to excessive rain in Ranchi, while a major bridge in Tamar has collapsed," Disaster Management Secretary Amitabh Kaushal told PTI. Earlier, one person was killed due to lightning in Bokaro. Kaushal said rescue operations are still underway in several areas of Subarnrekha and Kharkhai in East Singhbhum. Cyclone 'Yaas', packing winds of up to 130-145 kmph, whiplashed the country's eastern coasts on Wednesday, before losing its force to an extent as it hollered on its destructive path to Jharkhand. "At least eight lakh people have been affected by the calamity in Simdega, East and West Singhbhum and Saraikela- Kharsawan districts. Eight teams of NDRF are involved in the rescue and relief efforts," he said. East Singhbhum Deputy Commissioner Suraj Kumar said trees fell like nine pins in many areas, and strong winds snapped cables, causing power disruption. "Many of the low-lying regions are completely submerged, and we are also forcefully evacuating people from areas with heavy water-logging. We have imposed complete lockdown with some relaxations for emergency cases and essential services," Kumar said, adding, a flood cell has been created to oversee the situation. R K Jenamani, a senior scientist of IMD, said the cyclone, which has now weakened into a depression, is hovering over south Jharkhand, 75 km west of Jamshedpur. "We have issued alerts for extremely heavy rainfall in certain places. In the last 24 hours, Chaibasa witnessed 207.8 mm rain, Mandar near Ranchi 182.2 mm, and the capital city 151 mm," he said. As many as 500 teams constituted by the state government are carrying out relief operations across Jharkhand, the officials said. Director General of Police Neeraj Sinha said satellite phones have been provided to officers working in remote Naxal-hit areas so that communication is not hampered. Chief Minister Hemant Soren has asked officials to be on their toes to deal with any eventuality. "District administrations and NDRF teams are on high vigil. People should stay indoors," he said. Health department officials said the COVID-19 vaccination drive has been suspended till Thursday in parts of the state in the wake of the downpour. Forest, drinking water and sanitation, and electricity departments have also been asked to ensure that its services are not disrupted. 'Yaas' is the second cyclonic storm to hit the country within a week after 'Tauktae' tore into its western coast, causing death and destruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-dead-5000-more-evacuated-as-cyclone-triggered-rain-pummels-jharkhand-990892.html
28-05-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Social media rules: Is it govt vs WhatsApp or govt vs you?||The new regulations that deal with social media, news websites and video streaming services have set off a debate on individual privacy, freedom of speech and governmental control. WhatsApp and Twitter have challenged them, and a legal scrutiny is under way. The most contentious points are the requirements that social media companies identify the first originator of a message, put in place a complaints mechanism, and the provision of punishment if they fail to comply with the rules. WhatsApp says the rule on the first originator is against the principles of open internet access because it would require it to break the end-to-end encryption of messages. The central government claims the rules empower the common citizen against online abuse and trolling, and weed out objectionable content. Going beyond the legal jargon and competing claims, let's understand the key points: What are these rules for?  Unlike traditional mass media (newspapers, radio, television, cinema, etc.), social and digital media and video streaming services do not have a well-defined code of conduct or complaints mechanism. And that is where the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, come. These rules were notified on February 25, 2021, with a three-month deadline for compliance. Broadly speaking, these rules mandate due diligence and grievance redress by social media companies, a code of ethics and grievance redress and oversight mechanism for digital media, furnishing of information, and general guidelines for web-streaming services. How will the social media companies be affected?  Among other things, social media companies should have a mechanism where any user can file complaints about objectionable content. The complaint must be acknowledged within 24 hours and disposed of within 15 days. Social media companies should publish a compliance report every month, mentioning the details of complaints and action taken, and the number of specific links or parts of information that they have removed or disabled. What about end-to-end encryption?  Social media companies having more than 50 lakh users must identify the first originator of a particular message if required by a court order or competent authority. What happens if they don't comply?  If social media companies do not comply with these rules, the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, shall not be applicable to them. (The sub-section states that social media companies shall not be liable for any third-party information, data or communication link hosted by them.) They can also be criminally prosecuted. What is the social media companies' argument?  WhatsApp, which has 53 crore users in India, says the requirement on the first originator "fundamentally undermines people's right to privacy". "Requiring messaging apps to “trace” chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption," a spokesperson said. According to WhatsApp, end-to-end encryption was designed to help ensure that nobody other than the person you are talking to can know that you sent a particular message. This is the exact opposite of traceability, which would reveal who sent what to whom. Traceability would not be effective in finding the originator of a particular message because people commonly see content on websites or social media platforms and then copy and paste it into chats. It would also be impossible to understand the context of how it was originally shared. Such massive data collection also makes messaging platforms inherently less secure by opening up more avenues for hacking, according to WhatsApp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-social-media-rules-is-it-govt-vs-whatsapp-or-govt-vs-you-990901.html
28-05-2021||National||Mehul Choksi's lawyers file habeas corpus petition in Dominica||Lawyers of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who was detained in Dominica, have filed a habeas corpus petition in a court of the Carribean island country after they were allegedly not given access to him, his legal counsel Vijay Aggarwal said. "The legal team has filed a habeas corpus petition in Dominica for Mehul Choksi and have also highlighted deprivation of access to Mehul Choksi and deprivation of constitutional rights to legal assistance," he told PTI. Earlier in the day, Aggarwal had raised doubts about the way Choksi had gone missing from Antigua and Barbuda only to be detained in Dominica, about 100 nautical miles away, for illegal entry. His lawyer in Dominica, Wayne Marsh, had told a radio show that in a brief interaction with Choksi, allowed by authorities after lot of efforts, the diamantaire had claimed that he was picked up at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by men looking like Indian and Antiguan policemen and was put in a vessel. Marsh had said he saw marks on the body of Choksi who had swollen eyes and feared for his life. He said Choksi is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda and not India hence he should be sent back. Aggarwal called the entire episode of his mysterious disappearance and detention in Dominica "fishy". "Lawyers for Choksi in Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica have been trying to have a legal interview with him as per his constitutional rights but they were denied access to him. After great effort they were able to speak to Choksi for two minutes during which he narrated a horrifying experience which is an eye-opener and vindicates my stand that he would not have gone from Antigua voluntarily," Aggarwal said. He said that after being taken from Antigua, Choksi was kept somewhere and then on Monday he was taken to a police station. Since then he has been there and this news to the world was broken only on Wednesday, and there were marks on his body, Aggarwal said. "There is something fishy and I guess it was a strategy to take him to another country so that there are chances of sending him back to India. So I don’t know what forces are operating. Only the time will tell," he said. Choksi, who is wanted in a Rs 13,500-crore loan fraud in the Punjab National Bank, was last seen going for dinner in his car in Antigua and Barbuda on Sunday. His staff had reported him missing after his car was found. On Thursday (Indian Time), the Dominica government confirmed his presence on its soil saying he has been "detained" for illegal entry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksis-lawyers-file-habeas-corpus-petition-in-dominica-990905.html
28-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas: breeding centres of crocodiles, rare turtle inundated in Sundarbans||Nylon net fencing to prevent tigers from entering human habitations were damaged, breeding centres for crocodiles and Batagur baska - a rare species of turtle were inundated, as Cyclone Yaas has severely damaged the Sunderban Tiger Reserve (STR), an official said on Thursday. The majority of the 40 protection camps used by the forest department personnel in the Sunderbans were also inundated following a downpour induced by the cyclone on Wednesday, Chief Wildlife Warden V K Yadav said. "Since most of the area is under water now, it is difficult to ascertain actual damage," Yadav told PTI. He said that more than 25 km of nylon net fencing is damaged as per a preliminary report from the STR. "The conservation breeding pool, as well as the isolation pools of Batagur Baska, were submerged, the senior forest official said. He said that four such turtles were rescued, while 35 others have been kept at a secure place in Sajnekhali. There has been damage to Bhagabatpur crocodile breeding centre due to submergence, though the 300-odd crocodiles kept there are safe, Yadav said. He said that 25 spotted deer escaped from Bakkhali forest camp and they are now in nearby forests and not in human habitation. Four deer were also rescued from Dulki, Sonagaon, Dayapur and Jhingakhali, a source in the forest department said. Following report of tiger straying into Paikpara, Moipith, Nalgora beat and Raidighi range, the forest department staff reached the spot observed pug marks of fishing cat only. "Our teams are in touch with villagers and the Joint Forest Management Committee to keep watch on straying of any tiger," Yadav said. As per a recent survey by the department, the number of Royal Bengal Tigers in the Sunderbans is 96. The forest department source said that 17 camps in the STR area were inundated and the personnel were facing scarcity of drinking water as saline water entered camps following breaching of embankments. The camps have no power as the solar panels along with other equipment were damaged. The STR is one of the first nine Tiger Reserves declared under the Project Tiger scheme in 1973. The STR is home to a large number of endangered and globally threatened species such as tiger, fishing cat, estuarine crocodile, Gangetic and Irrawady Dolphin, king cobra and water monitor lizard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-breeding-centres-of-crocodiles-rare-turtle-inundated-in-sundarbans-990921.html
28-05-2021||National||Video surfaces on social media purportedly showing Sushil Kumar, associates thrashing man||A video surfaced on social media on Thursday purportedly showing two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly hitting another man with sticks. In the video, Kumar and his associates are purportedly seen carrying sticks in their hands while the man can be seen lying on the ground in an injured condition. Delhi Police did not comment when contacted to confirm about the veracity of video. Kumar and his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday in connection with the death of wrestler Sagar (23). Sagar died and two of his friends were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others inside the Chhatrasal Stadium. The incident occurred on the intervening night of May 4 and May 5 over a dispute related to a property located in the Model Town area. Later, four associates of Kumar, who were involved in incident, were also arrested. The accused were identified as Bhupender (38), Mohit (22), Gulab (24), residents of Haryana's Jhajjar district and Manjeet (29), a native of Rohtak district. They are active members of the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs and were arrested from Delh's Kanjhawala area on Tuesday night. Speaking about Kumar's interrogation, a police official had said the wrestler comes up with new stories every day and keeps changing his statements. The police had said people working at the stadium or nearby areas are also being quizzed in connection with the matter. The investigating team is yet to recover Kumar's cell phone and are working to track the device, the police said, adding fingerprints collected from the spot have been sent for further examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-surfaces-on-social-media-purportedly-showing-sushil-kumar-associates-thrashing-man-990932.html
28-05-2021||National||NSA Jake Sullivan and EAM S Jaishankar meet to review India-US partnership||US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan (NSA) and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met on Thursday "to review the strong partnership between the world's largest democracies", the White House said. "Pleased to meet NSA Jake Sullivan. Wide-ranging discussions including on Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan. Conveyed appreciation for US solidarity in addressing the Covid challenge. India-US vaccine partnership can make a real difference," Jaishankar said in a tweet after the meeting. "Our people-to-people ties, and our values are the foundation of the US-India partnership and will help us end the pandemic, lead on climate, and support a free and open Indo-Pacific," Sullivan wrote on Twitter after the meeting. The US government and Americans across the country have delivered over USD 500 million in Covid-19 relief to India. "We will beat this pandemic together," Sullivan tweeted. During the meeting, Sullivan and Jaishankar welcomed the cooperation in recent weeks that resulted in deliveries of over USD 500 million in Covid-19 relief supplies from the US federal and state governments, US companies and private citizens across America for the people of India, said Emily Horne, Spokesperson of the National Security Council, White House. "They discussed a range of regional and global issues, and agreed that the United States and India should continue working closely together to address common challenges throughout the Indo-Pacific region. "They agreed that people-to-people ties and shared values are the foundation of the US-India strategic partnership that is helping to end the pandemic, supporting a free and open Indo-Pacific, and providing global leadership on climate change," she said. Jaishankar is part of India's first cabinet-level visit to Washington since Joe Biden took over as the US president. The external affairs minister is scheduled to meet Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Secretary of State Tony Blinken on Friday. Jaishankar also had meetings with the American business leadership hosted by the US India Business Council and the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsa-jake-sullivan-and-eam-s-jaishankar-meet-to-review-india-us-partnership-990933.html
28-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 28||India's Covid-19 infection tally climbed to 2,73,69,093 as 2,11,298 more people tested positive for the disease in a day, while the country's recovery was recorded at 90 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,73,69,093 as of May 27, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 3,15,235 as of May 27, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged: 2,46,33,951       Total Vaccination: 20,26,95,874   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-28-990937.html
28-05-2021||National||Global supply of Covax hit due to Covid-19 crisis in India, USAID tells lawmakers||Due to the unprecedented Covid-19 crisis in India, the global supply of COVAX has been badly hit, so much so that there are many parts of the world where one shot has been dispensed to health workers or frontline workers and the second shot has not been forthcoming, a top Biden administration official told lawmakers on Thursday. "COVAX has suffered a big blow given the scale of the pandemic in India," Samantha Power, Administrator of the US Agency for International Development (USAID), told members of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations for a hearing on the Fiscal 2022 Budget Request for the USAID. "The Serum Institute of India, which had planned to supply upwards of 140 million doses by the end of June, has had to pull back that supply because of the domestic emergency," Power said responding to a question on the vaccine crisis that has been created across the globe due to the scale of the pandemic in India. "COVAX now is looking to countries like ours and other countries around the world to contribute supply, to donate supply," she said. "The biggest issue for them right now is that there are many parts of the world where one shot has been dispensed to, for example, health workers or frontline workers. And the second shot has not been forthcoming because the expected supply from India had to be pulled back due to the crisis in India," Power said. "It is in our interest that health workers and frontline workers get vaccinated everywhere in the world as a foundation for larger-scale vaccination. I think COVAX's biggest challenge so far has been a lack of financing, lack of supply, more than any issues with country selection," she said. Last week, President Joe Biden announced that the United States is looking to donate 80 million vaccine doses by the end of June, which is five times more than what any other country has donated to COVAX. Senator Chris Coons said the variant that emerged in India is far more transmissive than the base variant. It has just made it to his home state of Delaware and is circling the world, he said. "We face an uncertain future as more and more variants will develop that could be both more transmissive and more lethal," the Delaware senator said. Power said the main challenge is the supply of these vaccines. "The key is ensuring that vaccines are available at scale and at cost. So we are also in dialogue with the pharmaceutical companies to try to ensure that a public good like vaccination, like pandemic prevention and response is resourced. "But the biggest challenge that we face is just a shortage of supply, which I think these donations (by the US) will begin to address. But we hope that the G7 and other international gatherings will allow other countries also to step up," she said. At a separate Congressional hearing, Rochelle Paula Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told lawmakers that over the last year, the US has trained more than 10,000 infection control preventionists in India. "When it came time and India was having challenges, we were able to mobilise those collaborations. We were able to rapidly get oxygen canisters to India. Our work in the CDC is really in our technical surveillance, our technical advice, our technical and scaling up capacity," she told members of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. The CDC has had a regional office in India for about two decades now, Walensky pointed out. Goldman Sachs CEO David M Solomon told the members of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee that his heart goes out to the people of India and others around the world who continue to suffer from the virus. Goldman Sachs has announced an additional USD 10 million commitment to support the relief-and-recovery efforts in India, which is home to three of its offices and thousands of its people, he said. "Our funding will be deployed to support frontline health facilities that are leading the fight against Covid-19, including ongoing vaccination efforts. It will also be used to support initiatives promoting mental health in several cities across India and to support communities with economic recovery," Solomon said. The Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access or COVAX is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines directed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-supply-of-covax-hit-due-to-covid-19-crisis-in-india-usaid-tells-lawmakers-990943.html
28-05-2021||National||India reports 1.86 lakh new Covid cases, lowest in 44 days||The single day rise in coronavirus cases in India fell below the 2-lakh mark for the second time this month taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,75,55,457, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 1,86,364 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day, the lowest in around 44 days, while the death toll climbed to 3,18,895 with 3,660 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,70,508 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 33,90,39,861. The daily positivity has declined to 9 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for four consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has further declined to 10.42 per cent.     The active cases  have further reduced to 23,43,152 comprising 8.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,48,93,410, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.16 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-186-lakh-new-covid-cases-lowest-in-44-days-990944.html
28-05-2021||National||S Jaishankar moots India-US vaccine partnership in talks with US NSA||The partnership between India and the United States on Covid-19 vaccines will “make a real difference”, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said after a meeting with President Joe Biden’s National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan in Washington D.C. Jaishankar is currently on a tour to Washington D.C. and one of the main objectives of his visit is to seek Biden Administration’s support to make up for the shortages of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines in India. “India-US vaccine partnership can make a real difference,” the External Affairs Minister posted on Twitter, after his meeting with the United States National Security Advisor. Jaishankar conveyed to Sullivan appreciation on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government for the Biden Administration’s support to New Delhi to respond to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that wreaked havoc across India. The US late last month and early this month sent aircraft carrying oxygen concentrators, cylinders, medicines, masks and other medical equipment to help contain the surge in the SARS-CoV-2 infection in India. The readout issued by the White House on Jaishankar-Sullivan meeting referred to the “deliveries of over $500 million in Covid-19 relief supplies from the US federal and state governments, US companies and from private citizens across America for the people of India” in the recent weeks. The US of late announced that it would start sending out from the next month 60 million doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines developed by the Oxford University and the AstraZeneca plc to other countries. The US President, himself, said on May 5 that about 10 per cent of the AstraZeneca vaccines in the possession of the American Government would be sent out to India, Brazil and other countries by July 4. He again said on May 17 that the US would send out an additional 20 million doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines, not just the ones developed by AstraZeneca, but also the ones from Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. New Delhi expects that a large share of the vaccines to be sent out by the US will come to India and partially help make up for the shortages of the jabs. Jaishankar is expected to request the senior US Government officials to expedite the delivery of the vaccines that would be earmarked for India. AstraZeneca has not asked for authorisation for use of its vaccine in the US, hence it is unlikely to be used over the next few months for inoculating the Americans. But unless the US Food and Drug Administration conducts a quality check on the vaccine made in plants in America, the Biden Administration will not be able to start sending out the doses to any foreign country. The Serum Institute of India (SII) is producing the vaccine developed by the Oxford University and AstraZeneca and it is known in the country as Covishield. It has been cleared for emergency use by the Drug Controller General of India and is widely used to inoculate people in the country, along with Covaxin developed by the Bharat Biotech. Sullivan tweeted after his meeting with Jaishankar that people-to-people ties and shared values were the foundation of the partnership between India and the US and would help end the Covid-19 pandemic, apart from supporting “a free and open Indo-Pacific” and leading the world in responding to challenges posed by climate change. Jaishankar is likely to discuss the India-US vaccine partnership when he would meet his counterpart and Biden’s Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, too. “The number one question on everybody’s mind today is Covid, and the worry which people have — do we have accessible, affordable vaccines? Now, we can’t have a world which is part-vaccinated and part-neglected, because that is not going to be safe,” the External Affairs Minister said during a virtual conversation with former US National Security Advisor Gen H R McMaster held by the Hoover Institution of Stanford University last Wednesday. The Modi Government itself sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 16, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses as a contribution to the Covax initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi – The Vaccine Alliance and others to ensure equitable access to anti-Covid-19 vaccines around the world. It, however, paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore and slowed down the inoculation programme in India. Jaishankar is also likely to discuss with Blinken the issue of US restrictions on the export of raw materials required for the production of vaccines. The Biden Administration had earlier this year invoked the US Defence Production Act (DPA) to impose restrictions on the export of some raw materials required for the production of the Covid-19 vaccines. The move had been aimed at ramping up production and increasing the availability of vaccines in the US. But it also slowed down production of the vaccines in India. Adar Poonawala, the Chief Executive Officer of the SII, had last month taken to Twitter to urge the US Government to lift the embargo on the export of raw materials required to make vaccines in India – like reagents, plastic tubing material, nano-filters and bioreactor bags. After the second Covid-19 wave hit India, the Biden Administration last month diverted its pending orders with the US companies for some of the raw materials required for the production of vaccines to the South Asian nation. India, however, is still insisting on an assurance from the US for an uninterrupted supply of raw materials. “(It is) Critical to ramp up the vaccine supply chain to ensure greater production and fairer distribution,” Jaishankar tweeted after a meeting with United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres earlier this week in New York. The External Affairs Minister is also likely to have meetings with top executives of the US companies making and supplying anti-Covid-19 vaccines as well as the raw materials required for producing the jabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-moots-india-us-vaccine-partnership-in-talks-with-us-nsa-990945.html
28-05-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Savarkar on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to pioneering Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar on his birth anniversary. Tributes to the great freedom fighter and patriot Veer Savarkar on his birth anniversary, Modi tweeted. आजादी की लड़ाई के महान सेनानी और प्रखर राष्ट्रभक्त वीर सावरकर को उनकी जयंती पर कोटि-कोटि नमन। Savarkar was born in 1883 in Maharashtra, and is seen as a hero, especially to parties and organisations which subscribe to Hindutva views.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-savarkar-on-his-birth-anniversary-990955.html
28-05-2021||National||Centre denies report on Covid-19 death estimates||IFR is calculated by dividing the number of deaths with the number of people, who were exposed to the virus as found in a serosurvey. IFR is always lower than the total fatality rate. In the NYT report, the researchers calculated a “more likely scenario” leading to an estimated 1.6 million Covid-19 deaths, by using an IFR or 0.3%, which is six times more than the ICMR serosurvey findings. Similarly in a “worse scenario” leading to 4.2 million estimated deaths, an IFR of 0.6% was used for the calculation, which is 12 times higher than the ICMR results. Even in the “conservative” scenario that leads to an estimated 600,000 deaths, an IFR value of 0.15% - still higher than ICMR results – was used. "These are distorted estimates on mortality. We don’t accept this. The report should not have been published,” NITI Ayog member V K Paul, a former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, in Delhi said. As of Thursday, India recorded 3,15,235 Covid-19 deaths, of which 3,847 were added in the last 24 hours. "The report is completely baseless and absolutely false and not backed on any evidence," said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union Health Ministry. Over the past few months, several experts expressed doubts on India’s Covid-19 mortality data due to the flaws in the existing death registration system and poor public awareness because of which many in rural India don't even seek a death certificate. But nobody has proposed any estimate on what could be the missing Covid-19 mortality numbers. Last week, the World Health Organisation reported that every country was facing a problem in reporting Covid-19 deaths and the actual number of such deaths could be two to three times more than the current global mortality of more than 34 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-denies-report-on-covid-19-death-estimates-990956.html
28-05-2021||National||Court blocks repatriation of Mehul Choksi from Dominica, lawyer alleges he was abducted from Antigua, beaten||A court has blocked diamantaire Mehul Choksi’s repatriation from Dominica to Antigua. After local lawyers submitted a petition before the High Court of Dominica on behalf of Choksi, Justice Birnie Stephenson on Thursday ruled that the 62-year-old billionaire would not be removed from the Caribbean Sea island nation till further hearing on his plea. The High Court on Friday extended the stay on his removal from the country till June 2, when the next hearing on the Habeas Corpus petition filed by his lawyers would be held. The court also ordered the local authorities to take Choksi to Dominic-China Friendship Hospital in Roseau for “medical attention” and “for the administration of a Covid-19 test”. The Government of Dominica earlier decided to repatriate the diamantaire to Antigua and Barbuda, instead of deporting him to India, where he would have to stand trial for colluding with his nephew and jeweller Nirav Modi for defrauding the Punjab National Bank of about Rs 13500 crore.  Choksi was arrested from Canefield Beach in Roseau, the capital of Dominica, on Wednesday. The local police earlier claimed that he had been arrested while disposing of some documents in the sea. He had disappeared from Antigua on Sunday. A report by Nature Isle News published on the Antigua Newsroom portal quoted Choksi’s lawyer Wayne Marsh alleging that police had infringed on the rights of his client who had been severely beaten. “He (Choksi) reported to me that he was abducted at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica by persons whom he believes to be Indian and Antiguan police on a vessel he describes to be about 60-70 feet in length,” Marsh was quoted in the report by Nature Isle News. Though Choksi is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda since January 2018, Prime Minister Gaston Browne’s government in St John’s is reluctant to take him back and instead wants the authorities in Dominica to deport him to India. Browne, himself, spoke to Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit and discussed about deporting the diamantaire to India, according to reports received in New Delhi. But the Government of Dominica apparently decided to send him to Antigua. The Ministry of National Security and Home Affairs of the Dominican Government stated in a press release on Wednesday that it was in communication with the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda (A&B) to ascertain some facts, including the status of Choksi’s A&B citizenship. It added that when the information would be provided by the A&B authorities, “possible arrangements” would be made for “repatriating” him to the neighbouring Caribbean Sea nation. New Delhi had in August 2018 requested the A&B Government to extradite him to India. He had however filed a lawsuit in the local High Court to challenge and pre-empt any move to strip him of the A&B citizenship and to send him back to India. Browne asked Skerrit to send Choksi directly to India, as he enjoyed legal and constitutional protection in A&B, but not in Dominica, according to earlier reports in the news portals of the Caribbean Sea island nations. New Delhi has been in touch with the governments of both A&B and Dominica on Wednesday and Thursday through its diplomatic missions in the region. India’s High Commissions in Port of Spain and Georgetown – the capitals of Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana – manage its relations with Dominica and A&B respectively. India’s High Commissioner to Trinidad and Tobago, Arun Kumar Sahu, who is concurrently accredited to Dominica, is likely to travel to Roseau next week. Dominica is often used by illegal immigrants as a stopover on their way to Cuba or the United States. The local police had detained 19 citizens of India last month when they had arrived in the island nation without valid travel documents in order to sneak into the US. Choksi’s aide Govin told the investigators of A&B that the diamantaire had plans to travel to Cuba, according to a report on West Indies and Caribbean News Online. Choksi is wanted in India, as he had allegedly colluded with Modi to defraud the Punjab National Bank of about Rs 13500 crore. The duo had left India in January 2018. The Ministry of External Affairs had in February 2018 revoked the passports issued to both of them, thus stripping them of the citizenship of India. New Delhi had in August 2018 sent to the A&B Government two separate requests seeking the extradition of Choksi. The owner of Gitanjali Gems, however, had by then already moved the A&B High Court to bar the government of the island nation from detaining him for extradition at the request of India. Browne’s government in St John’s had conveyed to New Delhi that he would be extradited to India as soon as he would exhaust all his legal options. Choksi had been reported missing at Johnson Point Police Station in Antigua on Sunday. He had gone missing after leaving his home at the Jolly Harbour township on the west coast of Antigua. He had been last seen at 5:15 p.m. (local time in Antigua and Barbuda) that day. His car had later been found abandoned by the police. Interpol had issued a Red Corner Notice against him long back. The A&B authorities also got Interpol to issue a Yellow Notice on him after he was reported missing. The Browne’s Government conveyed to New Delhi that it was in favour of stripping Choksi of the A&B citizenship and might do so once he would exhaust all his legal options to stall the move. Choksi’s nephew Modi had been arrested in London in March 2019. His extradition to India was cleared by British Home Secretary, Priti Patel, last month after the Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London had ruled in favour of it. Modi, however, still has options to challenge it in the High Court and the Supreme Court of the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-blocks-repatriation-of-mehul-choksi-from-dominica-lawyer-alleges-he-was-abducted-from-antigua-beaten-990967.html
28-05-2021||National||Farmers protest at Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway||A group of farmers protesting against the central farm laws on Friday staged a demonstration at the Jewar toll plaza here, partially disrupting traffic movement on the Yamuna Expressway, according to officials. The farmers belonging to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) had reached Jewar in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Thursday with an objective to stage the demonstration as part of their plan to carry out similar protests at some other toll plazas in western Uttar Pradesh. According to police officials, some of the protestors, including a local leader of the group, were taken to the Jewar police station around midnight. “They were brought to the station for a dialogue. We had requested them to call off the protest and vacate the toll plaza but they were reluctant to recede,” SHO, Jewar police station, Umesh Singh, told PTI. The protestors went back from the police station after some time and carried on with their demonstration that continued on Friday morning also with them occupying two lanes of the Yamuna Expressway, according to officials. “The Jewar toll plaza is open for vehicular movement. Only two lanes are blocked because of the farmers' protest,” a Traffic Police official said. After observing 'Black Day' on May 26, the BKU, which has been demanding the repeal of the three new central farm laws since November 2020, has intensified its protest in parts of Uttar Pradesh since Thursday. “Members of the farmers union are staging protest at five toll plazas in western Uttar Pradesh. These toll plazas are located in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Amroha, Moradabad and Muzaffarnagar,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. Supporters of the BKU, led by Rakesh Tikait, have been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws brought in last year. The farmers claim that these laws would hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of corporations. The government, which has held multiple rounds of official dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-at-jewar-toll-plaza-on-yamuna-expressway-990970.html
28-05-2021||National||SC to hear plea seeking cancellation of class 12 exams on May 31||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to consider on May 31 a plea to cancel Class XII examinations of CBSE and ICSE due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying the issue was under consideration of the government and some resolution might come by then. The court also sought to know the stand of the Centre on the next date of hearing. After a brief hearing on a plea by advocate Mamta Sharma, a bench Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said, "Please be optimistic. There may be some resolution by Monday."  The court also asked the petitioner to serve copies of the plea on the two boards as well as the office of Attorney General, saying they should be represented on Monday. It has yet not issued any notice in the matter. The bench said that it will wait to see if any decision is taken by the Centre in the meantime, even as it noted that the CBSE would announce the schedule for the board exams on Tuesday, June 1.  Sharma, in her plea, asked the court to issue directions to the boards to cancel the Class XII examinations, and devise an objective methodology to declare the result within a specific time frame.  “The Covid-19 situation is more severe in comparison to last year and requires the respondents to adopt the same criteria of assessing the grading/marks of class XII students as done in the last year," she said.  Her plea sought quashing of notifications issued by CBSE and ICSE deferring the exams to an unspecified date, saying students cannot be subjected to suffer uncertainty amid an unprecedented public health crisis.  The court may exercise its power under Article 142 of the Constitution to direct the boards to implement the methodology, adopted for Class X, to declare the Class XII result after cancelling the examinations, it pleaded.   Following the pandemic last year, the court had asked the boards to determine and declare Class 12 exam results on the basis of previous assessment of students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-cancellation-of-class-12-exams-on-may-31-990973.html
28-05-2021||National||Government considering policy tweak to allow 100% FDI in BPCL||The government is considering a tweak in the current foreign direct investment (FDI) policy to allow overseas investors pick up majority stake in the India's second biggest oil refiner Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL), sources said. The government is privatising BPCL and is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in the company. For BPCL privatisation, mining-to-oil conglomerate Vedanta had put in an expression of interest (EoI) for buying the government's 52.98 per cent stake in the PSU. The other two bidders are said to be global funds, one of them being Apollo Global Management. The proposal is under discussion between the departments of disinvestment (DIPAM), industry (DPIIT) and economic affairs (DEA), they said. At present, only 49 per cent FDI is permitted through automatic route in petroleum refining by the public sector undertakings (PSU), without any disinvestment or dilution of domestic equity in the existing PSUs. With this provision, a foreign player would not be able to buy more than 49 per cent stake in BPCL. According to sources, DIPAM has suggested to amend the existing FDI policy in order to allow 100 per cent foreign direct investment in a central public sector enterprise (CPSE) in the petroleum and natural gas sector. On the other hand, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has proposed for a separate provision for this specific situation. The proposed amendment to the FDI policy is under consideration for enabling investment in BPCL as part of the disinvestment process, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-considering-policy-tweak-to-allow-100-fdi-in-bpcl-990975.html
28-05-2021||National||Delhi HC issues notice to Centre on plea to vaccinate children||Delhi High Court has issued a notice to Centre and others related to a petition seeking direction to immediately vaccinate children between ages of 12 and 17 against Covid-19, according to a report by ANI. Delhi HC issued notice to Centre & others on a petition seeking direction to immediately vaccinate children between ages of 12-17yrs, in Delhi as well as to prioritize vaccination amongst parents having children up to 17 yrs of age–especially newborns to 12 yrs of age The petitioner sought to prioritise vaccination of parents having children up to 17 years of age. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-to-vaccinate-children-990978.html
28-05-2021||National||Petition in Delhi HC against Twitter for allegedly not complying with IT guidelines||A plea has been filed in Delhi High Court against microblogging site Twitter for allegedly non-compliance of new social media intermediary rules 2021, mandating the appointment of a grievance officer for timely disposal of complaints. The petition, filed by advocate Amit Acharya, sought a direction to the Union government to pass necessary instruction to Twitter Communication India Private Limited and Twitter Inc to appoint Resident Grievance Officer under Rule 4 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 without any delay. The development comes a day after Twitter expressed concern over the new intermediary rules, describing them as a "dangerous overreach that is inconsistent with open, democratic principles", as the social media giant joined the chorus of other platforms over the regulations. WhatsApp has separately challenged validity of rules in the High Court, claiming it would break privacy of users and end-to-end encryption of its service. Twitter also claimed "use of intimidation tactics" by the Delhi Police in the 'toolkit' case that has emerged as another flashpoint. According to Rule 4(c) of the IT Rule, every significant social media intermediary has to appoint a Resident Grievance Officer, who would act as single point authority for receiving and disposing of complaints within fixed time. The officer would also receive and acknowledge any order, notice and direction issued by the appropriate government or competent authority or court of competent jurisdiction.  The petition pointed out the Centre had given three months to every social media company to comply with these Rules, which got over on May 25 but Twitter has failed to appoint any Resident Grievance Officer to redress the complaints of its users with regard to the violation of the provisions of the Rules.  The company has also not appointed Nodal officer and Chief Compliance Officer as mentioned under Rules 4 of the IT Rules, 2021, the petition said.  The petitioner claimed that he as a user of Twitter found some of the tweets of very defamatory, false and untrue but when he tried to look for Resident Grievance Officer to register his complaint, he found no details of the Resident Grievance Officer on the page of Twitter, which is a clear violation of the rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petition-in-delhi-hc-against-twitter-for-allegedly-not-complying-with-it-guidelines-990979.html
28-05-2021||National||NCB arrests Sushant Singh Rajput's friend Siddharth Pithani in a drugs case||Around a year after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead, his flatmate Siddharth Pithani has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drugs case. Sushant (34), who had acted in films such as M S Dhoni: The Untold Story (2016), Kedarnath (2018) and Chhichhore (2019), was found dead on June 14, 2020 at his rented duplex flat in Mount Blanc building at Bandra. Pithani, a graphic art designer, is among the four persons who were in the flat when his body was found, three others being house help Dipesh Sawant, cook Keshav Bachner and help and cook Neeraj Singh. Pithani, nicknamed "Buddha" by Rajput, had been living with him for about a year before his death. “We have arrested Siddharth Pithani. He was absconding and he had not responded to the summons and did not join investigations. He has been tracked to Hyderabad and arrested,” NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede said. Pithani was brought from Hyderabad to Mumbai under transit remand. In Mumbai, he was produced before Esplanade Magistrate’s Court, which remanded him to NCB custody till June 1. After the death of the actor, Pithani statement was recorded by Mumbai Police and later by the CBI, which took over the case at the orders of the Supreme Court. It may be recalled on March 4, the NCB filed its chargesheet in which Rajput’s live-in partner and actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, his friend and assistant director Rishikesh Pawar, house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant, were among the 33 persons named. The NCB would file a supplementary chargesheet in the case. According to Wankhede, Pithani was arrested under CR 16/20 and booked under section 8(c) r/w 20(b)(II)(a),27,28 and 29 r/w 27-A & 35 of NDPS Act, 1985.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-arrests-sushant-singh-rajputs-friend-siddharth-pithani-in-a-drugs-case-990989.html
28-05-2021||National||PM Modi meets Odisha CM to review Cyclone Yaas damages||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday reviewed the post-cyclone situation and damage caused by Cyclone Yaas at a meeting in Bhubaneswar. The Prime Minister was received by Governor Ganeshi Lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi at the Biju Patnaik International Airport. The review meeting which is currently underway in the airport conference hall, is expected to continue till mid-day. Cyclone Yaas, packing winds gusting to 145 kmph lashed parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and leaving behind a trail of damaged homes and flooded farmland, forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in the states of West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. After the havoc caused by the cyclone, heavy post- cyclone rains on Thursday has seen river water levels rising above the danger mark, placing four districts of Odisha - Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Keonjhar - on high alert. The Prime Minister is scheduled to leave for West Bengal at 12.10 pm after an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts in Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-odisha-cm-to-review-cyclone-yaas-damages-990992.html
28-05-2021||National||India tacitly asks China to let WHO conduct further probe into Covid-19 origin||India on Friday tacitly asked China to cooperate with the World Health Organization (WHO) and allow it to conduct further investigation into the origin of the Covid-19 virus. New Delhi joined the growing clamour for a follow-up probe by the WHO, even as Beijing criticised US President Joe Biden’s recent call to the intelligence agencies of the United States to redouble efforts to reach a definitive conclusion about the origin of the SARS-CoV-2, which caused the Covid-19 pandemic and wreaked havoc around the world. “The follow up of the WHO study on origin of Covid-19 virus and further studies deserve the understanding and cooperation of all,” Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi, without directly referring to China. The WHO in March this year revealed that its investigators had experienced difficulties in accessing raw data while studying Covid origin in China. This prompted the US and the 13 other nations to issue a joint statement, expressing concern over delay and difficulties experienced by the WHO experts in accessing “complete, original data and samples” while conducting the probe in China. New Delhi avoided directly calling out for not adequately cooperating with the WHO team that visited Wuhan in central China. The MEA, however, stated on April 1 that India supported the WHO’s expectation that future collaborative studies would include more timely and comprehensive data sharing. Recent media reports about researchers of the Wuhan Institute of Virology in central China falling sick and undergoing treatment in a hospital in November 2019 renewed speculation about the possibility of the virus originating in the laboratory. It was in a market in Wuhan that the first cases of the SARS-CoV-2 infection were reported in December 2019. The virus over the next few months spread around the world and triggered a pandemic. The Biden Administration of late signalled that it would continue to nudge the WHO to conduct a follow-up probe into the origin of the Covid-19 virus. The US Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra recently said that international experts should be given “the independence to fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak”. China criticized the US call for further probe into the origin of the virus as politically motivated. “The WHO convened global study on the origin of Covid-19 is an important first step. It stressed the need for next phase studies as also for further data and studies to reach robust conclusions,” Bagchi, the MEA spokesperson, said in New Delhi on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tacitly-asks-china-to-let-who-conduct-further-probe-into-covid-19-origin-991003.html
28-05-2021||National||After 'black fungus', nasal aspergillosis is seen rising among Covid-19 patients||Nasal aspergillosis, which infects the sinuses, joins the growing list of deadly fungal infections that have tagged along with the Covid-19 virus, with at least eight patients in Vadodara being admitted on account of the disease. Two of Vadodara’s government hospitals, which are collectively treating 262 patients for mucormycosis or 'black fungus', have now reported cases of invasive nasal aspergillosis over the past week in Covid-19-positive and Covid-19-recovered patients, according to multiple media reports.  In the aftermath of the second Covid-19 wave in the country, a suite of fungal infections—black, white and yellow fungus—have been reported with increasing frequency, a trend health experts hypothesise could be a result of weakened immune systems due to excessive use of steroids to treat Covid-19 patients with acute diabetes and unsanitary use of oxygen cylinders.  The rapid spread of black fungus caused by a type of mould has prompted several states to declare it an epidemic to keep a tab on its spread and enforce measures to contain it. Aspergillosis is also caused by a species of mould found all over the world called aspergillus in everything from the air to damp soil and decaying organic matter. While mostly harmless, some varieties could cause a range of diseases in humans ranging from simple allergic reactions to a life-threatening invasive disease. The symptoms of the infection include a stuffy or runny nose, congestion, fever, facial pain and headache. A distinctive fungal ball of fungus fibers, mucus, cells and blood-clotting protein may also form in the sinuses and the infection could spread to other areas including the brain. Nasal aspergillosis is sometimes also linked with bone loss of the facial bones.  Invasive nasal aspergillosis is far more common in severely immunocompromised patients, though non-invasive types can occur even in normal hosts, studies on the disease have shown. Nasal aspergillosis has also been found to have a case fatality rate or deaths-to-cases ratio of 66%, according to a 2001 paper titled Aspergillosis Case-Fatality Rate: Systematic Review of the Literature. All the fungal infections cropping up in the country at present are treated with a single antifungal drug called Amphotericin B, but the study had found that mortality due to the aspergillosis family of infections was high “despite improvements in diagnosis and despite the advent of newer formulations of amphotericin B.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-black-fungus-nasal-aspergillosis-is-seen-rising-among-covid-19-patients-991008.html
28-05-2021||National||GST Council meet begins, tax rate cut on Covid-19 essentials, compensation to states on agenda||The GST Council in its meeting on Friday would take up for discussion proposal for a cut in the tax rate on Covid-19 medicines, vaccines and oxygen equipments as well as means to make up for the shortfall in revenues promised to states. The 43rd GST Council meeting, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state finance ministers, is being held via video conferencing. The council is meeting for the first time in nearly eight months. Ahead of the first meeting of the top decision-making body, finance ministers of eight states ruled by non-BJP and its like-minded parties -- Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Kerala and West Bengal -- have devised a joint strategy to press for a zero tax rate on Covid essentials, sources said. Besides discussion on tax rates, the council may also deliberate on the estimated Rs 2.69 lakh crore that states need to be provided as per the promise in 2017 to make good any loss in revenue they suffer because of giving up their right to levy VAT and other taxes. Sources said the Fitment Committee on GST rates, comprising tax officers of centre and states, has also given its report to the council listing out the pros and cons of waiver and zero-rating of Covid vaccines, drugs and other equipment. Exempting final product from GST would deny manufacturers from claiming the benefit of the input tax credit on raw materials and hence not much benefit accrues to consumers. Hence, it needs to be seen whether the council decides to exempt these items from GST or cut rates. Currently, domestic supplies and commercial imports of vaccines attract a 5 per cent goods and services tax (GST), while Covid drugs and oxygen concentrators attract a 12 per cent levy. With regard to the issue of compensation payable to states, the centre has estimated the shortfall at Rs 2.69 lakh crore. The centre expects to collect over Rs 1.11 lakh crore through cess on luxury, demerit and sin goods which will be given to the states to compensate them for the shortfall in revenue arising out of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 1.58 lakh crore would have to be borrowed to meet the promised compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-council-meet-begins-tax-rate-cut-on-covid-19-essentials-compensation-to-states-on-agenda-991013.html
28-05-2021||National||Nepal's Chief Justice forms Constitutional Bench to hear writ petitions against House dissolution||Nepal's Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana has picked four justices of the Supreme Court (SC) for the Constitutional Bench to hear the 30 writ petitions filed against the dissolution of the House of Representatives by the President, according to a media report on Friday. There is a provision of a five-member Constitutional Bench to settle the disputes over constitutional matters. As many as 30 writ petitions have been registered at the apex court against President Bidya Devi Bhandari’s May 22 move to dissolve the lower house of Parliament on the advice of Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, who is heading a minority government. The newly-formed bench includes justices Dipak Kumar Karki, Aanand Mohan Bhattarai, Tej Bahadur KC and Bam Kumar Shrestha, besides the chief justice, The Kathmandu Post reported. “Chief Justice Rana has formed the bench comprising seniormost justices,” Kishor Poudel, a communication expert at the Supreme Court, told the Post. Currently, there are 13 senior justices, besides chief justice, in the Supreme Court. The initial hearing on 19 of such petitions was conducted by the CJ Rana-led bench on Thursday. The single bench, however, forwarded the writ petitions to the Constitutional Bench for further hearing. Some of the petitioners had demanded an interim against the dissolution and calling of the House meeting to present the national budget. Rana, however, refused. According to the constitutional provision, the government must present the federal budget at the federal Parliament by May 29. Since there is no Parliament, the government is planning to bring the budget through an ordinance. President Bhandari dissolved the 275-member House of Representatives on Saturday for the second time in five months and announced snap elections on November 12 and November 19 on the advice of Prime Minister Oli. She rejected the bids of both Prime Minister Oli and the Opposition alliance's claims to form a government. Oli and Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba had staked separate claims to the premiership, saying the “claims were insufficient.” Nepal's Opposition alliance on Monday filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court demanding restoration of the House of Representatives and appointment of Deuba as the Prime Minister. Others had also filed petitions against the dissolution of the House of Representatives. Earlier on December 20, the President had dissolved the Parliament and called snap polls on April 30 and May 10. However, two months later, the Rana-led Constitutional Bench on February 23 overturned the decision and reinstated the House. Constitutional experts have criticised Oli and Bhandari for their complicity in trampling upon the Constitution. Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 last year after President Bhandari dissolved the House and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10 at the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli, amidst a tussle for power within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP). Oli's move to dissolve the House sparked protests from a large section of the NCP led by his rival Pushpa Kamal Dahal 'Prachanda'. In February, the apex court reinstated the dissolved House, in a setback to Oli who was preparing for snap polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepals-chief-justice-forms-constitutional-bench-to-hear-writ-petitions-against-house-dissolution-991028.html
28-05-2021||National||SC directs states to provide immediate relief to children orphaned due to Covid||The Supreme Court Friday directed the state authorities to immediately identify children orphaned during the Covid-19 pandemic and provide them relief, observing it cannot even imagine how many suffered. It asked state governments to understand the agony of children starving on the streets and directed district authorities to take care of them without waiting for any further order. A vacation bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose directed district administrations to identify the orphans in their areas and upload their data on the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) website by Saturday evening. The direction came on an application filed by amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal in the pending suo motu case. He sought identification of orphaned children due to Covid-19 to provide them immediate relief. The bench said state governments must inform it of the position of these children and the steps they have taken. “We have read somewhere that in Maharashtra over 2,900 children have lost their one or both the parents due to Covid-19. We don’t have an exact number of such children. We cannot even imagine how many such children in this large country have got orphaned due to this devastating pandemic,” the bench said. The top court noted that the Centre has already issued an advisory to the concerned authorities for the protection of children, who have lost their parents due to Covid-19. “There is an obligation on the part of the authorities to ensure such children in need are taken care of,” the bench said, while referring to various provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-states-to-provide-immediate-relief-to-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-991029.html
28-05-2021||National||NGT imposes over Rs 1.17 crore penalty on 21 stone crushers in AP for causing pollution||The National Green Tribunal has slapped over Rs 1.17 crore penalty on 21 stone crushing and quarrying units for causing pollution and damage to the environment. A bench comprising Justice K Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta directed the violators to pay the compensation of Rs 1,17,40,800 within three months. It warned that if the amount is not paid, then the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) is directed to take appropriate steps to realise the amount with the aid of concerned District Collector by initiating necessary proceedings in accordance with law. The bench also asked the APPCB to make periodical inspection of these crusher units and if any violation is found or there is non-compliance of recommendations, "then the Board is directed to take appropriate action against the erring units, apart from issuing closure direction, assess environmental compensation and recover the amount from them on the basis of the guidelines provided by the Central Pollution Control Board in this regard”. The APPCB is further directed to submit a status of recovery of compensation directed to be paid by each unit periodically once in four months and if such reports are filed, the office is directed to place them before this Bench, it said. The tribunal's judgement came on a plea filed by farmer K Hiroji Rao regarding the operation of the stone crusher units and the pollution caused in adjoining village of Nemakal, Untekal in Bommanahal Mandal, Ananthpur District of Andhra Pradesh. According to the plea, filed through advocate Sravan Kumar, these units are situated adjacent to each other and nearby villages as well as agricultural lands and old Anjaneya Swami Temple. The NGT said these 21 crusher units enumerated in the report by a committee formed by it have caused damage and committed violation and they are liable to pay compensation for the violation committed and also the damage caused to the environment on account of their operations. The green panel also said the compensation in respect of persons affected cannot be considered in this application, as they were not before this Tribunal and there is no data available regarding the nature of damage caused to each individual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-imposes-over-rs-117-crore-penalty-on-21-stone-crushers-in-ap-for-causing-pollution-991035.html
28-05-2021||National||Everyone will be vaccinated for Covid-19 by December, says Prakash Javadekar||Asserting that the Covid-19 vaccination will be complete in India by December this year, the BJP on Friday slammed Rahul Gandhi for his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the pandemic's spread and said the language he used and the way he tried to stoke "fears" confirm that the Congress was behind the "toolkit". Speaking to reporters, senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar noted that the health ministry had recently given a roadmap about producing 216 crore doses by December and how 108 crore people will be vaccinated, as he rebutted Gandhi's claim that it may take three years to finish the exercise, considered critical to curb the disease. Attacking the Congress leader, the Information and Broadcasting minister alleged that his choice of words like "nautanki" for the prime minister when Modi is working to curb Covid is part of the toolkit's script, referring to a controversial document about targeting the government. The BJP has claimed that the Congress is behind it, a charge the opposition party has rejected. It has instead blamed the BJP and sought police probe into the matter. "It has been confirmed, and there is no need for any evidence. It is clear that the toolkit was produced by you. The kind of language you used and the way you tried to stoke confusion and fear among people is part of that politics," Javadekar said. People have instead put an end to his "nautanki", he added, an apparent pointer to the series of electoral setbacks the opposition party has suffered over the years. What Gandhi has said is an insult to the country and people, he added. India ranks second in the world in the scale of vaccination by administering over 20 crore doses, and it is set to see a big jump from August, he said. The BJP leader said Gandhi should rather be concerned about the Congress-ruled states as they have not been able lift their quota from vaccine producers. Noting that Gandhi had stressed the importance of vaccination, he said this is what the government has been saying and working on from the beginning and cited the production of two vaccines in India. Attacking the Congress, Javadekar said its leaders raised questions and spread doubts about the indigenously manufactured Covaxin. Modi put all such questions to rest by opting for this jab himself, the minister said. Javadekar also raised the issue of alleged poor health infrastructure conditions in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan and also highlighted "regular" cases of atrocities against women there. An woman MP was also attacked by Congress "goons", he said. "Instead of preaching the country, look at Rajasthan," he told Gandhi. Earlier, Gandhi had held Modi's responsible for the second coronavirus wave and warned of more waves at the current rate of vaccination. Calling on the government to evolve a vaccine strategy for the entire population, he noted that India is the vaccine capital of the world and it is possible to escalate the inoculation drive as only three per cent of the people have received both doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/everyone-will-be-vaccinated-for-covid-19-by-december-says-prakash-javadekar-991040.html
28-05-2021||National||HC grants more time to Robert Vadra for reply to I-T notices under black money law||The Delhi High Court Friday gave three more weeks to businessman Robert Vadra to respond to notices issued to him by the Income Tax (I-T) Department under the black money law. The court allowed the I-T Department to continue with the assessment proceedings but restrained it from passing the final order. A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh issued notice to the I-T Department and asked it to file within four weeks its response to Vadra's petition challenging notices issued to him on December 4, 2018 and December 18, 2019 under Section 10(1) of the Black Money Act, 2015. The court listed the matter for further hearing on August 10. Vadra, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law, sought to declare as illegal and unconstitutional the 2018 and 2019 notices as well as a show-cause notice issued to him on May 7 this year, along with May 17 and May 22 letters being violative of Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. Vadra alleged that the conduct of the authorities in issuing five communications to him is reflective of their mala fide attempt to pursue a political vendetta against him, his wife Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who is the General Secretary of Indian National Congress and his in-laws. The notice alleged that he acquired beneficial interest or ownership in 2010 in the property at 12 Ellerton House, Bryanston Square in London, though its legal ownership was transferred in the name of Skylite Investment FZE, a company incorporated in the UAE. It was alleged the London property was taken care by arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari's nephew Sumit Chadha under Vadra's constant monitoring, instructions or directions. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing Vadra, contended that the basis of the notices are documents of Bhandari, a statement given by Manoj Arora, said to be Vadra's close aide, and foreign enquiries and 18 e-mails. He claimed that the department has not given time or supplied all documents to them. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the I-T Department, said the first notice was issued to Vadra three years ago and the deadline to respond is May 31. He said the petitioner sought 15 adjournments till now. In a related development, the court posted for consideration on June 3, a batch of petitions by Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and others challenging the revenue department's decision to transfer their I-T assessments from one section to another on the ground that their cases will be treated along with Sanjay Bhandari's group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-more-time-to-robert-vadra-for-reply-to-i-t-notices-under-black-money-law-991041.html
28-05-2021||National||Over 1.84 crore Covid vaccine doses available with states, more on way: Health Ministry||More than 1.84 crore coronavirus vaccine doses are currently available with states and union territories, and three lakh more will be received by them in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The central government has so far provided, through the free of cost channel and direct state procurement, more than 22.46 crore doses to states and UTs. Of these, the total consumption, including wastage, is 20,48,04,853 doses, according to data available till 8 AM on Friday. A total of 1,84,92,677 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the ministry said, adding 3,20,380 more doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them vaccines free of cost. In addition, the central government has been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the Government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with test, track, treat and Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. Implementation of the liberalised and accelerated Phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination has started from May 1. Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Government of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the states free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-184-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-more-on-way-health-ministry-991045.html
28-05-2021||National||PM Modi's rating falls due to 'ineffective handling' of Covid-19||The Narendra Modi government has witnessed an 11 percentage point decline in citizen rating in its second year majorly owing to the "ineffective handling" of Covid-19, according to a survey. The Local Circles survey, covering around 1.69 lakh responses from around 70,000 people, claimed that 51 per cent citizens surveyed rate Modi government 2.0 as meeting or exceeding their expectations -- a drop from 61 per cent in May 2020 and 75 per cent in March 2019. While the survey pointed to the "ineffective handling" of the Covid-19 second wave as the "primary driver" for drop in the rating, it also claimed that there is reduction in harassment by tax officials, making easier to start up and reduction in terrorism are areas of positive rating. It also showed that people were appreciative of the government's handling of the first Covid-19 wave and the recovery of the economy. For regaining citizen confidence, the survey suggested that it was critical for the government to orchestrate a successful recovery from the second wave, ramping up vaccination and effectively preparing for future waves. According to the survey, 21 per cent said the government exceeded expectations while 30 per cent were of the view that it met their expectations. However, 49 per cent felt it had not been the case. On the handling of Covid-19 second wave, 32 per cent said the government "quite poorly" handled the situation while 18 per cent were of the view that it was not effective. Another 27 per cent were impressed with government interventions ranking its efforts as very effective while 22 per cent felt that it was somewhat effective. When citizens were asked about the development, procurement, distribution, appointments, roll out and administration of the Covid-19 vaccine, the survey claimed, only 55 per cent of citizens believe that the Government handled it well. "66 per cent of citizens believe that the Government has effectively handled the economic recovery post the 1st wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, wrong priorities, lack of preparedness, and indecisiveness led to significant damage in the Covid 2nd wave that has dented the confidence of a section of the population in the government," it said. On the unemployment issue, 61 per cent were of the view that the government has not been able to address it while 27 per cent said it managed. More than half of those responded -- 51 per cent -- said they don't believe that corruption has reduced in the last two years while 39 per cent were of the view that the government has been successful. When it comes to India's image and influence over the world, 59 per cent felt it has improved during Modi 2.0 while 35 per cent answered in the negative. While 61 per cent believed that the Modi government has been able to effectively handle Parliament and deliver on key bills, 33 per cent felt otherwise. Asked whether the prices of essential commodities and cost of living have reduced in the past two years, a whopping 77 per cent answered "no" while 19 per cent answered in the affirmative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-rating-falls-due-to-ineffective-handling-of-covid-19-991056.html
28-05-2021||National||Union minister Prahlad Patel accuses Kejriwal of using national flag as 'decoration'||Union Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel has hit out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, accusing him of using the national flag as a "decoration" during televised media addresses. In a letter to Kejriwal, the Union minister alleged that the flag seen behind the chief minister during his press briefings appears to be in violation of the flag code. "It appears that the national flag has been used for decoration. The white portion in the centre appears to have been reduced and the green portion added to it, which is not in tune with provisions of the Indian Flag Code specified by the Ministry of Home Affairs," Patel wrote in the letter. "I do not expect such an act, knowingly or unknowingly, from the honourable chief minister," he added. A copy of the letter has also been marked to Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. Patel also sought to draw the chief minister's attention towards section 2(ix) of The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, which states that the flag should not be used to decorate a speaker's stage. Section 2.2(1) states that the status of the flag should be respectful, he added. "Being a resident of India and holding the post of the proud chief minister of a state, everyone expects you to maintain the honour and the dignity of the Tricolour, a symbol of national pride," Patel wrote in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-prahlad-patel-accuses-kejriwal-of-using-national-flag-as-decoration-991065.html
28-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India's vaccine woes continue, is there a solution though?||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-indias-vaccine-woes-continue-is-there-a-solution-though-991069.html
28-05-2021||National||'Tsunami of bodies' in Surat suggests official Covid-19 death toll is too low||At least seven crematoriums and graveyards in Gujarat's Surat saw a more than three-fold rise in the number of cremations and burials last month compared with a year ago, suggesting many more Covid-19 fatalities than an official tally. The data, gathered from site visits and logs reviewed by Reuters, shows the facilities buried or cremated more than 6,520 bodies in April 2021, up from about 1,980 in April 2020, in the early part of the first wave of coronavirus infections. Official data for the district of Surat, home to about 60 lakh people, indicates however that a total of only 585 Covid-19 deaths were recorded for both the city and district in April this year. The discrepancy between the number of deaths recorded by the crematoriums and graveyards and those officially linked to the virus raises questions about the accuracy of Surat's fatality data at a time when healthcare experts have raised concern about significant underreporting of Covid-19 deaths across India. Surat municipal commissioner Banchha Nidhi Pani said large numbers of patients had come from outside the city, inflating the figures from the city's crematoriums and graveyards. "The increase in the number of deaths can be largely attributed to this," he said. State government data shows 1,205 probable Covid-19 deaths in Surat in April were those of people from other places, he said. Reuters reported last month that several major cities were reporting far larger numbers of cremations and burials under coronavirus protocols than official Covid-19 death tolls. The new figures, from all of the large facilities in Surat, are among the most comprehensive for an Indian city to date. They tally with media reports from hospitals and death certificate data across the state of Gujarat, home to Surat. Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati-language newspaper, reported 1,23,873 death certificates were issued in the state from March 1 to May 10, up from 58,068 for the corresponding period last year. Registered deaths in Surat rose by a similar amount. Gujarat’s junior home minister, Pradipsinh Jadeja, said in response that the state government had a transparent online system of issuing death certificates, and the disparity could stem from delayed reporting in the same 2020 period because of a coronavirus lockdown nationwide. 'Tsunami of bodies' At Ashwini Kumar crematorium, the largest in the city best known for its diamond-polishing industry, there were 3,129 cremations in April, according to trustee Prashant Kabrawala. That is up from about 1,200 in April 2020. Nine gas crematoriums, capable of processing a body every 45 minutes, worked non-stop, with some relatives not being given time to pay their respects, he said. "It was like a tsunami of bodies," said Subash, a senior official at the cremation ground, who declined to be identified by his second name. "We were going to collect bodies from hospitals every 25 to 30 minutes. Even at night the surge did not stop." At Kurukshetra crematorium, the city's second-largest, furnaces ran for so long without a break that a chimney collapsed because of overheating. White smoke billowed out of three chimneys as bodies were being burnt.  The facility cremated more than 100 bodies a day on several days in April, according to records. At a crematorium in the Umra area -- the city's third-largest -- Reuters reviewed data showing 212 bodies were cremated in April 2020. This year, it rose to 874. The trend was the same at four Muslim burial grounds visited by Reuters, where workers have had to hire mechanical excavators to keep up with demand. At the Gore Gariba Kabrastan, the oldest and largest graveyard in Surat, the number of burials jumped to an all-time high of 91 in April this year, compared with 19 in the same month last year, according to Aiyub Mohamed Yacoobali, secretary and managing trustee of the site. "The average number is around 20 a month, but this April has been extraordinarily harsh," he said. The graveyard employs four permanent grave diggers but had to hire two more due to the unprecedented rush for burials. Even that wasn't enough. "The six grave diggers were working non-stop, but the situation was still unmanageable," Yacoobali said. "We had to hire a JCB in April to dig the graves," he said, referring to a mechanical digger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tsunami-of-bodies-in-surat-suggests-official-covid-19-death-toll-is-too-low-991074.html
28-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Suspension of scheduled international passenger flights extended till June 30||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till June 30, aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020, and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with select countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 27 countries including the US, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA's Friday circular also said that the suspension does not affect international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it. The decision to extend the suspension on scheduled international passenger flights comes as India battles a second wave of coronavirus, even though daily cases have seen a steady decline over the past several days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-suspension-of-scheduled-international-passenger-flights-extended-till-june-30-991079.html
28-05-2021||National||PM's image dead, brutal third Covid wave likely, says Rahul Gandhi; BJP hits back at 'mindless blabbering'||Launching a frontal attack, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image of a strong leader was dead and said that it was time he started worrying about the Covid-19 crisis that could bring further miseries if not controlled soon. Addressing a virtual press conference, the former Congress President also cautioned about a “more brutal” third wave of the Covid-19 if the Modi government failed to fine-tune the vaccination strategy to prevent the virus from spreading further. “I guarantee you, at 3% vaccination we are going to get a third wave and it is going to be more brutal than the second wave. If we continue to leave space open, there will be a fourth & fifth wave and then there is a chance the vaccine won't work,” Gandhi said. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan dismissed Gandhi’s remarks as “mindless and meaningless blabbering”, while I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar said the government would complete the vaccination drive by December this year. “While the responsible citizens of India are using the precious internet bandwidth to keep the wheels of economy churning by working from their homes, the only tangible outcome of senseless, mindless & meaningless blabbering by Rahul Gandhi is the wastage of this precious resource,” Pradhan said. Gandhi held the Prime Minister responsible for the second wave of Covid-19 and accused the government of failing to put together a strategy to tackle the pandemic. “The Prime Minister doesn't think strategically. He is an event manager, he thinks one event at a time... You don't need events now. Events are going to kill people, you need a strategy. The aim of the strategy is – shut the space for corona,” Gandhi said. The Congress leader accused that instead of planning to keep the third wave of Covid-19 away, the Prime Minister was worried about his image, which had taken a beating. “The PM is terrified, he is in shock. He is trying to figure out how he repairs his image. His image is gone, dead. I would request him to stop worrying about his image and start worrying about the problem in front of him,” Gandhi said. He assured the Prime Minister that the entire opposition was with the government in the fight against the pandemic and urged him to form a panel that could consult experts and devise a strategy to battle Covid-19 effectively. “The most important thing is that listen to the people who are trying to help people, be it opposition leaders, bureaucrats... If Baghel ji, Narendra Modi ji, Mamata ji are on the same page, we can tackle the virus,” Gandhi said, referring to the chief ministers of Chhattisgarh and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-image-dead-brutal-third-covid-wave-likely-says-rahul-gandhi-bjp-hits-back-at-mindless-blabbering-991080.html
28-05-2021||National||One in three tests Covid-19 positive in Chhattisgarh village: Report||A serious outbreak of Covid-19 has reportedly infected almost one in every three residents of a village in Chhattisgarh’s Naxal-dominated Sukma district, puzzling officials as to how the virus reached the remote pocket of the state. Sukma has logged 5,755 Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths in total but it has the lowest active cases in the state, numbering only 155, but the spread of the virus to smaller faraway corners like Karma Gondi that have little access to health facilities is a worrying trend for officials.  A Covid-19 team from Chhindgarh arrived in the village two weeks ago after a pregnant woman was diagnosed with the virus and was alerted about a possible spread in Karma Gondi. Neharu Markam, who was part of the team, told the publication that 41 people had tested positive the first day. “All of them had fever. We conducted door-to-door surveillance, and tested those with symptoms first.” Sukma’s District Collector Vineet Nandanwar, however, told the publication the focus was on early detection, stringent monitoring, and breaking the chain. “We have made clusters of small villages and appointed nodal heads. We are prepared for over 2,000 cases at a time, even though our active cases have never crossed 500.” A number of theories for the origin of the outbreak have surfaced, including returnees from Andhra Pradesh and gatherings to collect tendu leaves, but no exact reason has been pinpointed so far.  While caseload and positivity rates in urban centres have shown signs of descent in recent times, the virus’ spread inside rural and tribal areas has kept health officials on their guard, with the Indian Council of Medical Research issuing stricter guidelines for Covid-19 management in these regions two weeks ago. In Sukma, medical infrastructure is not the only challenge, as officials must also find ways of bridging the trust gap between locals and the government machinery. Nandanwar told the daily that villagers had recently picked up bows and arrows in an attempt to attack the health team, accusing them of “intentionally” testing them positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-in-three-tests-covid-19-positive-in-chhattisgarh-village-report-991081.html
28-05-2021||National||HC declines to consider plea to restrain 'media trial' of wrestler Sushil Kumar||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to consider a plea to restrain the media from sensationalising criminal proceedings initiated against Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old wrestler. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said Kumar is a "vigilant person" and the court cannot entertain a PIL on his behalf. "Let that man come. We see no reason to entertain litigation on behalf of a vigilant person," the bench said. The plea was filed by a law student, Shrikant Prasad.  It was contended in the petition that Kumar’s career and reputation were tarnished by sensational media reporting against him in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl that led to the death of a wrestler.  On Thursday, a video grab also surfaced and played out by the media wherein Kumar was purportedly shown beating the deceased with a stick. According to the plea, the excessive publicity of the suspect in the media before the trial in a court of law, either incriminates a fair trial or results in characterising the suspect as the one who has certainly committed the crime. This amounts to undue interference with the "administration of justice”, it claimed.  The media has now transformed itself into “janta adalats” or “public courts” and has started intervening in the proceedings of the court. The vital gap between a convict and an accused is completely overlooked by the media which disregards the cardinal principles of ‘presumption of innocence until proven guilty’ and ‘guilt beyond reasonable doubt’ in its reporting, it claimed. The Delhi police claimed Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted fellow wrestler Sagar Dhankar and his two friends Sonu and Amit Kumar at the stadium on May 4 night over a dispute related to monetary transaction. Dhankar succumbed to his injuries later.  The Delhi Police have filed an FIR under Sections 302 (murder), 308 (culpable homicide), 365 (kidnapping), 325 (causing grievous hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. They have also included Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of IPC and various sections under the Arms Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-declines-to-consider-plea-to-restrain-media-trial-of-wrestler-sushil-kumar-991088.html
28-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka 2nd PU exams may go online||In your evening news brief, the Supreme Court directs states to provide immediate relief to children orphaned due to the Covid-19 pandemic; Rahul Gandhi lashes out at PM Modi and Karnataka 2nd PU exams may go online.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 28, 2021:   The Supreme Court Friday took note of children who have become orphans due to the Covid-19 pandemic and directed states to provide immediate relief to them. A vacation bench of Justices L N Rao and Aniruddha Bose directed district administrations to identify orphan children and upload their data on NCPCR website by Saturday evening. The top court’s direction came on an application filed by amicus curiae Gaurav Agarwal seeking identification of orphaned children and providing them immediate relief by the state governments.    While addressing the media via video conferencing today, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi lashed out at PM Modi and blamed him for the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.  He said that the Prime Minister's 'nautanki'  is the reason behind the second wave. Blaming the Prime Minister for "not understanding Covid-19", Rahul Gandhi said that India's death rate is a lie. He added that the government is not understanding the nature of what they're fighting and the dangers of strains of the virus.   The Department of Pre-University Education is exploring the possibility of holding II PUC exams through online mode amid the second wave of the pandemic. Officials are working on the feasibility of conducting tests online after several stakeholders flooded the department with suggestions for the same. The department also received suggestions for slashing the duration of exams to 90 minutes, conducting exams only for major subjects and sticking to multiple-choice questions (MCQs). However, department sources said they are by and large considering holding exams via online mode.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-2nd-pu-exams-may-go-online-991091.html
28-05-2021||National||Jaishankar, USTR Tai discuss WTO patent waiver for Covid-19 vaccines, drug||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar discussed with United States Trade Representative, Katherine Tai, the proposal mooted by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a temporary patent waiver for the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs. Jaishankar had a meeting with Tai in Washington DC early Friday (IST). They exchanged views on the proposal originally mooted by India and South Africa and now co-sponsored by at least 60 other nations at the WTO to temporarily waive off the Intellectual Property Rights protection on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs as well as other medical equipment needed to contain the pandemic. “Welcomed her (the US Trade Representative’s) positive stance on (the) IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) issues & (and) support for efficient & (and) robust supply chains,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Tai. Tai recently announced the decision of President Joe Biden’s administration to reverse the US position and support the October 2, 2020 proposal by India and South Africa to waive four categories of the IPR protections — copyright, industrial designs, patents and undisclosed information — under the Agreement of Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement) until the majority of the world population receives effective vaccines and develops immunity to Covid-19. The proponents, however, revised the proposal and resubmitted it at the TRIPS Council of the WTO on May 22, suggesting that the waiver should be granted at least for three years. The US in fact extended its support to the proposal only after India, South Africa and the other nations agreed to revise it to add specificity in order to address the concerns of the opponents that the scope of the suggested waiver was too broad. The revised proposal now set the stage for the negotiation on the final text of the waiver to commence at the TRIPS council of the WTO. Jaishankar and Tai also discussed ways to boost India-US trade in order to spur economic revival after the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our trade, technology & (and) business cooperation are at the core of our strategic partnership. Enhancing them is vital to post-Covid economic recovery,” the External Affairs Minister posted on Twitter after his meeting with the US Trade Representative. India and the US were expected to sign a deal to address each other’s concerns over trade barriers after the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the then US President Donald Trump in New York on September 24, 2019 – just two days after the two leaders had appeared together at the “Howdy! Modi” event in Houston. But the two sides had failed to narrow differences and the deal had not been signed. A “mini trade deal” with “limited scope” had been expected to be inked after the Trump-Modi meeting in New Delhi on February 25, but it had been shelved, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-ustr-tai-discuss-wto-patent-waiver-for-covid-19-vaccines-drug-991095.html
28-05-2021||National||Delhi court dismisses West Bengal policeman Ashok Mishra's bail plea in coal scam||A Delhi court has denied bail to West Bengal police officer Ashok Kumar Mishra, arrested in connection with the coal pilferage related money laundering case, saying his job was to prevent the illegal activities but it appears that he himself became a part of illegal coal mafia. Mishra, the inspector-in-charge of the Bankura police station, was arrested on April 3 by the Enforcement Directorate. The bail application was dismissed by Special Judge Virender Bhat who had heard arguments through video conferencing. The judge in the order passed on May 22 observed that the material collected during the investigation in the case so far, prima-facie showed involvement of the accused in the offence of money laundering to the tune of more than 100 crores of rupees.  “At the time of commission of offence, he was posted as Inspector-In-charge Bankuna Police Station. His job was to prevent the illegal activities but it appears that he himself became a part of illegal coal mafia. The allegations against him are very serious in nature,” the judge said and declined to accept the arguments of senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, who represented Mishra. ED's Special Public Prosecutors Amit Mahajan and Nitesh Rana opposed the plea saying that the accused had received Rs 168 crore from Anoop Majee alias Lala which he was stated to have transferred to Delhi and Overseas. Majee is alleged to be the kingpin in the West Bengal coal scam cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-dismisses-west-bengal-policeman-ashok-mishras-bail-plea-in-coal-scam-991106.html
28-05-2021||National||Why deadly 'black fungus' is ravaging Covid patients in India||The hospital of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, a medical school in Sevagram, Maharashtra, has been taking in patients afflicted with Covid since May 2020. But in the middle of last month, something changed. Patients arrived with problems the physicians there had not yet seen in the pandemic: People were not only breathless and feverish but had pain and pressure behind their cheekbones and around their eyes. Their cases were some of the earliest indications of a wave of illness that is now swamping India, an epidemic within the pandemic: Infections with a rare group of fungi called mucormycetes. The infection they cause, mucormycosis — “black fungus,” colloquially — can infest the sinuses and bones of the face and invade the brain or cause patients to lose an eye. When it goes untreated — and treatment is prolonged and difficult — mucormycosis can kill up to half of those who contract it. There have been almost 12,000 cases of infection in India in recent months, with most in Maharashtra and Gujarat. “There was no fungus in the first wave” of Covid, says S. P. Kalantri, a professor of medicine at the Gandhi Institute and medical superintendent of its hospital. “The black fungus has painted the country red in the second wave.” The epidemic of mucormycosis is yet another of the unpleasant surprises produced by the Covid pandemic — following MIS-C, a severe inflammatory syndrome that seems to mostly affect children, and “long Covid,” a complex of symptoms that continue to afflict patients months after initial infection. Mucormycosis is one of an array of ferocious fungal diseases that have attacked Covid patients, including a lethal yeast called Candida auris and a spate of infections with Aspergillus fungi that have earned the acronym CAPA (for Covid-associated pulmonary aspergillosis). That these fungal infections arise after a Covid diagnosis seems to be a clue. A standard component of treatment for severe cases of Covid is high doses of corticosteroids, anti-inflammatory drugs that damp down the immune system’s overreaction to infection. Steroids save lives, but they simultaneously make a patient more vulnerable to attack by whatever bacteria or fungi are already in their body or hanging around their environment.  “Fungal spores are everywhere, but we are pretty efficient at clearing them from our lungs,” says Arturo Casadevall, a physician and molecular microbiologist at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. “But Covid damages the lung. So then you have a double whammy: reduced capacity to naturally clear the spores and reduced immune response as a result of steroids.” That collision of factors is complicated by something else. Years before Covid appeared, researchers in Australia and Europe, as well as India, all reported that mucormycosis seemed particularly ferocious in patients with uncontrolled diabetes. That is setting Indian Covid patients up for disaster. “Even in rural areas, every eighth adult aged 30 and beyond is diabetic,” Kalantri says. “Most have suboptimal control of sugar. When these patients test Covid-positive, they often are prescribed high-dose steroids, often in the first week. Irrational and unscientific treatment of Covid is extremely common.” Fungal infections after Covid have been so widely reported from multiple countries that physicians are starting to develop treatment algorithms to blunt their attack. “People that present with Covid and a new diabetes diagnosis or severe diabetes — that is an extreme risk,” says Kieren Marr, a physician at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and medical director of its transplant and oncology infectious diseases program, who recently published research on Aspergillus fungus infections in Covid patients. “In our center, we would say that all of the risk factors would justify potentially giving an antifungal drug preventatively.” Identifying a case of mucormycosis early can be challenging. Unlike some other fungal infections, there are no blood-based tests that can detect it. Diagnosis requires doing a biopsy, examining the sample and sometimes following up with a CT scan — all of which imply the availability of speciality personnel to perform those tasks and advanced equipment to support them. In the under-resourced parts of India’s vast health care system, those cannot be guaranteed. Even antifungal drugs are in short supply in India, according to news reports, and maybe unaffordable for most. There are relatively few categories of antifungals, and while some of them have been available for decades, newer versions that are less toxic to patients are expensive and scarce. For the preferred drug, “one-day therapy costs 30,000 rupees (about $410), a catastrophic health expenditure for 99 per cent of Indians,” Kalantri says. “The therapy often lasts for weeks and requires an intravenous infusion, admission to the hospital and close monitoring of the kidney function.” It is not possible, at this point, to predict an end to the shadow epidemic of black fungus, though greater awareness of patients’ vulnerability may allow physicians in India to recognise cases earlier. For now, it remains one more way in which the pandemic caught the world by surprise and one more illustration of how its worst effects have fallen hardest on countries that can afford them least.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-deadly-black-fungus-is-ravaging-covid-patients-in-india-991115.html
28-05-2021||National||HC declines to stay proceedings to confirm provisional attachment of Amnesty accounts||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to stay the proceedings with regard to confirming the provisional attachment of bank accounts of NGO Amnesty International but said that any final order passed in the matter would not be implemented without leave of the court. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to ED and sought its stand on the NGO's plea contending that the provisional attachment order (PAO) of November 26 last year was valid for only 180 days and that period expired on May 25 and therefore, it has lapsed as it was not confirmed by the adjudicating authority set up under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). At the outset, the court made it clear that it will not pass any interim order staying the proceedings on global human rights watchdog Amnesty's plea challenging the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) November 2020 order provisionally attaching some of its bank accounts and fixed deposits. However, it said that any final order passed by the adjudicating authority would not be given effect without leave of the high court. Under the PMLA, a PAO has to be confirmed within 180 days by the adjudicating authority. The money laundering case of the ED is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR filed against Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL), Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT), Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) and Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF) that was filed under various sections of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and the section 120 B of the  Indian Penal Code (which denotes criminal conspiracy).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-declines-to-stay-proceedings-to-confirm-provisional-attachment-of-amnesty-accounts-991116.html
28-05-2021||National||Govt to look into builders' demands to boost realty sector amid Covid-19 pandemic: Housing Secretary||Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra on Friday said the government will look into various demand of the real estate industry, including an extension of timeline for completion of projects by 6-9 months. He highlighted various initiatives taken by the government in the past seven years such as development of 1.12 crore houses under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY), launch of the Affordable Rental Housing Complex scheme for migrant workers, 'infrastructure' status to affordable housing, and 100 smart cities. Mishra was addressing a webinar organised by realtors body NAREDCO. NAREDCO's representatives made several demands before the secretary to revive both demand and supply in the sector that has been badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The association sought extension of timeline for completion of projects by 6-9 months under the realty law RERA, extension of all building permissions till March 2023, rationalisation of government taxes on real estate, and control of rising prices of cement and steel. It also sought reintroduction of interest subvention scheme, grant of input credit tax on GST paid in leased commercial real estate, suspension of insolvency law for some more period, and an online environment clearance system. Responding to the demand of extension of timeline for project completion, Mishra assured that he will "go in detail" to understand the matter. "If need be, we will take this matter to RAC (RERA Advisory Council)," he said. However, the secretary did mention that this relief was given last year because of the imposition of the national lockdown. On high taxes levied by the central and state governments on real estate, Mishra directed the ministry's senior officials to examine the matter in detail. "We will try to reduce government levies," he said. Regarding a rise in prices of steel and cement, Mishra said he took up this issue with the ministry's concerned and would discuss the issue again. On the PMAY, he said 1.13 crore houses have already been sanctioned and out of that, 48 lakh have been completed and handed over to the people. The secretary informed that India's ranking in ease of doing business related to construction activities improved to 27 from 186. He said the new ranking is expected any time and expressed confidence that "we will be in top-20". The secretary said the real estate sector contributes seven per cent to the gross domestic product (GDP). It is a $200-billion industry and set to become a USD 1-trillion sector with rapid urbanisation, he added. Emphasising on affordable housing, Mishra said the highest housing demand is in economically weaker section (EWS) and low-income group (LIG), and observed that the millennial also wants 2-3 BHK flats and not bungalows. Talking about the Central Vista Project, Mishra said the new Parliament building will be ready next year. He also rubbished criticism about this project. At the outset, NAREDCO President Niranjan Hiranandani said the construction activities have slowed down because of the second wave, as only 50 per cent labourers are working on sites. He demanded that timeline for completion of projects should be extended as it was done last year. NAREDCO Chairman Rajeev Talwar said all permission related to the development of projects should be valid till March 2023. Tata Housing MD and CEO Sanjay Dutt expressed concern about the abnormal price rise in cement and steel. He said steel prices have more than doubled while cement rates have gone up by 50-70 per cent in the past one year. Dutt also pitched for reintroduction of subvention scheme, under which builders agree to pay EMI on the behalf of homebuyers for a certain period. Neel Raheja of K Raheja group put forward demand related to commercial real estate and sought inputbtax credit benefit. Rajan Bandelkar from Naredco Maharashtra said the second wave has more impact on the sector than the last year's first wave. He demanded extension of timeline for project completion by 6-9 months as well as suspension of insolvency laws for some period. Ashok Mohanani, president of NAREDCO Maharashtra, was also present in the meeting. NAREDCO is one of the leading associations for the real estate sector with around 5,000 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-look-into-builders-demands-to-boost-realty-sector-amid-covid-19-pandemic-housing-secretary-991118.html
28-05-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh makes it mandatory for pvt hospitals, nursing homes to install PSA plants||The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday made it mandatory for private hospitals and nursing homes to install Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) technology oxygen plants in proportion to their bed strength. Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal issued an order, amending the Andhra Pradesh Allopathic Private Medical Care Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Rules, 2007, and prescribing the minimum standards for equipment and furniture for hospitals based on the bed strength. Every hospital with more than 100 beds will have to install a 1,000 Litres Per Minute (LPM) PSA oxygen plant and those with 50 beds, a 500 LPM plant, according to the order. The hospitals should also have oxygen concentrators equal in number to the oxygen-supported beds. The private hospitals are also required to have oxygen masks with regulators in equal numbers. "During the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the government supplied oxygen even to private hospitals. But they charged their own rates from the patients. Now we are making it mandatory for them to install their own PSA plants so that they will be self-sufficient," a senior health official said. The Industries Department of the state government is working out a plan to extend a 30 per cent subsidy to the private healthcare establishments for installing the PSA oxygen plants. "The Chief Minister approved this proposal and the modalities are being worked out," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-makes-it-mandatory-for-pvt-hospitals-nursing-homes-to-install-psa-plants-991129.html
28-05-2021||National||Air India flight returns to Delhi after bat found inside business class half hour after take-off||An Air India flight to New Jersey's Newark Airport in the US had to return to the Delhi Airport on the morning of May 27 as cabin crew saw a bat inside the business class area of the plane just half an hour after take-off, sources said on Friday. The plane had departed from the Delhi Airport at 2.20 am on Thursday and no one noticed the bat before take-off, they said. Members of the cabin crew saw the bat in the business class area of the plane and informed the pilots, the sources said. The bat flew from one area to another area inside the plane after it was observed by the cabin crew. The pilot then informed the Air Traffic Controller about the mammal and the plane was turned around, they stated. The plane, with its crew and passengers, jettisoned its fuel and landed at the Delhi airport around 4.20 am on Thursday, the sources noted. Once everyone was out of the aircraft, the Boeing B777-300ER aircraft was fumigated and the bat died, following which its carcass was recovered from the eighth row of the business class, they said. Aviation regulator the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has received a preliminary report from the airline regarding this incident. Air India did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter. However, the sources said that the airline's management had asked its engineering team for a detailed report on the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-flight-returns-to-delhi-after-bat-found-inside-business-class-half-hour-after-take-off-991135.html
28-05-2021||National||Over 50,000 imported Amphotericin-B vials arrive in India: Mandaviya||Over 50,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, used in the treatment of black fungus, have arrived in India from abroad, Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh L Mandaviya said on Friday. Amphotericin-B is used to treat Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, which damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. "50,000 vials of #AmphotericinB arrives at Mumbai Airport. We are putting in a lot of efforts to meet its requirement in the country. I am thankful to @GileadSciences and @MylanNews for their outstanding support in India's fight against COVID-19," Mandaviya said in a tweet. On Thursday, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda had announced that an additional 80,000 vials of Amphotericin-B have been allocated to all the states/union territories and central institutions. Mucormycosis is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. Doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of Mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that Mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50000-imported-amphotericin-b-vials-arrive-in-india-mandaviya-991149.html
28-05-2021||National||IMA chief says will consider withdrawing complaints against Ramdev if he takes back remarks||The Indian Medical Association will consider taking back police complaints lodged against yoga guru Ramdev and also a defamation notice sent to him if he withdrew his remarks against Covid-19 vaccines and modern medicine, IMA national chief Dr J A Jayalal said on Friday. By targeting modern system of medicine vis-vis the pandemic and treatment for it, Ramdev was actually questioning the government, he said. "We have nothing against yoga guru Baba Ramdev. His statements are against vaccination for Covid-19. We think his statements could confuse people, may divert them. This is our big concern as he has many followers," Dr Jayalal said. On Ramdev already withdrawing his comment vis-a-vis modern medicine and Covid-19, he said it has to be done in its entirety. If the yoga guru came forward to withdraw such remarks in its entirety, the IMA will consider taking back complaints against him in police stations and also a defamation notice sent to him, Dr Jayalal told PTI. Days ago, the IMA had served a defamation notice on Ramdev for alleged disparaging remarks against modern medicine and its practitioners. The notice demanded an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said would take appropriate action for Rs 1,000 crore compensation. Complaints have been filed against Ramdev in Delhi besides other places, the IMA chief said, adding the association has also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take action against Ramdev. On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement questioning some of the drugs used to treat coronavirus and alleged "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". Following the row, Ramdev had said that even their father cannot arrest him. Later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the IMA asking if modern medicine offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension. The IMA chief, who is Professor and Head, Department of Surgery, Government Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital in Tamil Nadu, said, "The yoga guru should advise his followers to get vaccinated and support the government in its fight against the pandemic." Ramdev's remarks, be it against the vaccination or modern medicine for Covid-19, in reality, questioned the government's wisdom, he said answering a question. "This is because we only follow the protocol framed by the government for Covid-19. Hence, if somebody questions it, they actually question the government." Dr Jayalal recalled that recently in Tamil Nadu, actor Mansoor Ali Khan was arrested after he raised doubts over the vaccine following the death of popular Tamil comedian Vivek, after he got the jab. And now, action is being taken by the IMA against Ramdev and it would be good if the government too acted against such people to strengthen the fight against Covid-19, he said. To a question, he said, "The Tamil Nadu government has recommended Kaba Sura Kudineer (Indian medicine) for boosting immunity. Have we ever questioned it? The point here is, after weighing all factors, the government recommends vaccination and drugs. It has to be followed." But if someone with a good number of followers is allowed to go on targeting modern medicine and hit out at hardworking doctors and paramedics, it is not acceptable, he said. "The most important thing here is we are fighting against a deadly pandemic. If prominent individuals are allowed to claim whatever they wish, it will divert people, confuse them and go against the efforts of both the government and medical fraternity to tackle the pandemic." On some practitioners of modern medicine prescribing Indian systems of medicine for specific conditions, he said it must not be done. "A drug can be prescribed by a practitioner only if he or she is qualified and trained in that particular system of medicine. Mixing up is not allowed." Asked about an allegation that he tried to convert people to Christianity, the surgeon dismissed it as false and motivated. "How does the question of religion even come here? This is purely a diversionary tactic by vested interests and nothing more. All my life I have served people without differentiating them on any basis and I would continue to serve them. I have done the most surgeries for HIV infected people," he said. Ramdev's close aide Acharya Balkrishna took to Twitter, saying the yoga guru and Ayurveda were being 'targeted' by allopathic practitioners under the IMA as part of a conspiracy. "As part of the conspiracy to convert the entire country into #Christianity, #Yoga and #Ayurveda are being maligned by targeting @yogrishiramdev jee. Countrymen, wake up now from the deep slumber otherwise the generations to come will not forgive you," Balkrishna claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-chief-says-will-consider-withdrawing-complaints-against-ramdev-if-he-takes-back-remarks-991152.html
28-05-2021||National||Key takeaways from the 43rd GST Council meet||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman chaired the 43rd good and services tax (GST) council meeting on Friday, May 28, through videoconferencing.  Addressing a media briefing, FM Nirmala Sitharaman said that the issue of Covid-19-related equipment was one of the items on the agenda that had a very detailed discussion. Here are the key takeaways from the meet:  1. The Council has decided to exempt IGST on the import of Covid-19 relief items till August 31, 2021. 2. Adhoc exemptions have been given for Covid-19-related equipment, she said. 3. A Group of Ministers will be formed soon who will submit their report within 10 days — on or before June 8, so that if there are any further reductions required, they will be done, in the sense, that rates will be decided by them.  4. Due to rising cases of black fungus, Amphotericin B has also been included in the exemptions list. 5. "I have assured the members that there will be a special session only on compensation cess matter beyond July 2022," FM Sitharaman said. 6. FM Sitharaman announced Amnesty Scheme to reduced late fee returns. Small taxpayers can file pending returns under this scheme, she said. 7. Sitharaman said that Rs 4,500 crore was paid to two vaccine manufactures, as advance payment. "The country is engaging with suppliers/manufacturers including Japanese, European Union for vaccines. In the coming months, supply will be more than what it is," she assured.  8. The Centre will borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore to compensate states for loss of revenue from GST.  9. Late fees on ITR filing have also been rationalised. "The rationalised late fee and the decision to reduce the maximum amount of late fee for small taxpayers will come into effect for future tax periods. This will provide a long term relief to small taxpayers," Sitharaman said.  10. Annual return filing has also been simplified. The Council has recommended amending the CGST Act to allow for self-certification of reconciliation statements, instead of getting it certified by Chartered Accountants.  11. The Annual Return filing will continue to be optional for FY 2020-21 for small taxpa 12. The GST Council left taxes on Covid-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged. Currently, vaccines attract 5 per cent GST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-the-43rd-gst-council-meet-991166.html
28-05-2021||National||Courts can't protect accused while denying pre-arrest bail: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said courts should not grant protection from arrest to accused while dismissing the anticipatory bail plea at the same time, saying such a direction "exceeds discretion and amounts to judicial largesse, which the courts do not possess". A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose said the court's discretionary power to grant anticipatory bail cannot be exercised in an untrammelled manner. "The court must take into account the statutory scheme... such an order must necessarily be narrowly tailored to protect the interests of the applicant while taking into consideration the concerns of the society at large and the investigating authority. Such an order must be a reasoned one," the court said. In a judgement, the top court said though the power to grant such advance bail under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code must be read liberally for it had a direct bearing on right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, the court should not normally grant protection from arrest for a particular period of time, when no ground for anticipatory bail was made out. The bench said in certain extraordinary and exceptional circumstances, however, the High Court can protect the accused for some time even though the investigating agency has made out a case for arrest, by passing a detailed and reasoned order.  The top court set aside two orders passed by the Allahabad High Court where the plea for pre-arrest bail by the accused was dismissed but they were granted protection from arrest for 90 days. "The High Court committed a grave error in passing such protection to the accused," the court said, noting the effect of the order was that neither were they found entitled to pre-arrest bail, nor can they be arrested for a long duration. "During the said duration they can roam freely without being apprehensive of coercive action," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-cant-protect-accused-while-denying-pre-arrest-bail-sc-991174.html
28-05-2021||National||Encryption debate is not new: Ramesh panel report can give BJP ammunition||Congress has gone hammer and tongs against the government's new digital rule that obliges all social media platforms to identify the originator of the information but a report by a Parliamentary panel chaired by its own leader last year could give ammunition to BJP to accuse the Opposition party of double-speak. Sharing the report recommendations on Twitter, the National in-charge of BJP's Information & Technology department Amit Malviya said, "Report of the Adhoc Committee of the Rajya Sabha, under the Chairmanship of Jairam Ramesh, on child pornography and social media, put before the Parliament in Jan 2020, recommended...Why does Congress insist on embarrassing itself again and again? Going back to 2020, the Committee led by Ramesh after taking submissions from Facebook (that also owns WhatsApp), Google, Twitter, Tik Tok and Sharechat, recommended permitting the breaking of end-to-end encryption to trace distributors of child pornography. "The committee recommends modifying the IT (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules 2011 to include the ability to trace the originator or sender of the message shared on end-to-end encryption platforms in cases where the Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) that has been shared has come to the attention of law enforcement agencies." The overriding view in the Committee then was that the breaking of end-to-end encryption on WhatsApp and other such apps will help law enforcement agencies hunt down distributors of child pornography online. Malviya's comments come after Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi had called the new social media guidelines "dire, drastic and draconian". "The new rules are a severe blow to the vibrant culture of discourse, deliberation and dissent in India. What the Modi government seeks to implement today, would make the North Korean model of the control of the media blush." Getting specific, he said, "...Rule 4 obliges all social media platforms to identify the first originator of the information. This introduces the requirement of traceability which would break end-to-end encryption." Ramesh, who was the panel Chairman, on May 27 argued on Twitter, "TEXT depends on CONTEXT." He said the cross-party Ad-hoc Committee he was asked to chair by Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu was to “study the alarming issue of pornography on social media and its effect on children and society as a whole” and the recommendation applies to that alone. BJP Vice President Vinay Sahsrabuddhe, who was a member of the panel, said, "whatever Jairam Ramesh Committee would have said in those times, the point here is that a sovereign has every right to make laws and implement them." "Are they going to reveal what kind of algorithms they create and how you are creating them? There is no stakeholder involvement in deciding about their policy. They are now trying to tell us what democracy is. This is not just condemnable but also something which requires for all of us to make these social media intermediaries more accountable and transparent. Abide by the rules that are created," he said. In its submission before Delhi High Court, WhatsApp said the traceability rule will break end-to-end encryption and can put the privacy of individuals including journalists to risk. WhatsApp's stand has been consistent on the matter. Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in its presentation before the ad hoc committee of the Rajya Sabha to look into pornography on social media, had pointed this out last year that some platforms like WhatsApp, Signal, etc, cite end-to-end encryption for not cooperating with the Law Enforcement Agencies and they do not honour even lawful requisitions, raising privacy concerns. In a submission before the panel, HERD ( Health - Education - Rural - Development) Foundation had said that to trace the distribution of Child Pornography, breaking of end-to-end encryption should be permitted. The representative of Sharechat in his submission before the Committee mentioned that there was a need for a commonly agreed standard between social media companies, both global and domestic to understand the scope of the obligation and the actions to be taken by a platform. He further added that these standards would ensure free and fair regulation of the internet and aid the platform to distinguish between freedom of expression and pornography. Moreover, reporting on compliance with such norms would create transparency on actions taken by platforms to enforce the law of the land. The representatives of Facebook in their submission submitted that Facebook and Instagram were social media platforms (intermediaries) whereas Whatsapp was an encrypted peer-to-peer messaging service. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, while disagreeing with WhatsApp's privacy argument, says the government respects the Right to Privacy and has no intention to violate it but at the same time, insists that the compliance requirement is necessary for public interest and identifying the first originator of messages. "It is very important to note that such an order to trace the first originator, under Rule 4(2) of the said guidelines, shall be passed only for the purposes of prevention, investigation, punishment, etc of inter alia an offence relating to sovereignty, integrity and security of India and public order incitement to an offence relating to rape, sexually explicit material, or child sexual abuse material punishable with imprisonment for not less than five years,” the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) said in its statement. Experts, however, feel that the government wanting originator details without breaking encryption under new IT rules is impossible. WhatsApp in its petition also argued that since there is no way to predict which message will be the subject of such a tracing order and hence the only way before it is to build the ability to identify the first originator for every message sent in India on its platform, which breaks end-to-end encryption and the privacy principles underlying it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/encryption-debate-is-not-new-ramesh-panel-report-can-give-bjp-ammunition-991182.html
28-05-2021||National||It's living hell, we are helpless: HC on 'black fungus' drug shortage||“We are living this hell. Everyone is living this hell. It’s a situation where we want to help but we are helpless,” the Delhi High Court lamented on Friday while hearing pleas on the shortage of 'black fungus' medicine and the problems being faced by the patients. While the Centre placed a report giving the steps taken by it to source the medicine and overcome shortages, the high court directed it to give further details on current status of its imports and when the stocks are expected. The court, which was hearing two pleas seeking medicine vials for two patients admitted here for 'black fungus' infection, expressed helplessness over the situation and said it cannot pass any order that a particular patient should be given preference for treatment while denying it to others.  The issue of shortage of medicine for treating 'black fungus' was raised by advocate Rakesh Malhotra who said the 'black fungus' cases, affecting Covid-affected people, are rising. The court, which was informed that steps are being taken by the Centre to procure 2.30 lakh vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B from six countries, asked the government to explain the reason behind choosing this figure as the “today’s requirement of the medicine is much more”. “The Union of India shall place a report giving the detailed current status of the said imports. It will be considered on Monday. It has to indicate how the figure of 2.30 lakh vials was arrived at and whether there is a greater availability of the drug which could be imported,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said, which heard for six hours the matter relating to various issues arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. The court asked the Centre to come back on May 31 with a definite statement as to what happened to these 2.30 lakh vials, where are they, what is the stage, when are they coming to India, has the order been placed or not. When one of the Centre’s advocate said the order for the vials has been placed abroad, the bench said, “we are running against time. If you placed the order on May 24, today it should have been here”. “We are only expressing out anxiety because of the proportions this thing is assuming. Every hour is assuming a new proportion,” the bench said, adding that “the effort here is to save lives and every hour matters”. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said as per the information updated on the portal, the number of patients under treatment for mucormycosis ('black fungus') in India are 14,872 on May 28 (9 am) and this includes 423 patients in Delhi. “Out of the sources that have been presently identified abroad, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on May 24 has called upon Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to take steps to procure 2,30,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B from Australia, Russia, Germany, Argentina, Belgium and China. "MEA has also been called upon to procure 50,000 tablets of Isavuconazole. Steps in this regard are being taken by the MEA,” said the Centre’s report, filed through advocates Amit Mahajan, Kirtiman Singh and Nidhi Mohan Parashar. The Centre said domestic production capacity of Amphotericin B Liposomal Injection has progressed as while in April it was 62,000, in May it was 1,40,000 and in June it is expected to be 3,25,114. It said the main impediment in granting more licences for manufacture of Liposomal Amphotericin B is the shortage of the raw materials and excipients worldwide. It said the MEA has been working on ensuring supplies of key excipients from sources abroad for production of Liposomal Amphotericin B (Amphonex) in India and added that imports are being made by Mylan Labs from Gilead Inc. USA and the government is working to increase the imports and for early delivery. Regarding the medicine supplies made to Delhi, the Centre said 400 vials were allocated on May 24, 300 vials on May 26 and 1920 vials on May 27. It said as per the tentative estimation of joint monitoring committee under the Directorate General of Health Services, 20 per cent of the total active Covid-19 cases are moderate to severe and may require hospitalisation. From these 20 per cent of moderate and severe cases, 1:500 to 1:1000 cases may develop mucormycosis. The court had earlier said the gap between demand and supply of Amphotericin B was “too wide to bridge” and drastic steps are required to be taken. According to the Union Health Ministry, people catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma. The disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19. Moreover, anyone who is diabetic and whose immune system is not functioning well needs to be on the guard against this, the ministry has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-living-hell-we-are-helpless-hc-on-black-fungus-drug-shortage-991183.html
28-05-2021||National||GST Council leaves tax rate on Covid vaccines unchanged||The GST Council on Friday left taxes on Covid-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged but exempted duty on import of a medicine used for treatment of black fungus. A group of ministers will deliberate on tax structure on the vaccine and medical supplies, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters after a meeting of the GST Council. The GST Council, which is headed by the Union Finance Minister and comprises representatives of all states and union territories, exempted levy of I-GST on import of Amphotericin-B, which is used for the treatment of black fungus. Currently, vaccines attract 5 per cent GST. Sitharaman said the Council decided to continue a waiver of I-GST on free Covid-19 related supplies imported from abroad. Also, the panel decided that the Centre will borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore and pass it on to the states to make up for the shortfall in their revenues from the implementation of the GST. A special session of the Council will be held soon to consider extending the five-year GST shortfall compensation period to states beyond 2022. The panel provided relief to small GST taxpayers through an amnesty scheme for late return filers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-council-leaves-tax-rate-on-covid-vaccines-unchanged-991189.html
28-05-2021||National||Google, Facebook, WhatsApp submit details under new IT rules||Two days after the IT Ministry sent notices to major social media companies seeking details of compliance officers as per the new social media rules, Google, Facebook and WhatsApp have done the needful, even as Twitter is yet to share details with IT ministry. Twitter, which had earlier expressed concern over new rules, has named a lawyer as its grievance officer. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology was of the view that all other social media platforms have started following new rules, but Twitter is yet to fully comply. Major social media intermediaries have shared details of their Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person and Grievance Officer with the Ministry, as required by the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. Other major social media intermediaries including  Koo, Sharechat, Telegram and LinkedIn have also shared details with the ministry. After the Ministry issued a warning to Twitter, the US-based company sent a communication late Friday, sharing details of a lawyer working in an India-based firm as their nodal contact person and grievance Officer. The new rules were announced in February,  which came into force on May 26, require large social media platforms to practice additional due diligence, including the appointment of compliance officials, monitoring of objectionable content, preparation of monthly compliance reports and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specify that social media firms adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. The government sent the social media companies notices on May 26. WhatsApp went to Delhi High Court against the traceability clause saying that it would infringe users' privacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-facebook-whatsapp-submit-details-under-new-it-rules-991193.html
28-05-2021||National||BJP-ruled states opposed Covid supplies' tax-relief proposal: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday that many finance ministers of BJP-ruled states strongly protested the proposal put up by Delhi to make essential coronavirus supplies tax-free. The GST Council, which met on Friday for its first meeting in nearly seven months, left taxes on Covid-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged, but exempted duty on import of a medicine used for the treatment of 'black fungus'. "Put up a proposal before GST Council to make Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen cylinders, concentrators, PPE kits, sanitisers, masks, testing kits etc tax-free," Sisodia, who is also the Delhi finance minister, tweeted. "Punjab, West Bengal, Kerala and many other states also did the same," he said. "However, finance ministers from the BJP strongly protested against it." During a press briefing after the meeting, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the GST Council decided to waive the integrated goods and services tax on free Covid-related supplies imported from abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-ruled-states-opposed-covid-supplies-tax-relief-proposal-sisodia-991227.html
28-05-2021||National||Indian govt invites application for citizenship from non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan||The Centre on Friday invited non-Muslims like Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, and Buddhists belonging to Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan and residing in 13 districts in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to apply for Indian citizenship. The Union Home Ministry issued a notification in this effect for immediate implementation of the order under the Citizenship Act 1955 and Rules framed under the law in 2009 even though the rules under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) enacted in 2019 are yet to be framed by the government. When the CAA was enacted in 2019, there were widespread protests in different parts of the country and even riots took place in Delhi in early 2020 in the wake of these protests. According to the CAA, Indian citizenship will be given to non-Muslim persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan -- Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian -- who had come to India till December 31, 2014. "In exercise of powers conferred under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955), the central government hereby directs that powers exercisable by it for registration as a citizen of India under Section 5, or for grant of certificate of naturalisation under section 6 of the Citizenship Act 1955 in respect of any person belonging to minority community in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians, residing in the districts mentioned and the states mentioned below....," the Home Ministry notification said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-govt-invites-application-for-citizenship-from-non-muslim-refugees-from-pakistan-bangladesh-afghanistan-991244.html
28-05-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh CM plans to set up 16 health hubs in state||As Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh rush for better health care facilities in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy is planning to set up 16 health hubs across the state. The 'truncated' state lacks superior medical infrastructure in the private sector like it is concentrated in Hyderabad, which went to Telangana in the 2014 bifurcation. Earlier this month, the Telangana government denied entry for ambulances from Andhra Pradesh ferrying Covid-19 patients to hospitals in Hyderabad. The YSRCP government questioned Telangana's stance in the Telangana High Court which later nullified the K Chandrasekhar Rao administration’s orders. On Friday, Reddy reviewed the prevailing pandemic situation in AP where the daily new Covid-19 cases have fallen below the 20 thousand mark for the past few days but deaths continue to be high at over 100 per day. In the meeting, CMO officials said, Reddy expressed concern about patients going to Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai for tertiary medical care. To avoid such a situation in future, Reddy proposed to set up a health hub in each of AP's 13 district headquarters and also at Rajahmundry, Vijayawada and Tirupati. “30-50 acres land should be acquired for each hub and five acres should be allotted free of cost to hospitals ready to invest at least Rs 100 crore in three years,” Reddy directed officials. Through these health hubs, the Reddy government wants to help establish 80 multi, super-speciality hospitals in the state. Chief Minister expects that these hubs with private hospitals and the 16 teaching hospitals and nursing colleges the government has planned earlier would together strengthen AP's health care infrastructure. “And then our people need not go to other places for treatment,” the CM said asking officials to draw up the health hubs policy within a month. Meanwhile, officials said that AP's positivity rate which was at 25.56 per cent on May 16, declined to 19.2 per cent on May 27. The recovery rate improved from 84.3 per cent on May 7 to 88 per cent on May 27. Active cases are declining in almost all the districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-cm-plans-to-set-up-16-health-hubs-in-state-991248.html
28-05-2021||National||Your next flight to Goa will be costlier — Here's why||Domestic air travel is set to become costlier as the Civil Aviation Ministry on Friday raised the lower limit on fares by 13 to 16 per cent, according to an official order. The increase in airfares will come into effect from June 1, it said. The upper limits on fares remain unchanged. The move is aimed at helping the airlines amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19 which has reduced air travel significantly. India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services were resumed on May 25 last year after a two-month lockdown. On Friday, the official order said the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration will be increased from Rs 2,300 to Rs 2,600 — an increase of 13 per cent. Similarly, flights with duration between 40 minutes and 60 minutes will have a lower limit of Rs 3,300 instead of Rs 2,900 now, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/your-next-flight-to-goa-will-be-costlier-heres-why-991253.html
28-05-2021||National||Himachal Pradesh extends Covid-19 restrictions till June 7||The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday extended the coronavirus curbs till June 7 but announced relaxations, including increase in the opening hours of shops, an official spokesperson said.  The decision was taken in a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here, he added.  Earlier, the curbs had been imposed in the hill state till May 31. However, the state government has decided to provide a few relaxations like opening of all shops and other establishments from Monday to Friday for five hours from 9 am to 2 pm, the spokesperson added.  This decision will be effective from 6 am on May 31 till 6 am on June 7.  It was decided that government offices would also function with 30 per cent attendance, except stand alone offices with a strength of up to four employees will remain open with full strength.  The spokesperson said it was decided that milk, bread, medicine shops will remain open as usual during Saturdays and Sundays as well. However, all the educational institutions in the state will remain closed.  Similarly, public transport will also remain suspended till further orders.  All other restrictions and exemptions will continue as per guidelines already issued under the "corona curfew".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himachal-pradesh-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-june-7-991257.html
28-05-2021||National||Airlines can operate only 50% of pre-Covid domestic flights from June 1: Govt||Airlines can operate only 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights from June 1 instead of 80 per cent permitted currently, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Friday. The decision has been taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and passenger load factor (occupancy rate)", the ministry said in an order. When the government had resumed scheduled domestic flights in India on May 25 last year after a two-month-long break, the ministry had permitted the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. This cap was gradually increased to up to 80 per cent by December last year. On Friday, the Civil Aviation Ministry reduced the cap from 80 per cent to 50 per cent. This reduction will come into effect from June 1, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airlines-can-operate-only-50-of-pre-covid-domestic-flights-from-june-1-govt-991259.html
28-05-2021||National||Covaxin production to be increased to 6-7 crore doses a month in July-August: Health Ministry||The monthly production of indigenously developed coronavirus vaccine Covaxin will be increased to 6-7 crore doses in July-August from one crore doses in April, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The production capacity of the vaccine being manufactured by Bharat Biotech is expected to reach nearly 10 crore doses a month by September, the ministry said. "There have been some unfound media reports on unaccounted vaccine doses of Bharat Biotech. These reports are incorrect and are not supported by full information on the matter. The claims of Bharat Biotech having 6 crore doses is an error of comprehension among some quarters reporting the said matter," the ministry said in its statement. The production capacity of Covaxin will be doubled by May-June and then increased nearly six-seven fold by July-August 2021, i.e. increasing the production from 1 crore vaccine doses in April to 6-7 crore vaccine doses/month in July- August.  "It is expected to reach nearly 10 crore doses per month by September 2021," the statement said. This capacity augmentation of Covaxin carried out under Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 Mission Covid Suraksha was announced by the Government of India and implemented by the Department of Biotechnology to accelerate the development and production of indigenous jabs. Vaccine being a biological product of medical importance takes time for harvesting and quality testing, the ministry said, highlighting, "this cannot be done overnight to ensure a safe product. Thus increase in capacity of manufacturing too needs to be a guided process and an increase in gross production does not translate to immediate supply." According to data compiled in the morning of May 28, Bharat Biotech has supplied 2,76,66,860 vaccine doses to the Government of India. Out of these, 2,20,89,880 doses, including wastage, have been consumed by states and union territories. With this, the balance available doses of vaccines with states and UTs are 55,76,980 doses, the statement said. Private hospitals have also received 13,65,760 doses of Covaxin in the same month over and above what has been supplied to the Government of India and the states. "In May, additional 21,54,440 doses of Covaxin are to be supplied. This takes the total vaccine supplied and in pipeline till date to 3,11,87,060 doses. Almost 90,00,000 doses are committed for the month of June by the manufacturer," the statement stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-production-to-be-increased-to-6-7-crore-doses-a-month-in-july-august-health-ministry-991264.html
28-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Centre issues clarification on missing Covaxin doses||The Union Health Ministry on Friday claimed that Bharat Biotech produced one crore doses of Covaxin in April, contradicting its own legal affidavit that mentioned a monthly production of two crore doses of the homegrown vaccine. "The current production capacity of indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly 6-7 fold by July - August 2021 i.e. increasing the production from one crore vaccine doses in April, 2021 to 6-7 crore vaccine doses/month in July – August. It is expected to reach nearly 10 crore doses per month by September 2021," the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. But in an affidavit in the Kerala High Court earlier this week, the Union government had stated, “Bharat Biotech has increased production from 90 lakh per month to two crore doses per month and further increase is expected up to 5.5 crore doses per month by July 2021.” A Bharat Biotech spokesperson told DH that the April production was two crore doses. While there is no immediate clarification from the ministry on the discrepancy, the government in a statement said it took time for harvesting and quality testing of a vaccine. “This can’t be done overnight to ensure a safe product. Thus an increase in manufacturing capacity needs to be a guided process and an increase in gross production does not translate to immediate supply.” As on May 28, the Hyderabad-based company supplied 2,76,66,860 vaccine doses to the central government, of which 2,20,89,880 doses including wastage have been consumed by the states. 55,76,980 doses are available with the states. In addition, private hospitals also received 13,65,760 doses of Covaxin in May. In the remaining few days of May an additional 21,54,440 doses of Covaxin are to be supplied, which would take the total supply of the indigenous vaccine including the pipeline to 3,11,87,060 doses. Almost 90,00,000 doses are committed for the month of June by the manufacturer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-issues-clarification-on-missing-covaxin-doses-991265.html
28-05-2021||National||Assam govt decides to raise tea garden workers wage by Rs 38||The Assam government on Friday decided to hike wages of tea garden workers by Rs 38 and this will be effective from February 23 of this calendar year. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, held a meeting with representatives of Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha and other tea bodies to discuss issues pertaining to wage fixation and it was decided to hike the daily wage of tea workers by Rs 38. "With this hike, the tea workers in Brahmaputra valley would get Rs 205 from the existing Rs 167 and tea workers of Barak valley would get Rs 183 from the existing Rs 145", Sarma said. The previous BJP-led alliance government of former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal in its last cabinet meeting in February this year had hiked the daily wage to Rs 217, but the garden owners approached the Gauhati High Court and the decision could not be implemented. "Since February 23 decision by the government to raise the daily wages of the tea garden workers and the subsequent court order, we considered it crucial to find a special solution, in the interim. Today, we have made a headway on that", Sarma said. The chief minister further said that true to the "government's commitment and for the welfare of the tea garden workers, we will raise the remaining Rs 12 after initiating consultation with stake holders and we are confident that an acceptable solution will be found out very soon". The meeting was attended by Minister Industries and Commerce Chandra Mohan Patowary, Minister for Tea Tribe Welfare Sanjay Kisan, MP Pallab Lochan Das, MLA Rupesh Gowala, President Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha Paban Singh Ghatowar and senior officials of the state government. The hike in daily wage of tea garden workers was a major campaign issue in the just-concluded Assam Assembly elections with the opposition Congress promising to increase it to Rs 365, if the party was voted to power. Tea tribes constitute 17 per cent of Assam population and 35 per cent of its electorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-govt-decides-to-raise-tea-garden-workers-wage-by-rs-38-991266.html
28-05-2021||National||Daily Covid-19 cases drop below 1.75 lakh after 45 days||India on Friday registered its lowest daily count of Covid-19 cases in 45 days as nearly 1.71 lakh fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. As many as 359 districts — mostly in central and northern India — reported less than 100 daily cases between May 19-25, as per Union Health Ministry data. The number of such districts was 531 between April 28 and May 4, which demonstrates a diminishing trend in 172 districts. More than two lakh daily count of Covid-19 cases was reported for 10 days since May 17 before it dipped to more than 1.86 lakh and 1.71 lakhs in the last two days. The active caseload drops to just above 22 lakh as 24 states reported a decline since last week. However, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra continue to report a high number of fresh cases each day as more than 60% of the daily cases come from these five states. More than 10% positivity is reported from over 300 districts. In addition, the North East may emerge as a new zone of concern as the pandemic is growing in each of the seven states, though the caseload is low in terms of number. Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Ladakh, Sikkim and other northeastern states have been reporting an increase in active cases since last week. Two different disease prediction models found an R value of greater than one for every NE state, signalling the epidemic’s growth in the eastern corner. R or reproductive number is a measure of the virus’s infectivity. For example, an R value of 1.9 would mean 10 Covid-19 affected persons will transmit the disease to 19 others. For the epidemic to subside, the R value will have to drop below one. According to the first model created by Bhramar Mukherjee and her team at the University of Michigan, the values are – Assam (1.11), Tripura (1.54), Manipur (1.11), Meghalaya (1.58), Arunachal Pradesh (1.34), Nagaland (1.00) and Mizoram (1.21). For India, it is 0.79.  The second model, developed by Sitabhra Sinha at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai came up with similar figures for Assam (1.24), Tripura (1.55), Manipur (1.18), Meghalaya (1.40), Arunachal Pradesh (1.20), Nagaland (1.07) and Mizoram (1.20). For India, it is 0.83. “The epidemic is peaking now in the North East. The onset of outbreaks was also delayed in these states, and therefore the end will also be correspondingly after a few weeks later compared to other parts of the country,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. "When you have small (population) numbers it is easy to get a high value for R, but I do think it could be related to Assam, which is the central hub," added Mukherjee. Since late April, the daily Covid-19 count is on a steady rise in Assam that logged more than 5,400 cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-175-lakh-after-45-days-991270.html
28-05-2021||National||Opposition slams Centre for delay in cutting GST on Covid-19 vaccine||Opposition-ruled states on Friday slammed the Modi government for delaying a decision on levying GST on vaccines and medical equipment required to deal with the pandemic. “GST Covid-19 relief put on hold for lack of compassion by the Union Government,” Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said after the GST Council meeting. Badal also accused the Modi government of “faking revenues” and reducing the proposed compensation to states by nearly 33 per cent. “GST compensation needs a primary maths teacher; Central Government reduces proposed compensation by nearly 33 per cent amidst faking revenues,” Badal said. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia claimed that many finance ministers of BJP-ruled states strongly protested the proposal put up by him to make essential coronavirus supplies tax-free. “Put up a proposal before GST Council to make Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen cylinders, concentrators, PPE kits, sanitisers, masks, testing kits etc tax-free,” Sisodia, who is also the Delhi finance minister, tweeted. GST-काउंसिल में आज कोविड-वैक्सीन, ऑक्सिजन सिलिंडर, कन्सेंट्रेटर, आक्सीमीटर, पीपीई किट, सेनेटाईज़र, मास्क, टेस्टिंग किट आदि को टैक्स-फ़्री करने का प्रस्ताव रखा. पंजाब, बंगाल, केरल आदि कई राज्यों ने भी यही प्रस्ताव रखा.लेकिन BJP के कई वित्तमंत्रियों ने इसका जमकर विरोध किया. “Punjab, West Bengal, Kerala and many other states also did the same. However, finance ministers from the BJP strongly protested against it,” Sisodia said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman admitted that there were “differing views” and she has suggested setting up a Group of Ministers to examine the issue and make recommendations. Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said questions were raised in the meeting on the actual beneficiaries of the GST waivers on medical equipment and vaccines. Covid-19 vaccines are being purchased by the Centre and states and GST on it is coming back to them since they are giving vaccines free of cost. “But the question arose whether lowering GST will benefit private hospitals or the end-user, the citizens. A similar question was raised whether lowering GST on ventilators will benefit end-users (the patients) or only benefit private hospitals considering government hospitals who purchase the ventilators get back the GST purchased on them,” Bajaj said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-slams-centre-for-delay-in-cutting-gst-on-covid-19-vaccine-991278.html
28-05-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses Indo-Pacific, India-US ties with Ambassador Sandhu and top officials of Biden admin||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has held wide-ranging discussions on issues relating to Indo-Pacific and partnership between India and America in healthcare, digital, knowledge and other sectors during a meeting with India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, and top officials of the Biden administration. Jaishankar, who is on an official trip to the US, is the first Indian Cabinet minister to visit the country since Joe Biden became US President on January 20. "Delighted to host EAM @DrSJaishankar @ India House," Sandhu said on Twitter on Thursday, retweeting a picture and a post tweeted by Jaishankar on his meeting with the Director of National Intelligence in the Biden administration, Avril Haines. Issues related to Indo-Pacific and India-US partnership, including in healthcare, digital and knowledge sectors were discussed, he said on the meeting held at the Indian Embassy. Top officials from the US administration were also present in the meeting, Sandhu said, tagging twitter handles of the White House, National Security Council, United States Agency for International Development (USAID), United States Mission to the United Nations (USUN), National Science Foundation (NSF) and departments of state, treasury, energy, homeland security, defence and commerce. Earlier, Jaishankar met US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan during which they agreed that people-to-people ties and shared values are the foundation of the US-India strategic partnership that is helping to end the pandemic, supporting a free and open Indo-Pacific and providing global leadership on climate change. "Pleased to meet NSA Jake Sullivan. Wide-ranging discussions including on Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan. Conveyed appreciation for US solidarity in addressing the Covid challenge. India-US vaccine partnership can make a real difference," Jaishankar said in a tweet after the meeting. The minister also held talks with US Trade Representative Katherine Tai to discuss a wide range of bilateral trade issues. He also had meetings with the top American business leadership hosted by the US India Business Council and the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum. Jaishankar also met influential American lawmakers from both the Democratic and Republican parties and discussed developments about Quad and the cooperation on vaccines with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-indo-pacific-india-us-ties-with-ambassador-sandhu-and-top-officials-of-biden-admin-991279.html
28-05-2021||National||India lashes out at UN General Assembly President for remarks on J&K||India on Friday lashed out at President of the United Nations General Assembly, Volkan Bozkir, after he said that Pakistan was duty-bound to raise the issue of Jammu and Kashmir during discussions in the international organization. New Delhi dismissed the remarks by the President of the General Assembly as “misleading and prejudiced”. Bozkir was on a visit to Pakistan. He said that India and Pakistan should refrain from changing the status of Jammu and Kashmir. He was addressing a news conference along with Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi in Islamabad on Thursday. He went on to say that a solution to the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) should be found through peaceful means in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. He also drew a comparison between the issues of J&K and Palestine. His statements irked India, which expressed its “strong opposition” to the “unwarranted references” made by him with respect to Jammu and Kashmir during his visit to Pakistan. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued a statement in New Delhi stressing that J&K was a union territory of India. The remarks by the UN General Assembly President that Pakistan was “duty-bound” to raise the issue of J&K in the UN more strongly were “unacceptable”, Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, stated. “Nor indeed is there any basis for comparison to other global situations.” Bozkir is a Turkish diplomat and was elected to the office of the President of the UN General Assembly in June 2020. His term will end next month. “When an incumbent President of the UN General Assembly makes misleading and prejudiced remarks, he does great disservice to the office he occupies The PGA’s behaviour is truly regrettable and surely diminishes his standing on the global platform,” the MEA spokesperson said in New Delhi. Ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in August 2019 moved to strip J&K of its special status and reorganize the state into two union territories, Pakistan renewed its campaign against India and repeatedly raised the issue in the United Nations General Assembly. China and Turkey are among the few nations that supported Pakistan. India, however, strongly countered Pakistan’s campaign on the issue of J&K in UN General Assembly. Islamabad’s bid to raise the issue in the UN Security Council was also countered by New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lashes-out-at-un-general-assembly-president-for-remarks-on-jk-991283.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Congress terms inquiry in 'toolkit' matter by Delhi Police illegal, withdraws from probe||Nine days after its initial complaint against BJP leaders in the 'toolkit' matter, the Congress on Thursday withdrew from the investigation and termed the Delhi Police's preliminary inquiry illegal and in violation of the law. Congress leaders Rajeev Gowda and Rohan Gupta, in a letter to the Delhi Police commissioner, sought transfer of all documents to Chhattisgarh where an FIR has been registered against BJP leaders Raman Singh and Sambit Patra for circulating a "false and fabricated" toolkit document. Gowda and Gupta claimed the Supreme Court has ruled in the past that the first FIR shall carry out investigation and that there cannot be a second FIR on the same offence. They said the Supreme Court ruling says "there can be no second FIR and consequently there can be no fresh investigation on receipt of every subsequent information in respect of the same cognizable offence or the same occurrence". "The Delhi Police failed to file an FIR based on our complaint. We were impleaded in an FIR registered in Chhattisgarh and are pursuing the matter there. By carrying on with its investigation, the Delhi Police is in violation of law and SC judgements," Gowda said on Twitter, while sharing the letter. Gupta said the Delhi Police should stop the "lies and facade of misinformation" to protect BJP leaders and Union Ministers. "We, at INC, had withdrawn and asked for transfer of our complaint dated May 18 as the Delhi Police didn't act. The facade of investigation is fake and illegal like forged BJP toolkit," Gupta said in a tweet. Gowda and Gupta in their letter alleged that despite the complaint on May 18, wherein cognizable offences were clearly made out, no FIR was registered in the case by the Delhi Police after "acting clearly under pressure and the behest of the Union Home Ministry in order to give cover fire to BJP leaders and Union minister guilty of committing a serious crime". They said that Chhattisgarh Police has already registered an FIR on the same set of facts on May 19 and the Delhi Police has no jurisdiction to investigate the matter any further. "The alleged Preliminary Inquiry being conducted by the Delhi Police is nothing but a clear-cut case of malafide and misuse of state machinery and resources, being done at behest and under pressure from the BJP and Modi government, inasmuch as the said Preliminary Inquiry cannot culminate into an FIR, since an FIR No. 215 of 2021, on the same facts, has already been registered by the Chhattisgarh Police on 19.05.2021," they claimed. The two Congress leader alleged that the Delhi Police is acting at the instance of the accused BJP leaders and under pressure from the Union Home Ministry and "are illegally misinforming and misleading third parties and also the media". They said the Delhi Police is in clear violation of the law and judgements of the apex court, and is "misconducting itself by illegally and forcibly carrying on the investigation in the said matter". "The Delhi Police is clearly not competent to conduct any inquiry in the above matter. Therefore, we call upon your office to refrain/desist from making such statements, which are actually being made to shield the BJP leaders as Chhattisgarh Police has already served multiple notices to the said leaders of BJP to join investigation. "We, once again, urge upon you to stop this malicious witch-hunt to protect the accused BJP leaders and Union ministers," they said in their letter to the Delhi police commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-terms-inquiry-in-toolkit-matter-by-delhi-police-illegal-withdraws-from-probe-990893.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi blames Narendra Modi for second Covid wave, says more to come if no vaccine strategy is in place||Lashing out at the government for its Covid management, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday held Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “theatrics” responsible for the second coronavirus wave and warned of more waves to come at the current rate of vaccination. Calling on the government to evolve a vaccine strategy for the entire population, he noted that India is the vaccine capital of the world and it is possible to escalate the inoculation drive as only 3 per cent of the people have received their jabs. Addressing an online press conference, Gandhi also termed the prime minister an event manager and said it is time for him to be a leader and show that he can organise vaccines for everyone. "My understanding and the understanding of experts is the current rate of vaccination of 3 per cent almost guarantees a third wave of virus when the lockdown goes, which is completely unnecessary," he warned. If the vaccination is at 50-60 per cent of the population, India would not have a third wave and certainly not a fourth or a fifth wave, Gandhi said. "The problem is there is no strategy. The prime minister doesn't think strategically. He is an event manager. He thinks one event at a time. You don't need events now as events will kill people, you need a strategy. The aim of the strategy should be to shut the space for corona," he said. Asserting that the more space you leave for the virus, the more dangerous it will become, the former Congress chief said Modi and his government have still not understood the virus and that is why they have no strategy. Going by the current pace of vaccinations, the entire inoculation exercise will take another three years, till May 2024, and the country will witness several Covid waves by then. Gandhi said the prime minister created space for Covid to spread through his actions.  "The PM is responsible for the second wave of virus, it is a result of his theatrics and the lack of his responsibility. It is time for the prime minister to be a leader and display leadership skills and show courage and not come out with excuses and blame others," he said. The fact that India has so far vaccinated 3 per cent of its population means that 97 per cent can get the infection as “the government has left the door open for the disease to spread". Gandhi also alleged that the Covid death rate in India is "a lie". The government, he said, is trying to suppress information and that is why it is lying about the deaths. He also urged the government to not give the virus time or space and change the strategy. According to the Congress leader, the lockdown, masks and social distancing are temporary fixes. Vaccination is the permanent solution to Covid-19 and the government must evolve a strategy, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-blames-narendra-modi-for-second-covid-wave-says-more-to-come-if-no-vaccine-strategy-is-in-place-990997.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Centre creating 'artificial scarcity' of Covid-19 vaccines to benefit SII, Bharat Biotech: AAP leader Atishi||The AAP on Friday alleged that the Centre is creating "artificial scarcity" of Covid-19 vaccines to benefit Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, a charge termed by the Delhi BJP as "unfounded". Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Atishi said the government's vaccine drive has stopped in schools and this is the case throughout the country while in private hospitals, vaccination is still going on at different rates. India is currently using mainly two 'made-in India' jabs – Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech – and Russian-made Sputnik V at a smaller scale to inoculate its population. "This is big racket. At government centres where vaccination was given free to the youth, vaccines are in shortage there, while vaccinations are going on at higher prices at hospitals," she alleged. She further questioned the Centre over not giving emergency approval to more vaccines. "Many vaccines are being approved across the world. Pfizer vaccine has been approved in 85 countries, Moderna vaccine has been approved in 46 countries and J&J is approved in 41 countries. "Then why these three vaccines were not given emergency authorisation. If WHO can approve them, why can't India? This clearly shows that the Centre has created this artificial scarcity to favour Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech," she alleged.  She further said these two companies do not have manufacturing capacity but the Centre has not approved more vaccines.  "The Centre created such an artificial scarcity that states have to buy from them only. The Centre should respond to this," she said. Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Atishi's allegation is unfounded as scarcity has not been created by the government. Atishi should know that SII and Bharat Biotech don't stand to gain by the scarcity because scarcity means entry of foreign manufacturers. Creating scarcity and putting general people at discomfort is the speciality of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, he claimed. "He spoke on hospital beds scarcity which forced people to pay hefty fees to private hospitals, he spoke of oxygen scarcity and we saw oxygen mafia loot, we saw black marketing of Covid medicines as he spoke of medicines shortage," Kapoor claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-creating-artificial-scarcity-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-benefit-sii-bharat-biotech-aap-leader-atishi-991059.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Rahul's language, attempt to stoke fears on Covid show Congress behind toolkit: BJP||The BJP on Friday lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Covid vaccination programme, saying the kind of language the Congress leader used and the way he tried to stoke "fears" has confirmed that the "toolkit" was produced by his party. Speaking to reporters, senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar also cited recent remarks of the Health Ministry to assert that the inoculation exercise in India will be completed by December this year. The ministry has given a roadmap about producing 216 crore doses by December and how 108 crore people will be vaccinated, he said. Gandhi's choice of words like "nautanki" for the prime minister at a time when Modi is working to curb Covid-19 is part of the toolkit's script, the minister alleged, referring to a controversial document about targeting the government. The BJP has claimed that Congress is behind it, a charge the opposition party has rejected. It has instead blamed the BJP and sought police probe into the matter. "It has been confirmed, and there is no need for any evidence. It is clear that the toolkit was produced by you. The kind of language you used and the way you tried to stoke confusion and fear among people is part of that politics," Javadekar said. What Gandhi has said is an insult to the country and people, he added. With over 20 crore doses being administered so far, India is second in the world and the vaccination is set to see a big jump from August, he said, rebutting the Congress leader's criticism about the alleged slow pace of the country's inoculation programme. The BJP leader said Gandhi should rather be concerned about the Congress-ruled states as they have not been able lift their quota from vaccine producers. Noting that Gandhi had stressed the importance of vaccination, he said this is what the government has been saying and working on from the beginning and cited the production of two vaccines in India. When Covaxin was produced indigenously, Congress leaders created doubts about its safety while Modi put any such question to rest by opting for this jab, the minister said. Gandhi had earlier asked the government to evolve a vaccine strategy for the entire population, warning of multiple waves of the virus at the current rate of vaccination. It was time for Modi to be a leader and show that he can organise vaccines for everyone, he said, accusing the prime minister of not thinking strategically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahuls-language-attempt-to-stoke-fears-on-covid-show-congress-behind-toolkit-bjp-991083.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Murder of constitutional ethos: Nadda slams Mamata for skipping meeting with PM Modi||Hitting out at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for skipping a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the state on Cyclone Yaas, BJP president J P Nadda on Friday accused her of "murder of constitutional ethos and the culture of cooperative federalism". Nadda said Modi holds the principle of cooperative federalism "very sacred" and has been actively working with all chief ministers irrespective of their party affiliation to give relief to people but unsurprisingly, he added, Banerjee's tactics and petty politics have once again come to haunt the people of Bengal. "When PM Narendra Modi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of Cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people. Her absence from the PM’s meeting is the murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism," he tweeted. Modi visited Odisha and West Bengal and held review meetings in both the states on the post-cyclone situation. While Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik attended the meeting with Modi, Banerjee skipped the review meeting in her state. She, however, submitted a report to the prime minister on the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state, and sought a Rs 20,000-crore package for redevelopment of the worst-affected areas. As the West Bengal chief minister, Banerjee's relations with the central government and the BJP top brass have been far from smooth as she has often accused them of using central agencies and also the governor's office to harass her government. The BJP has denied the charge and often claimed that she has used the state machinery to target its members and accused her of not adhering to constitutional properties in her dealings with the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/murder-of-constitutional-ethos-nadda-slams-mamata-for-skipping-meeting-with-pm-modi-991151.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Army Chief General Naravane sends 'clear message' to China on Ladakh||In a clear and unambiguous message to China, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane on Friday said there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. In an exclusive interview to PTI, Gen Naravane said India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures. It has been more than a year since the military standoff between the two sides erupted in eastern Ladakh on May 5 during which there were fatalities on both sides for the first time in 45 years. They have made limited progress in achieving disengagement at the Pangong lake area while negotiations for similar steps at other points remained deadlocked. Gen Naravane asserted that the Indian Army is currently holding onto all important areas in the high-altitude region and it has adequate personnel in the form of "reserves" to react to any contingencies. "We are very clear that no de-escalation can take place before disengagement at all friction points. India and China have signed a number of border agreements which have been unilaterally breached by the People's Liberation Army(PLA)," Gen Naravane said. "Though we want peace and tranquillity at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and are open to initiating confidence-building measures, we remain prepared for all contingencies." He also said the situation along the northern border is under control and that the coming rounds of military talks with China will focus on restoring the status quo ante of April 2020. "Indian Army is very clear that no loss of territory or unilateral change in status quo will be permitted. We are dealing with the Chinese in a firm and non-escalatory way, ensuring the sanctity of our claims in eastern Ladakh," he said. To a question on when a resolution of the standoff can be expected in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, the Army Chief said it was difficult to predict the timeline. "The Indian Army maintains all protocols and agreements between the two countries while the PLA escalated the situation by utilisation of unorthodox weapons and amassing a large number of troops," he said, in a reference to the Galwan Valley clashes last June. "Troops are currently holding all important areas and we have adequate troops in the form of 'reserves' to react to any contingencies," the Army Chief added. India-China ties came under severe strain following the deadly clash at the Galwan valley following which both sides rushed in thousands of additional troops as well as battle tanks and other large weapons to the region. "The trust levels are bound to be low when a major standoff takes place between two countries leading to casualties on both sides. However, it is always our endeavour that this trust deficit should not hinder the negotiation process," Gen Naravane said. "As two professional armies, it is imperative that we resolve the situation and make progress to restore trust at the earliest," he said. Asked about the possibility of any escalation of tension in the region, Gen Naravane said there has been no infringement by the Chinese side following the agreement on the disengagement in the Pangong lake area and that chances of any untoward incident is low. He also said the strength of troops on both sides at present are more or less what it was last year and that the Indian Army was aware of what is happening in the region, adding "you cannot be complacent". The Chief of Army Staff said the training areas of the PLA located in depth areas at a distance of around 1,000 km from the LAC are also being looked at. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector. The military standoff began at multiple friction points on May 5 last year. Both sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake in February as part of an agreement reached following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides have held 11 rounds of military talks with an aim to ensure disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points. Both the militaries are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops at the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach at the last round of talks on April 9. The Chinese military is currently conducting a drill at its training areas near the Ladakh region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/army-chief-general-naravane-sends-clear-message-to-china-on-ladakh-991181.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Didi has put arrogance above public welfare: Shah slams Mamata for skipping cyclone review meet with PM Modi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday slammed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for not attending a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on cyclone relief measures in her state and alleged that she has put "arrogance above public welfare". Modi on Friday visited Odisha and West Bengal and held review meetings in both the states on the post-cyclone situation. Mamata Didi’s conduct today is an unfortunate low. Cyclone Yaas has affected several common citizens and the need of the hour is to assist those affected. Sadly, Didi has put arrogance above public welfare and today’s petty behaviour reflects that. "Mamata Didi's conduct today is an unfortunate low. Cyclone Yaas has affected several common citizens and the need of the hour is to assist those affected. Sadly, Didi has put arrogance above public welfare and today's petty behaviour reflects that," Shah tweeted. During the prime minister's tour, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik attended the meeting with him in Odisha, while Banerjee skipped the meeting in her state. She, however, submitted a report to the prime minister on the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state, and sought a Rs 20,000-crore package for redevelopment of the worst-affected areas. As West Bengal chief minister, Banerjee's relations with the central government and the BJP top brass have been far from smooth as she has often accused them of using central agencies and also the governor's office to harass her government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/didi-has-put-arrogance-above-public-welfare-shah-slams-mamata-for-skipping-cyclone-review-meet-with-pm-modi-991185.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Mamata-Modi meet on cyclone kicks up a political storm||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to West Bengal to assess the damages caused by the cyclone Yaas kicked up a political row as Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee "skipped" a review meeting inviting "petty politics" charge from the BJP. Banerjee, however, insisted that she was not aware of the review meeting convened by the Prime Minister at Kalaikunda in West Medinipur district to assess the damages caused by the cyclone. A political storm also brewed over the Mamata-Modi meeting on May 20 when the Prime Minister discussed Covid-19 strategy with states. Hitting out at Banerjee, BJP Chief J P Nadda said the Chief Minister's absence from the PM’s meeting is "murder of constitutional ethos and the culture of cooperative federalism". Nadda said, "Banerjee's tactics and petty politics has once again come to haunt the people of Bengal. When PM Modi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people..." West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also criticised the Chief Minister stating that such “boycott” was not in consonance with the Constitution. “At the Review Meet by PM #CycloneYaas to assess damage caused. CM and officials@MamataOfficial did not participate. Such boycott not in consonance with the constitution and federalism. Certainly by such actions neither public interest nor interest of state has been served,” tweeted Dhankhar. Such boycott bot in consonance with constitution and federalism. The Chief Minister, however, speaking to reporters after the meeting said that she and Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay met the Prime Minister briefly at Kalaikunda and handed him the report of damages caused by the cyclone in Bengal seeking a package of Rs 20,000 crore. She also expressed her doubt whether West Bengal will get any help from the Centre to deal with damages caused by the cyclone. “Then we went to Kalaikunda because the Prime Minister called a meeting. But we were not aware of it. We had a program in Digha. Even then we went to Kalaikunda. There the Chief Secretary and I handed over a report of the damages caused by the cyclone to the Prime Minister,” said Mamata. She also said that after submitting the report she told the Prime Minister that he may do what he sees fit. “We told the Prime Minister that this is our report and you do what you see fit. So far we have assessed damages worth Rs 20,000 crore. We proposed two schemes. One is a Rs 10,000 crore package for the development of Digha and another is a Rs 10,000 crore package for the development of Sundarban. We may not get anything,” said Mamata. She said that she told the Prime Minister that she came to Kalaikunda since he wanted to meet her and then took his leave after submitting the report stating that she has to go to Digha in East Medinipur district. “I told the Prime Minister that since you wanted to meet him, I have come here. We are submitting this report to you. I have to go to Digha. So with your permission, I am taking your leave,” said Mamata. Her one-time close aide turned rival Suvendu Adhikari, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly called it a "dark day" in India’s long-standing ethos of cooperative federalism and alleged that Banerjee has shown once again that "she is insensitive to the sufferings of the people of West Bengal." He said that on previous occasions, Modi has reviewed floods, cyclone situations with different CMs who belonged to non-NDA parties but "none of these CMs behaved the way Mamata Didi behaved today. There is a time for politics and a time for governance. Didi can’t comprehend that." Modi visited Odisha and West Bengal and held review meetings in both states on the post-cyclone situation. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik attended the meeting with Modi. The relationship of Banerjee with Centre has hardly been a smooth affair with both accusing each other of acting as impediment in their respective responsibilities. Banerjee also raised charges of 'misusing' central agencies to 'harass' her. On May 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with district magistrates of 54 of 100 districts with highest Covid loads had got into a political row with Banerjee calling the meeting a "casual and super flop meeting" in which "only CMs of BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak and others were reduced to puppets." BJP had then called Banerjee's conduct as "shameful, indignified, condemnable and least expected from the Chief Minister of a large state like West Bengal".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-modi-meet-on-cyclone-kicks-up-a-political-storm-991190.html
28-05-2021||National Politics||Congress demands Rs 3,000 crore package for 3 cyclone-hit states, urges PM to be magnanimous||The Congress on Friday said a relief package Rs 3,000 crore was needed for the cyclone-hit states of Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand, and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to show magnanimity by "rising above political differences". Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Rs 1,000 crore package announced by the PM is grossly insufficient to provide home, livelihood and other relief to those affected by cyclone Yaas. "It can hardly restore normalcy and wipe the tears of the people," Surjewala said in a statement. He said the Congress party believes that every household ravaged by the cyclone requires special financial assistance. "Considering the impact of the cyclone Rs 1,000 crore (Rs 500 Crore for Orissa and Rs 500 crore between West Bengal and Jharkhand) is grossly insufficient to meet the needs of lakhs rendered homeless, medically affected and without a livelihood," he said. Earlier in the day, a release issued by the Prime Minister's Office said Modi has announced a financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief activities. "Rs 500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha. Another Rs 500 crore has been announced for West Bengal and Jharkhand, which will be released on the basis of the damage," the PMO said. In his statement, Surjewala said, "We urge upon PM Narendra Modi to show magnanimity by rising above political differences and give a financial package of at least Rs 3,000 Crore (to be proportionately distributed amongst the three States as per the scale of damage), on the lines of the cyclone relief package announced by him on May 19, 2021 in Gujarat which was similarly affected by Cyclone.” Surjewala said Congress president Sonia Gandhi and every party worker stand in solidarity with the people of Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand in these times of widespread destruction caused by cyclone 'Yaas'. Coming at a time when the people were already reeling under severe distress caused by the ravaging second wave of Covid-19, the cyclone has caused immense hardship to ordinary people, especially the farmer, the poor and the marginalised, he said. The party has also asked its workers to provide relief to the needy and affected, and assist those stuck in the disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-demands-rs-3000-crore-package-for-3-cyclone-hit-states-urges-pm-to-be-magnanimous-991263.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt declares black fungus as epidemic as number of cases rises, issues regulations||Amid rising incidents of black fungus in the national capital, the Delhi government on Thursday declared it an epidemic with Lt Governor Anil Baijal issuing regulations under the Epidemic Diseases Act to contain and manage cases of the deadly mucormycosis in the city. According to a senior official, 153 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis were recorded on Thursday, taking the total number of such cases in Delhi to over 770. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal On Wednesday said there were around 620 cases of black fungus in the city. A government notification released on Thursday said "the Lt Governor of NCT of Delhi is satisfied that the NCT of Delhi is threatened with the outbreak of a dangerous epidemic disease, namely mucormycosis, among immune-compromised patients, especially Covid-19 patients being treated with steroids and that the ordinary provision of law for the time being in force are insufficient for the purpose". According to a notification issued by the Delhi health department, the new regulations have been issued under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The Delhi Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations, 2021, to be valid for a year from the date of publication, states all healthcare facilities, government or private, will report each and every suspected or confirmed cases of black fungus in the national capital to the city health department through a medical superintendent or medical director or hospital in-charge or chief district medical officer of the district concerned. Nearly 20 states have declared black fungus or mucormycosis as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had recently said.  All healthcare facilities in Delhi will follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of black fungus issued by the Health Ministry, according to the regulations. "No person or institution or organisation will spread any information or material for the management of black fungus without prior permission of the health department," the new regulation stated. The regulations further said that any person or institution or organisation disobeying these new norms on black fungus shall be deemed to be committing an offence under the Indian Penal Code's Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Of the over 600 cases of black fungus reported here till May 26, around 200 were recorded on May 23 alone, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. Mucormycosis or black fungus is more common among people whose immunity has got lowered due to Covid, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues, or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-declares-black-fungus-as-epidemic-as-number-of-cases-rises-issues-regulations-990929.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||‘Change of heart’: NC may participate in future meetings of Delimitation Commission||After showing reluctance for more than a year, regional National Conference may finally participate in future meetings of the Delimitation Commission, set up by the Central government to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said there is an overwhelming view within the NC that it should associate itself with the Delimitation Commission to project its viewpoint and not leave the space open for the ruling BJP. The NC’s Central Working Committee (CWC), which held a virtual meeting on Thursday, was also of the same opinion that the party should associate itself with the Commission. “The party leaders were of the view that dissociation with the Commission will not give the NC a chance to project its viewpoint on delimitation of Assembly constituencies. However, they left the final call to the party president Farooq Abdullah,” they added. Till now three members of the NC – Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi (all MPs) – had not accepted their positions as part of the Delimitation Commission since that would be “tantamount to accepting the events of 5th August 2019”—when the special status of the erstwhile state was abrogated. The NC had boycotted the first meeting of the Commission called by its chairperson Justice (Retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai on February 19 this year. The Center had on March 6 last year constituted the Commission to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland. The term of the Commission was extended by another year in March. The erstwhile State of J&K had 111 seats including 24 reserved for Pakistan occupied Kashmir while elections were held for 87 seats. Delimitation of the Assembly constituencies was last held in 1994-95 during the President’s Rule when seats of the erstwhile State Assembly were raised from 76 to 87. Elections to J&K Assembly will be held only after delimitation of constituencies is completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/change-of-heart-nc-may-participate-in-future-meetings-of-delimitation-commission-990974.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 lockdown to ease from Monday; unlock process to be in phased manner||Construction activities and factories will resume in the national capital from Monday with the Delhi government announcing the start of phase-wise unlocking of the Covid-19 restrictions in place for the past over one month. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal among others. The national capital has been in lockdown since April 19 night and the current phase of lockdown ends on 5 am of May 31. "This is the time to slowly unlock. It should not be the case that the people who are saved from Covid-19 struggle due to hunger. So we need to maintain a balance where we have to control Covid-19 on one hand and allow as much economic activity as possible on the other hand," Kejriwal said. "In the process, we have to take care of the lowest strata first ... daily wagers, labourers, migrant workers. It has been decided to open factories and allow construction activities," he said. Kejriwal said the unlocking process in Delhi will begin from May 31 and it will be done in phases to ensure that there is no sudden increase in Covid-19 cases again. However, he warned, there would be no other option but to impose lockdown again if cases increase again. "After facing so many problems, we have gained control over the 2nd wave somehow. This doesn't mean the fight has ended. The situation is under control for now," he said. He said the cases are coming down in the national capital and the stress on the health infrastructure has been eased. In the past 24 hours, the infection rate has come down to 1.5% and around 1100 cases have emerged, he said. While fighting Covid-19, he said, it was also necessary that economic activities also need to be restarted to ensure that people are not facing difficulties. Against this backdrop, he said, the DDMA has decided to start phase-wise unlocking and from  May 31, construction activities and re-starting of factories are allowed. However, other restrictions will remain in place. Metro services will remain shut while marriages will not be allowed in public places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-lockdown-to-ease-from-monday-unlock-process-to-be-in-phased-manner-991000.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Eight people dead, five hospitalised after consuming spurious liquor in Aligarh||Eight people died on Friday and five more are hospitalised after allegedly consuming spurious liquor sold by a licensed vendor, police said here. The Lodha police station was informed in the morning about the death of two people after consumption of countrymade liquor bought from a vendor in Karsia, DIG Dipak Kumar told news persons. The victims were truck drivers who had gathered at a gas depot on the Aligarh-Tapaal highway for work, he said. However, when police and senior district officials reached the spot, they were informed that six more had died in Karsia and adjoining villages, the DIG said, adding that police teams were rushed to the area and the bodies sent for post-mortem examination. Speaking to PTI, Deputy Commissioner, Excise, D Sharma said five villagers had to be rushed to the district hospital and from there, shifted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, AMU, as their condition deteriorated. He said the liquor vend has been sealed and samples have been collected for testing. According to locals, people started falling sick from Thursday. Many others from neighbouring villages had also consumed the liquor, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-people-dead-five-hospitalised-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-aligarh-991006.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Decision on Amarnath yatra likely next week||As registration for the upcoming Amarnath Yatra continues to remain suspended in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 crisis, the governing body is likely to take a decision next week whether to allow the pilgrimage at full scale or curtail it. The 56-day-long annual pilgrimage to the 3888-metre-high Amarnathji cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas, which was cancelled last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is scheduled from June 28 to August 22. Due to a huge surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths across the country, including Jammu and Kashmir, Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB), which manages the affairs of the pilgrimage, suspended the registration of pilgrims on April 22 which had started on April 1. Like most parts of the country, a strict lockdown to prevent the further spread of Covid infections remains intact in J&K. The lockdown in the union territory (UT) was imposed on April 29. Last year, the pilgrimage was cancelled on July 21 because of the rise in Covid 19 cases. Sources told DH that the SASB is likely to hold a meeting next week where it would decide whether to hold yatra at full scale or with a limited number of pilgrims. This year the SASB was expecting six lakh yatries to pay obeisance at the holy cave shrine, which would have been the largest number since the governing body took over the affairs of the pilgrimage in the year 2000. “However, keeping in view the prevailing Covid crisis, it is unlikely that such a huge number of pilgrims would be allowed to participate in the yatra this year. If Covid situation improves in the next two or three weeks, a limited number of pilgrims will be allowed to pay obeisance at the holy Cave shrine from mid-July onwards,” they added. In 2019, the pilgrimage was curtailed ahead of the scrapping of J&K’s special status under Article 370 as the erstwhile state was locked down and a communications blackout was imposed. Political and religious gatherings have been cited among the reasons for the surge of the second wave of Covid-19 infections in India. On April 17, the Mahamandleshwar, or head of Juna Akhada, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, Swami Avdheshanand Giri, was reportedly forced to declare the conclusion of the Mahakumbh in Haridwar amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-decision-on-amarnath-yatra-likely-next-week-991007.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Centenarian gets Covid-19 jab in J&K’s Reasi, says vaccine completely safe||Centenarian Sher Mohammad says he feels more confident and protected after taking a Covid vaccine shot and appeals to people to get vaccinated to save themselves from the deadly virus. Mohammad, 118, who hails from Mahore tehsil in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir, took the jab on Thursday during an inoculation drive organised by the administration. “After getting the Covid-19 jab, I feel more confident and protected as the vaccine is the biggest shield against the deadly disease,” he said. He said people should not pay heed to rumours about the efficacy of the vaccine and instead should get themselves inoculated at the earliest. “If I at this age can receive the (vaccine) dose, I feel others shouldn't shy away from getting vaccinated,” Mohammad said. Deputy Commissioner, Reasi, Charandeep Singh said they have been repeatedly appealing to people to cooperate with the district administration to break the chain of coronavirus. The district administration has taken several initiatives in the recent past for expediting the vaccination process, he said. “Though a lot needs to be done to achieve vaccination targets set for different age groups, a large number of people are coming forward for inoculation which is a good sign,” a statement issued by the district administration said. Singh asked the health department to expedite the vaccination campaign in a mission mode and achieve the set targets within the stipulated timeframe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centenarian-gets-covid-19-jab-in-jk-s-reasi-says-vaccine-completely-safe-991015.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||MPHRC seeks report on denial of treatment to black fungus patient||The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) has directed Bhopal divisional commissioner and director of health services to submit a detailed report over an incident in which a patient suffering from black fungus was reportedly denied treatment by hospitals here. A media report had said that the patient, who had come all the way from Chhindwara to the state capital, was turned away by two hospitals in Bhopal recently. The MPHRC on Thursday asked the authorities to submit the report over it within 10 days. In the report, the commission sought to know three things - under what circumstances the patient was denied admission; if any arrangement for his treatment was made and if treatment for this disease was available in Chhindwara, why was the patient referred to Bhopal. In a press release, the commission said that the 45- year-old patient was not admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for seven hours for want of bed. His family took him to the government-run Hamadia Hospital, but when there was no bed available for him there, they brought him back to AIIMS, Bhopal. The patient, who works as a clerk with the state forest department, had taken a coronavirus shot on March 22. On the seventh day (March 28), he fell sick and on April 12, he faced paralysis attack and his left eye swelled, it said. The local doctors (at Chhindwara) said that he suffered from black fungus, and referred him to Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mphrc-seeks-report-on-denial-of-treatment-to-black-fungus-patient-991037.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||UP BJP MLA dubs allopathic doctors 'demons', backs Ramdev's comments||Apparently taking a leaf out of Yoga guru Ramdev's book, controversial BJP lawmaker Surendra Singh accused the allopathic doctors of 'fleecing' money from the attendants by keeping ''dead patients'' in the 'ICUs' (intensive care units) and termed them 'rakshas' (demons). ''Some allopathic doctors are even worse than the demons....they sell tablets worth Rs. ten for Rs. 100...they keep patients in the ICU even after their deaths and fleece money from their attendants,'' Singh, an MLA from Bairia assembly constituency in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia district, said in a post on his Facebook page. He, however, said that not all allopathic doctors did the same and that there were some good doctors among them as well. Justifying the comments of Ramdev on allopathic doctors, the lawmaker said that ayurveda was equal to allopathy and was in no way less effective. ''Baba Ramdev is doing a great job....he has launched a campaign for healthy and capable India through Ayurveda, which is praiseworthy,'' Singh said. Incidentally, Singh had a few days back advised the people to drink cow urine to ward off Covid-19 and said that he himself had been using the same for several years. Ramdev had courted controversy after he said that a large number of Covid-19 patients had died from allopathic medicines. He was however forced to retract his remarks later. The yoga guru later shot off 25 questions, which pertained to some ailments, asking the IMA them to answer. He also said that no one, ''not even their father'', could arrest him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-mla-dubs-allopathic-doctors-demons-backs-ramdevs-comments-991043.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||NSUI stages protest at Ministry of Education, demands Class 12 board exams be cancelled||The National Students' Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest at the Ministry of Education on Friday demanding the cancellation of class 12 board examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The student wing of the Congress party said in a statement that the protesters wore PPE kits and followed Covid protocols while raising the slogan "'pehle suraksha, phir pariksha' (first safety, then exams)". NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan said, "A few days ago I wrote a letter to the ministry reminding them that they have not yet come up with any guideline or policy to ensure the safety of those below the age of 18 and a majority of the students are below this age." "The lack of planning for the board exams will harm the academic year of these students. The only solution for saving their academic year is now to promote them by internal assessments rather than wasting more time on discussing examinations," he said. The NSUI demanded that the government should find an alternative to the examinations as India is battling a second wave of coronavirus infection. "The government can grade the students on the basis of their past performances, assignments or classroom assessments, but risking the lives of these students is an insensitive decision," the NSUI said. '||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nsui-stages-protest-at-ministry-of-education-demands-class-12-board-exams-be-cancelled-991071.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||UP police quizzes Mukhtar Ansari in jail on ambulance registration fraud case||The Uttar Pradesh police has questioned gangster-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari in Banda jail in connection with a case filed here over alleged fraud in registration of an ambulance used to ferry him to a court in Punjab, officials said. The case was registered in Barabanki in April after the documents of the ambulance were found to be fake, the UP police had said then. Superintendent of Police of Barabanki Yamuna Prasad said on Friday that a Special Investigation Team questioned Ansari over two days during which his relations with some people in Barabanki came to light. They will also be examined soon, he said. During his jail time in Punjab, Ansari was on March 31 taken to the Mohali court from Ropar jail in an ambulance having its number registered in Barabanki. A case was registered on April 2 in Barabanki after finding that the documents used for registration of the ambulance were fake. The Bahujan Samaj Party MLA from Mau faces trial in Uttar Pradesh in several cases, including attempt to murder and murder. His transfer from Punjab was ordered by the Supreme Court after the UP government approached it, seeking his custody from Punjab. But days before being transferred to Uttar Pradesh, he was produced before the Mohali court in connection with an alleged 2019 extortion matter. He was ferried to the court in the ambulance in question. The ambulance was later found registered in the name of a doctor named Alka Rai, and subsequently a case was lodged against her too. According to sources in the police, the SIT team has found evidence of Mukhtar Ansari's Barabanki connections, including with some real-estate businesspersons. Yamuna Prasad said that during the interrogation, many important pieces of evidence have been obtained and several names from the district came to light. He said that after a thorough examination of the evidence and information that have been received, strict action will be taken against the people of Barabanki involved in registering the ambulance. In the ambulance case, police had arrested two people, including Dr Alka Rai who is the director of a hospital, and sent them to jail on April 20. After spending over two years in a Punjab prison, Ansari was brought to Banda jail in early April after the Uttar Pradesh Police had taken his custody on a Supreme Court order. Ansari was lodged in Rupnagar jail in Punjab in January 2019 in connection with an extortion case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-quizzes-mukhtar-ansari-in-jail-on-ambulance-registration-fraud-case-991077.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||High Court seeks Centre, Delhi govt stand on PIL for more crematoriums in national capital||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to respond to a PIL seeking more electric or CNG crematoriums in the national capital in view of the large number of people succumbing to Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the Centre, the Delhi government and the municipal corporations, seeking their responses to the plea filed by social activist Sunil Kumar Aledia. Aledia, in his petition filed through advocate Kamlesh Kumar Mishra, has also sought directions to the authorities to fix uniform charges for cremation at electric crematoriums in the city, as according to the petitioner, the rates range from Rs 500 -- at Sarai Kale Khan -- to Rs 8,800 -- at Lodhi Road. The petition has also sought a centralised online facility for issuance of death certificates so that people need not travel physically to the local authorities to register deaths. It has also sought that the authorities repair the non-functional electric crematoriums.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-court-seeks-centre-delhi-govt-stand-on-pil-for-more-crematoriums-in-national-capital-991090.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Punjab to provide free sanitary pads to needy under new scheme||The Punjab government on the occasion of International Menstrual Hygiene Day on Friday launched a scheme to provide free sanitary napkins to needy girls and women across the state. An amount of Rs 40.55 crore per annum will be incurred on the scheme, called ‘Udaan’, Punjab Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary said in a statement. The new scheme would cover school drop-outs, out-of-school girls, young women not attending college, women from BPL families, homeless women, residents of slum areas, and those who are not availing free or subsidised sanitary pads under any scheme of other departments, she said. A maximum of nine pads would be given to each beneficiary per month, she added. Chaudhary said that under the first phase, a total 1,22,91,300 sanitary pads would be distributed to 13,65,700 beneficiaries through workers and helpers of 27,314 Anganwari centres. The purpose of the sceme was to spread awareness about menstrual hygiene, improve accessibility to basic products, promote better standard of living, she said. She also said the women-oriented scheme was aimed at improving the quality of life, enhance their self esteem and ensure safe disposal of sanitary pads. On the launch ceremony, one lakh packets of sanitary pads were distributed at 1,500 online locations as well as at other Anganwari centres in the state, the statement said. The Minister said a State Task Force, comprising senior officers of various departments, was constituted to monitor the overall progress and smooth implementations of the scheme. Every month, the government-approved empanelled laboratories would conduct quality testing of sanitary napkins, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-provide-free-sanitary-pads-to-needy-under-new-scheme-991092.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 1,141 new Covid-19 cases, 139 deaths; positivity rate rises to 1.59%||Delhi recorded 1,141 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 139 fatalities from the infection on Friday, while the positivity rate stood at 1.59 per cent, according to data shared by the city Health Department. This is the third consecutive day in which the daily cases have stood below the 1,500-mark. As per the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll from Covid-19 here to 23,951. On Thursday, 1,072 cases and 117 deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate had dipped to 1.53 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-1141-new-covid-19-cases-139-deaths-positivity-rate-rises-to-159-991104.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter with security forces in Shopian||An unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Ganovpora village of the district following information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated. The official said one militant was killed in the exchange of fire. His identity and group affiliation were being ascertained, the official added. One AK rifle and some other incriminating material were recovered from the encounter site, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-shopian-991119.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||R-Day violence: Delhi HC adjourns charge sheet cognisance to June 17||A Delhi court on Friday deferred till June 17 its order on the cognisance of the charge sheet filed against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and 15 others in connection with the Republic Day violence case, saying that the prosecution sanction is awaited.  Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar said sanction under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Arms Act is still awaited from the concerned authorities.  The judge, who directed the police to expedite the process, also refused to provide a copy of the charge sheet to the counsel of the accused. However, they have been allowed to inspect the final report on visiting the court.  The prosecutor informed the court that the process for getting sanction has been initiated by them. “We will file the supplementary charge sheet soon,” he added.  On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with the police personnel during a tractor rally against three agricultural laws and stormed into the Red Fort, injuring scores of policemen. The Delhi police had filed a 3,224 pages-long charge sheet on May 17, nearly four months after the violence.  Fourteen out 16 accused including Sidhu, Jabarjang Singh, Iqbal Singh, Mohinder Singh Khalsa are out on bail while other two namely Maninder Singh and Khempreet Singh are still in judicial custody.  Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort.  The Delhi Police had told the court that they have electronic evidence to show that Sidhu entered the Red Fort with supporters carrying lathis and flags and provoked the violence.  He is facing charges of rioting, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, dacoity, culpable homicide among various other sections of the Indian Penal Code. He was in jail for over two months and released on bail on April 17.  Besides Sidhu, the police have also mentioned the name of Iqbal Singh, who was doing a Facebook Live session in which he allegedly instigated the protesters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-violence-delhi-hc-adjourns-charge-sheet-cognisance-to-june-17-991123.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||65-yr-old man becomes 1st Covid patient to get antibody cocktail at Apollo in Delhi||A 65-year-old man from Delhi, having multiple co-morbidities, has become the first Covid-19 patient to receive monoclonal antibody therapy at the Apollo hospital, the healthcare group said on Friday. The patient responded well to the infusion of the antibody cocktail and went home after an hour of observation on Thursday, hospital authorities said. As part of this single dose infusion-based treatment, patients with mild to moderate symptoms, are offered a cocktail of Casirivimab and Imdevimab, that is said to reduce their chance of hospitalisation by 70 per cent. In a statement, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, Delhi on Friday announced that "Roche India's antibody cocktail (Casirivimab and Imdevimab) distributed by Cipla Ltd. is available for administration to patients with mild and moderate Covid-19 infection" at its facility. The Antibody Cocktail was launched on May 24 in India by Roche India after receiving Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO), it said. The first patient to receive the therapy at Apollo hospital here is a 65-year-old Covid patient from Delhi who has multiple co-morbidities, including acute blood pressure, a spokesperson of the hospital said. "We are glad to have launched a pan-India program to make available this advanced treatment comprising of neutralising monoclonal antibodies for our patients with Covid-19," said Anupam Sibal, Group Medical Director, Apollo Hospitals Group and seniors consultant, paediatric gastroenterology at the hospital. Monoclonal antibodies bind to and 'neutralise' the SARS-CoV-2 virus, he said, adding, "we are confident that this treatment option will significantly boost our efforts to bring the pandemic under control and will help prevent progression of the disease in those with mild to moderate Covid-19". The therapy is most suited for "high-risk Covid-19 patients" who are within first ten days of symptom onset and meet any of the listed criteria, such as age being 65 years or above. Other criteria include, obesity with BMI (Body Mass Index) of more than 35; or type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus; or chronic kidney disease, including those on dialysis; or chronic liver disease; or currently receiving immunosuppressive treatment; or if aged above 55, having either heart disease, or hypertension, or chronic lung disease. Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior pulmonologist at Apollo hospital, said the reason why this therapy is termed as an anti-body cocktail is because it comprises a mixture of biological drugs (Casirivimab and Imdevimab) that mirror the human antibodies in the immune system which consequently help fight the infection, similar to the natural antibodies produced when one gets infected with Covid. Both these antibodies also strengthen the immune defence system, he said. This drug is said to restrict pathogens and virus from entering the patient's body, from where they otherwise would have derived nutrition and multiplied. This antibody cocktail will help prevent progression of the disease to a severe stage, he said. Mohabbat Singh, an 84-year-old Covid-positive man, was given monoclonal antibody therapy at Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon on Tuesday and was sent home the same day, after being kept under observation, hospital authorities said on Wednesday, adding, Singh became the first patient to receive the therapy at Medanta. Fortis Escorts Heart Institute (FEHI) in south Delhi, after receiving doses on Wednesday has started offering the therapy from Thursday, FEHI Chairman Dr Ashok Seth earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/65-yr-old-man-becomes-1st-covid-patient-to-get-antibody-cocktail-at-apollo-in-delhi-991137.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi accuses UP govt of following 'dictatorship'||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of pursuing dictatorship after the Essential Services Maintenance Act was extended for the third time in the state. She said the Yogi government is following policies aimed at suppressing democratic rights of employees. "The UP government is following the dictatorship. A number of demands of employee organisations of the state are pending. Instead of sitting and talking to them, the government has extended ESMA in the state for the third time" Priyanka said in her Facebook post.  "The government policies are against the democratic rights of employees," she added. The state government had on Thursday extended the ESMA in the state, banning strikes in public services, corporations and local authorities under it, for a period of six months A notification to this effect was issued on Tuesday. The Act gives police the powers to arrest, without a warrant, anybody for violating its provisions. The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1966 mandates imprisonment for a term which may extend to a year, or a fine which may extend to Rs 1,000, or both, to any person who instigates a strike which was illegal under the Act. The Uttar Pradesh government had initially invoked the ESMA in the state in May 2020 for a period of six months. It subsequently extended the provisions for another six months on November 25, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-accuses-up-govt-of-following-dictatorship-991159.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||SC calls for careful, cautious approach in conducting trial in dowry death cases||In an important judgement, the Supreme Court on Friday said judges, prosecution and defence must be careful in conducting trials in dowry death cases saying that though menace is increasing, sometimes family members of the husband are roped in without any active role in the offence. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Aniruddha Bose said Section 304-B (dowry death) of the IPC must be interpreted keeping in mind the legislative intent to curb the social evil of bride burning and dowry demand. The prosecution must at first establish existence of necessary ingredients for the offence, only then Section 113-B, Evidence Act (presumption against the accused) operates, the court said. Laying down detailed guidelines, the court said, it is a matter of grave concern that, often trial courts record the statement under Section 313, Criminal Procedure Code in a very casual and cursory manner, without specifically questioning the accused as to his defense. "The court must put incriminating circumstances before the accused and seek his response. A duty is also cast on the counsel of the accused to prepare his defense since the inception of the trial with due caution, keeping in consideration the peculiarities of Section 304-B, IPC read with Section 113-B, Evidence Act," the bench said. The court noted the social evil of dowry death persisted even today. It pointed out a study titled “Global study on Homicide: Gender-related killing of women and girls”, published by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, highlighted that in 2018, female dowry deaths account for 40 to 50 per cent of all female homicides recorded annually in India. The dismal truth is that from the period 1999 to 2016, these figures have remained constant. In fact, data furnished by the National Crime Records Bureau indicate that in 2019 itself, 7,115 cases were registered under Section 304-B, IPC alone, it said. The top court upheld the conviction and sentence of seven years imposed against Satbir Singh and another person of Haryana for the death of his wife who died due to burn injuries on July 31, 1995, just after one year of the marriage. "The accused persons failed to place any evidence on record to prove that the death was accidental or unconnected with the accused persons," the court said. It, however, set aside their conviction and sentence for abetment of suicide, saying there was no evidence on record to support the charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-calls-for-careful-cautious-approach-in-conducting-trial-in-dowry-death-cases-991269.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Nath slams MP govt again for 'hiding' Covid-19 death figures||Days after a case was filed against him for allegedly creating panic through his remarks on coronavirus, Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath on Friday once again accused the government of hiding the real Covid-19 death figures in the state. Talking to reporters in Maiher town of Satna district, Nath said, "The work of hiding the death figures is going on in MP. Earlier, I had said that 1.27 lakh bodies had reached the crematoriums and graveyards (in March-April). But today, on the basis of the information received, I say that 1.50 lakh bodies reached the crematoriums and burial grounds during the second wave." "I believe that 80 per cent of these bodies were of coronavirus victims, while the state government has put the death toll in thousands even now," the former CM said. As per the state government's bulletin issued on Friday, the Covid-19 fatality count was 7,891. "If I speak the truth, an FIR is registered against me. I never said that the Covid strain is an Indian variant," the Congress leader said. Hitting back at him, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted, "After losing the government in MP, it appears that Kamal Nath has lost his mental balance." In March 2020, Nath resigned as the state chief minister after several Congress MLAs quit the party and joined the BJP, which then came to power. The FIR against Nath over his Covid-19 remarks was registered in Bhopal on Sunday based on a complaint by BJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nath-slams-mp-govt-again-for-hiding-covid-19-death-figures-991272.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Rise above petty politics, shed ego: Adityanath slams Mamata for skipping PM meet on Yaas||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Friday criticised his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee for skipping a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Cyclone Yaas, and said non-cooperation with the Centre is a blatant violation of constitution norms. He also said the TMC supremo should rise above "petty politics, shed her ego" and work with the nation to provide relief to the people of Bengal. "Non-cooperation by @MamataOfficial with Centre is blatant violation of constitutional norms & against the ethos of cooperative federalism. Absence from PM's meeting shows her insensitivity towards welfare and betterment of people of Bengal at difficult times due to Cyclone Yaas," Adityanath said in a tweet. Modi visited Odisha and West Bengal and held review meetings in both states on the post-cyclone situation. While Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik attended the meet, Banerjee skipped the review meeting in her state. Mamata, however, submitted a report to the prime minister on the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state and sought a Rs 20,000-crore package for redevelopment of the worst-affected areas. In a second tweet, he UP CM said, "Hon. PM @narendramodi Ji and the entire nation stand with the people of Bengal. @MamataOfficial should rise above petty politics, shed her ego and work with the nation to provide relief to the people of Bengal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rise-above-petty-politics-shed-ego-adityanath-slams-mamata-for-skipping-pm-meet-on-yaas-991276.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Cyclone Yaas leaves Bihar hospitals in deep waters||It was a double whammy for hospitals in Bihar on Friday. Already gasping for breath and drawing bad press for the poor infrastructure, lack of medicines and proper nursing staff, hospitals in the state turned into floating health centres after rainwater gushed into the building, thereby inundating general wards, emergency wards and operation theatres. Bihar has received heavy rainfall for the past 48 hours following Cyclone Yaas' landfall in Odisha and Bengal on Wednesday. With around 90 mm rainfall, water entered the Hajipur Sadar Hospital in Vaishali district on Friday. An eyewitness said after the operation theatre and emergency ward got inundated in rainwater, patients were hurriedly shifted by their relatives on stretchers to safe places. “Water has entered the X-Ray room too. So we decided to move out. But others are still stuck inside the hospital,” said one such patient's relative. In Patna too, water entered the Jaya Prabha hospital campus. This is the same hospital where scores of people flock every day to get themselves vaccinated during the Covid lockdown. But following incessant rain, strips of medicines were seen floating in the water-logged hospital campus. Rainwater also entered the government hospital in the Rajendra Nagar area of the state capital. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav tweeted a video of Rajendra Nagar saying expressing his dismay. "Little bit of heavy rain & whole Patna gets submerged in water jeopardising the normal life. Same is the case with every city in Bihar. No civic amenities! No care for drainage & sanitation! Heaps of garbage at every corner! No wonder cities of Bihar are most polluted & filthy!" he said. Little bit of heavy rain & whole Patna gets submerged in water jeopardising the normal life. Same is the case with every city in Bihar. In Gaya, water entered the ENT ward of the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital. “Rainwater has entered the ENT ward after incessant rainfall. We are trying to drain out the water at the earliest,” said the nodal officer of the corona ward in ANMMCH, Dr NK Paswan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cyclone-yaas-leaves-bihar-hospitals-in-deep-waters-991282.html
28-05-2021||North and Central||Charge those in PPE kit reuse video under NSA: Digviajaya Singh to Madhya Pradesh CM||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday said those involved in the washing and packing of used PPE kits for resale in Satna district in Madhya Pradesh must be charged under the stringent National Security Act. Singh, citing media reports on the issue, in a letter to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said this was a "highly inhuman act" and was akin to "playing with the lives of others". "Some news reports are stating that in Satna district's Badkhera-based Indowater Biowaste Disposal Plant, PPE kits and gloves are being separated from the bio-medical waste arrived in the unit for safe disposal, and repacked after washing for selling them in the market," he said in the letter. "It is surprising to know that this act was going on in the Badkhera unit for nearly a year and the government is not aware of it. It might be a very big scam," Singh added, and asked Chouhan to book those involved in it under the NSA and ensure such stock was traced and destroyed. Meanwhile, Satna district Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Rajesh Shahi told reporters the collector had ordered a probe after taking cognisance of the video showing PPE kits being readied for reuse in a unit in Badkhera. Pollution control board officials are carrying out the probe and action will be taken as per their report, Shahi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/charge-those-in-ppe-kit-reuse-video-under-nsa-digviajaya-singh-to-madhya-pradesh-cm-991294.html
28-05-2021||Opinion||The answer to India's Covid-19 vaccine supply problem: China||By Andy Mukherjee India’s vaccine strategy has flopped. A dismissive attitude toward the second Covid-19 outbreak that has raged uncontrolled, and a mistaken belief that indigenously made shots would be equal to the task of inoculating a billion adults, have left the nation scrambling. Efforts are underway to procure supplies from Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc. and Johnson & Johnson. But their order books are full.  There is a way out of the crunch, as long as authorities are realistic: Acquiring vaccines from regional rival China. They don’t have the same efficacy as the leading-edge products and may not offer a ticket to herd immunity. Seychelles saw a dangerous jump in infections after making Sinopharm the mainstay of its inoculation drive. But then, herd immunity isn’t within India's reach, not with only 3 per cent of the population fully vaccinated. New Delhi can at least ensure that the next coronavirus wave doesn’t kill thousands of people a day for want of hospital beds or oxygen. To achieve this aim, India must talk to China. And that’s easier said than done. New Delhi faces tough issues, from long-standing territorial disputes to a deep suspicion of Beijing’s Belt-and-Road strategy. Bilateral trade skews heavily in favor of China. Being inundated with cheap widgets frustrates India’s policy makers no end. Ever since violent clashes a year ago along their Himalayan border, pruning imports and investments from the People’s Republic has been an unstated goal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for self-sufficiency. Indian politicians of all hues will find it hard to suddenly advocate vaccines from Sinopharm and Sinovac Biotech Ltd. Yet what can be a bigger national interest right now than saving Indians from avoidable death and durably reopening the economy? Messenger RNA-based vaccines would be a better option if they were immediately available. The genetic codes, which stimulate an immune response by instructing the body to make proteins that mimic part of the virus, appear to offer 90 per cent protection against symptomatic Covid-19, superior to the 50 per cent to 80 per cent range for Chinese shots developed from inactivated viruses. But the time to order mRNA doses — and set up the required ultra-low-temperature supply chain — was last year. Now, Pfizer and Moderna are flatly refusing to entertain requests from India’s ill-equipped states. Even if the federal government manages to persuade the manufacturers, or New Delhi reverses its decision to pass off vaccination of the under-45 population to subnational entities and the private sector, help may come too late to damp a third wave. India hopes to get the required 2 billion vaccines by the end of this year through adding Russia’s Sputnik V to the mix and ramping up capacity at the two existing local producers, Serum Institute of India Ltd., which makes the AstraZeneca Plc shots, and Bharat Biotech Ltd., which has yet to publish efficacy data of its inactivated virus vaccine. A few other options have been included to make up the shortfall on planners’ spreadsheets. What happens in the real world, however, may only be a slight improvement over the current dribs and drabs of doses. Fewer than 2 million Indians are getting vaccinated every day, 40 per cent less than in April when the inventory wasn’t as thin as now. A developing country with patchy clinical care and little health insurance should be getting as many people fully inoculated as early as it can. Even if some of them catch breakthrough infections, not many should require hospital care. Indonesia, another country with a large population, found Sinovac to be 95 per cent-plus effective in preventing hospitalization and deaths among health workers. That should give India confidence. The time to act is now. The World Health Organization has asked Sinovac for more data before considering authorization for emergency use, according to the Wall Street Journal. The approval, which Sinopharm has already won, will allow the firm to help supply the global Covax program to provide vaccines mainly for poor countries. The costs of taking up the Chinese vaccines would be manageable. The $14 that Indonesia is reported to have paid per Sinovac dose may not be possible now. But so what if India were to pay $30 per shot? Fully vaccinating 25 per cent of 1 billion adults would mean spending $15 billion, a little more than the dividend the central bank just paid the government. For assured stocks and early supplies, it's a worthwhile investment — provided that Beijing is cautious to not link vaccine access to its own geopolitical agenda. Doing so would leave New Delhi with no wiggle room. The messaging needs to be careful on both sides. Tenders floated by some states and municipalities have barred participation from countries sharing a land border with India, a code phrase to keep out Sinopharm and Sinovac. Vaccine purchases will be very public and very large additions to the $38 billion annual trade deficit with China.  To get past this hurdle, Modi can appeal to people to boycott phones made in China. It’s a gimmick, but the public may like the idea of making a sacrifice for a national cause. Indians were spending $3.5 billion a year on Chinese smartphone components before the pandemic. The prime minister can explain how going without cheap mobile devices for five years for $15 billion in one-time vaccine imports will make India more self-reliant. Especially if it frees up local manufacturers to again export vaccines to countries needing them. That will bring huge relief to the rest of the world, and some bragging rights for India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-answer-to-indias-covid-19-vaccine-supply-problem-china-990950.html
28-05-2021||Opinion||Why doesn't hunger make headlines during a pandemic?||How does Doritos, an American brand of flavoured tortilla chips, become newsworthy in India during a ferocious second wave of the coronavirus pandemic? The short answer – It happens when India’s junior home minister, G Kishan Reddy, donates packets of Doritos as relief material for ‘Covid Warriors’.  Last weekend, the “chips” were received by Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Adesh Kumar Gupta, who promptly took to Twitter to announce that the BJP unit will not only distribute the “food item” to the hungry but also to municipal corporation employees and police officers. Doritos as food aid is a telling illustration of the unreal times we live in. Hunger is real. It is here, in the nation’s capital, and everywhere else, but it seldom makes headlines amid the overwhelming stories of death and disease unless there is a quirky angle. In February this year, I met Radha (not her real name), a 29-year-old woman in Lal Gumbad basti, a slum in South Delhi. Radha is a mother of three and her youngest was born last year. She used to work as a domestic helper but is now jobless. Delhi is under lockdown again and work has dried up. Her husband, a daily wager, also has little work. The pandemic has depleted the family’s savings and the young mother tearfully told me she could not offer milk and fruits to her children. “We only eat potatoes and chapati.” “The hunger story during the second wave is almost invisible in the public and political discourse. Migrants walking down the highway last year shook everyone, even if fleetingly. But malnutrition and hunger don't lend themselves to such graphic images and are hardly being talked about,” says Dipa Sinha, Assistant Professor (Economics) at Delhi’s Ambedkar University and part of the Right to Food Campaign which has been seeking to focus public attention on the growing hunger crisis in the country. The invisibility of the ongoing hunger crisis in the country in the wake of Covid-19 also stems from the dearth of official data. But there have been non-official surveys, anecdotal evidence and reports that more and more people are losing work and becoming jobless and household budgets are tight, leading to cuts in food intake. According to the State of Working India report 2021 of Azim Premji University, nearly half of India's formal salaried workers moved into informal work between late 2019 and late 2020 and the poorest 20 per cent of households lost their entire incomes in April and May 2020. The report points out that households “coped by cutting back on food intake, selling assets, and borrowing informally from friends, relatives, and money-lenders.” Even more worryingly, 20 per cent reported that food intake had not improved even six months after the (2020) lockdown. Over two-thirds of the respondents reported that in October 2020, the quantity of food they were able to consume was less than what it was before February 2020, before the onset of the pandemic, according to The Hunger Watch survey which tried to gauge the hunger and precarious livelihood situation of nearly 4,000 marginalised households in 11 states in October 2020. The respondents came from cities and villages in equal number. According to this survey brought out by the Right to Food Campaign and the Delhi-based Centre for Equity Studies, not only did people forego food items such as eggs and meat, there was also a reduction in the quantity of staples consumed. People spoke about skipping some meals, going to bed hungry and buying food on credit. Disturbingly, the slide back in nutrition started before the onset of the pandemic. The fifth National Family Health Survey (2019-2020), released last December, tossed up troubling data. In 13 of the 22 states and union territories for which data is available, stunting in children under 5 years had increased since the last survey (NFHS-4) in 2015–16. Wasting had gone up in 12 states and union territories. Many states had the dual burden of both wasting and stunting. Data about the remaining states, including populous Uttar Pradesh, are still awaited. Clearly, hunger was already on the rise prior to Covid-19; the pandemic has made it much worse. Activists point out that delivering mid-day meals to all school children everywhere has run into challenges despite official directives. Anganwadi workers are distributing dry rations in many states but there is no growth monitoring. So, we shall not know Covid's impact on child nutrition for quite some time. Dipa Sinha says the very existence of hunger is shameful when there are 100 million tonnes of grain that can be distributed. The Right to Food Campaign has said that the record export of foodgrains at a time of widespread hunger and distress due to Covid-19 exposes “the government’s apathy towards the people”. The central government has a relief scheme – the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for economically weaker sections. This provides an additional 5 kg of food grains but only for two months (May and June) to those who already have ration cards. Informal workers and migrant labourers form a specially vulnerable group. Recently, the Supreme Court directed the central and state governments to provide dry ration to all migrant workers in view of the second wave of Covid-19. The apex court pulled up the Union and state governments for being "very slow" in the registration of unorganised workers. Activists say there should be a universal public distribution system that provides every individual with 10 kg grain, 1.5 kg pulses and 800 gm cooking oil for at least the next six months. They add that anganwadis should provide nutritious, hot cooked meals, including eggs, and midday meals should be resumed at schools while following all safety guidelines on distancing, sanitisation, etc. Children’s growth must be monitored and there should be nutrition counselling and additional supplementary nutrition for severely malnourished children. All this may sound like a tall order. But ignoring the worsening hunger situation is not an option. Hunger must make headlines, and not only when munchies are being doled out as food relief. (Patralekha Chatterjee is an independent journalist and columnist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-doesnt-hunger-make-headlines-during-a-pandemic-990969.html
28-05-2021||South||Kerala govt offers support to children orphaned by Covid-19||The Kerala government has announced a support scheme for children who lost their parents due to Covid-19. So far nine children, including siblings, lost their parents to Covid, said government sources. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a financial assistance of Rs 3 lakh each would be given to all children who lost their parents. Apart from that a monthly assistance of Rs 2,000 would be given to all up to the age of 18 and the government would also take care of the education of such children till graduation. The pandemic is also posing a serious social problem as lone breadwinners of many families have died due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, Covid surge in Kerala seems to be coming down with a positivity rate showing a declining trend at 17.87 per cent on Thursday, whereas the number of daily deaths in the state continues to remain high with 181 being reported on Thursday. .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-offers-support-to-children-orphaned-by-covid-19-990891.html
28-05-2021||South||Musician sells NFT of phone demo of song for Rs 1.5 crore||The NFT was purchased by Vignesh Sundaresan, known more popularly as Metakovan on May 11. Metakovan's trust Metapurse Fund was in the news back in March for its purchase of a digital collage called “Everydays: The First 5,000 Days” by an artist named Beeple for nearly $70 million (over Rs 500 crore). Vasuki told the publication that he got the idea for making an NFT while researching cryptocurrencies and blockchains earlier this year. The musician saw it as another way to "raise funds" for his music. For the uninitiated, what this is means is that the creator of the digital file, Vasuki, has transferred ownership to Metakovan. Speaking about his purchase, Metakovan described Vasuki's music as "powerful" and filled the vacuum that the likes of Pink Floyd and The Beatles couldn't fill. He added that he had known the musician since 2012 and that his lyrics — from the slang to the topics he sings about — was something he could "identify with at every level." While many musicians have struggled over the past few years, independent artists have had it tougher. Troydon Netto, one such independent artist based in Chennai, told Moneycontrol that the sale was "incredible news" and "opens up an avenue worth exploring." Watching the bids surge from 1 ETH to 50 ETH, the sale, for Vasuki feels like a "validation" for sticking to his belief for a decade. "It really felt like a payday after a decade of struggles,” he was quoted as saying. Metakovan feels NFTs, in particular, can now serve as an alternate patronage model for artists looking to serve up high-quality content to a niche audience that "highly resonates with it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/musician-sells-nft-of-phone-demo-of-song-for-rs-15-crore-991033.html
28-05-2021||South||Vijayan govt promises to double farmers' income, ensure there are no landless people||The second Pinarayi Vijayan government on Friday promised to raise farmers' income by 50 per cent in the next five years and ensure there would be no landless people in Kerala even as it admitted that the Covid-19 pandemic would cost the state economy dearly. All welfare and development initiatives and mammoth infrastructure projects, launched by the previous government including the flagship K-FON programme to provide free high-speed internet to the poor families, would be completed in a time-bound manner despite financial constraints, it said. The priorities of the second consecutive Left government were presented by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan in his policy address at the state Assembly here. Detailing the impact of the pandemic on the state's finances, he said it is estimated that Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) would decline by about 3.82 per cent in 2020- 21. "We expected a sharp recovery in the economic growth to 6.60 per cent in 2021-22. But the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic can be an impediment to this expectation," Khan said. Though a sharp rise of 37.87 per cent growth was expected in revenue receipts in 2021-22, the consequences of lockdown necessitated by a surge in Covid-19 cases, is likely to constrain this, he said, adding that higher revenue, as well as fiscal deficit, were on cards. A counter-cyclical fiscal policy to stimulate the economy has been initiated lest the economic slowdown should become steeper, he said. In the address, the Governor recalled the comprehensive Rs 20,000 crore relief package implemented by the previous government during the first wave of the pandemic. In the current second wave, the state government has already announced Rs 1,000 as ex-gratia payments to all the 14.7 lakh BPL families who are not in receipt of any other welfare pensions. Preventive vaccine against Covid-19 would be provided free of cost to all, as it is essential for building herd immunity against the pandemic, he said. The additional cost to the State exchequer for free vaccines would be at least Rs 1,000 crore, he said, adding that the government has floated a global tender for the procurement of three crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines as well as by placing orders with domestic manufacturers for one crore doses. Lavishing praise on the state's fight against the pandemic, he said the strength and ability of Kerala's healthcare systems to withstand the unprecedented challenge posed by the Covid-19 are derived from the decentralised people-centric systems-building approach. Outlining the fresh priorities of the new government, the Governor said it is committed to raise farmers' incomes by 50 per cent in the next five years. The government would ensure that there would be "no landless people in Kerala", he said adding that 'pattayam' would be issued to all the entitled landless people during its present tenure. The 'Sabarimala Idathavalam' project would be implemented with the assistance of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) to provide better facilities for Sabarimala pilgrims to meet their primary requirements of rest and comfort. Electronic file processing system will be implemented in all the government establishments to ensure timely action and more transparency, he said. Cooperative society for young entrepreneurs, online cultural festivals, formation of the Centre of Excellence for Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence, more employability centres, construction of 4,000 new houses under Phase II and III of the LIEF Mission programme were some of the fresh promises. Khan, in his two-hour-long speech, criticised the Centre over the raising of the annual borrowing limits of the state. "Consequent to the strident demand of the states including Kerala, the Union government relented to raise the annual borrowing limit from 3 to 5 per cent of the GSDP. However, only 0.5 per cent of this additional borrowing limit was unconditional," he said. He also said the recent policies of the Central government have been retrogressive as far as the co-operative sector is concerned. Meanwhile, opposition Congress and BJP criticised the second Vijayan government's first policy address. The Congress said though a fresh health and education policy was expected in the address, it failed to figure in it. The address also did not have any reference to the preparedness of the state to deal with the third wave of the pandemic, it said. The BJP alleged that the present policy address by Khan was just the repetition of the previous one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayan-govt-promises-to-double-farmers-income-ensure-there-are-no-landless-people-991102.html
28-05-2021||South||EC defers Kerala Rajya Sabha bypoll over Covid-19 2nd wave||Citing the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission Friday decided to defer a proposed Rajya Sabha bypoll for a seat from Kerala. The Commission said that Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani had resigned as a Rajya Sabha member from Kerala on January 11 this year. His term in the upper house was till July, 2024. "As per the provisions of Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the vacancy is required to be filled, through bye election within six months from date of occurrence of vacancy, provided that remainder of the term in relation to the vacancy is one year or more," it observed. The EC had not yet announced any date for the proposed bypoll. The Commission said it reviewed the matter on Friday and decided that due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, "it would not be appropriate to hold the said by election till the pandemic situation significantly improves" and conditions become conducive to hold the byelection. The poll panel said it will take any further decision in the matter at an "appropriate time in the future" after taking inputs from the state concerned and assessing the pandemic situation from mandated authorities like the national and state disaster management authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ec-defers-kerala-rajya-sabha-bypoll-over-covid-19-2nd-wave-991110.html
28-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 7; CM says ration card holders to receive 13 grocery items||The state-wide lockdown without relaxations to help break the chain of Covid-19 transmission has been extended till June 7 by one more week, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced here on Friday. He said the move was done considering public good to rein in the pandemic spread and appealed to the people to cooperate with the government and stay indoors. Stalin said a pack of 13 grocery items would be distributed to rice category ration card holders through Public Distribution System shops from next month. With the permission of local bodies, provision stores would be allowed to sell commodities in their respective areas through vehicles like mini cargo vans or pushcarts and online ordering firms too shall be permitted to deliver groceries, he said in a statement. Such services would be allowed between 7 am and 6 pm, he added.  The existing arrangement to sell vegetables and fruits in residential neighbourhoods through mobile outlets would also continue. The Chief Minister said that Covid-19 related guidelines, including wearing a mask, following individual distancing and washing hands with soap and water or sanitisers should be adhered to. A two-week lockdown was clamped on May 10 in Tamil Nadu with some relaxations and subsequently, it was extended by one more week, till May 31 and relaxations were withdrawn. The additional restrictions between May 24 and 31 include closure of vegetable shops and provision stores, which were earlier allowed to work between 6 am and 10 am. All such curbs would continue to be implemented till June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-7-cm-says-ration-card-holders-to-receive-13-grocery-items-991178.html
28-05-2021||South||Coimbatore, nearby districts struggle as Covid-19 cases rise||The industrial hub of Coimbatore and its neighbouring districts like Tiruppur are witnessing an exponential increase in the number of Covid-19 case even as numbers continue to reduce in the state capital and adjoining areas. Cases reported in Coimbatore, which shares a border with Kerala and houses several industries, are much more than Chennai for the past two days, which is a cause of concern. Neighbouring districts including Tiruppur, Erode, and Salem are seeing high numbers for the past few weeks. The mortality rate has also been on the rise. On May 27, Coimbatore district reported 4,734 cases as against Chennai's 2,779 fresh cases, which has been topping the list ever since the start of the pandemic in March 2020. Tiruppur recorded 2,074 cases, Erode (1,699), and Salem (987) on May 27, reflecting an upward trend. Coimbatore has added 30,200 fresh cases in the first 27 days of May, while Tiruppur saw 12,884 cases, Erode had 10,302 cases, and Salem had 2,916 cases. Operational factories (the government has allowed processing industries to function), movement of labourers, and dense population are some of the reasons cited for this increase. The excellent health infrastructure in the industrial city is under severe stress as it not just caters to those living in Coimbatore, but also across the region. People in Salem, Erode, and Karur have always travelled to Coimbatore for tertiary health care, which is now crumbling. As the region continues to report a high number of cases, the government on Friday rushed senior bureaucrats M A Siddique, C Samayamoorthy and Dr R Selvaraj to coordinate containment efforts in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and Erode respectively. Health Department officials in Chennai told DH that authorities in Coimbatore have been asked to focus on containment, identification of clusters, organisation of fever camps, and acceleration of the vaccination drive. Health Minister Ma Subramanian rushed to Coimbatore on Friday, while Chief Minister M K Stalin will be in the industrial city on Sunday for the second time in two weeks to review the Covid-19 situation. “Coimbatore being a healthcare hub is one of the major reasons for the spike in fresh cases. People from at least five districts flock to Coimbatore for healthcare, and hospitals are also fast becoming hot spots. The nature of the virus is to keep travelling till it affects almost everyone. Chennai is improving, but Coimbatore is struggling,” public health expert Dr K Kolandaswamy told DH. Dr Vanathi Sethupathi, a paediatrician who practices in Erode, told DH that it has been the practice of physicians to refer critical patients to Coimbatore as tertiary health care in Erode, and Salem is very difficult. “Coimbatore has been the referral centre for many nearby districts due to its excellent health infrastructure. Handling a burgeoning number of cases is very difficult even for the best healthcare centres,” she said, adding the government should focus more on western districts. Kolandaswamy, who handled the first few months of the pandemic as Director of Public Health, said the government should add more beds and move ambulances from nearby districts to Coimbatore to handle the situation. “Proper triaging should be done by filtering the patients. Only those who need oxygen or critical care should be shifted to hospitals, while others should be in home care. The government can also think of shifting patients to districts where the caseload is less,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coimbatore-nearby-districts-struggle-as-covid-19-cases-rise-991188.html
28-05-2021||South||Save TDP from YSR Congress, police: Naidu to partymen||Telugu Desam Party chief N Chandrababu Naidu on Friday said the immediate task on their hand was to save the party from the alleged sustained vicious attacks of the ruling YSR Congress and the police in Andhra Pradesh. Hitting back at the YSRC leaders with counter-cases should be the new strategy to stop the alleged aggression of the ruling party, he told the TDP rank and file. Addressing the valedictory of the TDPs two-day annual conclave Mahanadu, the former Chief Minister said their returning to power in 2024 was certain given the growing peoples mood against the Jagan regime," but the immediate task was to protect the party from the vicious attacks. Like a vaccine prevents coronavirus, we should thwart the false cases against our leaders by filing counter-cases against the YSRC leaders and pushing them onto the defensive. We will mobilise support of local lawyers for this, Chandrababu told the TDP workers. He asked the leaders to identify active young workers in the party and gear them up to fight the rivals effectively in their respective areas. Chandrababu once again sounded apologetic for not devoting necessary attention to the party (when in power) as he laid emphasis on rebuilding the truncated State. He said the next one year was crucial to strengthen the party organisation and activities in every constituency. On the second day, the Mahanadu passed the customary resolution requesting the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on the TDP founder N T Rama Rao. The party paid rich tributes to the legendary actor on his 98th birth anniversary. The Mahanadu adopted resolutions lashing out at the K Chandrasekhar Rao regime in Telangana, particularly over the alleged neglect of the healthcare and education sectors, closure of industries, growing unemployment and other issues. On Andhra Pradesh, the conclave passed resolutions on the alleged slow pace of irrigation projects and the crisis in the agriculture sector, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme, hoodwinking people in the name of Navaratnalu (welfare schemes of the government) and the deception over the grant of special category status to the State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/save-tdp-from-ysr-congress-police-naidu-to-partymen-991194.html
28-05-2021||South||Madras High Court to have restricted sittings for 11 days from June 1||In view of the existing pandemic situation, the Madras High Court has decided to restrict its functioning only to take up extremely urgent matters, that too for 11 days between June 1 and June 11. For this purpose, M N Senthil Kumar, the Registrar (Judicial), has made special sitting arrangements for the judges. At the principal seat at Chennai,the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy will sit as usual on all the days, (except the intervening holidays), till June 11. The bench of Justices R Subbiah and S Kannammal will take up the writ and appellate side cases, for three days from June 1. The bench of Justices M M Sundresh and R N Manjula will take up the criminal side cases. Justice R Mahadevan will take up the writ petitions. In the pre-lunch sessions, Justice R Subramanian will take up the appellate and original side matters and in the post-lunch session, anticipatory bail petitions. As regards the functioning of lower courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, P Dhanabal, Registrar-General of the Madras High Court said that from June 1 to 11, the Principal District Judges/District Judges/ Principal Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai/Chief Judge, Puducherry/Judges-in-charge of Subordinate Courts, shall ensure that urgent matters are taken up for hearing as far as practicable through video conferencing alone. No final hearing of the cases shall be taken up. The cases shall be taken up for hearing only on assessing and filing of urgency petition. The nature of urgency is to be decided by the Judge in- charge. All other cases posted for the day shall be adjourned en masse to a specific convenient date in the future. Entry of lawyers and parties inside the Court premises shall be restricted unless and otherwise their presence is required. Physical service of summons and witness summons shall be deferred. Staff strength is to be maintained at the minimum level to meet the administrative exigencies, a press release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-to-have-restricted-sittings-for-11-days-from-june-1-991196.html
28-05-2021||South||Another sexual harassment case involving a teacher comes to light in Chennai||A commerce teacher of a well-known CBSE school in the city has been placed under suspension for alleged sexual harassment of students, the second such incident to come to light in the metropolis this week. As in the previous occasion, social media posts and e-mail by alumni over the last couple of days led to the prompt action. Taking cognizance of the complaints, the management suspended him on May 26 and referred the case to the internal committee for enquiry and report. Allegations, including inappropriate touch and language during the earlier physical classes were made against him in some social media posts. "The enquiry will be fair and transparent and all the complaints and allegations received, as well as those that may be received, will be referred to the committee for enquiry and report," the management said. Also, the said teacher has been directed not to contact or interact with any former or present students of the school, the management said in an open letter to the parents and aggrieved students. Contending that "any abuse, misconduct, misbehavior or harassment by anyone against our students will not be tolerated," the management said its students are always precious. The city police, however, said they have not received any formal complaint from the students or the school management with regard to the harassment so far. Earlier, an accountancy teacher of another private CBSE affiliated school here was arrested for sexual harassment. He had been allegedly targeting girls in classes 11 and 12 for quite some time and even ahead of the start of the first wave of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-sexual-harassment-case-involving-a-teacher-comes-to-light-in-chennai-991230.html
28-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu sees more recoveries than new covid-19 cases for first time||Recoveries from Covid-19 outnumbered new cases for the first time in Tamil Nadu even as it reported 31,079 fresh infections and an all-time high of 486 deaths, the Health Department said on Friday. With this, the caseload crossed the 20-lakh mark to reach 20,09,700 till date and the death toll stood at 22,775, said the department. As many as 31,255 people walked out of healthcare facilities post-recovery taking the total to 16,74,539 so far, a bulletin said. Active infections, including those in isolation, were 3,12,386. (The state has been reaching a new high in the number of new infections on a daily basis. Recoveries were comparatively lower than the new cases reported every day, according to a bulletin.) Meanwhile, Coimbatore continued to lead among districts in the number of new infections with 3,937 new cases followed by Chennai at 2,762, Tiruppur 1,823, Erode 1,731,Chengalpet 1,379, Tiruchirappalli 1,287, Madurai 1,140 and Kanyakumari 1,007 cases. Districts like Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Karur, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Ranipet, Salem, Thanjavur, Theni, Thiruvallur, Tirupathur, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvarur, Tuticorin, Villupuram, Virudhunagar reported in excess of 500 cases today. The number of samples tested during the day was 1,75,542 pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,71,63,743. Among the 486 deceased in the last 24 hours, 117 succumbed to the virus without any pre-existing illness, including a 23-year-old woman from Coimbatore due to Covid-19-induced pneumonia. Medical Minister M Subramanian handed over 200 oxygen concentrators allotted by the government to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital today. An official release said Subramanian, along with senior Ministers and government officials, inspected the measures that have been taken on war-footing to contain the virus in the district. Also, Subramanian inspected a 240-bedded facility set up at the ESI Medical College and directed the officials to ensure availability of adequate basic infrastructure for the patients. The Minister inaugurated also an additional 120-bedded facility, two separate wards for mucormycosis commmonly known as 'black fungus' that have been set up at the Government Medical College Omandurar Government Estate in Chennai, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-sees-more-recoveries-than-new-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-991273.html
28-05-2021||South||TN's Finance Minister harps on federalism in GST council meet||Reminding the Centre that there is no Union without the states, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan on Friday asked the Union Government not to function as a “begrudging donor”. In his maiden speech at the GST Council chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, PTR wanted the Centre to use powers vested in it benevolently, to provide support, relief, and shelter for the states, especially during times of disaster or stress. Devoting a major part of his speech to impart lessons on federalism, a pet topic of his party DMK, the former top executive of Lehman Brothers said it is imperative that the current downward momentum is arrested and reflect it towards a positive trajectory. “It is worth remembering that there is no Union without the States. As much as the Union is an Integral (in bringing together One Nation), it is also a Derivative (Citizens, Elected Representatives, and even Officers of the Government, each come from a State). There are no Union voters,” PTR said in his speech. Every minister in this room, PTR noted, including Sitharaman has been elected directly or indirectly by voters within one state; there is no Union Administrative Service and every IAS officer “in this room” has come on deputation from some state. “The Union cannot, and must not, function as a begrudging “Donor”, an entity at a combative stance to its moorings, which are the States,” the Finance Minister added. Contending that the Union does have a vital financial role to play, he said the Centre is the natural authority to manage, directly and indirectly, the value of the sovereign currency, the money supply, the banking and financial services sector, and the credit quality (ratings from agencies) of the entire nation. “It owns the right to receive dividends from the Reserve Bank of India (the INR 99,122 Crore this week stands evidence) and even to monetize the deficit as and when it sees fit. It must use these powers benevolently, to provide support, relief, and shelter for the States, especially during times of disasters or stress,” he added. Profound, root and branch reform of the notion of GST is the calling of the hour, he said, adding that not undertaking such an effort now will put its very future at grave risk. “As elected representatives, we will be remembered not for the margin of votes of our victories, but by the enhancements we bring to our constituents’ lives. As political parties, history will soon forget the extent of power we accumulated but remember the results of our term(s) in office – in economic growth, jobs, and the harmonious society that we nurtured during our tenure,” he said. Referring to the Fitment Committee proposal for correction of Inverted Rate Structure on textiles and footwear, PTR said Tamil Nadu is of the view that due to the prevailing pandemic situation, this issue may be deferred for the next meeting. It also batted for deferring till consensus is reached regarding the issue of Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA) taxability under the GST. Contending that the country's history led to the concentration of almost all powers of Direct Taxation with the Union Government and a split of Indirect Taxation powers between the Union and the States, in the Constitution, PTR said this is quite unique to India, as most other countries vest some measure of Direct Taxation, and the bulk of Indirect Taxation at States, with some devolved further to Districts and Cities. “Our Constitution is an evolving document as proven by the many amendments over its life of almost 70 years. Yet, in another divergence from the global experience of increased devolution, India has gone in the opposite direction - of increasing concentration of powers with the Union Government. In fact, with the advent of GST, this has been taken to levels never envisioned in our Constitution,” he said. He demanded the Council to consider making arrangements for fully compensating the States for the gap arising in the year 2021-22 between the protected revenue and the actual expected revenue, either by means of bridge funding by the Government of India or by its open market debt arrangement. “Further, considering the long-term effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, it would also be appropriate to take a decision to extend the compensation arrangement beyond 1.7.2022,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tns-finance-minister-harps-on-federalism-in-gst-council-meet-991290.html
28-05-2021||State||Banks in Udupi to function from 8 am||Banks in Udupi district will function between 8 am and noon till June 6. The order is to enable people to visit branches of the banks to carry out their transactions during the lockdown, said Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesh. The new order has been issued after consulting the Lead District Manager. The banks will function from 8 am to 2 pm. So far, the banks were functioning from 10 am to 4 pm. The people were inconvenienced to carry out any transactions during the period due to lockdown, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/banks-in-udupi-to-function-from-8-am-991058.html
28-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka lockdown may have to be extended beyond June 7 as active Covid cases still high||The ongoing lockdown may have to be continued beyond June 7 if the number of active Covid cases does not decline significantly in the coming days, experts say. Karnataka's active Covid infections form the heart of a new analysis by scientists at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), who point out that actual active case numbers are higher than the projected figures. The actual cases need to be lower if the surge is to be contained. On May 27, the active caseload should have been less than 3.88 lakh. In actuality, it was 4.02 lakh. "What we are seeing is that the number of active cases as they stand today is much higher than the number cases we projected would happen in a worst-case scenario," explained Professor Sashikumar Ganesan, Chairman, Department of Computational and Data Sciences at the IISc. What exactly is the worst-case scenario? No lockdown. "This suggests that something has gone wrong with the lockdown and consequently, Karnataka will have to extend the lockdown to contain the surge," Professor Ganesan explained, adding that the next three to four days are crucial to making this determination. The analysis reveals details about where the lockdown is particularly ineffective.  In their 'S2' scenario, which modelled the stringent lockdown of 2020, the scientists found that only two districts, Kalaburagi and Bidar, were maintaining effective lockdowns. "This is evinced by the fact that the real active caseload in both these districts is much lower than the projected numbers of the worst-case scenario," he said. Bengaluru Urban came in third, with a 75% effectiveness in the lockdown. The performance of the other districts was abysmal. The worst was Haveri with only a four percent effective lockdown. The noted epidemiologist, Dr Giridhara R Babu, pointed out that lockdowns are only effective if associated containment measures are robust. "In the initial part of the lockdown, there were many relaxations. The four-hour curfew window every morning results in crowds at public spaces. There is no proportionate increase in the testing being done overall including such potential super-spreader sites. A single person infected can potentially spread it to family members and other contacts resulting in sustained transmission," he said. The failed opportunity to vaccinate a large number of people early this year is another reason why active cases are not declining as they should, said Subramanian Sivakumar, CEO of Pratian Technologies, which analyses Covid-19 data. "The lockdown is only suppressing the R0. The way to reduce cases is through vaccination. But with Karnataka doing an average of 1.17 lakh vaccinations daily, the state may require seven months to reclaim the situation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lockdown-may-have-to-be-extended-beyond-june-7-as-active-covid-cases-still-high-990897.html
28-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka II PUC exams may go online||The Department of Pre-University Education is exploring the possibility of holding II PUC exams through online mode amid the second wave of the pandemic. Officials are working on the feasibility of conducting tests online after several stakeholders flooded the department with suggestions for the same. The department also received suggestions for slashing the duration of exams to 90 minutes, conducting exams only for major subjects and sticking to multiple-choice questions (MCQs). However, department sources said they are by and large considering holding exams via online mode. "Infrastructure is the major challenge to hold online examinations. But we can collaborate with engineering colleges and PU colleges that have ready infrastructure," said an official. The department had successfully delivered online question papers during 2019 supplementary exams. "We have realised that it is not a big task," the official said. In the meantime, teachers and students are also ready for online exams. Dr Supreeth B R, Secretary and principal of Oxford Independent PU college, Bengaluru, said, "Online mode of examination is 100% possible; only that the department has to keep separate portals ready for each subject." He added that there is a software to "check malpractice". Prof Ninge Gowda, president of Karnataka State Pre University College Teachers Association, said, "When we have managed classes online, examinations are no big deal." The way ahead  * Collaborate with colleges that have infrastructure to accommodate students * Utilise services of faculties at degree and engg colleges to monitor students taking online exams from homes * Create dedicated portal for each subject * Provide only MCQs which will be easier during online mode * Co-ordinate with network providers and electricity dept for uninterrupted supply * Reduce exam duration to 90 minutes||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ii-puc-exams-may-go-online-990912.html
28-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No leadership change, Yediyurappa will complete term as CM: Karnataka BJP chief||The BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Friday asserted that B S Yediyurappa would continue as the chief minister and asked all the party legislators to work towards Covid-19 management.  Kateel also said he would seek an explanation from Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar on his statements making a veiled attack on BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra, Yediyurappa’s son.  “There’s no change (in leadership). Yediyurappa is our unanimous leader. Even the central leadership has clarified that there will not be any change. And, no discussion has taken place on this either inside or outside the party,” Kateel said.  The Dakshina Kannada MP said speculation on this started soon after Yediyurappa became the chief minister. “The very day after he became the CM, it’s only been ‘change, change, change’. He has completed two years. He will complete the remainder of the term,” Kateel said.  Kateel also ruled out the possibility of holding a BJP legislature party meeting for the time being. “Till Covid-19 gets over, the party won’t call any meeting. After the pandemic, we will discuss whatever there is,” he said. A section of BJP MLAs want Yediyurappa to convene this meeting.  Insiders say that the BJP’s factional split was out in the open with each player playing his own game and the central leadership choosing not to step in just yet. “Everyone has a vested interest,” a senior party leader said. “There is discontentment which is being fueled. The central leadership is just letting them be. They will intervene at the right time,” the leader said.  “Everybody knows the age factor will go against Yediyurappa. He can’t be the Karunanidhi of Karnataka. If and when the central leadership decides that he should be replaced, it will be made known to the CM-designate only 48-72 hours before the change of guard,” the leadersaid.  Even Yediyurappa is playing his own game, this leader said. “He has his eyes and ears in central leadership. He will know the signs.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-leadership-change-yediyurappa-will-complete-term-as-cm-karnataka-bjp-chief-991141.html
28-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 active cases in Karnataka falls below 4-lakh mark||The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka fell below the four lakh mark, as the state on Friday reported 22,823 new cases and 401 deaths, the health department said. While the total number of Covid infections so far stands at 25,46,821, the toll is 27,806. The total number of active cases is now 3,72,373. The day also saw 52,253 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of the 22,823 new cases reported on Friday, 5,736 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 31,237 discharges and 192 deaths. Cumulatively 25,46,821 cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 27,806 deaths and 21,46,621 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 16.42 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.75 per cent. Out of the 401 deaths reported on Friday, 192 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (20), Ballari (17), Tumakuru (15), Dharwad (14), Hassan and Shivamogga (13), followed by others. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 5,736, Mysuru 1,677, Tumakuru 1,326, Belagavi 1,319, Hassan 1,170, Shivamogga 1,135, while the rest were in other districts. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,49,614, followed by Mysuru 1,38,365 and Tumakuru 1,00,684. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 9,56,303, followed by Mysuru 1,20,191 and Tumakuru 85,127. A total of over 2,93,37,928 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,38,983 were done on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-active-cases-in-karnataka-falls-below-4-lakh-mark-991228.html
28-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 22,823 new Covid-19 cases, 401 deaths||Karnataka registered 22,823 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. The active cases in the state now stand at 3,72,373. Bengaluru Urban's single-day tally came down to 5,736 new cases. As many as 401 deaths were reported, with Bengaluru Urban recording 192 deaths and Ballari 17. With this, the total death toll has risen to 27,806. The state recorded 52,253 discharges from hospitals, taking the total recoveries to 21,46,621. So far, Karnataka has seen 25,46,821 positive cases. The positivity rate for the day stood at 16.42% while the case fatality rate for the day was 1.75%. As many as 1,38,983 samples were tested on Friday taking the total tests done so far to 2,93,37,928. As many as 1,30,16,720 people have received vaccination so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-22823-new-covid-19-cases-401-deaths-991260.html
28-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Karnataka Covid-19 lockdown has caused Rs 1 lakh crore loss to farmers’||Farmers said on Friday that the farming community has suffered losses up to Rs 1 lakh crore in the Covid-19 second wave in Karnataka. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) state president Badagalapura Nagendra said that their initial estimates suggested that the farmers have incurred this loss after the enforcement of the lockdown. "Farm produce is being sold for lesser prices across the state while the closure of markets at some places turned it into waste. In Mysore district alone, farmers, who cultivated banana, flowers, tomato, paddy and horticulture produce, have suffered the loss of Rs 1,600 crore," Nagendra said in a press release. He urged the government to procure paddy through minimum support price (MSP) scheme. "The pending MSP for paddy, ragi, and jowar should be transferred to the account of farmers immediately," he urged. Nagendra said the government should ensure that Karnataka Milk Federation does not stop procuring milk. The idea of stopping milk procurement due to a surge in supply is not rational, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-covid-19-lockdown-has-caused-rs-1-lakh-crore-loss-to-farmers-991261.html
28-05-2021||West||Elgar case: HC asks Maharashtra to move Stan Swamy to pvt hospital||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the jail authorities in Maharashtra to shift Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, from the Taloja prison to a private hospital in Mumbai for treatment for two weeks. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NR Borkar directed the prison authorities to ensure that Swamy, 84, was shifted from the prison in Navi Mumbai to the Holy Family Hospital in suburban Bandra "preferably during the course of the day." The bench's order came after Swamy's advocate, senior counsel Mihir Desai, moved the bench seeking an urgent hearing on a plea. Swamy has been lodged in the Taloja prison hospital since his arrest in the case in October 2020. Advocate Desai had moved a vacation bench, led by Justice SJ Kathawala, seeking medical aid and interim bail for Swamy. At the time, the bench had said that while the issue of the medical bail would be decided later, Swamy could be shifted to the state-run JJ Hospital in Mumbai for treatment. Swamy, who suffers from multiple ailments, was present before the court at the time via video-conferencing but had refused to get admitted to the JJ Hospital, saying he had been there twice earlier but had found no relief. The octogenarian tribal rights activist had said he would "rather die in prison than go to JJ Hospital". The bench had then offered to shift Swamy to a hospital of his choice but he said no. Advocate Desai had then sought time to speak with Swamy and to convince him to get admitted to a hospital. On Friday, Desai told the bench led by Justice Shinde that Swamy had agreed to get admitted to the Holy Family Hospital. The NIA's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, and the Maharashtra government counsel, YP Yagnik, objected to Desai's request. They said the state could not be expected to bear the cost of Swamy's treatment at the private hospital. They suggested that Swamy be shifted to the JJ Hospital instead. The HC, however, permitted Swamy to be shifted to the Holy Family Hospital after Desai said the cost of treatment would be borne by Swamy and his aides. "We are of the view that the appellant can be given a choice of Holy Family Hospital for his treatment for 15 days. Appellant (Swamy) will bear the expenses," the HC said. "It is not in dispute that appellant's age is 84 years and according to findings recorded by a team of doctors from JJ Hospital, he needs treatment. "We request that the administration of Holy Family Hospital provide one attendant keeping in view age of the appellant," the bench said. The HC also permitted Swamy's colleague, one Father Frazier, to meet him at the hospital at regular intervals as per hospital protocols. On May 21, Swamy had told the HC that his mental and physical health had declined steadily while being lodged at the Taloja prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-case-hc-asks-maharashtra-to-move-stan-swamy-to-pvt-hospital-991039.html
28-05-2021||West||Cyclist in Surat slapped with challan for riding on wrong side of road||In what can be seen as a mix-up or a stringent action, a 47-year-old worker was slapped with a challan or court memo under the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act for allegedly riding his bicycle on the wrong side of the road in Gujarat's Surat city. The matter came to light when the challan went viral on social media platforms, where people raised questions about the police's right to invoke the MV Act against a cyclist. Rajbahadur Yadav, a powerloom worker, was passing through a road in Sachin GIDC on Thursday morning, when lady constable Komal Dangar intercepted him for riding on the "wrong side" of the road and issued a challan under the MV Act, it was stated. Since it's a court memo and not a cash memo, Yadav needs to appear before a judicial magistrate's court, which deals with traffic-related offences. Reacting to the incident, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Prashant Sumbe admitted that the constable should have mentioned the Gujarat Police Act instead of the MV Act in the challan. "While a cyclist cannot be punished under the MV Act, we can take action as per the GP Act. There are several cyclists in the Sachin GIDC area and they often break rules and put peoples' lives in danger. We can take action against such erring riders under the GP Act," Sumbe said on Friday. Yadav, who lives in Pandesara area, admitted to his mistake and has decided to appear before the court. "I was caught when I was riding the wrong side of the road. The constable gave me a memo and told me that the court will decide my punishment. Even I have no idea how the MV Act applies to a cyclist, but I will appear before the court and accept whatever it decides," Yadav told PTI over phone||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclist-in-surat-slapped-with-challan-for-riding-on-wrong-side-of-road-991055.html
28-05-2021||West||HC raps Centre over supply of dysfunctional ventilators to Marathwada||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday slammed the Centre for its "insensitive" approach over the issue of supply of more than 100 dysfunctional ventilators to hospitals in Marathwada region of Maharashtra. A vacation bench of Justices R V Ghuge and B U Debadwar noted that the Union government was more concerned about the company that manufactured and supplied the dysfunctional ventilators than the lives of citizens. The bench was hearing petitions pertaining to Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier this week, deans of the government-run hospitals in Aurangabad and a few private hospitals had told the court that 113 ventilators, out of 150 devices supplied from the Centre under the PM CARES Fund, were defective. The court had then sought to know from the Union government what action it proposes to take on the issue. On Friday, assistant Solicitor General Ajay Talhar submitted an affidavit filed by G K Pillai, under secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which stated that the ventilators were not supplied under the PM CARES Fund. The affidavit further said the Gujarat-based company, from which the ventilators were procured, had said that there was nothing wrong with the devices and ventilators it had supplied to other states were functioning properly. "The hospital staff must have been inadequately trained and must have not been able to use the ventilators," Talhar told the court. The bench, however, said it was surprised as to how the Centre had accepted the company's claim at face value and has not said in the affidavit that it would look into the issue. "Did you (government) take any steps to verify what the medical experts of hospitals here are saying? What remedial steps have you taken? What are you more concerned about? The company or the lives of citizens of this country? The tenor of the affidavit does not indicate that you are concerned about the lives of patients," Justice Ghuge said. The court further said the Centre's attitude was very "negative" and it seems that the government is thinking of this as a "trifle" issue. "You (government) may think of it as a trifle issue, but we will not blink our eyes to this," the court said, adding that it was unable to appreciate the argument that the hospital staffers in Aurangabad were not trained properly on operating the machines. The bench noted that the affidavit filed by the Centre had a semblance of it defending the company. "We find such statements to be demonstrating insensitivity on the part of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," the court said. It added that the Union government should not have indulged in this blame game and should have instead expressed its whole-hearted support to ensure that the ventilators supplied are put to optimum use. Following this, Talhar told the court that the Centre would now take all remedial measures to address the issue. The court accepted the statement and posted the matter for further hearing on June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-raps-centre-over-supply-of-dysfunctional-ventilators-to-marathwada-991064.html
28-05-2021||West||Get Covid-19 tests done only at ICMR-approved labs, says Mumbai Police Commissioner||Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Friday urged citizens to get their Covid-19 tests done only at ICMR-approved laboratories as cyber criminals are taking advantage of the pandemic by posing as employees of lesser known labs and giving fake reports. Due to heavy rush at civic and state-run hospitals, many citizens are opting for private labs for various Covid-19 -related tests, an official said. Many of them book online appointment at nearby private labs through their mobile phones, laptops and computers, giving an opportunity to cyber criminals to fleece them, he said. Cyber fraudsters take advantage of the situation and offer home visit to collect samples and cheat patients by sending them negative or fake test reports, he said. Nagrale took to Twitter to create public awareness about Covid-19-related tests. He appealed to citizens to visit or book appointment only with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved labs for tests. "Testing Times! Cyber criminals, taking advantage of rise in demand for Covid-19 tests, are posing to be lesser known labs providing testing - even going to the extent of collecting samples and then sending no or fake reports," the Mumbai top cop said from his official Twitter handle. He asked people to add 'fraud' word before a specific lab while searching it online as this will help people get an idea about its past record and if it was involved in any fraudulent activities.  Testing Times!Cyber criminals, taking advantage of rise in demand for Covid-19 tests, are posing to be lesser known labs providing testing - even going to the extent of collecting samples and then sending no or fake reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/get-covid-19-tests-done-only-at-icmr-approved-labs-says-mumbai-police-commissioner-991082.html
28-05-2021||West||WHO's opinion on ivermectin is flawed: Goa govt to Bombay HC||Quoting studies, the Goa government on Friday defended the use of antiparasitic drug ivermectin for prophylaxis treatment for Covid-19 before the Bombay High Court bench in Goa and claimed that WHO’s opinion on the drug is flawed. The Goa government made the claim in an affidavit filed before the Court, which is hearing a clutch of petitions which have cited inadequacies in the Covid-19 management processes instituted by the Goa government. “Various studies conducted in different countries have shown that the medicine has a positive effect on prevention and treatment/cure of patients. I say that the studies and reports are available on the website ivmmeta.com...” Goa government’s joint secretary (Health) said Vikas Gaunekar said in his affidavit. “There are some reports which have found that the analysis by WHO on this medicine is flawed and that the mortality rate is actually much lower if the said medicine is used for early treatment as well as prophylaxis,” Gaunekar said in a statement before the Court. The Court had directed the Goa government to file an affidavit related to the government’s decision earlier this week, to include ivermectin in its preventive treatment protocol for Covid. On May 10, the Goa government had amended its Covid treatment protocol, recommending that all persons above the age of 18 should take five tablets of ivermectin, to prevent the viral load, which more often than not causes excessive trauma and even death in Covid-19 positive patients. The WHO has cautioned against the use of the drug, which has anti-parasitic qualities, to treat Covid. Gaunekar said that the use of ivermectin as a preventive drug was decided by the State Expert Committee, which decides on Covid-19 treatment protocol. “I say that after deliberations, it was recommended to use the said medicine once daily for five days to the population over 18 years. However, pregnant/lactating women, as well as those persons with allergy and those having liver/kidney are advised to consult a doctor before taking the medicine,” he further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/whos-opinion-on-ivermectin-is-flawed-goa-govt-to-bombay-hc-991100.html
28-05-2021||West||Maharashtra announces evaluation criteria for Class 10 students||The Maharashtra government on Friday announced the evaluation criteria for the state board students of Class 10, the examinations of which have been cancelled this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. State School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said all students who were to appear for Class 10 (Secondary School Certificate- SSC) exams will be promoted, and marks will be given on the basis of the internal assessment of their performance this year and that of Class 9. Addressing a press conference, she said the results will be declared by June end. The Class 10 exams, scheduled in March this year, were cancelled due to the pandemic. "It has been decided to clear all the students who were to appear for the board exams. The internal assessment of students will be done on the basis of 100 marks for each subject. Thirty marks will be for the written evaluation in Class 10; 20 marks for oral exam, practicals and homework, and 50 per cent marks will be Class 9 performance," she said. There are 16 lakh SSC students across the state, Gaikwad said. A commonentrance test (CET) for admission to Class 11 will be held, although it would be optional, the minister said. Those students, who appear for the CET, will be given priority in Class 11 admissions. Students from other education boards can also give this test, she added. This two hour-long exam will be based on the Class 10 syllabus. The remaining students will be accommodated based on the marks they got in the internal assessment, Gaikwad said. This year's Class 10 students will have the option of giving two examinations once the pandemic gets over if they feel they can perform better, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-announces-evaluation-criteria-for-class-10-students-991117.html
28-05-2021||West||Those who got jobs when Maratha quota was in force be given appointment letters: Patil||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil demanded on Friday that the candidates selected for government jobs in the Maratha quota before it was struck down should be given appointment letters immediately. He was speaking during a protest by members of the community to seek restoration of the quota in western Maharashtra's Kolhapur city. The quota for the Marathas in jobs and education was struck down as unconstitutional by the Supreme Court earlier this month. Patil said those who were selected for government jobs while the quota was in force should be given appointment letters without delay. "Besides, the state government should file a review petition (in the Supreme Court) immediately and set up a backward class commission," he demanded. Protesters also demanded a special Assembly session on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/those-who-got-jobs-when-maratha-quota-was-in-force-be-given-appointment-letters-patil-991158.html
28-05-2021||West||Shiv Sena candidate elected unopposed to Thane Zilla Parishad president's post||Shiv Sena candidate Pushpa Ganesh Borade-Patil was on Friday elected unopposed as the president of Thane Zilla Parishad in Maharashtra, an official said. Presiding officer and sub-divisional officer Avinash Shinde announced the unopposed election of Borade-Patil, as hers was the only nomination received for the office. Borade-Patil was elected from the Chargaon block of Ambernath, it was stated. Following the elections, which were held in compliance with Covid-19 safety protocols at Niyojan Bhavan here, the Sena's Thane district (rural) president Prakash Patil greeted Borade-Patil. In the 53-member local body, the Sena has a strength of 35, followed by the BJP with 16 and the NCP with two members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-candidate-elected-unopposed-to-thane-zilla-parishad-presidents-post-991161.html
28-05-2021||West||Petrol at Rs 100: Thane NCP puts up 'celebratory' hoardings||The Thane unit of the NCP on Friday put up billboards across the city "celebrating" the cost of petrol hitting the century mark, and took a swipe at the Narendra Modi government by telling people such price rise was the Centre's idea of "achche din". Thane NCP president Anand Paranjpe said fuel prices were rising over the past fortnight and petrol was retailing at Rs 100 in the city. Petrol price had, on Thursday, crossed the Rs 100-a- litre mark here after the price of petrol was increased by 24 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise a litre. The increase - 14th this month - took petrol and diesel prices to an all-time high across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/petrol-at-rs-100-thane-ncp-puts-up-celebratory-hoardings-991171.html
28-05-2021||West||Is there another Maratha agitation in the horizon?||After a series of discussions with top Maharashtra leaders, cutting across political parties, Rajya Sabha member Sambhaji Chhatrapati on Friday urged the political class to come together and set an ultimatum of June 5 to resolve the vexed Maratha reservation issue. Sambhaji Chhatrapati, who comes from the direct lineage of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and social reformer Rajarshi Shahu Chhatrapati Maharaj of Kolhapur, is widely respected in Maharashtra. Sambhaji Chhatrapati, who hails from the Kolhapur royal family, will announce his next course of action on June 6, the anniversary of the coronation of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. “With folded hands as the (13th) descendent of (Shivaji) Maharaj, I plead…please come together for the poor Marathas and farmers,” Sambhaji Chhatrapati said after two days of multiple meetings with Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray, Leader of Opposition and BJP MLA Devendra Fadnavis, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Congress leaders Ashok Chavan and Balasaheb Thorat and MNS President Raj Thackeray. He is also slated to meet Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi founder Prakash Ambedkar. He also urged the government to call a two-day special session of the Maharashtra Legislature to discuss the issue. “Let this session be a decisive session for the Maratha community….let us not point fingers at each other,” he said. He is also planning to have a round table conference in New Delhi on August 9, which coincides with the August Kranti din. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the date to file curative petition over Maratha reservation has been postponed. The government has to deliberate carefully before filing the petition so that there is no error. This is the responsibility of both, State and Centre,” he said. “The procedure should be undertaken under Article 342 A. This is my warning to the government, if no solution is found till 6 June, then we will begin an agitation from Raigad,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/is-there-another-maratha-agitation-in-the-horizon-991175.html
28-05-2021||West||Central government team visits 2 Gujarat districts to assess Cyclone Tauktae damage||A Central government team on Friday visited areas in Amreli and Gir Somnath districts in Gujarat to assess the damage caused by cyclone Tauktae that made landfall in the state on May 17, officials said. The six-member team led by Shri Prakash, joint secretary in the Union home ministry, is on the second day of its visit, they added. During the day, it first reached Kovaya in Amreli where collector Ayush Oak apprised the members of the ongoing relief and rehabilitation works, while sarpanch Kalubhai Lakhnotra told them about crop damage due to the cyclone. The team also visited a nearby cement plant, Ram Wadi, Pipari and a jetty in Rajula taluka in Amreli district and interacted with residents, a state government release said. "From Amreli, the team reached Gir-Somnath district and visited Gangda, Samter, Delwada and Naliya-Mandvi villages in Una taluka. They spoke to villagers about crop and property damage. At Una, the team held a review meeting with local officials, while state Chief Secretary Anil Mukim joined through video conference," the release added. The Central government team will also visit the neighbouring Union Territory of Diu for cyclone damage assessment, it said. On May 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had approved a financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief activities after conducting an aerial survey of Gujarat areas hit by the cyclone. At the time, the Centre had announced that Gujarat would get additional assistance after an inter-ministerial team visits cyclone-hit areas and submits a damage assessment report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-government-team-visits-2-gujarat-districts-to-assess-cyclone-tauktae-damage-991210.html
28-05-2021||West||Covid-19 restrictions extended by 15 days, new guidelines on June 1: Maharashtra minister||The lockdown-like-restrictions in Maharashtra on account of the coronavirus pandemic have been extended by 15 days but a fresh set of guidelines will be issued on June 1, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday. The state cabinet had taken the decision to extend the curbs on people's movement and businesses -- in force since mid-April -- in a meeting on Thursday. "As far as lockdown is concerned, 15 days' extension has been given, but the guidelines related to it will be issued on June 1," Tope told reporters. No relaxation will be given in the areas where the number of patients and positivity rate are still high and hospital bed availability is an issue, he said. "But in the areas where the situation has improved, certain guidelines (easing the curbs) can beissued," he added. Asked if shops selling non-essential commodities will be allowed to open, he said all such decisions will be taken on June 1. On Thursday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said the restrictions will continue after June 1, and will be relaxed later in a phased manner. "In 10 to 15 districts, the positivity rate is still very high. Besides, there is threat of the black fungus infection (found in recovering/recovered coronavirus patients)," the chief minister had noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-restrictions-extended-by-15-days-new-guidelines-on-june-1-maharashtra-minister-991222.html
28-05-2021||West||CM Thackeray asks officials to devise policy to help Covid-19 orphans||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked the Women and Child Development Department to frame a policy to provide assistance to the children orphaned due to Covid-19. As many as 2,290 children in the state have lost either one or both parents to the pandemic so far, as per official sources. A policy should be framed to look after the needs of such children, Thackeray said at a meeting to discuss the programs and policies of the Women and Child Development Department, an official statement said. The government will discuss how further relief can be provided to these children, he added. The Pediatric Task Force on Covid-19 set up by the government and the Women and Child Development Ministry should work in co-ordination to safeguard children in the state from coronavirus infection, the chief minister said. The task force, headed by Dr Suhas Prabhu, was set up after experts warned that children may be infected in greater numbers in the possible third wave of the pandemic. ASHA workers and rural healthcare staff should be "strengthened and empowered", the chief minister said. Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur said a policy was also required for the orphans in the 18-23 age group who have to leave orphanages or child shelter homes after turning 18. They should be helped to become self-sufficient by offering them skill developmentcourses, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-thackeray-asks-officials-to-devise-policy-to-help-covid-19-orphans-991225.html
