30-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||SARI deaths outnumber Covid at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences||Officially, Dharwad district reported more than 318 Covid deaths in the second wave, which has griped the district from April 14, 2021. However, senior doctors and postgraduate students deployed for Covid duty at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) here, the biggest Covid centre in North Karnataka, claim that death due to Covid could be at least three to four times higher than the official report. As per the state government’s instruction, or lack of it, officials did not consider patients who died of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or patients whose reports did not arrive before their death, as Covid deaths. At least eight postgraduate students of KIMS and four senior doctors confirmed to DH that during the peak of the second wave (between April 14 and May 20) the institute reported at least 35 to 45 SARI deaths per day, while the medical bulletin issued by the state government reported an average 10 Covid deaths per day in the entire district. More than 30 hospitals, including KIMS, District Civil hospital, and other private hospitals have been treating Covid patients. The SARI deaths were not even recorded in the ‘others’ section of the official report. Sources said the situation is the same across the state. A senior doctor and a PG student, who did not wish to be named said, on May 10, 2021, KIMS saw 50 deaths, which was the highest in the second wave, and the majority of these deaths were SARI patients. However, official reports said, the entire district reported just eight Covid deaths on that day. KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani also confirmed that the hospital during the peak of second wave reported an average of 25-30 deaths including those related to Covid complications. He said that while no patient died of lack of medicine or oxygen, the majority of them died due to late admission. “During the initial days of the second wave, a few patients died due to lack of ventilators, which was addressed immediately,” he said. S A Hebsur, one of the patients who recovered from Covid after being treated at KIMS said, the situation inside the ICU ward was scary. “I was in the ICU ward for eight days, and every day there were new patients in the beds next to mine,” he said, and added that at least 40 people might have lost their lives in that single ward in eight days. KIMS has dedicated 24 wards for Covid treatment. No compensation Several doctors leaked this information to DH, as they feared many children, who lost either of the parents would not benefit from the Union and state government’s welfare scheme as their parents' death certificate would not mention death due to Covid. “Since the breakout of Covid, KIMS has been issuing death certificates with three columns: Death due to Covid, SARI, and others. If the death certificate states SARI, they may not be eligible for compensation,” said one of the senior-most doctors at KIMS, and added that Covid tests were not conducted on patients who were brought dead to the hospital or they could not conduct the test on them as they were too critically ill and did not survive even for half an hour after being brought to KIMS. These patients were reported as SARI deaths. Speaking to DH, Dharwad Assistant Commissioner Gopal Krishna B said: “We have not received any instructions from the government to include SARI deaths as Covid. Talks are on at top level to consider even SARI deaths for compensation. However, they are also weighing in on the financial constraints that might arise of huge numbers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sari-deaths-outnumber-covid-at-karnataka-institute-of-medical-sciences-991871.html
30-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Accessibility to remote areas is a challenge for health workers in Uttara Kannada||The health infrastructure in Uttara Kannada district is plagued by staff shortage. Hospitals with doctors are facing a shortage of nursing officers and vice-versa in some other state-run health facilities. Most of the hospital buildings in coastal and Malnad areas are well-built and well-equipped as well. Local people express satisfaction with the quality of service provided in these centres. However, staff shortage is a common problem at all government hospitals. Uttara Kannada is a district with hilly terrain. Some villages here have a lonely house amid a thick jungle. A mobile network is also not available in these parts. Reaching such remote areas to deliver health services, particularly in times of Covid, is a daunting task, according to health workers. Mahadevi Naika, a resident of Hadageri village in Honnavar taluk had brought her mentally challenged daughter for Covid vaccination to Gerusoppa primary health centre, around 18 km away from her house.  “There is no transport facility from my village to Gerusoppa. My village has around 300 houses. I have to shell out Rs 600 for auto rickshaw every time I come to Gerusoppa. There is neither proper road. If private vehicles are not available, we have to virtually carry the patients on our shoulders,” she said. The situation is no different in several remote villages in Siddapur, Ankola and Joida taluks. Covid has spread to several remote villages in Joida taluk. However, officials say people are hesitant to get themselves tested. They say identifying the infected in these villages had become a challenge due to the lack of proper access road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/accessibility-to-remote-areas-is-a-challenge-for-health-workers-in-uttara-kannada-991887.html
30-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||No dearth of leaders in BJP, says Nalin Kumar Kateel as he slams Siddaramaiah for 'no able leaders' comment||BJP Karnataka President Nalin Kumar Kateel said Sunday that there was no dearth of leaders in the state's ruling party. Kateel's comments came in the backdrop of former CM and Congress leader Siddarmaaiah suggesting that there were no able leaders in the saffron party to oust Yediyurappa. “We all wanted B S Yediyurappa to be the Chief Minister considering his experience. However, the Congress is definitely facing a dearth of leaders,” Kateel while speaking to mediapersons in Mangaluru on the sidelines of a programme marking seven years of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. The Dakshina Kannada MP slammed the Leader of the Opposition for his comments and said that Siddaramaiah should first look at himself and his background. “Yediyurappa did not become Chief Minister by jumping from one party to another. He is known for fighting for the cause of the people for the last 45 years and also known for his leadership qualities. Having realised the dearth of leadership in the Congress, Congress President Sonia Gandhi had decided to make H D Kumaraswamy as Chief Minister during Congress-JD(S) coalition government in Karnataka,” he said. On the extension of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, Kateel said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a call on the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-dearth-of-leaders-in-bjp-says-nalin-kumar-kateel-as-he-slams-siddaramaiah-for-no-able-leaders-comment-991708.html
30-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress workers heckle Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda||Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda was heckled by Congress workers during his visit to a 100-bed Covid Care Center at Rajeev Gandhi Medical Hospital, at Cholanayakanahalli, here Sunday. The incident occurred when Gowda along with BJP MLC YA Narayanaswamy visited the facility on Sunday for an inspection. In videos circulated regarding the incident, Gowda is heard saying that he was there following complaints to check on beds available and sanitation at the hospital. The center was being run on funds from BBMP (30%), donors (30%) and the contribution of local MLA Byrati Suresh (40%). During his visit, Congress workers on the premises had an argument with the minister and raised slogans against BJP. They alleged that the Center was being run despite BBMP delaying the release of funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-workers-heckle-union-minister-d-v-sadananda-gowda-991883.html
30-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yogeshwar's remarks irrelevant, says R Ashoka||BJP leaders continued to corner Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar, following his controversial remarks against the leadership. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that one man’s statement had no bearing on the government, while Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s political secretary M P Renukacharya is learnt to have sought his ouster from the Cabinet and the party. Speaking to reporters, Ashoka lashed out at Yogeshwar for terming Yediyurappa dispensation as a ‘three-party government’. “Before making such allegations, he should ask himself who he was,” he said. Any dispute among the party leaders should be addressed within the four walls of the party, the minister said. Meanwhile, a section of BJP MLAs led by Renukacharya met Yediyurappa on Sunday. They are learnt to have sought action against Yogeshwar and his expulsion from the Cabinet. Taking a dig at the minister, Renukacharya called Yogeshwar a party hopper, who had “no morality to speak on the party, CM Yediyurappa and others.” He should be ashamed, Renukacharya said, adding that he was rejected by the voters of Channapatna. “If he thinks this is adjustment government, he should resign from the Cabinet and leave the party.” In an apparent reference to Yediyurappa’s son and BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra, Yogeshwar recently said, “I won’t accept my son exercising my powers”.  He had accused those in the BJP of joining hands with opposition parties to jeopardise his political future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yogeshwars-remarks-irrelevant-says-r-ashoka-991888.html
30-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress levelling baseless allegations: Ravi Subramanya||BJP MLA L Ravi Subramanya has accused the Congress of levelling baseless allegations against BJP leaders in South Bengaluru. In a video released by the Basavanagudi MLA on Sunday, he dismissed allegations of receiving commission for vaccinating people at private hospitals. Noting that the hospital had issued a statement dismissing the claims in telephonic conversation which went viral on social media on Saturday, Subramanya said that it was part of a ploy to defame BJP leaders. "They have done this to Tejasvi Surya (Bengaluru South MP) and M Satish Reddy (Bommanahalli MLA)," he said. This is a political conspiracy which the people of my constituency have understood well. Even Congress and JD(S) workers in the constituency have supported me following the wild claims, he said. If MLAs were receiving commission for vaccinating people, Congress should reveal whether its MLAs are receiving commission too, Ravi Subramanya added. Earlier in the day, Karnataka Congress had accused Surya and Ravi Subramanya of misusing the Covid health emergency for personal gain. "Why is there no probe into the incident?" Congress said on Twitter, tagging Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. "Not only are the uncle (Ravi Subramanya) and nephew (Surya) involved in bed-blocking, but are also in the trade of stealing vaccines," Congress had alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-levelling-baseless-allegations-ravi-subramanya-991889.html
30-05-2021||National||Delhi HC to rule on Monday on plea to stop Central Vista work during Covid-19||The Delhi High Court will decide on Monday whether to allow the continuation of the Central Vista project work during the prevailing Covid pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, which had been hearing a plea for suspending the ongoing construction work during the Covid pandemic, has fixed May 31 for delivery of its judgement on it, the high court’s cause list revealed on Saturday. The court had reserved its judgement on May 17 on the joint plea by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker. The two had contended in their plea that the project was not an essential activity and can be put on hold for time being. During the May 17 hearing, the Centre had termed the plea as a "facade" or a "disguise", aimed at stalling the project. The petitioners on the other hand had contended they were only interested in the safety of workers at the site and citizens living in the area. The petitioners' counsel had likened the project to "Auschwitz", a German concentration camp during World War II. Hard-hitting arguments against the maintainability of the plea were made during the hearing. Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd, which has been awarded the tender for the project, had also opposed the plea, saying it lacks bonafide and the company was taking care of its workforce. Terming the Central Vista project as "central fortress of death" and comparing it to "Auschwitz", the petitioners' counsel Sidharth Luthra had contended that the Centre's claim on the availability of medical facilities, testing centre and other amenities on the site were all false.  He had said only empty tents have been pitched at the site and there were no beds for workers to stay or sleep there. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, however, had taken strong exceptions to the project being dubbed as “Auschwitz” and said "one can criticise and be venomous" about it but such terms should not be used in courtrooms.  Countering the petitioners’ claims, the Centre’s law officer had said one of the petitioners had been opposed to the project long before it got the go-ahead from the Supreme Court in January this year. He said the petitioners were not concerned with the health and safety of workers at other construction sites in the city. "Public interest is very selective (in the instant case) about the health of workmen," he had added and urged the court to dismiss the plea. He had said the petitioners cannot decide what is the safe timeline for completing the project and the company has to finish it by November so that the Republic Day parade can be held on the Rajpath. The project entails construction activities on Rajpath and the surrounding lawns from India Gate to Rashtrapati Bhawan, the petition, filed through advocates Gautam Khazanchi and Pradyuman Kaistha, had said. The project envisages building a new Parliament House, a new residential complex to house offices and the Prime Minister and the Vice-President. It will also have new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate various ministries’ offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-to-rule-on-monday-on-plea-to-stop-central-vista-work-during-covid-19-991631.html
30-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Seven years of Narendra Modi as Prime Minister of India||Never before in his seven years in office has Modi appeared so vulnerable as a politician and as an administrator. The opposition has turned the phrase ‘Modi hai toh mumkin hai’ around to take repeated jibes at the government for the situation India found itself in during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-seven-years-of-narendra-modi-as-prime-minister-of-india-991636.html
30-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 30||India recorded a single-day rise of 1,65,553 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 46 days, taking the country's infection tally to 2,78,94,800, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  27,894,224 as of May 30, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  325,972 as of May 30, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 2,54,54,320 Total Vaccination: 21,20,66,614  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-30-991637.html
30-05-2021||National||Health workers sue Texas hospital over compulsory vaccinations: Report||Employees of Houston Methodist Hospital said in the lawsuit that their employer's compulsory immunisation requirement violated the Nuremberg Code, a set of standards designed after World War Two to prevent experimentation on human subjects without their consent, the Post reported. They also said the hospital presented them with the choice of either getting a vaccine or losing their job, which violated state law, and asked the court to bar Houston Medical from firing unvaccinated staffers, the report said. The report comes a day after the country's Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) said companies could mandate that employees in a workplace must be vaccinated against Covid-19, amid a shortfall in demand for inoculations due to factors including ambivalence or scepticism about the vaccines. Public health officials have been forced to try new strategies to persuade people to get the shots, with efforts that range from creative gimmicks to grassroots outreach resembling get-out-the-vote drives. However, the vast majority of employers have been reluctant to require workers to be vaccinated. A survey by management-side law firm Fisher Phillips earlier this year found that only 9% of the more than 700 employers surveyed said they were considering mandating vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-workers-sue-texas-hospital-over-compulsory-vaccinations-report-991660.html
30-05-2021||National||India records single-day spike of 1.65 lakh Covid-19 cases, lowest in 46 days||India recorded a single-day rise of 1,65,553 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 46 days, taking the country's infection tally to 2,78,94,800, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The daily positivity declined to 8.02 per cent, remaining below the 10 per cent-mark for five consecutive days, while the weekly positivity rate dropped to 9.36 per cent, it said. The death toll due to the disease climbed to 3,25,972 in the country with 3,460 fatalities being recorded in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,63,839 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Saturday, taking the total number of such exams so far to 34,31,83,748, the ministry said. The number of active cases has reduced to 21,14,508, comprising 7.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 91.25 per cent, it said. The count of the daily new cases is the lowest in 46 days. India recorded 1,61, 736 infections on April 13. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,54,54,320, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.17 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-single-day-spike-of-165-lakh-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-46-days-991661.html
30-05-2021||National||Earliest surviving Hindu painting from Badami restored||One of the earliest surviving paintings in a Hindu temple – from the world-famous Badami Cave Temples – has been photographed, digitally restored and formally unveiled to a global audience.  The Badami Cave Temples complex of Hindu and Jain cave temples located in Badami, a town in the Bagalkot district in northern Karnataka, is a UNESCO-designated World Heritage Site. The 6th-century mural – ‘Queen and her Attendents’ – have been restored by eminent art-historian, photographer and filmmaker Binoy K Behl. At an event titled ‘A Lost Tradition of Art’ & ‘Earliest Surviving Painting in Hindu Temple’, the painting was unveiled in presence of  Dr Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, the President of Indian Council for Cultural Relations and Suresh Prabhu, India’s Sherpa to G7 and G20 last week. The virtual event presented by Sapio Heritage Restoration Division, a division of government advisory firm Sapio Analytics. “This is the earliest surviving painting in a Hindu Temple,” said Behl. “Besides the great technical virtuosity of the ancient Indian murals, what is even more important is the vision of life which they contain. It is a deep and philosophic vision of great compassion. This is what makes the ancient paintings of India to be among the finest art of humankind,”  said  Behl about the significance of this revelation. “The painting ‘Queen and her Attendants' dates back to the 6th century...it is established by dating…this makes it the oldest known mural,” Ashwin Srivastava, CEO of Sapio Analytics, told DH on Sunday. It is from Cave No 3 of Badami Cave Temple complex and was photographed in 2001 and then digitally restored. “It was photographed through pioneering low-light photography techniques that have been innovated to capture the ancient culture of India,” he said. “It’s time that cities should not be like melting pots but like salad bowls, maintaining their identities while co-existing. One can know who we are through ancient Indian art”, added Dr Sahasrabuddhe. Srivastava and Balkrishna Choolun, Director of Ajanta HC in London, announced the preservation of the restored and unrestored photograph of Shri Behl at the Arctic World Archive, in Svalbard, Norway, and a series of global exhibitions in different cities of the world. “For generations to come, we shall preserve this artform as a reminder to the power of Indian art in elevating human consciousness”, added Srivastava.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/earliest-surviving-hindu-painting-from-badami-restored-991672.html
30-05-2021||National||For second consecutive day Andamans reports more Covid-19 recoveries than new cases||For the second consecutive day Andaman and Nicobar Islands reported more Covid-19 recoveries than new cases as 30 people recuperated from the disease while 28 new cases pushed the coronavirus tally in the union territory to 6,964, a health official said on Sunday. The Covid-19 death toll in the archipelago remained at 113 as no fresh fatality was reported in the last 24 hours, he said. The union territory now has 191 active Covid-19 cases, of which 183 are in South Andaman district and eight in North and Middle Andaman district. The Nicobar district has no active Covid-19 case at present, the official said. With 30 more Covid-19 patients recuperating from the disease, the total number of recoveries in the union territory rose to 6,660. The administration has so far tested over 3,85,564 samples for Covid-19 and the positivity rate was 1.81 per cent, he said. A total of 1,25,045 people have been administered Covid-19 vaccine of which 1,07,682 have received the first dose while 17,363 have got both doses of the vaccine, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-second-consecutive-day-andamans-reports-more-covid-19-recoveries-than-new-cases-991675.html
30-05-2021||National||Google, Facebook updating website to reflect new grievance officer appointed under IT rules||After the Centre's tough stand on the new social media rules, large digital platform companies like Google and Facebook have begun updating their websites to reflect the appointment of grievance officers as per the norms that came into effect on May 26. Google's 'Contact Us' page shows details of Joe Grier as a contact person with an address from Mountain View, US. The page also contains details on the grievance redressal mechanism for YouTube. Facebook and WhatsApp have already shared their compliance report with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, and that the details of the new grievance officers appointed are being updated to replace the existing information on these platforms. However, according to the IT Ministry, Twitter is yet to follow the norms as per Social Media Intermediaries Rules 2021. Twitter has not sent details of the chief compliance officer to the IT Ministry, and shared details of a lawyer working in a law firm as a nodal contact person and grievance officer, sources in the IT Ministry said. Twitter's website mentions Dharmendra Chatur as the 'Resident Grievance Officer for India (Interim)'. The new rules require significant social media intermediaries to prominently publish on their website, app, or both, the name of the grievance officer and their contact details as well as the mechanism by which a user or a victim may file a complaint. According to the new rules, both the compliance officer and grievance officers must be Indian residents. Earlier, IT Ministry sources said besides Google, Facebook and WhatsApp, other significant social media intermediaries like Koo, Sharechat, Telegram and LinkedIn too have shared details with the ministry as per the requirement of the IT norms. The new rules which were announced in February and came into force on May 26, requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance reports and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specify that social media firms must adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing the intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. On May 26, WhatsApp went to the Delhi High Court against the traceability clause, citing it would infringe the privacy of users.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-facebook-updating-website-to-reflect-new-grievance-officer-appointed-under-it-rules-991677.html
30-05-2021||National||Monsoon likely to hit Indian coast around May 31: IMD||Monsoon rains are likely to hit India's southern coast around May 31, in line with typical patterns, the state-run India Meteorological Department said in its latest forecast on Sunday. Conditions are likely to become favourable for monsoon onset over the southern tip of the coastal Kerala state around May 31, the department said in its latest forecast. Nearly half of India's farmland has no irrigation and depends on annual June-September rains to grow crops such as rice, corn, cane, cotton and soybeans. India's weather office said last month the country was expected to get average monsoon rains this year, raising expectations of higher farm output, which is central to the country's economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-likely-to-hit-indian-coast-around-may-31-imd-991681.html
30-05-2021||National||India sent private jet to Dominica carrying Choksi deportation documents: Antiguan PM||A private jet from Delhi has arrived at the Douglas Charles Airport in Dominica, where fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi is currently incarcerated after being arrested by the local police earlier this week following his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda. A news portal of Antigua and Barbuda quoted the island nation’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne saying that the Qatar Executive aircraft had come from New Delhi carrying documents needed for legal proceedings for deportation of the 62-year-old billionaire from Dominica to India. The Government of India, however, refrained from officially confirming that the aircraft had any connection with its effort to bring back Choksi to stand trial for allegedly colluding with his nephew Nirav Modi to defraud the Punjab National Bank of about Rs 13,500 crore. New Delhi, in fact, is in touch with the governments of both the Caribbean Sea island nations. Choksi was reported missing from Jolly Harbour township in Antigua on May 23. He was arrested from Canefield Beach in Roseau, the capital of Dominica, on May 26. Browne requested Dominican Government to deport Choksi to India, instead of repatriating him to Antigua and Barbuda (A&B). The Dominican Government, however, decided to repatriate him to Antigua and Barbuda, but the High Court in Roseau blocked the repatriation after a Habeas Corpus petition was filed by the lawyers representing the diamantaire. The court set June 2 as the date for the next hearing on the case. Browne was quoted by Antigua Newsroom portal stating that his understanding was that the Government of India had sent “certain documentation” from the courts in India onboard the Qatar Executive aircraft, which had flown from Delhi to Dominica via Madrid, to confirm that Choksi was “indeed a fugitive”. He also said that his understanding was that the documentation would be utilised in the hearing in the High Court of Dominica next Wednesday. “So, the Indian Government seems to be going all out to ensure that he is deported to India so that he could stand trial there,” said the Prime Minister of A&B. Choksi was granted the citizenship of the A&B by the Browne’s Government in November 2017. He had taken oath as a citizen of A&B in January 2018 – just days after fleeing from India. The Ministry of External Affairs had in February 2018 revoked the passports issued to both Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi. The opposition United Progressive Party of A&B reminded Browne that Choksi continued to be a citizen of the country and every citizen was entitled to due process and the rule of law must be respected by all. The opposition leaders criticised the A&B Prime Minister for asking the Dominican Government to deport him to India. Browne hit back and accused the opposition party of trying to secure funds from Choksi. “My administration’s revocation of Choksi’s citizenship has been frustrated by a litigation brought against the state,” the A&B Prime Minister said in a statement. “We are determined to revoke Choksi’s citizenship and to concurrently pursue his extradition to India to face criminal charges there.” Choksi’s lawyer Wayne Marsh in Roseau alleged that the diamantaire had been abducted from A&B “by persons whom he believes to be Indian and Antiguan”, beaten and brought to Dominica. A picture of Choksi was published by media portals in West Indies showing him behind bars in the capital of Dominica, apparently with injury marks on his hand and left eye.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sent-private-jet-to-dominica-carrying-choksi-deportation-documents-antiguan-pm-991682.html
30-05-2021||National||Ashok Gehlot targets Centre over frequent rise in fuel prices||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday lashed out at the central government over frequent rise in fuel prices and inflation, and said the common people have been badly affected by it. He said that the price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre in several states. "On the one hand, the common man is disturbed due to Covid and declining income and on the other hand, the Modi government is causing inconvenience through high inflation," the chief minister said. Gehlot, a senior Congress leader, claimed one-third income of the central government comes from taxes on petrol and diesel. "When the central government was supposed to give relief by reducing tax on petrol-diesel, it imposed a new tax (on petrol and diesel) in the budget this year. This has increased transportation charges due to which inflation is increasing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-gehlot-targets-centre-over-frequent-rise-in-fuel-prices-991691.html
30-05-2021||National||Ramdev challenges ‘medical mafia’ with clip from Aamir show||Yoga guru Ramdev has added fuel to the fire in his ongoing feud with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on allopathy and its efficacy by sharing an old video where Aamir Khan discusses the high retail price of medication. The ayurvedic practitioner and businessman challenged the “medical mafia” to hold protests against Aamir Khan in his tweet. Ramdev’s antagonistic remarks on modern medicine and his allegation that modern medical methods had led to the deaths of lakhs due to Covid have generated huge controversy and invited a defamation notice from the IMA. Ramdev had withdrawn his initial remarks that Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan also termed an "extremely unfortunate" statement. However, he has continued to poke at the issue, including penning an “open letter” on Twitter that posed 25 questions to medical practitioners.   The IMA has given Ramdev a fortnight to issue an official apology, failing which the body has said it would demand Rs 1,000 crore as compensation. They have also asked Ramdev to make and share a video clip on social media contradicting all his allegations and to take down a "misleading" advertisement touting his "Coronil kit" as a sound treatment for Covid-19 from all platforms, threatening an FIR if he fails to do so. Members of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ associations have also said they would hold a nationwide protest on June 1 against the yoga guru’s remarks and sought an “unconditional open public apology”. It was not acceptable for someone with a large following to be allowed to keep targeting modern medicine and disparage hardworking doctors and paramedics, IMA national chief J A Jayalal said on Friday, offering to withdraw police complaints if an apology was tendered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramdev-challenges-medical-mafia-with-clip-from-aamir-show-991697.html
30-05-2021||National||5.22% transgender persons vaccinated till now; activists say misinformation, lack of digital knowledge adding to their woes||With just 25,468 (5.22 per cent) transgender persons vaccinated against Covid-19 in India till now, activists said misinformation, lack of documents and digital divide have added to their woes in getting inoculated. According to the 2011 census, there are 4.87 lakh people belonging to the transgender community in India. A total of 8,80,47,053 men and 7,67,64,479 women have been vaccinated, while just 25,468 people in the 'other' category have been inoculated, the CoWIN portal showed. The activists said misinformation, lack of digital knowledge and no government documents are the main reasons behind hesitancy of the community members in getting vaccinated. Transgender activist Pushpa Mai, who is based in Jaipur, said a lot of community members approached her with queries related to vaccination. "They were misguided. They were told that taking vaccination will make their health worse. We have explained to them that getting vaccinated can protect them from this deadly disease and they should get vaccinated as soon as possible," Mai said. Shahana, 21, said she had many reservations about the vaccine earlier but the activists dispelled her fears. "My friends told me you will die, why do you want to risk your life... but then I asked activists and they told me there is nothing like that and I should get vaccinated as they will give me protection," Shahana, who works as an office assistant, said. Another person from the community who is HIV positive said he is not sure if vaccination is safe for him. Dr Vandana Prasad, a public health professional, said there are no contraindications that people who are HIV positive or have recently undergone surgery can't get vaccinated. "There is some misinformation going around that you will die if you take the vaccines. There are some side-effects of the vaccines, including death, but that is a very, very rare event as compared to deaths due to Covid-19. They can speak to their doctors but generally if they are not severely immunocompromised, then they can get the vaccination," she said. Some people from the community are eager to get vaccinated but they do not have the necessary documents. Fifty-year-old Chandni, who earns her living by dancing at weddings and family functions, has been desperate to get vaccinated. Chandni, a diabetic, said she does not have any government documents that are necessary for her to get vaccinated. "If I go anywhere to perform I am asked if me or my family members have any symptoms or if I have got vaccinated so it is necessary for me to get vaccinated to remain safe and also to earn my livelihood," she said. Samina (name changed), 44, who earns her livelihood by begging at traffic signals, does have an Aadhaar card but does not own a smartphone and is hesitant to go for walk-in vaccination fearing discrimination. "My friend went and she was driven away by the people queuing outside who told her she can't get vaccinated with them. I want to go with an appointment so no one can say that but with no smartphone that is very difficult," she said. Chandni and Samina are now waiting for a special vaccination drive as planned by the government. The Centre had recently asked states to ensure that there was no discrimination against transgender persons at Covid-19 vaccination centres. The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has also urged the states to conduct awareness drives, especially to reach out to members of the transgender community in different vernaculars to ensure that they are informed and aware of the vaccination process. The ministry has also requested states to organise separate mobile vaccination centres or booths for vaccination of transgender persons such as those taken up in the states of Haryana and Assam. Meera Parida, representing the east region in the National Council for Transgender Persons, said she along with her NGO Sakha is planning to organise a special drive for the community members in Odisha. "There were apprehensions and fears among the community members over vaccination but now the situation is improving and we are planning a special drive for the community members," Parida said. NGO Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) executive director Akhila Sivadas said any disease prevention approach requires community involvement. "This is particularly true for marginal groups such as transgender, who even in the best of times feel unsupported and unaccepted by mainstream society. It is not possible to ensure vaccine preparedness without engaging the community and encouraging them to be part of the solution and find ways to educate and persuade their peers," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/522-transgender-persons-vaccinated-till-now-activists-say-misinformation-lack-of-digital-knowledge-adding-to-their-woes-991713.html
30-05-2021||National||Intensity of second Covid-19 wave made preparations inadequate: FM Sitharaman||Acknowledging that India had been overwhelmed by the intensity of the second Covid-19 wave, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the preparations made to tackle the second surge of the virus proved to be inadequate. Speaking at a conclave of experts on Saturday organised by the IIMB Alumni Association, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that despite preparations having been made for the second wave, the intensity of the second surge rendered the preparations inadequate. "All of us have proven that the situation in 2020 is not the situation in 2021. In some respects it's worsened, but in some other respects we are probably slightly better prepared. Now, with the second wave having come in such a scale and intensity, all that preparation was just not adequate," Sitharaman said. The theme of the discussion was recovery, rehabilitation and prevention after the second wave. One of the problems, according to Professor Gagandeep Kang, a Clinical scientist at CMC Vellore was that nobody in India “anticipated that the vaccines would be required, so quickly.” The scientist said that the immunisation programme had a slow rollout during the first several weeks, before it became evident that the country needed to be faster with vaccines. “But it is not easy to do because supply chains are set up to handle only so much. We did an estimation last year and anticipated that about two-and-a-half billion extra doses could be made in 2021. However, a lot of effort on the part of multilateral agencies and governments have resulted in a situation where we think that we will actually have six billion or more doses of vaccine this year,” she said. Dr Devi Shetty, Chairman and Executive Director of Narayana Health, added that vaccination is the cheapest, safest and the best protection against Covid-19.   While he added that people must take precautions to prevent children from being infected, he stressed that one of the important requirements for containment is increased medical staff.  “Everyone thinks that we need to build more hospitals, but building a hospital is not going to solve the problem. Why? It is not the cost of building the hospital which is preventing people from building the hospital, it is the lack of doctors. We are struggling to offer health care to the Covid patients because we are terribly short of doctors, nurses and medical technicians,” he said. Meanwhile, the Finance Minister said that the issue of limited medical infrastructure was addressed in the February 2021 Budget. Sitharaman stated that the Budget moves to not only take care of the poor, but also the infrastructure, while extending 'atmanirbhar' support to the organised sector and unorganised sectors.  “One of the large and emphatic announcements of the Budget was for increasing the capital expenditure for infrastructure. Also we increased the capital expenditure for health infrastructure. So at one goal, we are making sure that the medical infrastructure does not become the province of metropolitan cities, but it shall go down to the level of the blocks. The aim was also to ensure that human resources are going to be available,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intensity-of-second-covid-19-wave-made-preparations-inadequate-fm-sitharaman-991716.html
30-05-2021||National||Fact-check | WhatsApp 3 red ticks: Is govt now able to record your messages, calls?||With the new IT rules in place, is the government keeping a track of your WhatsApp text history? A message, falsely claiming that three red ticks on a WhatsApp text would mean that the government has started court proceedings against the person, has gone viral.  “Two blue ticks and one red tick means the government can take action against, while three red ticks will mean that the government has started court proceedings against you," the text reportedly reads. "If a user shares a negative message against the government or on a religious issue, then they will get arrested," it says. It is important to note that all of the claims are false and users should refrain from forwarding any such message without proper fact-checking. Earlier in April 2020, when a similar message had alarmed social media users, the Press Information Bureau had issued a clarification. Recently, the Facebook-owned company has moved the Delhi High Court against the Social Media Intermediary rules 2021, contending the provisions were likely to break users' right to privacy and end-to-end encryption on its messaging service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-whatsapp-3-red-ticks-is-govt-now-able-to-record-your-messages-calls-991719.html
30-05-2021||National||On 7th anniversary of NDA, Congress says govt harmful for people, BJP says Opposition in quarantine||The Congress on Sunday targeted the Narendra Modi government on its seventh anniversary claiming that it is harmful for the country as it has betrayed the trust of people reposed in the Prime Minister. On its part, the BJP hit back at the Opposition with its president J P Nadda claiming that his party's opponents have “gone into quarantine” while saffron party leaders and workers have been carrying out relief work during the pandemic. The Congress specifically attacked the government on its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially during the second wave, declining economy, rising unemployment and inflation among others as part of a seven-point charge-sheet of "blunders". Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the government needs to have the right intention, policy and determination to fight the coronavirus and not just a monthly radio address. "You need the right intention, policy and determination to fight Corona and not just pointless talk once in a month," he said in a tweet. Modi delivered his monthly radio address 'Mann Ki Baat' during which he said a lot of work has been done during the past seven years which was not done in decades. A video released by the Congress 'Bharat Mata ki Kahani', which said 60 years of development referring to the Congress rule in the country and seven years of disaster referring to the Modi government. The Congress targeted the Prime Minister and said GST, demonetisation and several other initiatives were "Modi-made disasters". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Modi's rule in the past seven years has been a "story of unprecedented devastation, abdication of responsibility and abandonment of India's people by a government that was showered with all the love and affection".  "This government is harmful for the country as it has betrayed the faith of people of India. It is betraying the trust and the innate faith the people reposed in prime minister Narendra Modi. This is a deception of the worst kind heaped upon 140 crore Indians by a government they elected based on innumerable promises. After seven years time has come to do stock taking. Time has come to ask why the country is suffering," he said. Nadda said the BJP workers are standing with the people during the pandemic while accusing the opposition leaders who are only visible in virtual press conferences. He also accused Opposition parties of making a noise about Covid-19 vaccine now while it raised doubts about the jabs. While crores of his party's workers serve the people, he alleged, some political parties work to lower the morale of the country during the pandemic. Nadda was speaking after flagging off a convoy of trucks Covid-19 relief materials to mark the seventh anniversary of the Modi government. The BJP has announced that it would not celebrate the anniversary but instead organise relief works across the country. "We are serving and they are creating hurdles. Some political parties issued irresponsible statements on lockdown and vaccination, and worked to lower the morale of the country," Nadda added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-7th-anniversary-of-nda-congress-says-govt-harmful-for-people-bjp-says-opposition-in-quarantine-991730.html
30-05-2021||National||Nearly 12 crore doses of Covid vaccine to be available in June: Health Ministry||In May, 7,94 crore doses were available for vaccination. In a statement, the ministry said the allocation of supplies to states and union territories is decided on the consumption pattern, population and vaccine wastage. "Visibility for availability of vaccines for the entire month of June 2021 has been provided well in advance to States/UTs...," it said. "For the month of June, 6.09 crore (6,09,60,000) doses of Covid vaccines will be supplied to the States and UTs for vaccination of priority group of Health Care Workers (HCWs), Front-Line Workers (FLWs) and person aged 45 years + and above as free supply from Government of India," the ministry said. "In addition, more than 5.86 crore (5,86,10,000) doses will be available for direct procurement by the state/UTs and Private Hospitals. Therefore, in June 2021 close to 12 crore (11,95,70,000) doses will be available for the national Covid vaccination programme," it said. The ministry said the delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared with states in advance. "States have been requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure rational and judicious utilization of allocated doses and minimize the vaccine wastage. The basic objective behind informing the States/UTs in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from Centre for 15/30 days and the total vaccine doses which are available for direct procurement by States/UTs is to ensure better planning and delivery of vaccine by States/UTs," it said. For the month of May, 4,03,49,830 vaccine doses have been made available by the Union Government to states. In addition, 3,90,55,370 doses were available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals in May. "Therefore, in May 2021 a total number of 7,94,05,200 doses were available for the national Covid vaccination programme," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-12-crore-doses-of-covid-vaccine-to-be-available-in-june-health-ministry-991738.html
30-05-2021||National||PM Modi's 7-year rule fatal for India: Nitin Raut||Maharashtra minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut on Sunday said seven years of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government at the Centre had been "fatal" for the country with people reeling under the burden of broken promises and skyrocketing inflation. Prices of petrol had crossed Rs 100 per litre while diesel was retailing at Rs 90 per litre, which was affecting common citizens, while farmers who were promised that their incomes would double by 2022 are seeing hike in seed and fertiliser prices, the Nagpur North MLA said. Addressing a press conference, Raut said the new agri marketing laws as well labour reforms brought in by the Centre were anti-people. "The Centre has failed on all fronts, be it business, agriculture, education, GDP, inflation, international relations. The seven-year rule of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has been fatal for the country. It has also left people to fend for themselves during the Covid-19 pandemic," he said. Congress workers staged protests in the urban and rural areas of Nagpur against the Modi government during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-7-year-rule-fatal-for-india-nitin-raut-991743.html
30-05-2021||National||Home Ministry awaiting telecom dept nod on continuing mobile tower services in Naxalism-hit areas||As security forces battle to put an end to Naxal violence, the Home Ministry wants mobile phone towers installed in the affected region to remain operational irrespective of financial implications to give them the advantage of smooth communication and is awaiting the telecom department's nod, officials said on Sunday. At a recent meeting chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, it was conveyed to the telecom department in no uncertain terms that these mobile phone towers should remain active. Previously, a series of meetings were held on the matter. A letter has been sent to Universal Service Obligation Fund administrator Anshuli Arya conveying the decision of the Home Ministry to extend the operation of all these sites. USOF is the pool of funds generated by charging all telecom companies on their Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR). This fund, which is handled by the Department of Telecommunications, is used for providing funds for telecom connectivity in rural and such areas which are not commercially beneficial for telecom operators. Over 2,200 telecom towers were installed in Chhattisgarh and nine other Naxalism-affected states that form the 'Red Corridor' to ensure communication facility for security forces as well as state police agencies. The towers, which were funded by USOF for five years, could be extended by another two years under an ongoing tender of BSNL to help the security forces maintain an easy access to the communication facility. However, the silence of the telecom department for its extension has left everyone in despair, including the state-run BSNL which has been following up on it with USOF for almost 20 months. The BSNL CMD has shot off a letter asking for a clear-cut decision and whether they need to shut down the operations as BSNL is losing money every month to run these commercially unviable sites. BSNL wrote a letter to the telecom secretary asking for clear directions on whether the mobile towers have to be kept operational or not. It said that BSNL had installed 356 telecom sites in the Naxalism-affected areas from its own resources for which non-tendered OPEX (Operational Expenditure) was provided from the USOF from September 2014 to 2019. Further, BSNL has installed and commissioned in 1987 sites under the LWE (Left Wing Extremism) project for which USOF is providing OPEX subsidy. "The period of subsidy support of LWE sites is progressively expiring from July 2020 to March 2022. It said that the BSNL has not got any extension till date and may close these sites if an extension did not come from the telecom department," an official said, adding that to shut the service, it has to inform subscribers 30 days in advance as required under rules. BSNL made it clear that either an extension is given to these projects or dates for final closure of the telecom sites is provided. This comes at a time when the security forces are establishing new camps inside the Naxal-dominated areas to ensure safety for people in these areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-ministry-awaiting-telecom-dept-nod-on-continuing-mobile-tower-services-in-naxalism-hit-areas-991752.html
30-05-2021||National||Ficci calls for cancelling Class XII Board exams due to prevailing Covid situation||Industry chamber Ficci has written to the central government to cancel Class XII Board examinations, cautioning that the current situation due to Covid-19 is not conducive for conducting physical examination. In a letter to HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Ficci President Uday Shankar said an alternate solution should be devised to determine academic progression. He said that a delayed examination schedule will not only affect those students seeking admission in Indian higher educational institutions, but also jeopardise the dreams of especially those aiming to pursue higher education overseas. "Covid cases in the country are still very high... As such, the current situation is not conducive to conduct in-person examination and holding online examination is impractical given the lack of infrastructure; most importantly, any further delay will lead to distress among students. Against this backdrop, Ficci strongly recommends that Class XII board examinations should be called off," he said. More than 5 lakh Indian students go abroad every year and over 2 lakh have confirmed offers of admission this year. The Ficci president said that foreign universities are unlikely to relax their timelines in order to accommodate a delayed examination schedule and due to this students who have secured admission in those universities will be left in the lurch if the process is drawn out. "It is imperative, therefore, that the Class XII evaluation process is completed by mid-July so that there is a smooth transition to higher education for all students," he said. Shankar suggested that CBSE should allow schools to take into consideration marks scored in several tests/exams conducted during the academic year 2020-21 and assign appropriate weightage in order to arrive at the marks for each student. A review committee headed by the Principal should be formed at the school level which shall also include two external education experts apart from select teaching staff to prepare fair and unbiased results of the students, which should be in sync with the historical performance of the school.  He suggested that if a significant number of students are not satisfied with the internal grades, the government may consider giving them an opportunity to sit for an exam to be held at a later date when the situation is more conducive. "As such, a once in a century pandemic calls for an out-of-the-box solution which is in the best interests of students who have already been subjected to a lot of stress and uncertainty,"he added. The CBSE has already cancelled class 10 Board exams and announced an alternative marking policy. There is a broad consensus among states about conducting class 12 Board exams and an "informed, collaborative" decision will be taken by June 1, the minister had said recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ficci-calls-for-cancelling-class-xii-board-exams-due-to-prevailing-covid-situation-991757.html
30-05-2021||National||Labour ministry announces additional benefits under EPFO, ESIC schemes||The Ministry of Labour and Employment on Sunday announced additional benefits for workers through social securities schemes run by the EPFO and the ESIC amid the Covid-19 pandemic. These benefits include pension for dependents of insured persons with Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) who died due to Covid-19 and hike in maximum sum assured under the group insurance scheme Employees' Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme (EDLI), run by Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), to Rs 7 lakh from Rs 6 lakh.  "The Ministry of Labour and Employment has announced additional benefits for workers through ESIC and EPFO schemes to address the fear and anxiety of workers about the wellbeing of their family members due to increase in incidences of death due to Covid-19 pandemic," a ministry statement said.  Enhanced social security is sought to be provided to the workers without any additional cost to the employer, it added. Currently, for the insured persons (IPs) under the ESIC, after death or disablement of the IP due to employment injury, a pension equivalent to 90 per cent of average daily wage drawn by the worker is available to the spouse and widowed mother for life long and for children till they attain the age of 25 years.  For the female child, the benefit is available till her marriage. To support the families of IPs under the ESIC scheme, it has been decided that, all dependent family members of IPs who have been registered in the online portal of the ESIC prior to their diagnosis of Covid disease and subsequent death due to the disease, will be entitled to receive the same benefits and in the same scale as received by the dependents of insured persons who die as a result of employment injury, subject to two conditions, it explained. First condition is that the IP must have been registered on the ESIC online portal at least three months prior to the diagnosis of Covid disease resulting in death. Secondly, the IP must have been employed for wages and contributions for at least 78 days should have been paid or payable in respect of deceased IP during a period of one year immediately preceding the diagnosis of Covid disease resulting in death. The IPs, who fulfil the eligibility conditions, and have died due to Covid disease, their dependants will be entitled to receive monthly payment at the rate of 90 per cent of average daily wages of the insured person during their life. The scheme will be effective for a period of two years from March 24, 2020. Under the EPFO’s Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance (EDLI) scheme, all surviving dependent family members of the members of this scheme are eligible to avail benefits of EDLI in case of death in harness of the member. At present under this scheme, the benefits extended in case of death of a worker are no requirement of minimum service for payment of Gratuity, family pension is paid as per provisions under EPF & MP Act, sickness benefit of 70 per cent of wages for 91 days in a year is paid in the event of a worker falling sick and not attending office. A notification issued by the ministry has made certain amendments in the scheme. Firstly, amount of maximum benefit has been increased from 6 lakh to 7 lakh to the family members of deceased employee. Secondly, the minimum assurance benefit of Rs 2.5 lakh to eligible family members of deceased employees who was a member for a continuous period of 12 months in one or more establishments preceding his death in place of existing provision of continuous employment in the same establishment for 12 months.  It will benefit contractual/casual labourers were losing out on benefits due to condition of continuous one year in one establishment, the ministry explained. The ministry has also restored provision of minimum 2.5 lakh compensation retrospectively, i.e., from February 15, 2020.   In coming three years, the actuary has estimated that eligible family members will get an additional benefit of Rs 2,185 crore from EDLI fund in the years 2021-22 to 2023-24. The number of claims on account of death under the scheme has been estimated to be about 50,000 families per year including increase in claims taking into account estimated death of about 10,000 workers, which may occur due to Covid, it said.  These welfare measures will provide the much needed support to the families of workers who have died due to the Covid-19 disease and will protect them from financial hardships in these challenging times of pandemic, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-announces-additional-benefits-under-epfo-esic-schemes-991763.html
30-05-2021||National||Centre asks private TV news channels to display 4 new helpline numbers||The Centre on Sunday asked private TV news channels to display four new national helpline numbers for the benefit of citizens as a part of the Covid-19 awareness initiative. In a letter to all private TV news channels, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said the national helpline numbers should be run as a ticker or any other appropriate way at periodic intervals. It lauded the news channels for playing an important role in supplementing the efforts of the government in fighting the coronavirus pandemic by creating awareness and informing people about Covid treatment protocol, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. "In order to further this cause, the private TV channels are advised to promote awareness of the following four national level helpline numbers by way of a ticker or such appropriate ways as they may consider at periodical intervals, especially during prime time," it said. The channels have been asked to display the National helpline number of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare -1075, child helpline number of the Ministry of Women and Child Development-1098, senior citizens helpline of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment- 14567 (in Delhi, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and helpline number of National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) for psychological support - 08046110007. "As you are aware, the number of cases of Covid-19 in the country, while witnessing a downward trend, is still high. Over the last several months, the government has created awareness through various instrumentalities and media platforms, including print, TV, radio, social media, etc. for creating awareness on the three critical issues – Covid treatment protocol, Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination,” the ministry said in its letter to private news channels. "National helpline numbers for the benefit of the citizens were also created and propagated by the government," it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-private-tv-news-channels-to-display-4-new-helpline-numbers-991764.html
30-05-2021||National||India fighting Covid with all its might: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||Asserting that India is fighting Covid-19 with all its might, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to a number of people ranging from those engaged in transporting medical oxygen to lab technician, and said the country's resolve to prevail over the virus is equal to the magnitude of the challenge it faces. In his monthly Mann ki Baat broadcast, Modi noted that the country was also faced with several natural disasters, including cyclones, landslide and earthquakes, during the pandemic, and said more lives were saved than the past with the Centre, states and local administration coming together to carry out relief and rescue operations. With the demand for medical oxygen rising exponentially during the recent surge in Covid-19 cases and many states and hospitals complaining of its shortage, the prime minister said the production of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) has risen by over 10 times to nearly 9,500 MT daily from 900 MT earlier. "The demand for oxygen surged all of a sudden. This was a very big challenge, and delivering medical oxygen to remote parts of the country was indeed a huge task,” he said, noting that many plants manufacturing industrial oxygen were located in the eastern parts of the country and lauded those, including cryogenic tanker drivers, the oxygen express (train) crew and Air Force pilots, involved in its transportation. In his address, he also praised farmers for generating record produce, and said the agricultural sector protected itself from the adverse effects of the pandemic to a great extent. The farmers produced record output and the government procured a record amount of crops as well, he said, adding that farmers at several places got more than the minimum support price (MSP) for mustard. Speaking of the arrangements his government made to allow farmers to transport their produce to different markets, Modi said “Kisan Rail” has so far ferried nearly 2 lakh tonnes of produce. Now the farmers are able to send fruits, vegetables, grains to other remote parts of the country at a very low cost, he added. Some products are being sent abroad as well, he said and mentioned that jackfruits from Tripura are now being exported to London and so is Bihar's Shahi Litchi. In his conversation with people involved in transporting oxygen, Modi spoke to Dinesh Upadhyay, who drive oxygen tankers, Shirisha Gajni, a loco pilot of an all-woman crew oxygen express, and Group Captain Patnaik from the Air Force and lauded their service to the nation. Noting that there was only one coronavirus testing lab in the country initially but today more than 2,500 labs are in operation, Modi said more than 20 lakh tests are being carried out in a single day now with over 33 crore samples having been tested in the country so far. The prime minister then spoke to lab technician Prakash Kandpal who shared his experience. Modi also asked people to continue to adhere to rules related to wearing masks and taking vaccines, saying there should be no letup in our efforts. “This indeed is the path to our victory,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-fighting-covid-with-all-its-might-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-991765.html
30-05-2021||National||Full list of states that have extended Covid-19 lockdowns||Here’s the list of states that have extended the lockdown: Goa Tamil Nadu Karnataka Himachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Like other states, Arunachal Pradesh has also decided to extend the lockdown but only in seven districts. The lockdown will be till June 7 in Itanagar capital region, Tawang, Lower Subansiri, Namsai, Upper Subansiri, Lohit, and Anjaw districts. Haryana The Haryana government extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the state until June 7. Some restrictions will be reduced and shops will be allowed to open from 9 am to 3 pm on odd-even days, alternatively. Telangana Telangana Cabinet on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 by another 10 days till June 9 with relaxations from 6 am to 1 pm every day. Odisha The Odisha government on Sunday announced extension of the lockdown by 16 more days till June 17 to further stem the spread of coronavirus. Maharashtra Maharashtra govt has extended lockdown till June 15. CM Uddhav Thackeray made the announcement while addressing the state on Sunday. Sikkim The Sikkim government on Sunday extended its statewide lockdown for another week -- till June 7 amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday decided to extend the Covid curfew till June 10, with the same set of restrictions. Bihar The Bihar government on Monday extended the lockdown by another week, till June 8, but eased some of the restrictions in order to facilitate business activities. Lakshadweep The Lakshadweep administration on Monday announced extension of the complete shutdown for seven more days, beginning May 31. Uttarakhand Covid curfew was extended in Uttarakhand on Monday till June 8. The period of the ongoing curfew in the state was scheduled to come to an end at 6 am on Tuesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-list-of-states-that-have-extended-covid-19-lockdowns-991766.html
30-05-2021||National||Mehul Choksi’s Mumbai house entrance filled with notices since 2019||While fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi is in the custody of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in Dominica, his Mumbai home’s entrance wall is filled with countless notices issued by banks, courts and enforcement agencies since he fled India in 2019. Mehul Choksi and his nephew, Nirav Modi, were booked by CBI in two cases related to the PNB scam. The duo is wanted by the Indian government for allegedly siphoning off Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National bank. ANI shared the photos of Choksi’s Mumbai house and tweeted, “Maharashtra: Several notices from various banks, courts, and enforcement agencies pasted on the entrance to the residence of fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, in Mumbai. The notices date from 2019 to 2021.”   According to the CBI, Choksi was fighting two cases related to his citizenship and extradition to India.  Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne announced in a radio show that India has sent a private jet to Dominica with documents related to the deportation of Choksi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-s-mumbai-house-entrance-filled-with-notices-since-2019-991769.html
30-05-2021||National||FDI in computer software, hardware jumps over threefold in 2020-21 to $26.14 billion, DPIIT data shows||Foreign direct investment (FDI) in computer software and hardware jumped over threefold to $26.14 billion during 2020-21 on account of significant growth in the country's technology space, according to data from the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. The sector received $7.67 billion FDI in 2019-20 and $6.41 billion in 2018-19, the data showed. The computer software and hardware sector accounted for about 43 per cent in the total $59.63 billion foreign inflows that India attracted in 2020-21. The technology space in India is growing significantly on the back of the rapid end-to-end digitisation of businesses, Deloitte India Partner Rajat Wahi said. "This has especially accelerated during the lockdowns over the last year that has forced businesses to automate processes across the value chain — and this is likely to further accelerate this year and in the next 2-3 years. "This technology enablement is attracting overseas investors to India, where hardware, software and SaaS (software-as-a-service) are seeing a big push in India's FDI," he said. Most technology practices are getting great traction today, especially in segments like e-commerce, and a lot of the FDI is likely to be used to support technology enablement across sectors and across the value chain, Wahi added. Overseas investments in construction (infrastructure) activities increased to $7.87 billion in 2020-21 from $2 billion in the previous financial year. FDI into pharmaceuticals rose to $1.49 billion from $518 million in 2019-20. However, FDI in the services sector and trading dipped to $5 billion and $2.6 billion during the last financial year, from $7.85 billion and $4.57 billion in 2019-20, respectively. Telecommunications also witnessed a decline from $4.44 billion in 2019-20 to $392 million in 2020-21. The other sectors where FDI has recorded a decline in the last fiscal include construction development, automobile, chemicals, hotel and tourism. Nangia Andersen LLP Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said that due to Covid-19 demand for technological infrastructure, the consumer spending on these has soared multi-fold on account of requirements such as remote learning, work from home and virtual healthcare. "The technological solutions offered by Indian IT multinationals for various business and government initiatives have also created massive demands in the pandemic period, both offshore and onshore," he said. Jhunjhunwala added that the production-linked incentive scheme and Make in India campaign for manufacturing IT hardware in India have also pulled the attention of global investors to look at India as a destination for greenfield or brownfield projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fdi-in-computer-software-hardware-jumps-over-threefold-in-2020-21-to-2614-billion-dpiit-data-shows-991771.html
30-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India sends jet to Dominica with documents on deportation of Mehul Choksi||In your evening news brief, Prime minister of Antigua and Barbuda says India sent a private jet to Dominica carrying documents related to the deportation of fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi; Prime Minister Narendra Modi says country has followed the mantra of "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas" in the past seven years, and Qatar says it has no plans to normalise ties with Syria.  Here is the top news of May 30, 2021:   India sent a private jet to Dominica carrying documents related to the deportation of fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore bank loan fraud case, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne told a radio show in his country. There was, however, no immediate official confirmation from Indian authorities about it. A Qatar Airways private jet landed at the Douglas-Charles airport in Dominica, Antigua News Room reported, leading to speculations about deportation of Choksi who was detained in the Caribbean island nation after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country has followed the mantra of "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas" in the past seven years and experienced "many moments of national pride" during this period though the Covid-19 pandemic is now putting it to test. In his monthly radio address, 'Mann ki Baat', which incidentally marked the completion of seven years of the government under his leadership, Modi said the country will overcome the challenge as it is moving forward with the resolve of "service and cooperation.’   Qatar has no plans to normalise ties with Syria, the Gulf state's foreign minister said, after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad won a fourth term in office last week in an election derided by the opposition and the West as a farce. Qatar was among several regional states including Saudi Arabia that backed rebels in Syria's decade-old civil war. Some like the United Arab Emirates have sought to normalise ties after Assad regained control of most of the country. Source: DHNS/PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-sends-jet-to-dominica-with-documents-on-deportation-of-mehul-choksi-991778.html
30-05-2021||National||Will be able to manufacture, supply 10 crore Covishield vaccine doses in June, SII tells Centre||Serum Institute of India (SII) has informed the government that it will be able to manufacture and supply nine to 10 crore doses of Covishield in June, official sources said on Sunday amid complaint by states about the shortage of coronavirus vaccine jabs. In a recent letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, SII said its employees have been working round the clock in spite of various challenges because of the pandemic. "We are pleased to inform that in the month of June we will be able to manufacture and supply nine to 10 crore doses of our Covishield vaccine to the country as compared to our production capacity of 6.5 crore doses in May," Prakash Kumar Singh, the Director of Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, said in the letter. Singh also thanked Shah for his "valuable guidance and continuous support" at various stages of their endeavour to make India 'aatmanirbhar' (self-sufficient) in Covid-19 vaccines and making it available for the people of the country. "Serum Institute of India has always been sincerely concerned about the protection of the citizens of our country and world at large from Covid-19. Under the leadership of our CEO, Adar C Poonawalla, our team have been working relentlessly shoulder to shoulder with our government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic," he said in the letter. "We assure you that with the support of the Government of India and under your kind guidance, we are trying our best by utilizing all of our resources to increase our production capacity of Covishield in the coming month also." In early May, SII had communicated to the Centre that production of Covishield would be ramped up to 6.5 crore in June, seven crore in July and 10 crore each in August and September. India is currently using made-in-India vaccines -- Covishield manufactured by SII and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech -- in its Covid-19 immunisation programme. The Russian Sputnik V is the third vaccine to get approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use and is being used in a few private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-be-able-to-manufacture-supply-10-crore-covishield-vaccine-doses-in-june-sii-tells-centre-991779.html
30-05-2021||National||Proximate and live links must to establish charges of dowry death: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has said the prosecution has to establish “proximate and live link” between the cruelty and the consequential death of a woman in unnatural circumstances within seven years of marriage to prove charges in dowry death cases. All such incidents related to dowry demands from husband and families should not have taken place just immediately before the death, the top court explained while upholding conviction and sentence of a man in one such case.  Section 304-B(1) of the IPC defined ‘dowry death’. It said ‘dowry death’ would mean where death of a woman was caused by burning or bodily injuries or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances, within seven years of marriage. To establish the charges, it has to be shown that soon before her death, the woman was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband, in connection with demand for dowry. Such an offence provided sentence of minimum seven years jail which could be extended upto life imprisonment. "The important ingredient which needs to be established is the existence of dowry demand “soon before her death”. This court in catena of judgements have held that, “soon before” as mentioned in Sec 304-B(1) cannot be interpreted to mean “immediately before”. Rather, the prosecution has to show that there existed a “proximate and live link” between the cruelty and the consequential death of the victim," a bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose said. In a judgement delivered on Friday, the court explained the legal position while dismissing appeal of Gurmeet Singh of Punjab against the Punjab and Haryana High Court's judgement which upheld his conviction and seven years sentence imposed by the trial court. In the case, the court noted wife of the appellant died in 2008 after consuming poison within four years of marriage so the two ingredients of the offence of death under otherwise than ‘normal circumstances’ within seven years of marriage stood satisfied. It relied upon the statement of the victim's father on demands of cash and gifts in 2007 and 2008. Further, the appellant failed to rebut the presumption against him under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proximate-and-live-links-must-to-establish-charges-of-dowry-death-supreme-court-991784.html
30-05-2021||National||Indian Railways delivers 21,392 tonnes of oxygen to states through 313 Oxygen Express trains||Indian Railways has operated 313 Oxygen Express trains across the country since April 19 and delivered 21,392 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) to different states, it said in a statement. "Oxygen Expresses transported 1274 tankers of LMO so far and bring relief to 15 States. LMO delivery to Haryana and Karnataka have crossed 2000 tonnes each," Indian Railway's statement read. So far, Oxygen Expresses offloaded LMO in around 39 cities/towns in 15 states across the country. Indian Railways has mapped different routes with oxygen supply locations and keeps itself ready with any emerging need of the States. States provide tankers to the Indian Railways for bringing LMO, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-delivers-21392-tonnes-of-oxygen-to-states-through-313-oxygen-express-trains-991801.html
30-05-2021||National||Saudi Arabia committed to meet India's crude oil requirement, says envoy||Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, on Sunday said it is committed to meet India's requirements of petroleum products, an affirmation that came in the wake of the country pitching for easing global output cuts to rein in surging oil prices. In an interview to PTI, Saudi ambassador Dr Saud bin Mohammed Al Sati also said that Saudi Arabia made investments worth $2.81 billion in India in 2020 and is looking at a greater momentum in bilateral economic ties in areas like petroleum, renewable energy, IT and artificial intelligence. "Saudi Arabia has remained committed to meeting the requirements of India from oil and petroleum products and our energy cooperation has been going very well. It has been further reinforced during the recent and ongoing communications between Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Minister of Energy and his counterpart Minister Dharmendra Pradhan," Al Sati said. His comments came in response to a question on Saudi Arabia's position on India pressing for easing cuts in crude oil production by OPEC and OPEC Plus as high oil prices are hurting the consumption-led recovery of several countries like itself. The OPEC (Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) is an influential entity that plays a key role in policy formulations relating to crude production. The OPEC Plus comprises the OPEC countries, Russia and several other crude producers. Talking about his country's Vision 2030, an ambitious programme aimed at moving the country's economy away from its dependence on oil profits, Al Sati said it provides for expansion of economic engagement with India and other strategic partners. "The number of Indian companies investing and operating in the kingdom has been growing. In 2020, 44 new licences were issued for Indian investments. "Saudi Arabia also had the highest FDI increase to India in 2020 with investments worth $2.81 billion," he said. "As we move to resume normal life and fully opening our economy in all sectors, we will be building on the progress achieved so far and there will be a greater momentum for our economic cooperation and mutual investments especially in the sector of renewables, IT, and artificial intelligence," he said. The envoy said Saudi Arabia's strategic partnership with India expands over diverse areas and health cooperation stands out as one of the most important aspects of the ties. "Health cooperation will continue as an important area of focus in our bilateral cooperation. In the wake of the pandemic and its economic, social and health impact, our cooperation has continued to grow," he said. Al Sati said Saudi Arabia maintained the supply chains of goods and medical-related products uninterrupted notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic, adding his country facilitated the supply of medical oxygen to various entities in India. "We will continue to extend all forms of possible support to India and its friendly people to overcome the current Covid-19 challenge.  I am confident that India has the resolve and capacity to deal with the current challenge of Covid-19 and this crisis shall wane out shortly," he said. Referring to the Vision 2030, Al Sati said Saudi Arabia has been diversifying its oil-driven economy under the programme as envisioned by its architect Crown Prince Salman. "During the State visit of Crown prince to India in 2019, Saudi Arabia agreed to align Vision 2030 and its 13 Vision Realisation Programmes with India's initiatives of 'Make in India', 'Start-Up India', 'Smart Cities', and 'Digital India'," he said. In February 2019, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman announced that Saudi Arabia would invest over $100 billion in India in petrochemicals, refining, infrastructure, mining and manufacturing, agriculture and several other sectors. "In our endeavour to reform and achieve our Vision 2030 strategic goals, we have created immense opportunities and a conducive business environment for our strategic partners" he added. In the last five years, he said, Saudi Arabia's non-oil revenues have increased by 222 per cent while the maturity rate of digital government services increased from 60 per cent to 81.3 per cent and Saudi women's participation in the workforce increased from 19.4 per cent to 33.2 per cent. He said the IMF's projections painted a positive picture, estimating Saudi Arabia's real GDP growth at 4.8 per cent, the real non-oil GDP growth recovery at 3.6 per cent, and the real oil GDP growth to reach 6.8 per cent in 2022. As part of the commitment to combat climate change, he said, the kingdom has encouraged the concept of a circular carbon economy, adopted by the G20, and expanded its solar, hydrogen and ammonia projects. "Saudi Arabia hopes to obtain 50 per cent of its electricity from renewables by 2030. This comes alongside the Saudi Green and Middle East Green initiatives, designed to boost vegetation, reduce carbon emissions, and combat pollution and land degradation," Al Sati said. He said the last five years have witnessed tremendous changes in Saudi Arabia as the country has been going through a historic transformation. "Diverse reforms have been introduced in laws, regulations, and procedures, in cooperation with more than 50 government entities, and coordination with the private sector," he said. "Saudi Arabia has streamlined and automated administrative procedures and data sharing among various entities, making it possible for investors and entrepreneurs to start their businesses electronically," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saudi-arabia-committed-to-meet-indias-crude-oil-requirement-says-envoy-991809.html
30-05-2021||National||CSC launches online marketplace for agri-services||Aimed at empowering small and marginal farmers, who constitute 86 per cent of India’s farming community, the Common Services Centres (CSC) has unveiled a unique Agri Services Portal that will act as a one-stop destination and marketplace for them. “Our newly launched portal can be accessed by farmers with support from local CSCs for buying agri-input products, renting and hire of agriculture implements and machinery, soil testing, sale of farm produce, tele-consultations, loan and insurance facility,” said CSC CEO Sanjay Rakesh. The CSC, a Special Purpose Vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics and IT, plans to reach out to 6,000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), one in each block of the country, this year. “We have already onboarded 1,000 FPOs on this new platform. These FPOs will enrol about 1 crore farmers for availing various services on the portal,” said Rakesh. Through the Agri Services Portal, farmers will be able to buy seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, cattle feed and other agri input products. With the help of Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) who run the CSCs and FPOs, farmers can connect with buyers for selling their produce through Kisan e-Mart, the rural marketing arm of the CSC. CSC currently operates around 3.74 lakh CSCs, 80 per cent of which are functional in rural and semi-urban areas, said a  statement from CSC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-launches-online-marketplace-for-agri-services-991816.html
30-05-2021||National||Telangana extends lockdown till June 9; Owaisi opposes||Telangana Cabinet on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 by another 10 days with relaxations from 6 am to 1 pm every day. The present lockdown would end today. The Cabinet has decided to continue the ongoing lockdown in the State for another 10 days from tomorrow (May 31), an official statement from the Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao's office said. The Cabinet met here to discuss several issues, including the extension of the lockdown. Before the Cabinet met, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, in a tweet, urged KCR not to extend the lockdown by terming it as not a strategy to combat Covid-19 and said the only long-term solution to the pandemic is universal vaccination. Strongly urge @TelanganaCMO to not extend lockdown. If goal is to reduce crowding, then we may consider evening curfews (6 PM onwards) or mini-lockdowns for Covid clusters. But expecting ~3.5 cr people to live for weeks with just a 4- hour lockdown relaxation is not fair at all, Owaisi said in a series of tweets. As data shows, COVID cases were already reducing much much before lockdown was imposed on 12th May. It's quite clear that it's not lockdown that helped. It's also clear that COVID can be combatted without lockdown 2/5 The Hyderabad MP said as such, the Covid-19 cases were declining in Telangana even before the lockdown was announced on May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-extends-lockdown-till-june-9-owaisi-opposes-991824.html
30-05-2021||National||Milkha Singh discharged from hospital in stable condition||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh was on Sunday discharged from a private hospital where he was getting treatment for Covid-19 infection even as he continues to be on oxygen support. While the 91-year-old Milkha was discharged in stable condition on the request of his family, his 82-year-old wife Nirmal Kaur had to be shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on Saturday night due to increasing oxygen requirement. "On the request of the family, Mr Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support," the Fortis hospital, Mohali, said in its update. "Mrs Milkha Singh had to be shifted to the ICU last night due to increasing oxygen requirements. She continues to be stable." The hospital had earlier said that they were being treated for Covid pneumonia. While Milkha was admitted to the hospital on Monday, his wife got admission in the same facility on Wednesday after testing positive for the highly contagious virus.           The couple's son and ace golfer Jeev, flew down to Chandigarh from Dubai on Saturday while the golfer's elder sister, Mona Milkha Singh, who is a doctor in the United States, also reached here a few days ago. Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics.          His timing at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.          He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/milkha-singh-discharged-from-hospital-in-stable-condition-991829.html
30-05-2021||National||NCB quizzes two ex-domestic workers of late Sushant Rajput||The NCB on Sunday questioned two former domestic workers of Sushant Singh Rajput in a drugs case linked to the Bollywood actor's death last year at its Mumbai zonal office, an official said. The anti-drugs agency had issued summons against the duo, identified as Neeraj and Keshav, for questioning, he said. He said the duo came on the radar of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani was arrested from Hyderabad on Friday. "We located the duo and brought them to the office for questioning. They are still at the office," the official told PTI. Pithani was Rajput's friend and was also staying with the late actor at his Bandra residence in suburban Mumbai. According to his statement to Mumbai Police, Pithani was among the first to see the actor's hanging body when Rajput (34) allegedly committed suicide on June 14, 2020. The NCB began a separate probe when some WhatsApp chats of the late actor indicated drug use. Rajput's former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and the actor's staff members Samuel Miranda and Deepesh Sawant were arrested in the drug case last year and later got bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-quizzes-two-ex-domestic-workers-of-late-sushant-rajput-991833.html
30-05-2021||National||Mehul Choksi may have taken girlfriend to Dominica for dinner: Antiguan PM||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi may have left his sanctuary in Antigua and taken a boat ride to neighbouring Dominica to have dinner or a "good time" with his girlfriend, Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne said. He said that Government of Dominica and law enforcement agencies, unless the court rules otherwise, can deport him to India because he is an Indian citizen, Antigua News Room reported. "The information that we are getting is that Mehul Choksi may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica probably to have dinner or have a good time and so on and got caught. That would have been a monumental error because in Antigua he is a citizen, we could not deport him...," he said. "The problem is if he is sent back to Antigua because he is an Antiguan citizen, even though his citizenship is unsettled, he still enjoys constitutional and legal protections. We have no doubt that his citizenship will ultimately be revoked because he did not disclose material information," Browne said. India seems to have spotted a window of opportunity in Choksi's arrest in Dominica where he was "detained" for illegal entry. A Qatar Airways private jet landed at the Douglas-Charles airport in Dominica, Antigua News Room reported, leading to speculation about the deportation of Choksi who was detained in the Caribbean island nation after his mysterious disappearance from Antigua and Barbuda. Browne told the radio show that the jet came from India carrying necessary documentation needed for deportation of the businessman, the media outlet reported. There was, however, no immediate official confirmation from Indian authorities about it. Publicly available data of Qatar Executive flight A7CEE shows that it left the Delhi airport at 3.44 pm on May 28 and reached Dominica at 1.16 pm local time on the same day, via Madrid.  The Dominica High Court has stayed the removal of Choksi from its soil and put a gag order on the developments till the matter is heard in an open court on June 2. Choksi has alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by Antiguan and Indian looking policemen and was taken to Dominica. Pictures, purportedly of 62-year-old Choksi, surfaced in Dominica showing him with a red, swollen eye and bruises on his hands.  Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted for allegedly siphoning Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking. Both are facing a CBI and ED probe. While Modi is in a London prison after being repeatedly denied bail and is contesting his extradition to India, Choksi took the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme before fleeing India in the first week of January 2018. The scam came to light subsequently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-may-have-taken-girlfriend-to-dominica-for-dinner-antiguan-pm-991836.html
30-05-2021||National||Soli Sorabjee was a champion of constitutional rights: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday described jurist Soli Sorabjee as a champion of constitutional rights whose untimely death due to Covid was a complete shock. In his tribute to Sorabjee who passed away on April 30 at the age of 91, the CJI said, he was a man with an unflinching faith in the Constitutional ideals, particularly those relating to the freedom of speech and human rights. "His spirit and confidence in the constitutional ethos of this country, and his never-ending quest for justice should be our guide. A true tribute to Soli would be to continue to uphold the Constitutional values- the fundamental rights and freedom that are essential for human existence in a civilized society. People like Soli continue to live in our memories," he said. The CJI was speaking on memorial service organised by Sorabjee's family on Sunday. Recalling his association with Soli in early years of his career as a lawyer, the CJI said, "I had the opportunity to personally witness Soli’s brilliance. In 1988, I met Soli to brief him on a matter relating to the then Chief Minister of my State. Even before I started briefing him, I realised that he had already read the entire file and had the details of the case at his fingertips, which reflected his dedication to the brief." "The briefing lasted just 5 minutes, in which Soli asked me only two questions. To my surprise, at the hearing, those were the very same questions posed by the bench to Soli. I thought I had seen a prophet in action. I must admit that he was one of those who inspired me to continue in the profession," he added. Justice Ramana said Sorabjee was a defender of civil liberties during the tough Emergency era. He played a crucial role in some of the most iconic cases which have defined the legal landscape of this great nation. Justices U U Lalit and D Y Chandrachud and several eminent lawyers including Harish Salve, Gopal Subramanium, Arvind Data and Sorabjee's daughter Zia Mody also shared their thoughts on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soli-sorabjee-was-a-champion-of-constitutional-rights-cji-ramana-991843.html
30-05-2021||National||Media should not become part of any agenda: RSS functionary||Media should not become a part of any agenda and it should tell the truth without any fear, an RSS functionary said on Sunday. Addressing a virtual programme, Akhil Bhartiya Sah Prachar Pramukh of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Narendra Kumar, said media should desist from telling half- truth. Speaking on the 'Role of media in the present scenario', he said that tackling the crises, like the present coronavirus pandemic, is the responsibility not only of government or the administration, but it is the collective responsibility of every member of the society. "It is natural that there might be many shortcomings in the system and those shortcomings should be brought to light to improve the system. However, its presentation and timing should also be right," Kumar said. Media has to be careful about presenting an incident or system or shortcomings, so that it does not spread fear in the society, but instead creates awareness, he added. It is also necessary that media should not become a part of any agenda. Tell the truth based on facts without fear, the RSS office-bearer said. "All of us have seen how a particular agenda was run about the pictures of burial of bodies near the shores of the river Ganga. However, such pictures had surfaced in 2015 and 2017 also. It is true that these pictures are from the present time also, and there are no two thoughts about it. "But did that happen because of the coronavirus situation there? It is not so, in 2015 and 2017 corona was not there, but bodies were buried at that time as well. Several bodies were found at that time and pictures about it are available. Hence, showing half truth is not right," he said. Show the truth, but don't show half-truths, this is also the responsibility of media, he said. During such times, we should be following the values of journalism and carefully put forth what we want to say. We should play the role of creating positive environment, increase the self confidence of the society and bring forth good works to inspire people and then only we can say that we are doing our work properly, he said. Kumar added that media also brought forth the good services rendered by people during the pandemic. "This is not the first pandemic faced by the human history. The world has earlier faced several pandemics like plague, Spanish flu and other pandemics. Crores of people have lost their lives during these pandemics," he said.    It is said that more than 10 crore people lost their lives during the Spanish flu, he added. As compared to those pandemics, the loss of lives witnessed during the present crisis is less globally, he said. The world has faced about six major pandemics in which many European countries lost about 20 to 60 per cent of their population, he said. "Around 35 lakh people have lost their lives due to coronavirus across the world, in which India's infection and death rate is very less. The death rate of India is 1.23 per cent now, which is less compared to the progressive and big countries like America, Britain, Italy, Brazil and Russia," he said. "This is also the strength of India, which is a result of the society fighting this pandemic together," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-should-not-become-part-of-any-agenda-rss-functionary-991850.html
30-05-2021||National||States to get 50% more Covid-19 vaccines in June; vaccination pace picks up in last week of May||The states and union territories are likely to get 50 per cent more Covid-19 vaccines in June than what they had received this month to further increase their vaccination coverage, which has picked up since the last week of May. The Union Health Ministry on Sunday said it would supply 6.09 crore doses to the states while another 5.86 crore doses would be available for direct procurement by the states and private hospitals. Taken together, there would be nearly 12 crore doses of the three Covid-19 vaccines that can be administered in June. This would be an improvement from around 8 crore doses that were available in May when the Centre supplied 4.03 crore doses and 3.9 crore doses were available to the states and private hospitals for direct purchase. “Speeding up the vaccination rate is important and we must maintain the momentum. With three vaccines now available, we must be able to vaccinate more till production and procurement ramp up by July, with more vaccines getting regulatory clearance,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India told DH. As per official data, just about six crore doses were consumed till May 30 leaving behind nearly two crore unaccounted doses. There is no clarity on whether the states or private hospitals purchased the available doses as queries sent to the ministry elicited no response. Nevertheless, the plan to allocate 12 crore doses in June provides an opportunity to the states to double their vaccination coverage from administering nearly six crore doses in May, though there is an improvement at the fag end of the month. Over the last week, India’s vaccination coverage has improved as more than 172 lakh shots were given in the last seven days, of which 30.35 lakh inoculations were carried out on Saturday. This is much more than 140 lakh plus jabs administered in the previous 10 days between May 14-23. "High vaccine hesitancy in rural areas will pose a big challenge as there is a mistrust among people regarding the messages coming from the government. For the vaccination campaign to succeed, it is important to build trust. But unfortunately, we have a top-down communication approach so far,” noted Gagandeep Kang, professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore and one of India’s leading experts on vaccines. The ministry would share the delivery schedule for June allocation 15-30 days in advance with the state in order to aid the state officials to ensure rational and judicious utilisation of allocated doses and minimise the vaccine wastage. It would also help the states to know in advance about the quantum of free vaccine doses coming from the Centre and availability of the doses for direct procurement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-to-get-50-more-covid-19-vaccines-in-june-vaccination-pace-picks-up-in-last-week-of-may-991866.html
30-05-2021||National||Raped Bangladeshi traced to Kerala brought to Bengaluru||A Bangladeshi woman, allegedly gangraped in Bengaluru by four of her compatriots, has been brought to the city from Kerala, police said on Sunday. "Our team traced her and bought her from Kozhikode in Kerala," the Deputy Commissioner of Police Dr S D Sharanappa told PTI. The 22-year-old woman was subjected to medical tests at the Government Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospitals for the assault and rape, police sources said. She was trafficked to India by Mohammed Babu, a resident of Dhubri in Assam, about three years ago, they said. Following a financial dispute, she was assaulted by six people, including a woman, and later four of them gangraped her and brutalised her about a week ago, the sources said. While assaulting and brutalising her, one of them video-recorded the incident, which went viral mainly in Bangladesh, Assam and West Bengal, they said. Acting on a tip-off from the Bangladesh police, the Bengaluru police went to a house, where illegal Bangladeshi migrants had taken shelter, and arrested them. On Friday, the police shot at two of the accused Hridoy Babo and Rakibul Islam Sagar injuring them in their legs when they tried to flee. The shooting took place while the accused were being taken for police verification. Police sources said there was a wide network of traffickers from Bangladesh in connivance with people from Murshidabad in West Bengal, Hyderabad in Telangana, Dhubri in Assam and people from Karnataka. The girls the gang members used to traffick from Bangladesh, Assam and West Bengal were forced into prostitution and were subjected to extreme exploitation, the sources said. So far, six members have been arrested while investigations are on to trace the others, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raped-bangladeshi-traced-to-kerala-brought-to-bengaluru-991867.html
30-05-2021||National||Centre-state relations more strained under Modi government: Moily||Former Union minister M Veerappa Moily on Sunday said that relations between the Centre and states have become "more strained" under the Narendra Modi government and urged the prime minister to revive the Planning Commission to strengthen cooperative federalism. He also called for a meeting of the National Integration Council, which finds ways and means to combat the evils of communalism, casteism, regionalism and linguism. In an interview to PTI-Bhasha, the senior Congress leader hit out at Modi, saying in a democracy, one man’s thinking cannot replace national thinking. The union government needs to collaborate with state governments rather than behaving like a “big brother”, he said. Describing the Centre’s decision to recall West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as an “assault on federalism”, he said such actions would only create friction. “The union government should not act as a big brother. This is not pleasant. Just because there is some misunderstanding, you cannot just recall the chief secretary. This is not a good development. This is an assault on federalism,” the former Karnataka chief minister said. Referring to the row over Modi’s meeting with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the wake of cyclone Yaas, Moily said one should not politicise the issue when the state is in distress. “The prime minister should lend his support rather than finding fault with the chief minister,” he said. Moily, the former head of the Administrative Reforms Commission (ARS), claimed that the Centre's relationship with states has become “more strained”, especially after Modi took the reins in 2014, and slammed the Union government for doing politics even during times of a pandemic and calamities. “The Congress or the UPA (United Progressive Alliance) never used to politicise such issues. They never used to bring politics into it. But now politics has started in everything. Introspections will have to be made by the prime minister himself," the Congress leader said. “They should not act as big brother. They will have to cooperate and collaborate with state governments,” he said. The former union minister said that the Centre cannot distinguish between citizens, and any such practice would be a dangerous trend for the unity and integrity. “It will ultimately affect the unity of the country,” he said. Moily said it is high time that the prime minister convenes a meeting of the NIC. “Such a concept has been forgotten. The NIC meetings used to be very important and its proceedings used to bind all the states together. It is the best method to unite and strengthen federalism, which has to be revived,” he said. Calling the NITI Aayog a department of the government, Moily said that the concept of Planning Commission was “best”. “Planning Commission was there for financial integration which used to enjoy a lot of autonomy. The planning commission concept was best and it had served the country. It will have to be revived,” he said adding it was high time that the prime minister rethink all these things which he has held up. Stressing on the need for implementation of recommendations of the second Administrative Reforms Commission, Moily said as its chairman, he had given 15 reforms on various aspects, including disaster management, but the Union government has just forgotten it. “One unfortunate aspect of this Modi government after 2014 is that they don't have institutional memory which the Congress party had. The nation needs institutional memory, not political memory. The 15 reports given on various aspects should be looked back again and they will have to be implemented,” he said. The Congress leader said all these “anarchies and confusions” are because one person likes to control everything. “One man's thinking will not be national thinking, national thinking should be the thinking of the PM,” he said hitting out at the Centre and added that after all, states should have enough and sufficient autonomy which can’t be taken away on everything.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-state-relations-more-strained-under-modi-government-moily-991868.html
30-05-2021||National||Kerala BJP leaders quizzed in highway robbery case||BJP leadership in Kerala is on the defensive as party local leaders are coming under police scanner in connection with a highway robbery that allegedly involved Rs 3.5 crore. The BJP state leaders have already denied allegations that the illegal money, suspected to be sourced from Karnataka and North Kerala, was meant for electioneering. BJP state president K Surendran said that deliberate attempts were being made to implicate BJP in the case. Sources said that an official of the BJP Thrissur district office may be quizzed by the Kerala police team probing the case soon. Earlier the investigation team took the statement of three BJP district leaders of Thrissur. The police were learnt to have got evidence that hotel room for the gang from which the money was allegedly robbed was booked by some local BJP leaders. The highway robbery took place just ahead of the Assembly elections on April 3 at Kodakara in the suburbs of Thrissur district. A Kozhikode native had complained to the police that Rs 25 lakh was robbed from his car by a gang. There were also allegations that the incident was a staged robbery by some local leaders of BJP to siphon off the unaccounted funds meant for illegal electioneering activities. Key accused in the case were already nabbed and the probe was progressing on the basis of leads being received from them also. Meanwhile, there were reports that a clash between two sections of BJP workers at Thrissur on Sunday pertained to differences within the party over illegal money smuggling. One BJP worker suffered a stab injury in the incident and was under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-bjp-leaders-quizzed-in-highway-robbery-case-991899.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||Ministers compelled to speak out on any subject to save PM Modi's 'false image': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the government, saying ministers of different departments are compelled to speak out on any subject just to save the "false image" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "For the sake of PM's false image, any minister of any department is compelled to speak anything on any subject," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  PM की झूठी छवि के लिए किसी भी विभाग का मंत्री किसी भी विषय पर कुछ भी बोलने के लिए मजबूर है। His remarks came a day after Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar attacked Gandhi for his choice of words like "nautanki" for the prime minister when Modi was working to curb Covid-19 and alleged that it was part of the toolkit's script. Javadekar also asserted that the Covid-19 vaccination will be complete in India by December this year, after Rahul Gandhi slammed the government's efforts on the drive in the midst of a vaccine shortage.  Congress leader P Chidambaram also hit out at the government asking, "Better unravel the mystery of the missing vaccines now before public anger over shortage of vaccines pours into the streets." He said state governments are not able to get supplies from any manufacturer -- domestic or foreign. "So, from where do the corporates expect to get their supplies? "The proper thing to do is direct a CAG driven full-scope audit of capacity, production, despatch, supply and customers' lists of the two domestic manufacturers," he said on Twitter. He also asked the corporates to tell from where they will get the supplies of vaccines. "The mystery of the 'missing vaccines' is deepening every day," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ministers-compelled-to-speak-out-on-any-subject-to-save-pm-modis-false-image-rahul-gandhi-991632.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||Farmer unions latch on symbols of JP Narayan, Charan Singh, will observe June 5 as 'Sampoorna Kranti Divas'||It was on June 5 last year when President Ram Nath Kovind had promulgated the two ordinances--- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020. Appealing to people to make it a mass movement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) called for burning the copies of three agricultural laws in front of offices of BJP MPs, MLAs and representatives. SKM leaders on Saturday also paid their obeisance to former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, who was a prominent farmer leader from Uttar Pradesh and is still a revered figure in Western UP, where his political legacy is now with his grandson and RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary after the demise of his father Ajit Singh. Farmers from Western UP are playing a key role in the farmer agitation. May 29 is the death anniversary of Singh. Farmer leaders lauded the legacy of both Chaudhary Charan Singh and JP, the face of the anti-Emergency movement in the seventies, who had given the clarion call of "Sampoorna Kranti" on June 5, 1974. On May 21, Samyukta Kisan Morcha had written to the Prime Minister, seeking his immediate intervention to resume discussions to address the issue. But there was no forward movement. The last round of talks between the Centre and farmers had taken place on January 22, which was the 11th round of conversation between them. After the 10 rounds of talks with farmer bodies, the government had proposed to suspend the three contentious laws for one and half years and set up a joint committee to discuss them. However, the farmer bodies rejected it. After the January 26 violence during the farmer protest in Delhi, the government did not get back to them for a talk saying it had already made the best possible offer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmer-unions-latch-on-symbols-of-jp-narayan-charan-singh-will-observe-june-5-as-sampoorna-kranti-divas-991664.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||India followed mantra of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas': Modi on govt's 7th anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country has followed the mantra of "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas" in the past seven years and experienced "many moments of national pride" during this period though the Covid-19 pandemic is now putting it to test. "Over these years, the country has followed the mantra of 'Sabka-Saath, Sabka-Vikas, Sabka-Vishwas'. All of us have worked every moment with dedication in the service of the country...whatever we have accomplished in these 7 years, it has been of the country, of the countrymen. Together, we have experienced many moments of national pride in these years," he said. "When we observe that now India moves ahead not with the thought and pressure of other countries but with her own conviction, then we all feel proud. When we witness that now India gives a befitting reply to those who conspire against us, then our confidence soars. When India does not compromise on the issues of national security, when the strength of our armed forces increases, we feel yes, we are on the right path," he said. In his address, he referred to the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Jal Jeevan Mission, electricity and road connectivity in villages and the Ayushman Yojana among others. Asking whether people thought about how "all such work which could not be achieved in decades" was done in the last seven years, he said all this was possible because, "more than as the govt or as the people, we worked together as one country. We worked as a team. We worked as Team India. Every citizen has tried to take a few steps forward in advancing the country." Acknowledging that success is accompanied by trials, he said the country is now continuously being tested in the form of Covid-19 but expressed confidence that it will overcome the challenges as it did in the past. "This is a crisis that has plagued the whole world, so many people have lost their loved ones. Even big countries were not spared from its devastation. In the midst of this pandemic, India is moving forward with the resolve of 'service and cooperation'. In the first wave, we fought courageously. This time too India will be victorious in the ongoing fight against the virus," he said. Modi urged people not to lower the guard on social distancing, wearing masks or vaccines, as this "indeed is the path to our victory". He said delivering oxygen to various parts of the country during the second wave of Covid-19 was a challenge but the Indian Air Force, the railways and a number of tanker drivers worked overtime to ensure that it was delivered on time. "When the second wave came, the demand for oxygen surged all of a sudden…this was a very big challenge…delivering medical oxygen to remote parts of the country was indeed a huge task. If an oxygen tanker moves fast, the slightest error can lead to the risk of a big explosion. Many plants manufacturing industrial oxygen are located in the eastern parts of the country…transporting oxygen from there to other states of the country requires many days," he said. "In confronting this challenge, the country was helped by cryogenic tanker drivers, the Oxygen Express and Air Force pilots…many such people worked on a war footing, saving the lives of hundreds of thousands of people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-followed-mantra-of-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-sabka-vishwas-modi-on-govts-7th-anniversary-991693.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||Will come soon and set right the AIADMK, says V K Sasikala||V K Sasikala, long-time aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, has expressed interest to take a plunge into active politics to “set right” the AIADMK, which is beset with a factional feud between Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam following the party's drubbing in the April 6 Assembly polls. In telephonic conversations with her supporters, audio clips of which were leaked to the media, Sasikala is heard telling them that she was saddened with the public spat between Palaniswami and Panneerselvam and that she will “come soon” once the Covid-19 second wave subsides. “Don't worry. We will set the party right soon. I will come after the Covid-19 outbreak is over,” Sasikala is heard telling Lawrence, her supporter and ex-AIADMK cadre from Poonamallee on the outskirts of Chennai. In another audio clip, the former AIADMK interim General Secretary told Suresh from Thanjavur district that she will not remain a mute spectator to the party being ruined due to infighting. “I will announce a good decision soon. I will come soon, and it is certain. They are fighting in public, and it pains me. We have made sacrifices to nurture the AIADMK and we won't remain a mute spectator to the party declining,” Sasikala told Suresh. Sources in Sasikala's camp and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) confirmed to DH that the audio clips were genuine, and that she has been talking to her supporters over the phone since Saturday. She has also begun receiving visitors at her T. Nagar residence. Sasikala's outreach comes three months after she announced that she was “stepping aside” from politics after she came out of the Parapanna Agrahara prison in Bengaluru. Weeks later, OPS said he never had any grudge against her and it is widely believed that the former deputy chief minister is in touch with Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran. While EPS would certainly stonewall any move to bring Sasikala back into AIADMK fold, OPS may not be averse towards such a development. Sasikala's assertions come at a time when the factional feud between OPS and EPS is out in the open yet again. Though they never shared the best of relations, the two leaders were forced to put up a united face in the run-up to the Assembly elections. After the party's defeat, the differences between them widened, and they had entered into a verbal duel during a meeting of the AIADMK Legislature Party on who will be the leader. However, EPS piped OPS to become the Leader of the Opposition. The two leaders now function independently by releasing separate statements on matters of public importance. Sasikala, sources said, will wait for a couple of months before entering active politics, adding that she was closely monitoring the developments in the AIADMK. “It is true that Chinamma has begun talking to her supporters over the phone. She will meet her supporters in the next few months. She is very active now, and she will plunge into active politics at the right time. She has a clear plan,” a source in her camp told DH. Prof. Ramu Manivannan, Head of Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH that the AIADMK will remain a strong party only if it is helmed by a strong leader like Sasikala. “I do believe that she will be busy and engaged with reviving the party. Sasikala leading the party will always carry a lot of meaning. There will be resistance from EPS, but Sasikala will have some control over the AIADMK,” he opined. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh said Sasikala, from the audio clips, seems ready to stake formal claim to Jayalalithaa's legacy. “In one of the audio clips, Sasikala says we struggled to protect the party, and nurture it (after the split in 1987 due to MGR's death). By saying that she shared the burden along with Jayalalithaa, she is claiming her legacy,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-come-soon-and-set-right-the-aiadmk-says-v-k-sasikala-991701.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||BJP carrying out Covid-19 relief work, Opposition parties have gone into quarantine: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday said while his party workers and leaders have been carrying out relief work amid the coronavirus pandemic, the opposition parties have gone into quarantine. Addressing party workers virtually on the seventh anniversary of the Narendra Modi dispensation at the Centre, the BJP chief said all party MPs, ministers and MLAs will serve people in at least two villages following Covid-19 protocols and lockdown guidelines to mark the occasion. BJP workers are standing with the people during the pandemic unlike the opposition leaders who are only visible in virtual press conferences, he said. BJP workers and leaders have been carrying out relief work amid the coronavirus pandemic, while the opposition parties have gone into quarantine, he said. Nadda said party workers in one lakh villages and hamlets are serving the needy to mark the occasion. Targeting the opposition parties, Nadda said those making a noise about Covid-19 vaccine now are the ones who earlier raised doubts about the jabs. BJP workers is observing the anniversary as "Seva Diwas". In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP has decided not to celebrate the seventh anniversary of its government at the Centre, but instead organise relief works across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-carrying-out-covid-19-relief-work-opposition-parties-have-gone-into-quarantine-j-p-nadda-991711.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||As NDA completes 7 years, Shiv Sena calls for introspection||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said India is surviving as a nation due to the good deeds of previous governments since the time of Jawaharlal Nehru, and the present Modi government needs to introspect on whether it has been able to fulfil the basic needs of people. Besides, the Maharashtra Congress observed the seventh anniversary of the Narendra Modi government as a 'black day', and accused the Centre of pushing the country into a "gorge" of Covid-19 crisis. The Congress, which shares power with the Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra as part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), held protests in different parts of the state and claimed PM Modi had no moral right to continue in power as the central government "failed on all fronts". Talking to reporters here, Raut said, "The country is surviving on the good deeds of previous governments since the time of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Manmohan Singh," the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said. A lot more needs to be done, he said, adding that there are problems of inflation,unemployment and unrest due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "When you get majority, it means people have handed you the power with faith and trust. The people's needs and demands are very few. They need livelihood - roti, kapda makan (food, clothing and shelter) are important along with health and education facilities," the Rajya Sabha member said. He said the central government should "introspect" if this has been achieved in the last seven years. "More focus and hard work is required. PM Modi has thel eadership capability and hope he will give a proper direction to the country," he said. To a question, Raut said it is good that there has been "no corruption charge" on the Modi government. "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has raised some issues which have still not been answered," said Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. He said the Centre is the "guardian" of all states. "Take care of all states like your own children, equal justice to all states is expected," he said. Raut also said that opposition leaders were called only in West Bengal and Gujarat for meetings convened by the prime minister on cyclone relief, and (WB Chief Minister) Mamata Banerjee has raised these issues. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said his party was observing the Modi government's anniversary as a "black day". He alleged that the Modi government was busy welcoming the then US president Donald Trump (in Gujarat last year) during the first Covid-19 wave, and then gave the pandemic a "communal colour" by putting the blame for the virus spread on a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat. When the Covid-19 cases and death toll were rising during the second wave, the Modi government was busy campaigning for Assembly polls (in West Bengal and other states), he said. "The Modi government has pushed the country into a Covid-19 crisis gorge and has no right to continue in power. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should resign," Patole asserted. He said inflation, fuel price rise, unemployment, "crumbling economy" and the Covid-19 pandemic had made the lives of citizens miserable. He also hit out at the Centre over alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. "The Modi government had planned its vaccination policy effectively,there would have been no shortage (of vaccines). Without considering the needs of 130 crore people, the vaccines were exported," he said. Referring to farmers' protest underway since November last year against the Centre's three agri-marketing laws, Patole said the Modi government had no time to address the issues of cultivators. "The Modi government has decided to sell the Railways, airports, state-owned telecom firms, LIC, petroleum companies, banks to select industrialist friends," Patole claimed. Meanwhile, Former Maharashtra CM and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan led a protest against the Centre in Pune, while state PWD minister Ashok Chavan led a protest in Aurangabad. State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat held a protest in Nashik, Energy Minister Nitin Raut in Nagpur, Relief and Rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar in Amravati and Medical Education minister Amit Deshmukh in Latur. Those taking part in the protests wore black bands to mark their displeasure against the Centre and its policies. Talking to reporters in Nagpur, minister Nitin Raut claimed the seven years of the Modi at the Centre had been "fatal" for the country with people reeling under the burden of broken promises and skyrocketing inflation. The price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre, while diesel is retailing at Rs 90 per litre, affecting common citizens, he said. Farmers were promised that their incomes would double by 2022, he said, adding that prices of fertilisers and seeds have gone up. He alleged that new agri-marketing laws and labour reforms brought in by the Centre were anti-people. "The Centre has failed on all fronts, be it business, agriculture, education, GDP, inflation, international relations. It has also left people to fend for themselves during the COVID-19 pandemic," the MLA from Nagpur-North claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/as-nda-completes-7-years-shiv-sena-calls-for-introspection-991758.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||Modi govt anniversary: Ashok Chavan attacks Centre, praises Nitin Gadkari||Maharashtra minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government had failed to handle the Covid-19 pandemic effectively and had overseen the loss of 12.21 crore jobs. Addressing a virtual press meet on the Modi government completing two years of its second term, and seven overall, Chavan said the Centre had kept all decision-making powers in its hands but was now blaming the state governments after the Covid-19 outbreak spiralled out of control. Queried on whether he had any favourite minister in the Modi dispensation, Chavan said "good words" could be spoken about Union Minister and Nagpur MP Nitin Gadkari who despite ideological differences, maintains "dialogue with other parties". "He is the right man in the wrong party. He has a positive approach towards Maharashtra but his powers are being continuously curtailed," Chavan said, though he did not elaborate on his assertion. "The price of petrol had reached Rs 100 per lite. Some 12.21 core people have lost their jobs. The per capita income of Bangladesh is now higher than that of India. The policies of the Centre have devastated the country," the former Maharashtra chief minister claimed. Chavan alleged the Centre had a discriminatory attitude towards Maharashtra on all fronts, including aid and GST compensation. He also attacked the BJP over the Maratha quota issue, and asked the ruling party at the Centre to come up with a solution after the Supreme Court, on May 5, struck down a state law granting reservations in jobs and education to the community. He congratulated BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati for trying to meet leaders of all parties to evolve a consensus on the Maratha quota issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-anniversary-ashok-chavan-attacks-centre-praises-nitin-gadkari-991773.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||Narendra Modi shares compilation of his government's pro-people measures||On his government's anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday shared a compilation of the pro-people measures it has undertaken in its seven years of tenure.  The statement, titled "Vikas Yatra" (development journey), said that the spirit of "seva" (service) has been a guiding light for the government in each step it has taken. "Be it serving the people by mobilising resources during the pandemic or ensuring that food grains reach the poor, be it procuring record quantities of agri-produce at MSP from farmers or enabling better working conditions for workers, it is the spirit of service that is visible," it said.  The government has strived to serve India and fulfil people's aspirations.  It highlighted the government's works under ease of doing business, ease of living, eliminating corruption, empowering youth with opportunities, health for all, infra for growth, 'mobility' for middle class, 'nari shakti for new India' and 'prosperous farmers for prosperous India'. It also details initiatives under 'India first', renewed focus on the Northeast, social empowerment, 'taking development to the poorest', 'transformative economic growth' and India's fight against the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-shares-compilation-of-his-governments-pro-people-measures-991792.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||Covid-19 vaccines being diverted to pvt hospitals for BJP MLAs to earn huge commission: AAP||Covid vaccines that were supposed to be supplied to state governments are being diverted to private hospitals so that BJP MLAs can "fill their pockets with huge commission", the Aam Aadmi Party alleged on Sunday. However, the BJP's Delhi unit said AAP leaders, it seems, "are campaigning for highly priced foreign-made vaccines' manufacturers" and every time say “recorded” statements on vaccine shortage when Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India have assured normal supply in the next 10-15 days. Addressing a press conference, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and MLA Atishi said that the BJP is earning "heavy commission" through private hospitals and a proof of this has emerged from Karnataka. It involves BJP MP Tejasvi Surya and Ravi Subramanya, she said. The Congress on Saturday had accused Surya and his uncle Ravi Subramanya, an MLA in Karnataka, of making money through vaccines and demanded that an FIR be registered against them and they be removed as MP and MLA respectively. The BJP leaders have, however, denied the charge. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that according to an audio tape leaked through social media, Subramanya purportedly took a bribe of Rs 700 per vaccine at a private hospital in Karnataka. Surya has been seen promoting the hospital in advertisements, he alleged. AAP's Atishi alleged that according to “call records”, the private hospital clearly stated that they are administering vaccines at expensive rates because they have to "feed" the MLA's office with huge commission. "The call records also reveal that in order to get vaccine, people are being forced to get themselves registered at the MLA office just so that BJP politicians can earn their commission and fill their pockets," she said. Atishi claimed that the BJP is indulging in a "vaccine scam" in these testing times at the cost of the lives of people. Varun HK "Vaccines which were supposed to be supplied to state governments are being diverted to private hospitals just so that BJP MLAs can fill their pockets with huge commissions," she claimed. "The state government which is immunising people for free is not getting any vaccines but private hospitals and private hotels are getting huge supply. What kind of a connivance is this of the Centre," Atishi asked. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said no doubt that there is a slight slow inflow of Covid vaccines but both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of Indian have assured that supply will be normal in the next 10 to 15 days. "Despite this reassurance by manufacturers one fails to understand that why every day AAP leaders like Atishi play their recorded statement on vaccine shortage and need for allowing import of foreign-made vaccines. It seems they are campaigning for highly priced foreign-made vaccines' manufacturers," he said. "AAP leaders say that they want free vaccines but they campaign for import of highly-priced foreign vaccines which no government can provide for free," Kapoor said. The Delhi BJP spokesperson said at press conferences, AAP leaders pretend to be against costly vaccines at “highly-priced vaccination centres like malls, hotels and private hospitals”. But every other day "we find Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his other ministers inaugurating such highly-priced vaccination Centres, Kapoor said. "People want Atishi to answer if the AAP leadership is against costly vaccines, then why is the chief minister inaugurating such private centres," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-vaccines-being-diverted-to-pvt-hospitals-for-bjp-mlas-to-earn-huge-commission-aap-991830.html
30-05-2021||National Politics||Farmers' stir one of reasons behind Covid spread in villages: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Sunday said the farmers' agitation is one of the reasons behind the Covid-19 spread in villages, some of which are witnessing higher death rate than usual. Khattar had earlier appealed to farmers protesting the Centre's farm laws to suspend their stir, citing the grim coronavirus situation. Addressing a press conference through the virtual mode, the CM said the movement of those connected with the agitation to and from dharna sites is spreading the infection in villages, some of which have seen "more deaths than the average" number. "The death rate has gone up by six to 10 times in these villages than what it was previous year. If someone says it is not due to Covid, then there is no other pandemic at this stage," he said, holding the agitation one of the factors behind the infection spread. "Thousands gather at one place, mingle together and Covid-appropriate protocols are not followed," Khattar said. He claimed that some of the villages have reported deaths equal to what is witnessed in an entire year there. Khattar was also critical of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, saying though the Opposition leader is seeking an all-party meeting on Covid, not once he appealed to farmers to suspend their stir. Khattar said in the letter written to him by Hooda, it was apparent that his attitude was only to criticise the state government's handling of the situation rather than extending cooperation. “I thought his letter did not deserve even a reply, I just ignored it. There was a reason for this. He wants to do politics more rather than extend cooperation,” said Khattar, hitting out at the Congress leader. On Hooda saying the state government did not prepare for the second Covid wave, Khattar said the opposition is not understanding the seriousness of the issue.  Referring to Hooda’s open letter to people of Haryana, Khattar asked why could he not make a similar appeal to farmers. "Can the dangers posed by Covid be ignored," he asked. Attacking the former CM, Khattar said he and his party should not think of coming to power in the state even in 2029. "People have seen their misrule, be it their central or state leadership," he said. Khattar also said a handful of union leaders are instigating farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-stir-one-of-reasons-behind-covid-spread-in-villages-khattar-991835.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi’s high testing rate key to dip in Covid-19 cases||Delhi has tested just over 1 million samples per million as of Friday, which implies that the number of samples collected for testing exceeds the total population of the city, though it would include people who have been tested multiple times. This is far ahead of the national average of about 282,000 tests per day, and also beating Jammu and Kashmir in second place with about 674,000 tests per million and Mumbai with 306,000 tests per million, based on census data.  Experts suggest Delhi’s high rate of testing may have helped flatten the steep uptick in cases as the national capital was one of the worst-hit Indian states during the brutal second wave. Testing helps to trace and to isolate Covid patients, cordoning off containment zones and controlling the outbreak.  “Delhi has been a model state nationally in terms of testing since the first Covid wave. Against the national average of 1,500 tests per million population per day, Delhi has consistently been doing 4,000 tests for several months now, which is the highest nationally and among the highest globally,” Harsh Mahajan, president of healthcare association NatHealth and founder of Mahajan Imaging that does RT-PCR tests in Delhi, told the daily.  Delhi has so far tested more than a cumulative 1.90 crore samples and tested an average of nearly 70,000 tests per day just this month, though the increase in the number of tests has slowed slightly as daily cases dip below 1,000.  Because of the drop off in fresh cases, the Delhi government has said a phased rollback of lockdown measures in the city will begin on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-s-high-testing-rate-key-to-dip-in-covid-19-cases-991635.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends Covid lockdown till June 7, eases certain restrictions||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state by another week till June 7, easing restrictions on shop timings which will now be allowed to stay open from 9 am to 3 pm on odd-even days. The state government termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert/Safe Haryana)". Addressing a virtual press conference, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said even though the Covid-19 situation has improved in the state, it has been decided to extend the "Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana" lockdown till 5 am on June 7 with some more relaxations. He said shops which were earlier allowed to open as per odd-even basis from 7 am to 12 pm will now be open from 9 am to 3 pm. "We had received representations from market associations after which we decided to change the timings. However, the shops will continue to open as per teh odd-even system," Khattar said. Malls will now be allowed to open from 10 am to 6 pm, subject to certain conditions, he said. Number of visitors allowed inside a mall will depend on the size of the structure, the chief minister added. "For example, in a 1,000 square feet mall, 40 people will be allowed at a time, and if it has an area of 2,000 square feet, the number of people allowed at a given time will be 80," he said. Those allowed entry can stay inside for a limited duration, and entry of others will be permitted based on how many are inside the mall at a particular time, Khattar added. "Mall operators will have to come out with a mechanism for this, and they will have to take necessary permission from deputy commissioners concerned,” he said. Colleges, industrial training institutes and schools will remain closed till June 15 as already announced, the chief minister said. The daily “corona curfew” timing in the state will continue to be from 10 pm to 5 am, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-covid-lockdown-till-june-7-eases-certain-restrictions-991674.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Immigration at Delhi airport to get 'e-gate' boost||Delhi’s international airport is set to automate its immigration process as it gears up to install “e-gates” starting July that will likely simplify and quicken how international passengers enter the country with almost no human intervention. The facility ,known as the Trusted Travellers Program (TTP), would halve the immigration clearance time from the current 1.5 to 2 minutes per passenger at counters manned by immigration officials to around 30 to 40 seconds, officials told the daily. They added that the system was designed on the blueprint of United States’ Global Entry Program, which allows pre-approved immigration clearance for low-risk travellers. “After ascertaining that the passport and boarding pass are genuine, a camera attached to the scanner will click a picture of the passenger’s face. The e-gate will also scan their fingerprints, which will be matched with a database of the prohibited or blacklisted passengers within seconds. Once cleared, the e-gates will open, allowing the passenger to proceed,” an officer told the publication. India’s busiest airport had begun testing the e-gate system in December last year for a period of three months in a bid to make the process smoother and more efficient. The e-gate system has been used most notably in the United Kingdom with great success, though the country has suspended the e-gates in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said that there would still be some staff to guide travellers through the process and passengers’ data would also be stored with the bureau of immigration for future use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/immigration-at-delhi-airport-to-get-e-gate-boost-991683.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Resident doctors needed in hospitals, decision to extend training not ex facie arbitrary: HC||The Delhi High Court has said services of resident doctors are imperative for functioning of hospitals in the current situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the authorities' decision to extend their training beyond schedule cannot be ex facie arbitrary or unreasonable. The high court was hearing a plea by several doctors who are in DNB Super Speciality courses, challenging a May 4, 2021 notification by which the National Board of Examination (NBE) has extended their training beyond the scheduled date of its completion. The doctors submitted that the DNB course is of three years and a mandatory extension of three months is permissible, which they have already served, and claimed that the authorities are not empowered to extend the course beyond this period. “Having regard to the circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the need for continuation of residents as mentioned in the National Medical Commission (NMC) advisory dated April 27, 2021 – which has not been challenged in the writ petition – I am unable to accede to (advocate Sidharth) Yadav's request for an interim order," Justice Prateek Jalan said. The court agreed with the submission of advocate T Singhdev for the NMC and advocate Kirtiman Singh for the NBE that the availability of resident doctors is imperative for the functioning of hospitals. “In the present situation, the decision of the respondents cannot be said to be ex facie arbitrary or unreasonable,” it said. The high court said it was prima facie unable to accept the contention of the doctors' counsel that even in the circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the postponement of the practical examinations of the petitioners is on account of a deliberate stratagem adopted by the respondents. “Be that as it may, the undisputed fact is that the petitioners are yet to complete their final practical examination, and the question of issuing a completion certificate or releasing them from their present training does not arise at this stage,” it said. The court issued notices to the Centre, DNB and the NBE on the petition and asked them to file their replies within four months and listed the matter for further hearing on August 4. Senior advocate Sidharth Yadav submitted that the NBE notification reflects a discrimination between the petitioner doctors who are undertaking the DNB Super Specialty courses as opposed to similarly placed doctors who are undertaking MD/MS courses, as they are not subject to the May 4 notification. Advocates T Singhdev and Kirtiman Singh submitted that the services of the doctors who are undertaking MD and MS courses have also been extended and the May 4 notification does not refer to them because the NBE is only responsible for conducting the DNB examination. The counsel said the NBE's communication is pursuant to the NMC's April 27 advisory, which notes that the final examinations of the postgraduate courses have been delayed this year in many institutions and that the PG-NEET examination for admission to postgraduate courses in the academic year 2021-22 has also been postponed. They further said that the new batch of residents will be joining hospitals only after the completion of the PG-NEET examinations for 2021-22, and in the meantime, the hospitals require the services of the present residents, particularly in the unprecedented circumstances emanating out of the Covid-19 pandemic. The counsel told the court that the petitioner doctors have not completed their final examinations yet as the practical examination for the third year of DNB has been postponed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/resident-doctors-needed-in-hospitals-decision-to-extend-training-not-ex-facie-arbitrary-hc-991699.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||'Black fungus' has claimed 50 lives in Haryana, says CM M L Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said 50 people have died due to 'black fungus' in the state so far, while 650 more are undergoing treatment for the infection in various hospitals. "There have been over 750 cases of 'black fungus' in Haryana so far. Fifty-eight have been cured while 50 people have lost their lives and 650 patients are seeking treatment," Khattar said during a news conference here. Addressing the conference virtually, he said the government was procuring the injection used in treatment of 'black fungus' while some stock was already available and was being used in government hospitals. "We have got 6,000 injection vials. Over the next two days, we will get 2,000 vials more while we have placed an order for another 5,000 vials,” he said. Earlier on Thursday, Health Minister Anil Vij had directed officials to increase the number of beds in all government medical colleges of the state from 20 to 75 to treat patients infected with 'black fungus' or mucormycosis. Vij had directed officials that medicines should be made available to these patients as required without any delay and that there should be no shortage of injections and other medicines. The number of 'black fungus' or mucormycosis cases has been on the increase in the state during the past two weeks. Earlier, Vij had said the state government has made a requisition of 12,000 injections of Amphotericin-B, the drug used for treating black fungus, from the central government. The Haryana government had recently declared 'black fungus' a notified disease, making it mandatory for doctors to report any case of the disease to the chief medical officer of the district concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/black-fungus-has-claimed-50-lives-in-haryana-says-cm-m-l-khattar-991704.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand tribals flee to forest to avoid Covid-19 test||Residents of a tribal village here ran to a nearby forest when a team of district health workers came to their doorsteps recently to test them for Covid-19. Kuta Chaurani village is inhabited by Banrawats – an endangered tribe. The shy tribals fled to the adjoining forest on getting information about the arrival of a Covid testing team in their village on Friday, Didihat SDM KN Goswami said on Sunday. "While we could test residents of Aultari and Jamtari villages, those living in Kuta Chaurani fled to the forest,” the SDM said. The Banrawat community was declared a primitive tribe on the verge of extinction by the Government of India in 1967. "Over 500 members of this highly endangered tribe are living in eight localities of Didihat sub-division. We had sent our corona testing team to Aultari, Jamtari and Kuta Chaurani villages to test them. A total of 191 members of the community from Aultari and Jamtari came forward to undergo the test but residents of Kuta Chaurani fled to the forests to avoid tests," Goswami said. "The villagers were afraid that the swab strip taken for the test would infect them," the SDM said. Jagat Singhingh Rajwar, an elderly member of the community from Kuta Chaurani village, said the swab tester could cause further infection to them. "We are ready to go for a health check, take medicines but do not agree to let the strip enter our body, " Rajwar said. According to the SDM, his team has persuaded some literate members of the community to create awareness among the locals about the necessity of the tests. "We will make another attempt to test them in two-three days," Goswami said. Sanju Pant, coordinator of Didihat youth society, said corona kits have been distributed among some members of the community after taking them into confidence. The administration has also been informed about the poor conditions in which the members of the endangered tribal community are forced to live with no work for them due to the coronavirus lockdown, Pant said. "We have requested the administration to distribute consumer goods other than food material to the community members," he said. The SDM said packets of spices, edible oil and other essential items besides food packets have been distributed among them for free. According to Didihat youth society sources, the community is facing dire shortage of essential goods as there is no earning for them due to the lockdown. "If their plight is not addressed, they might face hunger and death," Pant said. SDM Didihat said he has written to the block development officer of Didihat and the district development officer of Pithoragarh to give members of the community work under the MGNREGA. "We will not let the community face hunger. We maintain a vigil on them through our revenue officials lest they should face any shortage of food," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-tribals-flee-to-forest-to-avoid-covid-19-test-991724.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Two men caught on tape throwing Covid-19 victim's body into river in Uttar Pradesh; booked by police||A shocking video, showing a body being dumped into the river by two men, one in a PPE kit, in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district, went viral on social media Sunday prompting the police to register a case in this regard. Two persons were booked under the Epidemics Act and other relevant sections of the penal code, according to the police sources in Balrampur. Sources said that the body was that of one Prem Nath Mishra, a resident of Shohratgarh in UP's Pratapgarh district, who was admitted to the district hospital on May 25 after testing positive for Covid-19. Mishra died three days later. ''The body was handed over to the family members on Saturday,'' a senior district official said. Sources said that as the vehicle carrying the dead body reached the bridge over Rapti river, the family members told the driver of the hearse car that they wanted to cremate the body at Sisai Ghat by the river. The driver then brought the body out from the vehicle and left after handing over it to them. The family members, instead of cremating the body, dumped it into the river from the middle of the bridge. A passerby captured the entire incident on his cell phone and later uploaded it on social media. Police said that Mishra's nephew Sanjay Kumar Mishra and another person had been booked in this regard and the matter was being investigated. Hundreds of dead bodies, many of people dying from Covid-19, have either been dumped into rivers or buried in pits barely three to four feet deep by the river bank. According to the reports, UP government officials had knowledge that the bodies of people dying from Covid-19 were being dumped into the rivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-men-caught-on-tape-throwing-covid-19-victims-body-into-river-in-uttar-pradesh-booked-by-police-991744.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||'Safer in jail': 21 prisoners in Uttar Pradesh say they don't want parole amid Covid pandemic||Most people would do anything to get out of jail. But that's not the case with 21 inmates in nine prisons of UP who have written to authorities saying they don't want parole as staying incarcerated is "safer and healthier" for them during the Covid pandemic. Parole is a temporary suspension of the sentence. The inmates who have made such a request are lodged in nine jails of the state, including in Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Maharajganj, Gorakhpur and Lucknow, Director General of Jail Administration Anand Kumar told PTI on Sunday. The reason is that if they get parole of 90 days, then this will get added to the punishment term, he said. "The other overriding reason which they give is that if they go out, they will not get food and other health care facilities, which they get in the jails. "The inmates say health check-up is done regularly in the jails. They get food on time, they are safe and healthy in the jails. The inmates say that once they go out of the jail, they will have to struggle to make a livelihood," Kumar said. There are four such requests from Lucknow jail, three from Ghaziabad and two from Maharajganj jail. Asked what is the jail administration's response to the request of the inmates, Kumar said, "Since they have given it in writing, obviously we have to accept their stand and honour it." Taking note of an "unprecedented surge" in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Supreme Court on May 8 passed directions for decongestion of prisons and ordered forthwith release of all those prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year in view of the pandemic. On March 16, 2020, the top court had taken suo motu cognisance of overcrowding of prisons across the country and had said it is difficult for jail inmates to maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/safer-in-jail-21-prisoners-in-uttar-pradesh-say-they-dont-want-parole-amid-covid-pandemic-991747.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||13 people injured after bus falls into ditch along Agra-Lucknow Expressway||Thirteen passengers were injured after a bus fell into a 15-feet-deep ditch along the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Sunday. The accident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, and its suspected that the driver lost control of the vehicle after its axle broke, they said. The injured passengers were admitted to the Sarojani Naidu Medical College and Hospital here, police said. The bus, which was going from Farrukhabad in Uttar Pradesh to Jaipur in Rajasthan, had 70-80 passengers. It fell into a 15-feet-deep ditch along the expressway near milestone nine, they said, adding that the area falls under the Dauki police station. Dauki Station House Officer Ashok Kumar said, "The private bus, with registration number UP 83 BT0999, was coming from Farrukhabad and going towards Jaipur. Around midnight, the axle broke due to which the bus driver lost control and the bus fell down from the expressway." "Thirteen passengers were injured in the accident and they were sent for treatment to the Sarojani Naidu Medical College and Hospital in Agra. No death was reported in the accident," Kumar said. Passengers said that though they did not know about the broken axle, but felt the driver was losing control of the vehicle. The bus then suddenly fell from the expressway into the ditch, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-people-injured-after-bus-falls-into-ditch-along-agra-lucknow-expressway-991748.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar announces solatium for kids orphaned due to Covid-19||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday announced special measures for rehabilitating children who have been orphaned due to Covid-19. Taking to his social media accounts, Kumar said his government would provide monthly stipends for the bereaved children, boarding facility for those left with no caretaker, and give special impetus to education of orphaned girls. "Boys and girls who have lost their mothers and fathers -- with at least one parent succumbing to corona -- will get a sum of Rs 1,500 every month from the state government till they attain the age of 18 years," Kumar said. He said the aid will be provided under his government's 'Baal Sahaayta Yojana', meant for needy children. The CM further stated that "boys and girls who are left with no guardian to bring them up will be provided shelter at Baal Griha (children's homes). Priority will be accorded to get such orphaned girls admitted to Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya schools". The state, which remained relatively less affected by the pandemic last year, has been devastated by the second wave that infected more than five lakh people and claimed over 4,000 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-announces-solatium-for-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-991767.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||'Virus doesn't have a religion': Masjid committees come forward to help Covid patients in Kashmir||With the second wave of coronavirus wreaking havoc across Kashmir, Masjid committees in the valley have decided to raise money to procure lifesaving equipment and tools to help Covid-19 patients. The money is being spent by local Masjid committees from their respective ‘Bait-Ul-Maal’ (House of Treasury) for procuring lifesaving gears like oxygen cylinders, concentrators and other equipment as well. The decision was taken by masjid committees at local level after Covid-19 cases and deaths started rising rapidly and hospital beds fell short. Muzaffar Ahmad, a member of Makthab-Ul-Taleem Ul-Qural-Wal-Hadith ‘Bait-Ul-Maal’ in Balgarden area of Srinagar said that they have procured 39 oxygen concentrators from the reserve funds so far. “More than 200 Covid patients have used these concentrators. Procuring lifesaving equipment during times of pandemic is saving humanity and I believe all local Masjid committees should work for the sake of humanity,” he said. There have been desperate calls on social media as a huge rush of Covid patients has overwhelmed Kashmir’s already creaky health infrastructure, with hospitals running out of beds and oxygen, while critical drugs are being sold on a thriving black market. Social media platforms have been flooded with SOS messages from people pleading for oxygen cylinders and hospital admissions as authorities struggled to cope with the scale of the crisis. It has been local charity groups and masjid committees that have come to the rescue of underprivileged patients in Kashmir. Grand Mufti of Kashmir’s Nasir-ul-Islam said that they have communicated to masjid committees that some amount from ‘Bait-Ul-Maal’ should be utilised to procure the lifesaving equipment and tools in the respective areas to save lives of Covid patients. “In case of emergencies, a Covid patient who does not necessarily require going to the hospital can utilize the equipment without any problem,” he said and added spending money in saving human lives is more important than constructing a Masjid. However, Mufti Nasir said they don’t have the exact figures as to how many masjid committees were utilizing the funds of ‘Bait-Ul-Maal’ during the prevailing pandemic situation. “I can say that more than a hundred committees are procuring lifesaving equipment and tools,” he said and added that the basic concept of ‘Zakat’ (charity) is to benefit people from the underprivileged background. A member of a masjid committee from uptown Jawahar Nagar area told DH that besides procuring life-saving gears, they have been providing money from ‘Bait-Ul-Maal’ to jobless and underprivileged people who have requirements of procuring medicines for Covid patients. “We have been helping patients of all faiths. Virus does not have a religion and we believe it’s a crisis and we must aid all and show our humanity,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/virus-doesnt-have-a-religion-masjid-committees-come-forward-to-help-covid-patients-in-kashmir-991774.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government relaxes Covid-19 lockdown, keeps weekend restrictions||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced relaxation of lockdown in the state with certain activities allowed from June 1. Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary R K Tiwari said shops and markets outside containment zones will be allowed to open from June 1 onwards from 7 am to 7 pm for five days (Monday to Friday). Night curfew will remain in place from 7 pm to 7 am, he said. The weekend restrictions or "corona curfew" will remain in place on Saturday and Sunday, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-relaxes-covid-19-lockdown-keeps-weekend-restrictions-991776.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||No liquor, salary for people without Covid-19 vaccination in these Uttar Pradesh districts||In an apparent bid to encourage Covid-19 vaccinations, officials in Uttar Pradesh's Etawah district have directed liquor shop owners not to sell liquor to those who are yet to get the jabs. Hem Singh, Sub-divisional magistrate of Etawah, said the liquor shop owners had been asked to insist on seeing vaccination cards before selling liquor to those above 45. Singh, who conducted an inspection of the liquor shops in Etawah town on Saturday, sent back those in the queue at the shops who told him that they had not yet got themselves vaccinated, according to the reports. ''I will keep checking the shops to find out if the liquor shop owners are following it,'' Singh said. The official, however, hastened to add that it was an appeal only. In neighbouring Firozabad district, the administration told the government employees that they would get salaries for the month of May only if they were vaccinated. The officials, however, did not clarify if there were sufficient vaccines to vaccinate all those who were above 45. The diktats came in the wake of reports about people refusing to get vaccinated in some villages in the state. In Barabanki district, some people had even jumped into the river after a vaccination team reached their village to give them jabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-liquor-salary-for-people-without-covid-19-vaccination-in-these-uttar-pradesh-districts-991777.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Commercial interests of lobbies seem to be behind Ayurveda-Allopathy debate: VHP||VHP international president Vishnu Sadashiv Kokje on Sunday said a tussle among different lobbies over their commercial interests could be behind the ongoing debate between Ayurveda and Allopathy. He called for a scientific debate on the impact Ayurveda and Allopathy had on Covid-19 patients and asked supporters of both streams of medicine to put forth data of their findings. Kokje praised Ayurveda saying the medicines used in treatment didn't have any "side effects" on patients. His remarks came at a time when Yoga guru Ramdev's views on Allopathy have drawn a sharp rebuke from the Indian Medical Association. Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in the viral video clip in which he was heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". "I feel that the fight among different lobbies over a commercial interest was behind the current Ayurveda-Allopathy debate. This is not a scientific debate," Kokje told PTI. "The debate should be on a scientific basis on what was the impact of Ayurveda and Allopathy on patients during the pandemic. People from both streams of medicine should put forth data of their findings. There is no point talking about worthless things," he added. Kokje said patients like the stream of medicine that alleviate their disease. The senior VHP leader acknowledged that Allopathy has the biggest network in India and "it is hard to keep a distance". He further said that Allopathic pharmaceutical companies, doctors and others seem to fear that their dominance is at stake. Kokje said "side effects" are the biggest shortcoming for Allopathy and experts should work toward removing them. "On the other hand, Ayurvedic medicines do not have any side effects on patients because they are made from herbs. We should make efforts to re-establish the ancient science of Ayurveda which lost its prominence due to thousands of years of our slavery," he said. Kokje underlined the need for conducting more research in Ayurvedic science to highlight its effectiveness in treating ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/commercial-interests-of-lobbies-seem-to-be-behind-ayurveda-allopathy-debate-vhp-991786.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Baby girl weighing over five kg born in Madhya Pradesh||A 29-year-old woman has given birth to a baby girl, who weighs 5.1 kilograms, at a primary health centre in Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh, a doctor said on Sunday. This is a rare case as the normal weight of a newborn baby is between 2.5 kg and 3.7 kg, he said. "The woman, Raksha Kushwaha, gave birth to the baby girl on Saturday in a normal delivery at Anjaniya Primary Health Centre. The baby weighs 5.1 kg, which is rare in terms of the average weight of a newborn," the health centre's in- charge, Dr Ajay Tosh Maravi, told PTI. The girl's height is 54 centimetres, he said. "It is good that the baby was born healthy, but tests need to be conducted on her. Around Sunday noon, the baby suffered from some issues with the urine passing. She has been referred to the Mandla district hospital," he added. The woman was brought to the health centre when she was in labour pain. Instead of referring her to the district hospital then, she was admitted to the health centre, where she delivered the baby. Both of them were fine then, the doctor said. Normally, women with sugar, obesity and hormonal problems give birth to overweight babies, Dr Maravi said, adding, "But Kushwaha is not a diabetic." This is her second child as she had given birth to another baby girl three years ago, he said. "The family is delighted on the arrival of the little chubby guest," he added. Munni Bai, a senior midwife at the health centre said. "This is the first time I have seen such a plump baby."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/baby-girl-weighing-over-five-kg-born-in-madhya-pradesh-991790.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||People with houses on lease, rent from municipalities can become owners under new scheme: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that people, who have shops or houses on lease or rent from the municipalities for over 20 years, can become owners of the property by paying a price below the collector rate. He also said that for this, a scheme, which will be applicable for urban areas, will be notified on Monday. Collector or circle rate is the minimum designated price for land or property fixed for a locality, at which transactions have to be registered. "We have formulated a scheme under which those who are in possession of such properties, be it houses or shops, for more than 20 years, all such will be given ownership rights," Khattar said while addressing a virtual news conference. "Once the eligible people apply, they will be given relaxation in collector rate—if they are in possession of the property for more than 50 years, they will get a rebate of 50 per cent on collector rate," he said. Likewise, if it is under possession for 40 years, the rebate will be 40 per cent, 30 per cent in case of 30 years, and 20 per cent for 20 years, which is the minimum period required to avail the scheme, Khattar said. However, the upper ceiling for rebate on collector rate is 50 per cent, he said. The person should have completed 20 years of being in possession of the property as of December 31, 2020 to avail the scheme, according to a policy. The chief minister said after applying under the scheme, the applicant will have to deposit 25 per cent of the collector rate charge within 15 days and the remaining 75 per cent in the next 45 days. "Once full payment is made and subject to fulfilment of all laid down conditions, the ownership of the property, which is the house/shop, will be transferred in their name," Khattar said. He said if a municipality has leased or rented any house or shop to one or more persons, then the amount will have to be paid as per the fixed floor-wise formula under the scheme. While announcing another scheme, he said in cities, there are small chunks of land belonging to civic bodies, which have been unused or their way has been blocked by an adjacent piece of plot belonging to a private person. The chief minister said that "a provision has been made where municipalities can now sell such unused land to either the adjoining plot holders or to anyone else who is willing to buy such land". This will also reduce the possibility of illegal encroachment of such property, Khattar said. The money earned by the municpalities against sale of such land will kept in a separate account for the purpose of asset creation, he said. The chief minister said that the state government has restructured and redesignated the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) as Micro Irrigation and Command Area Development Authority (MICADA). This has been done to promote micro-irrigation and for effective implementation of the works pertaining to canals, he said. The main objective of MICADA is to ensure maximum use of available water in irrigation and an amount of Rs 3,700 crore will be spent on pavement of canals, Khattar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-with-houses-on-lease-rent-from-municipalities-can-become-owners-under-new-scheme-khattar-991791.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Journalists should desist from fake news: UP minister Chaudhary Laxmi Narain||Uttar Pradesh Cabinet Minister Chaudhary Laxmi Narain on Sunday asked journalists to desist from fake news while expressing commitment for their safety. Taking part in a programme held to mark Hindi Journalism Day, the minister said the harassment of journalists will not be tolerated. Since Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has the highest regard for journalists, their safety and security is his prime concern, he said. However, journalists are "advised to desist from fake news", Chaudhary said. Condemning attacks on journalists, former state education minister Shyam Sundar Sharma said it is the moral responsibility of the government to provide adequate security to journalists. Impartial reporting creates a healthy environment in society, the former minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalists-should-desist-from-fake-news-up-minister-chaudhary-laxmi-narain-991793.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||'Centre may have recalled Bengal chief secy amid row with state, but Mamata Banerjee may refuse to play ball'||Former top bureaucrats and legal experts believe that the Central government's order recalling West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to Delhi, on the day he was slated to retire, may be one which the Centre finds hard to enforce as the state government is within its rights to refuse his release. The order came within hours after a political row erupted on Friday over West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee curtailing her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the post-cyclone situation in her state to just 15 minutes, and within days of another central order extending Bandyopadhyay's tenure by three months to help combat the Covid pandemic in the state. "The state may well send a politely drafted reply to the order pointing out the All-India Service rules which govern such transfers," said Jawhar Sircar, a former secretary to the Government of India. He said it is difficult for the Centre to unilaterally transfer an IAS or IPS officer, who is not under its control but that of another government within the federation. According to rule 6(1) of the AIS on deputation of all India service officers, an officer on the rolls of a certain state may be deputed to the Centre or another state or a PSU with the concurrence of the concerned state. "In case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government or state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government," the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, mention. However, the problem for the central government is that it neither asked for West Bengal's consent nor of Banyopadhyay, considered essential for such a transfer. The transfer directive was seen by many quarters as an indication of vindictiveness by the Centre, after the chief minister on Saturday appealed to "PM Modi to end political vendetta, withdraw order recalling Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, and allow him to work for the Covid-infected". BJP MLA and Leader of opposition in the West Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, however, alleged at a virtual press conference that the chief secretary had broken protocol at the review meeting, and as per the Constitution, the transfer was fair. Sircar said the West Bengal government could also seek legal remedies through the Central Administrative Tribunal or the High Court and though the Centre was believed to have filed caveats in both the platforms, "this is the remedy which common sense would dictate". "Aside from politics, the order issued by the Centre does not stand the test of law as the central government did not obtain the state's approval or the officer's willingness for central deputation," said a former secretary ranking officer from the Indian Audit and Accounts Service. He pointed out that instead the Centre came up with a unilateral order that neither mentions the post to which Bandyopadhyay is being appointed to nor the tenure. Earlier, similar unilateral orders transferring three IPS officers from West Bengal were not accepted by the state government. A few years ago, Tamil Nadu had also similarly refused to relieve its Director General of Police when ordered to report to Delhi. Another former chief secretary of West Bengal said "the operation of any proviso to a rule (which allows central directives to prevail) happens only after the substantive part of the rule is given effect to, which is prior concurrence before issuance of an order", and added "these procedures have been clearly laid down. Any departure from this practice needs to be explained". Questioning the propriety of the decision to transfer Bandyopadhyay, senior advocate Arunabha Ghosh said that if the chief minister decides not to give the release order immediately, it would create a legal complication. Ghosh said the chief secretary is under the direct control of the CM. "The Centre can do it (transfer Bandyopadhyay) under the rule, but there is timing... Will an Army general be removed in the middle of a war?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-may-have-recalled-bengal-chief-secy-amid-row-with-state-but-mamata-banerjee-may-refuse-to-play-ball-991798.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||MP government offices allowed to operate at 50% strength from June 1||As part of the phase-wise unlocking of the 'Corona Curfew' restrictions, the state government offices in Madhya Pradesh have been allowed to operate at 50 per cent employee strength, from the present 10 per cent, from June 1. However, the presence of officers at these offices will have to be 100 per cent, the state government said in a release on Sunday. This order will be in effect till June 15, and the officials and employees will have to follow the Covid-19 guidelines, it said. "The government offices, except those engaged in essential services, will be opened and operated with all 100 per cent officers and 50 per cent employees from June 1," the order said. Since essential services, like collector's office, police, disaster management, health, fire brigade, water supply, jail, revenue, power supply, public transport, treasury, among others, are already running with their full capacity, this order is not applicable to them, it said. The district collector can include other services in the essential category, it said. In April, the state government had restricted the presence of employees in state government offices to 10 per cent following the surge in Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced that unlocking from the ongoing coronavirus- induced-curfew will begin from June 1. However, the final decision as per the state government guidelines will be taken by the crisis management committees at the village, ward, block and district level, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-government-offices-allowed-to-operate-at-50-strength-from-june-1-991814.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress leader Surjit Kaur Kalkat passes away at 91||Veteran Congress leader and two-time MLA from Hoshiarpur’s Tanda, Surjit Kaur Kalkat, passed away following prolonged illness in Mohali. She was 91. Kalkat had won from the Tanda assembly constituency in 1980 and 1992. She was a cabinet minister in the Harcharan Singh Brar-led government in Punjab. Her husband Dr Amir Singh Kalkat had also won from the Tanda constituency twice in 1969 and 1972. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled the death of Surjit Kaur Kalkat. "Sad to learn about the demise of veteran @INCPunjab leader Surjit Kaur Kalkat from District Hoshiarpur. She died a natural death yesterday. My condolences to the family and supporters.RIP!, "said Amarinder Singh in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-leader-surjit-kaur-kalkat-passes-away-at-91-991820.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases drop, Jammu and Kashmir orders partial reopening of markets, public transport on May 31||As Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing a steady decline in Covid-19 cases and deaths, authorities on Sunday announced partial reopening of markets and public transport from May 31. From a peak of 73 deaths on May 17, the Union Territory (UT) recorded 29 fatalities on Sunday. It was for the first time since April 29 that the UT logged below 30 Covid-19 related deaths. Similarly, from a peak of 5,443 Covid cases on May 7 the number has come down to 2,219 on Sunday. The fresh 2,219 positive cases came from 41,719 tests conducted in the last 24 hours while the single-day record of positive cases (5,443) had come out of 49,781 tests. From the high of 10.93 per cent on May 7, the positivity rate has come down to 5.31 per cent as on Sunday. Out of the total 3,870 Covid deaths, the UT has recorded 1,587 deaths in 30 days of this month alone, which is over 41 per cent of its total Covid-related fatalities. Similarly, out of a total 2,78,859 positive cases, J&K has recorded 1,12,857 cases in alone May which is over 40 per cent of total cases. The number of active cases in J&K has also come down from a peak of 52,848 on May 13 to 37,677 on Sunday. With 3,805 more recoveries on Sunday, the tally of total recoveries in the UT has reached 2,47,393 which is nearly 86 per cent of the total cases. According to a daily media bulletin, 5,976 hospital beds have been designated for Covid-19 patients, of which 2,336 are currently occupied by patients admitted in various hospitals across J&K. 1,951 Covid patients are on oxygen support and 117 on ventilator support, the bulletin added. Over 32 lakh individuals have been administered Covid-19 vaccines, out of which nearly 26 lakh are above 45 years of age. The pace of vaccination had slowed down earlier this month due to a shortage of vaccines at government-run centres, many of which remained closed for more than a week. Meanwhile, amid a steady decline in Covid cases and deaths, the J&K government on Sunday announced partial reopening of markets and public transport from May 31. The respective deputy commissioners have been asked to frame a roster to facilitate the partial reopening of markets. Public transport has been allowed to operate at 50 per cent of the authorized seating capacity. The J&K administration had on April 29 imposed a complete lockdown in the UT to contain the spread of the virus. J&K is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country with over 22,250 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is over 20,000. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on 7 March 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1,698 positive cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-drop-jammu-and-kashmir-orders-partial-reopening-of-markets-public-transport-on-may-31-991859.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Militants involved in killing of Anantnag civilians identified: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday said that the militants involved in killing of two civilians in Bijbehara area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Saturday evening have been identified and “justice to bereaved families shall be delivered soon.” Sanjeed Ahmad Parray (20), a dental technician by profession, and Shahnawaz Ahmad Bhat (35), an auto-driver, both from Jablipora village, Anantnag, were shot dead from a point blank range at around 8 pm on Saturday. “Terrorists involved in the double murder have been identified. Justice to bereaved families shall be delivered soon. Our heart goes out to the families of innocent victims,” a police spokesperson tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-involved-in-killing-of-anantnag-civilians-identified-jk-police-991861.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||72-year-old Covid-19 patient given 'antibody cocktail' at Fortis in Mohali||A 72-year-old Covid-positive man was administered the 'monoclonal antibody cocktail' therapy at Fortis Hospital in Mohali near here on Sunday, days after the treatment was given to two similar patients in Delhi and Gurgaon hospitals. The Mohali-based Fortis Hospital in a statement said the patient, who had tested positive for the infection two days ago, is a diabetic with chronic kidney disease. “He was administered one dose of the cocktail intravenously,” the statement said, adding the patient is stable after the infusion. Dr Zafar Ahmed, a senior consultant with the Critical Care, Pulmonology and Chest and Sleep Medicine Department of the Mohali Fortis Hospital, said like antibodies, which are proteins generated by the body to fight disease, monoclonal antibodies are 'artificially created in the lab'. “In this cocktail, Casirivimab and Imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that specifically block the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, thereby preventing the coronavirus attachment and entry into human cells,” said Dr Ahmed in the statement. “This is another very important step that has been taken by the medical community to effectively combat the pandemic and help people recover faster,” he added. Drug majors Roche India and Cipla had on Monday announced the launch of Roche's Antibody Cocktail in India, priced at Rs 59,750 per dose for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 patients facing high risks. "The first batch of the Antibody Cocktail (Casirivimab and Imdevimab) is now available in India while a second batch will be made available by mid-June. In total, they can potentially benefit 2,00,000 patients as each of the 1,00,000 packs that will be available in India offers treatment for two patients," Cipla and Roche had said in a joint statement. Cipla will distribute the product by leveraging its strong distribution strengths across the country, it added. As per the statement, the drug will be available through leading hospitals and Covid treatment centres. The Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) had recently provided an emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the antibody cocktail in India. It has also received a EUA in the US and several EU countries. The antibody cocktail is to be administered for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and paediatric patients (12 years of age or older, weighing at least 40 kg) who are confirmed to be infected with SARS-COV2 and who are at high risk of developing severe Covid-19 disease and do not require oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/72-year-old-covid-19-patient-given-antibody-cocktail-at-fortis-in-mohali-991864.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||SIT notice to Kamal Nath over pen drive in MP honeytrap case||A special investigation team probing a 'honeytrap' case in Indore in Madhya Pradesh that made national headlines in 2019 on Sunday asked former state chief minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath to submit a pen drive in his possession as "extremely important evidence". Five women and a man were arrested in Bhopal and Indore in September, 2019 for allegedly trapping well-placed people and blackmailing them with objectionable videos. The SIT notice sent to Nath under relevant CrPC provisions said he had claimed in an online press conference on May 21 that he was in possession of a pen drive/CD of the honeytrap case. The notice went on to state that this "pen drive/CD was extremely important evidence" in the FIR lodged in Palasia police station, and it would make the probe more effective and stronger. It added that Nath should be present in his home in Bhopal at 12:30pm on June 2 to record his statement and hand over the pen drive/CD to the SIT. Speaking on the issue in Morena, Nath said he would respond to the notice but added the pen drive was not with him and several journalists were in possession of it and it was being circulated widely in MP. Nath said he was kept informed about the case by the police as he was the chief minister of MP at the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-notice-to-kamal-nath-over-pen-drive-in-mp-honeytrap-case-991872.html
30-05-2021||North and Central||Kin of media personnel dying of Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh to get Rs 5 lakh||The Chhattisgarh government will provide Rs 5 lakh as financial assistance to kin of media personnel succumbing to Covid-19, officials said on Sunday. A state government release said the assistance would be provided under the Media Representative Welfare Assistance Rules. "The state government will also reimburse the expenses incurred in the treatment of media personnel who have been admitted to hospital for Covid-19. Information about families of media personnel afflicted with Covid-19 is being collected by the Directorate of Public Relations," it added. Those eligible for such help must submit applications in a prescribed format to the public relations office in their districts, it said, adding that a meeting of the Journalist Welfare Fund Committee will be held soon to provide financial assistance to media personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kin-of-media-personnel-dying-of-covid-19-in-chhattisgarh-to-get-rs-5-lakh-991878.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Forget failing government, citizens are making a difference. Are you?||From the beginning of the pandemic last year, it has been clear that the government cannot overcome the virus on its own. The people, too, must do their part. This is not merely about following the guidance from the government about social distancing, wearing masks, and so on. It’s more than that. Citizens have to help the public health system withstand the onslaught of the virus, and also help build long-term resilience in the healthcare system. During the course of the last two weeks, as #CovidRuralResponse has run the largest volunteer network for relief in the country, a lot of people have asked me three questions repeatedly. Isn’t the government supposed to do all this? Can citizens really make a difference? When will it all end? Let’s look at each of those. Yes, the government is supposed to do a lot of this. But there is a long history of governments not doing things they should, and the people have not really held them accountable for that. Imagining that things are going to be magically different because of the current situation is just wishful. If anything, we should be telling ourselves that we, too, have failed. There is simply not enough capacity in government to tackle this. It’s partly because it’s a very large problem, one that has severely tested even some very prepared governments. But it’s partly because we have not invested enough in healthcare for decades. That has left us with very little armour in the war against the contagion. Yes, citizens can make a difference. The first significant supplies of non-governmental aid in the state came from citizens. The donor agencies are large and move through ‘implementation partners’ who are very good peacetime heroes. But this is war, and the speed of the intervention needs to be much greater. Who can act most nimbly and without hesitation? We, the people. Every little bit helps. Some contribute money, yes. Some contribute time and skills. These are equally important. And no one is too young to help. Yesterday, the youngest volunteer in the group, a 10th standard student in Ranchi, helped compile a dataset of hospitals in Gujarat. She did it in less than a day and was eager to do more. I spoke with her mother briefly, and the pride in her voice was evident. When will it end? That depends on what we mean by ‘it’. If you’re looking for a lower caseload and deaths being reported daily in the press, that could happen reasonably soon. But that’s not credible. There is simply too much data, from too many sources, that contradicts the official counts. Plus, the media and health personnel are not everywhere. The unseen is vastly greater than the seen. The end has to be much more than this. It has to be a staff-to-bed ratio that can provide accessible care to everyone. It has to be a cost of care that is affordable to everyone. It has to be a commitment to year after year of higher budgetary expenditure on healthcare. It has to be about science research, without prejudice or fear about what we might find. It has to be about transparent data and public discussion of our problems. I made a list of things that will be needed in a comprehensive response and came up with about 20 things. There must be many more. At the Public Health Centres (PHC) in the rural areas, it is a catastrophe, at many places in the country. The district hospitals could get to some level of manageable suffering by mid-June. The taluk hospitals might get to that stage in August. But the PHCs are another story -- no one can assess this with any confidence. And so many of them have caseloads you don’t want to hear the numbers. It’s scary. As if all this were not bad enough, we must also endure the tussle between governments at different levels. Things that should be decentralised are command-controlled, and things that should be centralised are left to lots of others to do. The virus is having a field day (a field year, actually) while we spend time trying to sort out blame, credit, responsibility, authority, etc. The end, really, is not about time. This suffering will end when we commit to politics and governance that will tackle all this. And not before then. Anyone who is ‘assuring’ us of a larger picture of getting this under control with a ‘plan’ is simply lying. There is no such plan. Only a race to fill in the holes created by decades of denying accessible and affordable healthcare to the majority of the people. Every PHC will need lakhs of rupees to get through this. Karnataka has more than 2000 PHCs. And even if the money can be found, getting the manpower and equipment needed to make these resilient is months away. We need to get involved, stay involved and care deeply about the quality of care that others receive. Ours will be alright automatically.  (The author is social technologist and entrepreneur, founder of Mapunity and  co-founder, Lithium, wakes up with hope for the city and society, goes to bed with a sigh,  repeats cycle  @ashwinmahesh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/forget-failing-government-citizens-are-making-a-difference-are-you-991617.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Don’t be fooled by the FUD factor||Think about the emotions you’ve been experiencing over the past year. Fear, uncertainty and doubt (collectively known as FUD) are likely to rank high. Now, consider the possibility that you’ve been deliberately manipulated into feeling that way in order to drive desired outcomes. “FUD” is a common propaganda tactic used to influence perceptions, and the recent goings-on in the cryptocurrency market have highlighted it in action. Look back over the course of the pandemic, and you may see examples there, too. Many investors will be aware that the price of Bitcoin crashed in mid-May, with one of the biggest single-day drops in history. It was what’s termed ‘market capitulation’ -- mass liquidations and selloffs in a short period of time. What caused it? If you were paying attention, you would’ve seen the news about Tesla no longer accepting Bitcoin payments, China banning Bitcoin transactions and Bitcoin mining, and cryptocurrency regulatory uncertainty in India. Plus, numerous racy reports of “Bitcoin’s wild gyrations.” Never mind that Tesla still holds Bitcoin on its balance sheet, and China first announced the Bitcoin ban in 2013 (followed by several times since). It’s perfect FUD material for destabilising the market. And, as it turns out, it coincided with a shakeout at the end of what technical analysts identified to be a carefully orchestrated, textbook Wyckoff distribution that had been underway in the market for months. Through coordinated control of supply and demand, this classic manipulation technique enables influential Bitcoin owners to maximise profits and buy back in at lower prices. The plot thickens when you’re aware that certain specialist service agencies receive substantial bounties from large institutional investor clients to dump (or pump) the market according to need. They do this by carrying out strategic paid news campaigns, followed by timed selloffs or buy-ups on selected exchanges using algorithms. As I watched in dismay as the crypto crash and its aftermath played out, I couldn’t help thinking it seemed awfully similar to the past year of the pandemic that has left people feeling scared and confused. We have constantly heard about the “killer virus”, “deadly variants”, “spiralling cases” (never mind that around 85% are asymptomatic in India), “piles of dead bodies”, and places “plunged into lockdown” versus the need to be “safe” and “protected”. Couple this with ongoing mixed messaging over masks, vaccines, early treatments, and how the virus spreads. No masks, double masks, masks still for the vaccinated, masks only for the unvaccinated, droplet transmission, aerosol transmission, indoor transmission, outdoor transmission, asymptomatic transmission, herd immunity only through vaccination (yes, the WHO changed its definition), herd immunity unachievable through vaccination, influencers being paid to discredit vaccines. The list could go on! Nevertheless, one thing has remained constant. The global narrative that Covid-19 isn’t a treatable illness. The WHO only supports the use of steroids and vaccines. When Goa recommended cheap and effective Ivermectin as prophylaxis and early treatment for adults, headlines declaring “WHO warns against use of Ivermectin for Covid-19” flooded the media the next day. Funnily, the WHO remained noticeably silent when people were clamouring for costly remdesivir. FUD sells, and it can spread as swiftly as the virus. Yet, it can be overcome with knowledge, preparation and strategy. The problem is that panic quickly overwhelms the capacity to think critically, evaluate, and to listen to one’s intuition. How many people actually pause to really research and consider what’s happening around them? It’s often necessary to dig deep. In the wise words of Carl Jung, “If you cannot understand why someone did something, look at the consequences—and infer the motivation.” As for the cryptocurrency market, it’s nearing completion of a long bull run and will eventually go back up once the “whales” have filled their bags with low-priced coins. After all, there’s money to be made.  (The author is a travel writer from Down Under who has made Mumbai her home is trying to make sense of India one ‘Like That Only’ at a time)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/don-t-be-fooled-by-the-fud-factor-991618.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Who would you rather have run our temples?||On May 13, 1946, the Privy Council, the highest court of British India, which sat in London, was called upon to decide a matter of utmost importance. Even as preparations were being made for a future independent India through a Cabinet Mission Plan, a Privy Council bench of three eminent British judges decided an intricate question -- whether Thenkalai Iyengars or Vadakalai Iyengars had the right to lead daily prayers at the Tirupati Tirumala temple! I am not making this up. A bench of Lord MacMillan, Lord Du Parq and Sir John Beaumont pored over Hindu religious texts and historical documents to finally award a “win” to the Thenkalai Iyengars, giving them the exclusive right to lead prayers at the temple. Disputes between Thenkalai and Vadakalai Iyengars have continued post-Independence. The Madras High Court, at the height of the Emergency in 1976, was called upon to decide whether the temple elephant of the Devaraja Swami Temple in Kanchipuram ought to bear a Thenkalai or Vadakalai caste mark (namam)! These are only two instances but reading through case law of the last 150 years shows a profusion of bitter disputes over Hindu temples, their property, management, wealth, control, etc., that have ended up in the highest court. Such disputes have raged not just between Hindu groups but also between different factions of the Syrian Orthodox Church, the management committee of Ajmer Dargah, etc., and have afflicted every religion in India. All of this came to mind when I read the recent “campaign” among a certain section of upper-caste Hindus to have temples in Tamil Nadu “returned” to devotees. The withering response to this demand came from Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P Thiagarajan who dismissed it as “nonsense”. Governments have had to intervene to run temples and other religious institutions more often than not because of the gross mismanagement and constant infighting that plagued these institutions if it weren’t cases of outright misappropriation and theft of temple property. Devotees themselves appealed to governments, pre-and post-Independence, to intervene and save these temples from the ‘trustees.’ The debate over the management of Hindu religious institutions is also a good way to understand the scope of the “right to religion” under the Constitution -- specifically, Articles 25 and 26. While Art. 25 protects an individual’s freedom to hold religious beliefs and carry out practices (subject to restrictions by law), Art. 26 protects the right of “religious denominations” to manage their own affairs. After the Constitution came into force, government interventions into the management of Hindu religious institutions were challenged in court and one of the first was the Shirur Mutt case. Here, a dispute over the management of the Shirur Mutt in Udupi resulted in the Hindu Religious Endowments Board of the Madras government (which then had jurisdiction over Udupi) issuing a notice to the Matadhipati of Shirur Mutt asking why the temple’s management shouldn’t be taken over by the government, given the mismanagement of its affairs. In response, the Matadhipati challenged the constitutional validity of the 1951 Madras law that allowed such a takeover. The Madras High Court agreed with the Matadhipati, striking down large parts of the law as being in violation of Article 26. The government then approached the Supreme Court. A seven-judge bench of the SC delivered a landmark judgement that still holds good on the interpretation of Article 26. In analysing the scope of Article 26, the court said: “The administration of its property by a religious denomination has thus been placed on a different footing from the right to manage its own affairs in matters of religion. The latter is a fundamental right which no legislature can take away, whereas the former can be regulated by laws which the legislature can validly impose. It is clear, therefore, that questions merely relating to administration of properties belonging to a religious group or institution are not matters of religion to which clause (b) of the Article applies.” Managing the property of a religious institution thus has to be done in accordance with the law and is not an aspect of the religion itself. While largely upholding the constitutional validity of the Madras law, the SC did strike down those specific sections of the law that it thought interfered with religious rights. The court thus struck a balance between the right of religious denominations to manage their own religious affairs and institutions and the government’s right to stop mismanagement in the public interest. Religious institutions don’t just provide religious services, they are also custodians of enormous amounts of wealth and wield influence among local communities. As such, they make for tempting targets for unscrupulous schemers. One should be wary when demands that the government “hand over” temples to “devotees” are made. There are many charlatans around.  (The author is the co-founder, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, uses his legal training to make the case that Harry Potter is science fiction and Star Wars is fantasy.  Alok.P.Kumar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-would-you-rather-have-run-our-temples-991619.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Sometimes, the law-enforcer is an ass||This is a real-life incident narrated to me by a lady police officer. Though it occurred many years ago, the message remains relevant even now. From my notes, I shall let the officer tell the story in her own words: On my first day of work as a young probationer, I was posted at a police station in Bengaluru on night duty. My boss who was on rounds returned at around 11.30 pm and I could hear a commotion outside the station. The officer was shouting at the top of his voice, unleashing the choicest of obscenities. Having come from a traditional family, I was to learn soon that such profanities were an integral part of the police vocabulary. The constables herded three women and two men into the station and bundled them into a corner while the officer went to his chamber to complete the paperwork. All five were arrested on charges of prostitution. As I was trying to gather my wits, I could hear one of the women weeping inconsolably. Soon, the sobs grew louder and after a while, she mustered the courage to walk up to me and plead, “Madam, please let me go. I am doing this for my family.” Her name was Sameera (name changed). She had two grown-up daughters. Her husband, a mechanic, was the sole breadwinner of the family until he became bedridden due to a debilitating kidney ailment. The burden of the family had fallen on Sameera, but with the meagre amount she earned as a household help, she could barely keep her kitchen running, let alone pay for the medical expenses of her husband. That was when she had decided to sell her body to run her family. With tears rolling down her cheeks, she begged, “Madam, you are a woman. You can understand what I am going through. If my family comes to know about my arrest, it will destroy my life. My daughters will be on the streets.” I beseeched my senior officer to let her go, but he was unmoved, “You mind your own business. I have seen hundreds of such people and all of them have the same story. They deserve no sympathy.” The next day, she was produced before a magistrate who remanded her to custody. I soon forgot about the incident. About three years later, when I was on patrol duty, a woman in a pair of blue jeans and a white top approached me. “Madam, do you recognise me,” she asked, and I said, “No.” “Do you remember when you arrested me a few years ago, I had begged you to release me, and you had refused? When you booked me, there was only one sex worker in my family. Now, there are three. And you are responsible for that,” she said. I was taken aback. When Sameera went to jail, her husband had to be informed as per the procedure. Enraged, the husband had walked out of her life and abandoned their daughters. With both parents away, the young girls had no source of income and had turned to the flesh trade to earn a living. By the time Sameera was released, she had lost her family. Nobody was willing to give her a job. The only recourse open to her was to become a full-time sex worker, not to satisfy her body but to fill her stomach. There was no hint of emotion on her face. Looking me straight in the eye, she asked, “Now, tell me madam, who is responsible for destroying my family and turning my daughters into prostitutes?” I had no answer. Our insensitivity had destroyed a family.  (M Gautham Machaiah has traversed across print, electronic and digital media donning both journalist and corporate robes  @GauthamMachaiah)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sometimes-the-law-enforcer-is-an-ass-991620.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Tales in the time of a pandemic||The news in recent weeks that the rich and the famous were fleeing the pandemic for safer foreign havens prompted me to read The Decameron by Giovanni Boccaccio, if only to escape the unrelenting sense of disconcert the pandemic had wrought. What I gained, instead, was a new perspective with which to understand the pathos and the chaotic cross-purposes that have engulfed us this past year. A masterpiece written on the cusp of the Renaissance, The Decameron, probably composed between 1349 and 1352, presents one hundred stories by ten storytellers who take refuge from the plague sweeping through Florence. Narrated in frame story style, its fundamental theme is the struggle between life and death in the face of the Black Plague. The Decameron begins with the flight of ten young people (seven women and three men) from plague-stricken Florence in 1348. They retire to the countryside, where, in the course of a fortnight, their alternate storytelling occupies ten days, hence the title of the book itself, Decameron, or ‘Ten Days’. In evocative, sombre tones, Boccaccio captures the plague and the moral and social chaos that accompanies it. Reading Boccaccio can be therapeutic because it reminds us that history is replete with examples of communities and countries overwhelmed by disease and disruption far worse than what we face today. The Decameron serves as a historical chronicle of people striving with misfortune and learning to overcome it without bitterness, taking responsibility for the consequences of their own actions, however contrary to expectation, disruptive, or even tragic they may be. Giovanni Boccaccio (1313-1375), born in Florence, was the quintessential Renaissance man and his humanism comprised the everyday life. Many of Boccaccio’s characters are practical -- they want to make their lives work. The narrative in The Decameron works at two different levels. There are the stories themselves, but there is also the frame, that is, the story about how ten young citizens of Florence decided to carve out a time and a space to re-imagine their world. The 100 stories are as diverse as their protagonists. Over the 10-day narrative, all of life’s dimensions – scintillating liveliness, the power of the human will, adventure, love, deception, gloom, laughter – come alive and Boccaccio ennobles everyday experience, tragic and comic alike. It mimics life in its essence and the common is made heroic. There are many critics of Boccaccio’s earthy bawdiness, often portraying his writing as sensual and frivolous, little recognising that the humour was not gratuitous. Boccaccio was subtly challenging religious tradition, upending it with erudite and comically surprising narratives. In the context of our own times, Boccaccio points at once to human powers and their inherent limitations, without reference to the possible intervention of divine grace -- an affirmation, if you will, of the ethical values underlying every one of the stories, presenting a unity in philosophical outlook. Society is completely re-imagined in The Decameron with some stories told earnestly, while others poke fun at established orthodoxies, religious and otherwise. Part of what is happening in that masterful text is the shedding of outdated theologies, of narratives that have become irrelevant and no longer serve any purpose, and the creation of new economic, social and cultural identities. The Decameron provides valuable insight into how our moral compass alters during adversity, a grim reminder of what Covid-19 has done to us as a society -- the willingness to abandon the poor, the ostracism of the sick, the self-imposed exile of the healthy, the unmindful flight of the wealthy, the ready forsaking of family and friends, and the extreme indifference towards the disproportionately affected disadvantaged classes. Even as our own world changes rapidly, The Decameron is a metaphor that urges us to commit ourselves to a more examined way of living, a more conscious way of consuming, and to pause every once in a while from a self-centred life to rediscover our sense of community. We live in an age of uncertainty characterised by technological advance, innovation and human ambition, yet we are on a cliff, at the edge of impending disaster manifesting as excess consumption, resource depletion, climate change and pandemics. These factors create a profoundly existential predicament – the unhappy mix of the hubris of those who have and the resignation of those who have not. What might we learn from the pages of The Decameron? That death is final, yet life so full of possibilities. Accept reality as it unfolds; be irreverent of oppressive orthodoxies; abandon beliefs that are unreasonable; take time to appreciate the other; and pause to embrace humanism. Quite simply, if we fail each other, we fail as a society. Reading a creative genius like Boccaccio teaches us patience, hope, and above all, solidarity, in times of crisis.  (The author is a former civil servant who enjoys traversing the myriad spaces of ideas, thinkers, and books)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tales-in-the-time-of-a-pandemic-991621.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Making sense of Sidhu’s punches in Punjab||Congress legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu’s current continuous diatribe against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has, once again, led to idle chatter in the state’s political circles that the former cricketer-turned-politician is preparing to leave the party. This is not the first time that it has been speculated that a disgruntled Sidhu - constantly at war with Amarinder Singh, or ‘Captain’ as he is popularly called – is looking for greener pastures. The matter has acquired urgency this time as the Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year and Sidhu wants to secure the best possible deal for himself, preferably in the Congress or even outside. However, there is some merit in Amarinder Singh’s pronouncement that Sidhu has few options outside the Congress. With the popularity ratings of both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal plummeting drastically following the farmers’ protests, it makes no political sense for Sidhu to join either of these parties. In any case, neither the BJP nor the Akali Dal is keen on the proverbial return of the prodigal son. Though he was a one-time BJP favourite, Sidhu had a bitter falling out with both these parties in 2016 following which he joined the Congress. The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is also an option, especially since it stands a chance to gain ground in the next year’s Assembly polls as the Congress is facing anti-incumbency and the Akali Dal is yet to recover from their rout in the 2017 elections. However, an ambitious Sidhu is unlikely to ditch the Congress unless he is projected as the chief ministerial face of the AAP. But Kejriwal will not be amenable to this as there are murmurs that he is keen on moving to Punjab in case the AAP is in a position to form a government. Kejriwal’s role in Delhi has been diminished after the Modi government passed a Bill in Parliament designating the lieutenant governor as the government. A shift to Punjab will give Kejriwal greater functional autonomy as also a full-fledged state to rule. Moreover, the Delhi chief minister would not like to contend with someone in his ranks who has the potential to upstage him. Sidhu realises that he has few choices and that it is best for him to continue in the Congress and instead build pressure on the party’s central leadership to give him a deal of his choice. He is hoping that his proximity to Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi will ensure that Captain is not allowed to relegate him to the margins. Sidhu is currently insisting that he should be appointed the president of the Punjab Congress as this will automatically provide him with an opportunity to checkmate Amarinder Singh in the distribution of tickets in the coming Assembly polls. The Punjab CM has put his foot down and ruled out Sidhu as the head of the party’s state unit, but he is willing to give him a ministerial berth.      Consequently, the voluble MLA from Amritsar East has taken to lambasting the chief minister regularly, accusing him of having a tacit understanding with the Badal family of the Akali Dal. Sidhu’s attacks have especially focused on Amarinder Singh government’s handling of the sacrilege issue. This is an obvious attempt by Sidhu to stir up emotions among the Sikhs by reminding them of the 2015 incident when two persons were killed while protesting against the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. Amarinder Singh ordered a probe into this incident when he formed the government in 2017, but this enquiry report was quashed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Though Sidhu does not have many friends in the Congress, his outbursts against Amarinder Singh are being welcomed privately by the chief minister’s detractors in the party who also fear being marginalised by him. Like Sidhu, they too have upped the ante against Amarinder Singh and are pressing the Congress leadership to convene a meeting with party MLAs and MPs to get a first-hand account of their grievances. They insist that Amarinder Singh be replaced before the elections on the ground that the party will pay a heavy price in the Assembly polls if he is allowed to continue as the chief minister. But like Sidhu, the disgruntled legislators are essentially safeguarding their turf and want to make sure that Captain is not allowed to corner all the tickets for his handpicked candidates.   Having fared poorly in the recent Assembly polls, it is imperative for the Congress leadership to step in and put an end to the factional war in the Punjab Congress at the earliest. But it is a tough call for Sonia and Rahul Gandhi as their powers have eroded substantially in the wake of a string of electoral defeats. They are clearly in a difficult position. Removing the chief minister a few months before the state elections is not a viable option. Mollifying Sidhu and the others is equally tough as Sonia and Rahul Gandhi lack the authority to ride roughshod over Amarinder Singh.        (Anita Katyal is a Delhi-based senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/making-sense-of-sidhu-s-punches-in-punjab-991666.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Can people vaccinated against Covid-19 still spread the coronavirus?||By Sanjay Mishra for The Conversation Now anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physical distancing. Anthony Fauci, chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden, said the new guideline is “based on the evolution of the science” and “serves as an incentive” for the almost two-thirds of Americans who are not yet fully vaccinated to go ahead and get the shot. But some people cannot be vaccinated because of underlying conditions. Others with weakened immune systems, from cancer or medical treatments, may not be fully protected by their vaccinations. Children aged 12 to 15 became eligible for the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine only on May 10, 2021. And no Covid-19 vaccines are yet authorised for the nearly 50 million children in the US younger than 12. As restrictions are lifted and people start to leave their masks at home, some people worry: Can you catch Covid-19 from someone who’s vaccinated? Vaccines don’t always prevent infection Fortunately, the vaccines have vastly outperformed expectations. For example, in 6.5 million residents of Israel, aged 16 years and older, the Pfizer–BioNTech mRNA Covid-19 vaccine was found to be 95.3 per cent effective after both shots. Within two months, among the 4.7 million fully vaccinated, the detectable infections fell by 30-fold. Similarly in California and Texas, only 0.05 per cent of fully vaccinated health care workers tested positive for Covid-19. Vaccine developers often hope that, in addition to preventing illness, their vaccines will achieve “sterilising immunity,” where the vaccination blocks the germ from even being able to get into the body at all. This sterilising immunity means someone who’s vaccinated will neither catch the virus nor transmit it further. For a vaccine to be effective, though, it doesn’t need to prevent the germ from infecting an immunised person. The Salk inactivated polio vaccine, for instance, does not completely stop polio virus from growing in the human gut. But it is extremely effective at preventing the crippling disease because it triggers antibodies that block the virus from infecting the brain and spinal cord. Good vaccines provide effective and durable training for the body’s immune system, so when it actually encounters the disease-causing pathogen, it’s ready to mount an optimum response. When it comes to Covid-19, immunologists are still figuring out what they call the “correlates of protection,” factors that predict just how protected someone is against the coronavirus. Researchers believe that an optimum amount of “neutralising antibodies,” the type that not only bind the virus but also prevent it from infecting, are sufficient to fend off repeat infections. Scientists are also still assessing the durability of immunity that the Covid-19 vaccines are providing and wherein the body it’s working. Can a vaccinated person spread coronavirus? Immunologists expect vaccines that protect against viral illnesses to also reduce transmission of the virus after vaccination. But it’s actually tricky to figure out for sure if vaccinated people are not spreading the germ. Covid-19 poses a particular challenge because people with asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic infections can spread the disease – and insufficient contact tracing and testing mean those without symptoms are rarely detected. Some scientists estimate that the number of asymptomatic Covid-19 infections in the overall population could be 3 to 20 times higher than the number of confirmed cases. Research suggests that undocumented cases of Covid-19 in people who either were asymptomatic or experienced very mild disease could be responsible for up to 86 per cent of all infections, though other studies contradict the high estimates. In one study, the CDC tested volunteer health care personnel and other front-line workers at eight US locations for SARS-CoV-2 infections weekly for three months, regardless of symptoms or vaccination status. The researchers found that fully immunised participants were 25 times less likely to test positive for Covid-19 than were those who were unvaccinated. Findings like this imply that if vaccinated people are so well protected from getting infected at all, they are also unlikely to spread the virus. But without contact tracing to track transmission in a larger population, it’s impossible to know if the assumption is true. What we know for sure is that if someone does get sick with Covid-19 after vaccination, in what is called a “breakthrough infection,” symptoms will be milder. Studies have found that people who tested positive for Covid-19 after getting just their first vaccine dose had lower levels of virus in their bodies than unvaccinated people who tested positive. The researchers believe the decreased viral load hints that vaccinated people who do contract the virus will be less infectious because they will have much less virus that could be spread to others. A preprint study which has not yet been peer-reviewed suggests that the Moderna mRNA Covid-19 vaccine can produce coronavirus-fighting antibodies in the oral and nasal fluid. Since that’s where SARS-CoV-2 makes its entry, antibodies in the mouth and nose should block the virus from getting into the body, effectively providing “sterilising immunity.” This would also mean vaccinated people probably wouldn’t spread the virus through respiratory droplets. These bits of evidence are promising. But without more studies, scientists cannot yet conclude that Covid-19 vaccines really do protect against all transmission. Studies attempting to directly answer this question through contact tracing are just beginning: Researchers will track Covid-19 infections among vaccinated and unvaccinated volunteers and their close contacts. Protection and prevention go hand in hand Vaccines help slow down the spread of an infectious disease by breaking the chain of infection. Those who are infected eventually have fewer and fewer unprotected people to pass the virus on to. This is how a vaccine increases herd immunity – susceptible and not-yet-immunised people are surrounded by a “herd” of people who have become immune, thanks to vaccination or previous infection. But studies suggest that, for a combination of biological and social reasons, vaccination alone is unlikely to achieve herd immunity against Covid-19 and fully contain the coronavirus. In fact, vaccination alone can take a long time to eradicate any disease. Even diseases that are nearly “eliminated” – such as chickenpox, measles and pertussis – can resurface with waning immunity and declining vaccine rates. The recent outbreak of infections among the vaccinated New York Yankees shows that vaccinated people not only can still get infected, they might also transmit the coronavirus to close contacts. Highly tested groups, such as professional sports teams, spotlight the fact that mild, asymptomatic infections among the vaccinated in the general population might actually be more frequent than reported. A similar outbreak in airport workers in Singapore shows that, even among the fully vaccinated, new and more infectious variants can spread fast. The CDC’s relaxed guidelines on masking are meant to reassure vaccinated people that they are safe from serious illness. And they are. But the picture is less clear-cut for the unvaccinated who interact with them. Until near herd immunity against Covid-19 is achieved, and clear evidence accumulates that vaccinated people do not spread the virus, I and many epidemiologists believe it is better to avoid situations where there are chances to get infected. Vaccination coupled with continued masking and social distancing is still an effective way to stay safer. (The author is Project Coordinator & Staff Scientist, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Vanderbilt University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/can-people-vaccinated-against-covid-19-still-spread-the-coronavirus-991669.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Modi govt marks 7 years, NDA forgets its 23rd birthday||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre completed seven years on Sunday. Not many call it as such anymore, which is just as well since few remembered, least of all its constituents, that the NDA turned 23 a fortnight back. The NDA, founded on May 15, 1998, is still a 27-party behemoth, but a shadow of its earlier federal self. Apart from the BJP, only nine other NDA members have any representation in the Lok Sabha. Several of the NDA’s oldest constituents – the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Shiv Sena and Shiromani Akali Dal – have exited the alliance in the last couple of years. The attrition has been sharper since 2019. Not only the old, but some of the BJP’s newer friends have also bid it goodbye, including West Bengal’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Rajasthan-based Rashtriya Loktantrik Party. Two of the NDA’s constituents, and after the BJP its largest in terms of Lok Sabha representation, are from Bihar, and both are upset. In the Bihar Assembly polls in 2020, the BJP sacrificed ally Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on the altar of its electoral expediency. In Arunachal Pradesh, six JD (U) legislators joined the BJP in December. Allies complain of the BJP not following ‘gathbandhan dharma’, but try to keep on the right side of the ruling party in Delhi that has a brute majority and controls central agencies. But as the Sena and Akalis have shown, the battle for political survival can push even the most loyal of allies to sever ties. As the BJP continues to face criticism on its handling of the Covid-19 crisis and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, according to recent opinion polls, loses popularity, the next round of Assembly polls in February 2022 could contribute to further withering away of the NDA. The BJP might have a massive majority in the Lok Sabha. It can muster a majority by reaching out to regional parties or take the money bill route to neutralize its lack of numbers in the Rajya Sabha. But it cannot do without allies in the states. In the polls held for five legislative assemblies in 2021, the BJP was expected to do well in only one state. It retained its government in Assam, but less than a per cent of the vote share separated the victors, the BJP-led NDA, and the vanquished, the Congress-led Mahajot (grand alliance). The BJP’s win in Assam was not possible without the help of its allies – the Asom Gana Parishad and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL). The BJP’s other success in the recently concluded polls came in Puducherry. Here again, the BJP could not have won six of the nine seats it contested if not for the support from its senior partner in the union territory, the All India N.R. Congress.  If the BJP held sway in only one of the five assemblies before the recently held polls, it has much more to lose in the next round of Assembly polls to five states in February 2022. Apart from Punjab, which has a Congress government, the BJP currently runs governments in the other four – Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Manipur. In the 2017 Assembly polls in Manipur, the Congress party emerged as the single largest party with 28-seats in a 60-member Assembly. However, it was the BJP with 21-seats that formed the government with the help of the Naga People’s Front, National Peoples Party and LJP. The story was somewhat similar in Goa in the 2017 polls. The Congress was the single largest party with 17-seats in the 40-member Assembly. But the BJP, with 13-seats, formed the government with the help of the GFP, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and independents. The GFP’s relations with the BJP soured in 2019 when its legislators were dropped from the council of ministers, but it officially walked out of the NDA in April this year complaining of the Centre’s “anti-Goan policies”. The GFP is all set to ally with the Congress for the Assembly polls. The Pramod Sawant-led BJP government in Goa has faced flak for its handling of Covid-19. Alarm bells have also started ringing for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, while Punjab is already a lost cause for the party. The BJP has eight months to recover. It would not only need the help of existing and potential allies in these states to retain power, but also refocus its energies on providing succour to people and efficient rollout of social welfare schemes. The Modi government has taken small steps in this direction in the last few days. It has promised to loosen the purse strings of the PM-Cares Fund for Covid-19 orphans and is reportedly mulling another Covid-19 relief package. With soaring inflation and joblessness, will only a good monsoon help the BJP return to power in these four states? Losses would not only influence the Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat Assembly polls slated for December 2022 but could shake the faith in the BJP of its alliance partners, including in states where it runs coalition governments, like Haryana and Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-govt-marks-7-years-nda-forgets-its-23rd-birthday-991825.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Benefits of long-term equity investing||Cricket and stock markets are two topics of conversations that are felt and spoken about very passionately by most Indian households. And to be honest, there is a striking similarity between these two. Test cricket, which is the purest form of the game, is a test of one’s patience, perseverance and skill. Similarly, to be successful at equity investing, an investor needs to exhibit traits of long term investing (patience), holding on during difficult times (perseverance) and investing in the right companies (skills). To win a test match, a team needs to a) follow the grind for the entire five days b) win more sessions than the opponents in order to emerge victorious. Likewise, to create wealth, an investor needs to a) stay invested across the entire period b) have more winning years in order to compound their wealth at the end of their investment tenure. A team of 11 players is a combination of different styles and approaches, a diversification quality of prime essence to build a successful team under all types of playing conditions. The players will be challenged to different playing conditions and opponents and each player might not have the best skill set to perform in different environments. In the world of equity investing too, there are different styles and approaches to portfolio management. An investment style/approach, is defined as an investment strategy/philosophy, which tells us about the portfolio managers approach to portfolio construction. Some of the most renowned investment styles are growth, value, quality, momentum, dividend investing etc. Empirical evidence suggests that quality has outperformed and remains an ideal investment philosophy for long term wealth creation. Quality per se, as an investment style, does not have a clear outlined definition unlike Growth and Value investing. But when it comes to identifying quality stocks, in our opinion, it connotes a combination of quantitative and qualitative factors. The quantitative factors refer to stable cash flows, consistency in earnings, High profitability margins etc. Such attributes are found in secular compounding stories, which, irrespective of market cycle tend to deliver on the above parameters. The carnage in Mar-20 saw stocks across the board witness severe drawdowns in prices. But the cyclical (High Beta) ones were the most impacted as the fear of the unknown created uncertainty in business activity. Expectations were rife about a strong bounce back in the Indian economy after a disastrous Q1FY21 GDP print of -23.9%. Given the positioning, the market preference was heavy towards cyclicals names. The below table drives home the point on how the last 12 months have been a classic play on stocks which were high beta in nature combined with low RoEs. Different market conditions are suited for different investment styles and 2020 was the year when cyclicals were in the limelight. But to win over the long term, an investor’s portfolio needs to have an investment style which will deliver more consistently rather than in bouts.The overarching theme of portfolio management has always been Quality. We believe so because, from an Indian context, there is a huge dispersion between performers and non-performers and one major attribute has been the quality of these companies. Second, long term sustainable growth is achieved only if quality is an inherent characteristic among companies. Our investment thesis is derived from identifying secular compounding growth stories which arestructural in nature and have the ability to deliver for extended periods of time, rather than cyclical ones as these tend to be more volatile in earnings delivery. The proposition has worked well for us over the past decade and we continue to remain positive going ahead as well. (The writer is Head Equity, Axis AMC)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/benefits-of-long-term-equity-investing-991853.html
30-05-2021||Opinion||Is an independent director indeed independent?||In March 2021, a 3 Judge Bench of Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice of India, finally settled one of the most infamous corporate disputes of India which began nearly 5 years ago after a fallout between the Indian corporate giant Tata and Cyrus Mistry. However, on the 25th of April 2021, the Shapoorji Pallonji Group moved the Hon’ble Supreme Court with a review petition against its March 26 verdict. It set aside the NCLAT order of reinstating Mistry as the executive chairman. One of the key issues that has finally caught the attention is whether an independent director is indeed independent. This issue arose when Tata Group of Companies called Extraordinary General Meetings (EGM) for the removal of Nusli Wadia and Cyrus Mistry from their Board of Directors. This was followed by Independent Directors of IHCL and Tata Chemicals extending their support to Mistry for standing up for minority interests. This led to an extensive debate on the true independence of independent directors and the say of promotors in their removal. One may think that the person finally appointed as an Independent Director is truly independent. But the law fails to make adequate provisions to safeguard his independence post-appointment. The process of removal of an Independent Director had been kept the same as in the case of an ordinary director. Section 169 of the Act provides that a director can be removed by way of an ordinary resolution that can be passed with a simple majority (at least 50%). The effect of this provision is that the removal of an Independent Director remains in the hands of the promoters who hold a majority stake in the company. The position regarding an independent director serving his second term has since been changed for better after a recent amendment in section 169 of the Act. The provision, as it stands now, requires a special resolution (super-majority of 75%) to be passed for the removal of an independent director who is serving his second term. An independent director should be given an opportunity to be heard before a resolution is passed against him. This amendment provides a certain safeguard to an independent director re-appointed for a second time. It can be considered as a step towards ensuring better corporate governance and independence of independent directors. However, the absence of any provision which requires the removal of an independent director to be based on sufficient and reasonable grounds makes these provisions a bit redundant. The removal process effectively still remains a number game, notwithstanding that such number has been increased to 75% in the case of re-appointed independent director. The recent Tata-Mistry-Wadia fiasco has highlighted loopholes in the law surrounding independent directors. Though, the Companies Act, as a legislation, does well to ensure the appointment of an impartial person as an independent director, it fails in ensuring that such impartiality remains even after the appointment by not providing a separate regulatory mechanism for the removal of independent director. SEBI’s recent consultation paper for regulatory provisions related to Independent Directors has proposed making the process of appointment and resignation of Independent Directors more transparent. This shall secure the approval and interests of minority shareholders thus engaging them in governance decisions that shall affect them. This paper has also proposed for remuneration of independent directors through long duration stock options replacing the current practice of profit linked commission-based remuneration. What might be construed a significant proposal is disclosure of full resignation letter to stock exchanges. Although this might not be a big move but it could be construed as an indication of SEBI’s willingness to step in. The lead ought to be taken by the legislature to level the potholes on the road of independence of independent directors. This can be done, firstly, by enabling the minority shareholders to have a complete say in the appointment of a certain number of independent directors. There should be no interference of the majority shareholders, especially the promoters either in their appointment or their removal. Other directors should be appointed in a proportionate manner. Further, the removal of an independent directors shall be precluded by showing sufficient and reasonable grounds. The special resolution required for the removal of a re-appointed independent director ought to be made universal, irrespective of the term that such independent director is serving. The Companies Act places a colossal responsibility on the shoulders of Independent Directors. It, however, fails to provide sufficient safeguards for them to ensure that such responsibilities are discharged in the manner envisaged by the Code. The change in the law must come to secure the independence of independent directors, and sooner the better. (The writer is an Odisha-based lawyer and honorary member of Advisory Council of Harvard Business Review.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-an-independent-director-indeed-independent-991857.html
30-05-2021||South||Palanivel Thiagarajan: Former banker looks to fix Tamil Nadu’s finances||When DMK chief M K Stalin was sworn in as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, his choice to helm the crucial finance ministry was not surprising. PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan has a decorated CV and ticks all the right boxes. A scion of one of Madurai's distinguished political families, Thiagarajan studied at top institutions in India and the US; worked in the biggest global banks in 'videsh', married his American classmate, but returned to 'Swades' and took the political plunge.  Thiagarajan has been the new chief minister's go-to man for finance-related issues. Though a first-time MLA, Stalin as Opposition Leader had allowed the former banker to initiate the budget discussion in the Assembly for five years from 2016. And it is only fitting that he allotted the finance portfolio to Thiagarajan, who shone as an MLA by releasing a report card on his performance every six months. As IT wing chief, he is also credited with shoring up the DMK's presence on social media. But Thiagarajan now faces the unenviable task of extricating Tamil Nadu from a deep financial hole as well as coordinating international efforts to help his government fight the coronavirus. And the 55-year-old is putting all his wide contacts in the US and elsewhere to good use. A third-generation politician, Thiagarajan belongs to one of the foremost political families of Madurai. His grandfather P T Rajan of the Justice Party, a precursor to DMK, was chief minister of the then Madras Presidency, while his father P T R Palanivelrajan served as a DMK minister and Speaker of the Assembly. Thiagarajan often calls himself a “fourth-generation Dravidian” owing to the fact that his grand-uncle M T Subramania Mudaliar was a Justice Party veteran and a philanthropist. The Rajans are deeply spiritual and the family played a pivotal role in the consecration of the famous Madurai Meenakshi Amman Temple in 1963, the first after the kings seized control, and gifted the present panchaloha idol of Lord Ayyappa to the Sabarimala temple in Kerala. Though he spent most part of his formative years abroad, Thiagarajan always stayed to his roots—he married his American classmate Margaret but ensured that the wedding was in vintage Tamil style. He sports vermilion prominently on his forehead, even though he represents the DMK, a party that actively professes atheism. “My husband used to pray before Goddess Meenakshi every Friday and after his death in 2006, my son made a commitment to himself to return to Madurai every month to seek her blessings. In the past 15 years, he would have missed coming here only once or twice," Rukmini Palanivelrajan, Thiagarajan’s mother, tells DH. “And I feel it is the blessings of Meenakshi Amman that he represents Madurai (Central) for the second time,” she says. No wonder that Thiagarajan is also the DMK's potent weapon to counter the BJP whenever anti-Hindu barb is thrown at the party, as he always flaunts his family's contributions to the development of temples. That is also precisely the reason he took on Jaggi Vasudev's Free TN Temples campaign, calling him a “publicity hound”. Thiagarajan flew to the US in 1987 after graduating from the National Institute of Technology. He did his post-graduation and PhD from the State University of New York and MBA degree from MIT Sloan School of Management. Thiagarajan shifted base to Mumbai in 2007 to be close to his mother. Two years later, the family moved to Chennai, which is now their permanent home. Thiagarajan seems to be in the thick of seismic events. He was part of the Lehman Brothers when the institution filed for bankruptcy in 2008, triggering a global financial crisis. An old friend recalls that Thiagarajan was at the World Trade Centre on September 11, 2001, when passenger planes commandeered by terrorists crashed into the twin towers. Now, the former banker is in the midst of a global health emergency. Thiagarajan surrendered his green card in 2010 hoping to take the political plunge in 2011, but when things did not materialise, he moved to Singapore in 2011 to join Standard Chartered. “Though he was a high-flyer having spent most of his life in the plane, Thiagarajan is a complete family man. He believes commitment, like charity, begins at home,” a family member said. In 2015, Thiagarajan returned to Chennai for good after giving up his Singapore Permanent Residency (PR) to take the political plunge. He now largely shuttles between Madurai and Chennai. His wife and children—Palani and Vel—have seamlessly blended into the Tamil environment: they dress up in traditional attire while visiting temples and public events. Super-qualified, a family man who loves dogs, and a 'kumkum' Dravidian, Thiagarajan is widely expected to deliver for the DMK and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/palanivel-thiagarajan-former-banker-looks-to-fix-tamil-nadu-s-finances-991665.html
30-05-2021||South||Skeletons found in Tamil Nadu village||As many as five skeletons have been found from the seashore at a village in this district, prompting authorities to launch a probe. The human remains were found at the Valinokkam seashore village on Saturday, police and revenue officials said. Various angles, including murder, were being probed, police said. The village has a population of 500 fishermen working with fishing companies. The skeletons were seen protruding from the sandy surface in the area, which has been witnessing strong winds for the past many days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/skeletons-found-in-tamil-nadu-village-991687.html
30-05-2021||South||95% Covid patients in Puducherry government hospitals unvaccinated, says Lt Governor||Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday underscored the need for people getting inoculated against Covid 19 without any delay as vaccination was more efficacious and a powerful weapon to prevent onslaught of the infection. Addressing reporters here after receiving a consignment of ventilators from the Centre, she said a survey showed that 95 per cent of patients admitted to the government hospital here were found to have not received the jab. "Failure to get vaccination is a serious failure on the part of the people and hence vaccination should be taken without hesitation and without fear," she said. The Centre had supplied so far 250 ventilators to Puducherry including the consignment received on Sunday. "I am thankful to the Union Health Ministry for its gesture, and this would help Puducherry government ramp up further the facilities in the hospitals," she said. On the on going lockdown in Puducherry, she said the union territory was perhaps setting a model by adopting only a partial shutdown. "A total lockdown is avoided as it would tell upon the livelihood sources of the small vendors and daily wage earners in Puducherry. Union Territory is thus probably showing the way to the rest of the country by avoiding total lockdown and adopting only one with select restrictions." Puducherry administration extended lockdown with restrictions till June 7 from midnight of May 31. All essential services are permitted to operate between 5 am to 12 noon every day and lockdown would be in force from 12 noon to 5 am the next day. Soundararajan further noted that the oxygen facility was raised in hospitals in the union territory and the number of oxygen beds has also gone up to 1800. She felt that vaccination should be made a people's movement in Puducherry so that the union territory would emerge a totally Covid free segment in the country at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/95-covid-patients-in-puducherry-government-hospitals-unvaccinated-says-lt-governor-991750.html
30-05-2021||South||Monsoon onset delayed; likely to hit Kerala on June 3: IMD||The arrival of southwest monsoon on the Kerala coast may be slightly delayed with the India Meteorological Department on Sunday announcing that the monsoon may keep its date around June 3. Earlier, the weather bureau had declared monsoon arrival on May 31, a day ahead of the normal onset day of June 1. “The delay is due to Cyclone Yaas, which disturbed the organisation of monsoon circulation. It will however pick up around June 6 and the onset could be around June 3,” M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences told DH. In April, the IMD announced a “normal monsoon” for 2021 in which India is expected to receive 98% of the average monsoon rainfall, raising hopes of better farm productivity amidst the Covid gloom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/monsoon-onset-delayed-likely-to-hit-kerala-on-june-3-imd-991768.html
30-05-2021||South||BJP activist stabbed in Kerala||A BJP activist on Sunday suffered stab injuries when two groups of party activists clashed at Vadanappally in this central Kerala district on Sunday, police said. The activist, aged below 30 years, was stabbed by another person said to have a criminal background, on the premises of a government hospital here. They clashed over a Facebook post in connection with the recent hawala money case allegedly involving some party leaders, police said. The injured man was rushed to a government hospital and his condition is stable as of now, a police official said, adding that no one has been arrested in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-activist-stabbed-in-kerala-991783.html
30-05-2021||South||Stalin visits Covid ward in PPE to 'boost confidence' of workers||Wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday visited the Covid-19 ward at a government hospital in the industrial city of Coimbatore to instil hope among patients infected with the virus. 68-year-old Stalin, who got both shots of Covid-19 vaccine, said he visited the Corona ward despite advice against it from many people to “boost the confidence” of doctors, nurses, and other front line workers who are risking their lives every day to treat patients. The DMK president was in Coimbatore on Sunday to review the Covid-19 situation in Erode, Tiruppur, and Coimbatore districts that have been reporting a high number of cases for the past few weeks. This is Stalin's second visit to the region in recent weeks. After reviewing the situation at the Government ESI Medical College and Hospital in Coimbatore, Stalin expressed interest to meet a few patients at the Covid-19 ward and inquire about their health conditions. The Chief Minister, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, and hospital authorities dressed in PPE, entered the Covid ward. Videos released by the government showed Stalin, in PPE, wishing Covid-19 patients and interacting with them. Minutes later, the Chief Minister took to Twitter to explain the reasons behind his wearing PPE and visiting the exclusive Covid ward.   “I visited the Corona ward in ESI Hospital in Coimbatore by wearing PPE, and spoke to patients who are being treated for the Coronavirus infection. Instilling hope in patients, along with medicine, will help them recover (from the infection). Tamil Nadu government will instil hope (in patients),” Stalin wrote on his verified Twitter page. Stalin added that he visited the Covid-19 ward against advice from many “concerned people” only to “boost the confidence of doctors, nurses, and other front line workers who risk their lives every day by treating (Covid-19) patients.” The Chief Minister's act impressed netizens and DMK supporters with many taking to social media to applaud Stalin, with hashtags like #WeStandWithStalin. The hashtags supporting Stalin were trending along with #GoBackStalin which was actively supported by BJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-visits-covid-ward-in-ppe-to-boost-confidence-of-workers-991804.html
30-05-2021||South||Admin denies permit to Kerala MPs' to visit Lakshadweep||A delegation of CPI(M) MPs from Kerala was denied permission to visit Lakshadweep, citing the Covid situation. CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP Elamaram Kareem said a delegation of CPI(M) MPs from Kerala decided to visit Lakshadweep to understand the current situations. But the additional district magistrate informed that the visit should be planned for a later date considering the Covid situation. Kareem alleged that the Union Territory administration wanted to delay the visit of the MPs to keep the world from knowing the ground reality. The Lakshadweep administration on Saturday imposed fresh restrictions on issuing entry permits to the Union Territory citing Covid surge. All fresh entry permits would be hereafter issued by the additional district magistrate in the collectorate at Kavaratti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/admin-denies-permit-to-kerala-mps-to-visit-lakshadweep-991841.html
30-05-2021||South||No need to apologise to people of Goa: TN Finance Minister Thiagarajan||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan on Sunday rejected the demand from Goa Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho to apologise to Goans for “insulting” the state at the 43rd GST council meeting on May 28, saying he saw no need to say sorry for he has done them “no harm.” In a detailed two-page statement posted on his verified Twitter page, Thiagarajan took pot shots at Godinho, who jumped ship to BJP from Congress, saying the BJP should “impose some minimal quality control on its MLA acquisition procedures.” “I sincerely request the BJP, even across the political divide, to impose some minimal quality control on its MLA Acquisition procedures. If it had done so, Goa, and the nation would be saved a lot of pain,” he said. Thiagarajan's response came a day after Godinho accused the Tamil Nadu Finance Minister of insulting small states like Goa and defying the spirit of the Indian Constitution. He had alleged that Thiagarajan wanted “a bigger vote” in the GST Council since he came from a bigger state” which insulted states like Goa. Contending that the "One State One Vote" model of the GST Council is fundamentally unfair, he said the state government's view is consistent with the fundamental democratic principle of proportional representation, and consistent with the Constitution, which allocates seats in village panchayats, city councils, state legislatures, and both houses of parliament using this very principle. The Dravidian Movement has long advocated Local Self-Governance as the logical extension of our core principle of Self-Respect and Self-Determination, Thiagarajan said. “Every statement I made during the entire meeting was entirely consistent with these two principles. Even when the principle resulted in loss of potential future revenue to Tamil Nadu, we backed states that voted for this exception, including Uttar Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, and ironically, Goa,” he said. He said the Goa minister's statements during the meeting were “highly repetitive, largely vacuous, hectoring, mostly redundant to others inputs, supercilious and devoid of the basic courtesy of assuming good faith in the comments of other states Ministers.” Thiagarajan added that he saw no need to apologise to the people of Goa, for he has done them no harm. In fact, I have strongly advocated for your State Government's rights. “I do not require or expect any thanks for that, as my position was dictated by my principles of strengthening States' Rights & Federalism with enhanced devolution. But I do offer you sincere condolences, for having such a person as your Minister,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-need-to-apologise-to-people-of-goa-tn-finance-minister-thiagarajan-991845.html
30-05-2021||South||Alleged under-reporting of Covid cases in Kerala may deny assistance to many orphaned children||While over 40 children in Kerala were so far identified to be orphaned due to Covid, the alleged under-reporting of Covid cases in the state is likely to deny the assistance announced by the Centre and state to many. The initial estimation regarding the number of children orphaned in Kerala due to Covid was nine. However, sources in the Kerala Women and Child Development Department said that as many as 42 children were so far found to be orphaned due to Covid. Apart from instances of losing father and mother, there are cases where children who were under the care of grand parents or any relatives losing their guardians to Covid. Right from the initial months of the pandemic, Kerala government has been facing allegations of under-reporting Covid deaths. This has now become all the more important as apprehensions are being raised by child rights activists and opposition parties that many children may miss the assistance owing to the under reporting of Covid.  While the number of Covid death in Kerala is 8,455, the state had also formally recorded 391 death as non-Covid deaths citing that the cause of death was not Covid, but other comorbid factors. Health activists have been alleging that the actual number of Covid deaths in Kerala was much higher. State health department officials had been justifying the Covid death reporting protocol maintaining that the guidelines of WHO and ICMR were being followed. Kerala leader of Opposition V D Satheesan had raised the issue recently. He said that apart from the non-Covid deaths being recorded by the government, many die due to post Covid complications. He demanded the government to have a review of the Covid death reporting so that no children orphaned due to the pandemic was denied of the assistance. A senior official of the Kerala Women and Child Development Department told DH that they haven't gone to the details of children orphaned due to non-Covid deaths. Kerala Health Minister Veena George could not be reached for her comments. While the centre announced an assistance of Rs 10 lakh, health insurance of Rs 5 lakh till the age of 18 and education loan to children orphaned by Covid, Kerala government announced assistance of Rs 3 lakh each, monthly assistance of Rs 2,000 till the age of 18 and free education up to graduation. Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KeSCPCR) former member advocate J Sandhya said that it was the legal obligation of the government to take care of all children who were orphaned. Hence the assistance being announced by the state and centre to orphaned children need not be considered as an act of charity or generosity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alleged-under-reporting-of-covid-cases-in-kerala-may-deny-assistance-to-many-orphaned-children-991873.html
30-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh switches liquor policy from prohibition to restriction||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday announced a major shift in his government's liquor policy, moving away from prohibition (nishedham) to restriction (niyantrana). "We will implement restrictions on liquor in a phased manner to protect the families from the evil," the Chief Minister spelt out in a 16-page booklet released on Sunday, marking his government's second anniversary in office. Two years ago when he assumed office, Jagan had promised "liquor prohibition" in a phased manner as it was "ruining families and destroying human relationships." The government had taken over the liquor business in the state to "curb liquor sale" since earning profits was not the motive. It claimed that the number of retail liquor outlets has been reduced from 4,380 to 2,934 in the last two years. Now that the government has escrowed revenue from liquor sale and borrowed more than Rs 10,000 crore from various banks, the policy has ostensibly been changed from prohibition to restriction, top official sources pointed out. Even in the financial year 2021-22, the AP State Development Corporation is targeting to borrow at least another Rs 16,000 crore for various schemes. For this again, liquor revenue will be escrowed as guarantee for repayment, the sources said. In 2020-21 financial year, the government earned Rs 17,600 crore from liquor sale and a similar amount the previous year, after enhancing the rates by more than 125 per cent in two years. "But consumption of Indian-Made Foreign Liquor is down by 37 per cent and of beer by 70 per cent. It is a most difficult task to earn revenue and reduce consumption at the same time. But we are heading towards it," a top official told PTI. He said a lot of leakage has been plugged, keeping the revenue stable despite the reduction in number of shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-switches-liquor-policy-from-prohibition-to-restriction-991895.html
30-05-2021||State||A people’s doctor at Guruvayanakere||At a time when private hospitals/clinics are accused of demanding excess fees from patients, an Ayurvedic practitioner at Guruvayanakere in the taluk is providing free consultation to patients. Popularly known as  ‘Rs 10 doctor’ as this is the maximum fee some pay as consultation fee, Dr Venugopal Sharma sees around 100 patients daily. Patients with Covid-like symptoms are quickly referred to the district hospital for further tests and treatment. Dr Sharma has been practising since 1989 after completing his Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery degree from Udupi Ayurveda College. “I never fixed a consultation fee. But some patients used to pay Rs 2 initially. Later, they started paying me Rs 5. Now, it is Rs 10,” he said. The gentle Ayurveda doctor does not charge for BP and other basic tests. But people should pay for medication. “I believe in simple living and had drawn inspiration from late Dr P S Shastri from Kasargod who was our family doctor. Even late Dr V S Acharya, a former minister, is also my inspiration,” he added. “There is a stigma attached to Covid-19 among patients. I insist that all patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) have to undergo RT-PCR tests. I did get Covid a year ago and my family was also infected.  I try to instill confidence in patients by sharing my own experiences with Covid,” he stressed. To help people during the lockdown, Dr Sharma opens his clinic from 6 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/a-people-s-doctor-at-guruvayanakere-991690.html
30-05-2021||State||Karnataka govt weeds out 5 lakh dead pensioners, saves Rs 600 crore||About 5 lakh beneficiaries of pension schemes who were dead, but continued to draw pension have been removed from the list of beneficiaries over the last one year. The directorate of social security and pensions disburses pension to about 66.4 lakh persons under 13 different schemes, including Sandhya Suraksha, pension for old age persons, to destitute, widows of farmers who killed themselves and the physically challenged. Principal secretary of revenue department Manjunatha Prasad told DH that they felt the need for a thorough check after the department couldn’t get acknowledgement of receipt of pensions from many beneficiaries. The department has initiated the process of shifting payment for 30 lakh pensioners from postal money order to Aadhaar-linked bank accounts. During his previous stint in the department, Prasad had initiated the process of weeding out deceased beneficiaries. “Once we started linking the beneficiaries with the Aadhaar-seeded bank accounts, things started falling into place. Now, the village accountant visits each house, takes photo of the pensioner and uploads it on our platform,” he said. Officials said that the yearly renewal of the pension scheme has been made easy for pensioners as they get the process done at the doorstep. At the same time, the process helps in ground-level verification that the pensioner is alive. “Beneficiaries get anywhere from Rs 600 to Rs 4,000 per month depending on the scheme, their age and condition. The government had a hard time tracking the pensioners until the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme came into effect, officials said. G Prabhu, director of social security and pensions, told DH that the directorate was able to weed out 5 lakh deceased persons from the list of beneficiaries. “It has saved about Rs 600 crore to the department,” Prabhu said. He said the department is focused on sanctioning the benefit to a person without them asking for it. “Under the DBT, one doesn’t have to submit an age certificate to claim a higher amount of pension under the scheme. For example, a beneficiary gets Rs 600 between 60 and 65 years of age. The same goes up to Rs 1,000 after he completes 65 years. Now, the software automatically recognises the individual’s eligibility and increases the amount,” he added. The directorate has an annual budget of Rs 8,200 crore, aimed at helping the poor and the aged persons. The Finance Department has been working closely with the revenue department to shift the entire pension system to DBT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-weeds-out-5-lakh-dead-pensioners-saves-rs-600-crore-991877.html
30-05-2021||State||Karnataka Congress demands audit report on Covid-19 deaths||KPCC president D K Shivakumar said on Sunday that Karnataka had the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19-19 in the country and that the state government was hiding the real numbers. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said for every 100 deaths that occur due to Covid-19-19, the government is reporting only 30 cases. “This is being done to hide the government’s failure in managing the Covid-19 situation,” he said. Shivakumar, however, did not give any report or document to prove his point. “This is based on the inputs provided by my party workers from across the state,” he said, when asked for the authenticity of his claim. He blamed the government’s lack of planning and preparation that resulted in the loss of so many lives. “The government failed to provide medical care, oxygen beds and vaccination to people as a result of which the doctors could not save lives,” he said. Shivakumar demanded that the government conduct a ‘death audit’ across the state to get the real figures on Covid-19 casualties, so that eligible beneficiaries can avail of benefits announced by the state and union governments. “How will family members of the deceased get the benefit of welfare schemes, if they are not declared as Covid-19 deaths?” he said. Shivakumar reiterated his demand for allowing the Congress MLAs to divert their local area development funds for the purchase of vaccines. “Let the government allow us to purchase vaccines from the funds. Unlike BJP MLAs and MPs, who are said to be ‘brokering’ deals to vaccinate people at private hospitals for Rs 900 a shot, we will ensure that every paisa given from the government is spent on inoculating the needy,” the KPCC president said.  He said the central government had shirked from its responsibility of inoculating the people.  “No other previous central government escaped from its duty like the one headed by Narendra Modi,” he said. Shivakumar termed the financial package announced as reel package and not real financial package that could help the poor. Not even 25% of the financial package announced during the first wave has reached the beneficiaries, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-congress-demands-audit-report-on-covid-19-deaths-991881.html
30-05-2021||State||This farmer's creative juice works wonders, gives jaggery from watermelons||This hotelier-cum-farmer from Hosanagar taluk in the district has found an alternative raw material to sugarcane for producing jaggery, the watermelon.  Jayaram Nagaiah Shetty from Sampadamane near Nittur in Hosanagar taluk prepares jaggery from watermelon juice and has proved to be a role model for other farmers by his innovative thinking. Shetty was upset as the watermelon grown on his three acres of land commanded a low price. This prompted him to produce jaggery out of the juicy giant. The farmer presently has a stock of 200 kg of jaggery and he is giving it to people of the region free of cost.  Speaking to DH, he said, "I closed down Hotel Navaratna at Nittur in Hosanagar taluk after the lockdown was enforced. My produce commanded just Rs 1 per kg this year in the market, against last year's Rs 4. I decided not to sell it, as I have to spend money from my pocket even to transport the fruits. Traders from Kerala used to come here to purchase the fruit every year, but they couldn't come this year due to the lockdown." "To prevent the rotting of eight tonnes of the fruit, I decided to prepare jaggery out of watermelon juice," the farmer said.  "I had tried it in the hotel last year. But I had not prepared it on a large scale." Shetty started growing watermelon since last year, after returning to his hometown from Mumbai. His brother is still running a hotel in Mumbai, he added. He said, "with the help of the seven staff in my hotel, I prepared watermelon juice and boiled it at medium temperature. After some time, it turned into semi-liquid jaggery like joni bella, which is famous in Uttara Kannada district".  He said the juice has to be boiled for just two hours or it loses its freshness and the jaggery turns bitter. A hundred litres of juice gives 8 kg of jaggery.  "At present, I have stored 200 kg semi-liquid jaggery in containers and I am giving it to people free of cost. Farmers must think of preparing byproducts from their crops to avoid losses," he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/this-farmers-creative-juice-works-wonders-gives-jaggery-from-watermelons-991894.html
30-05-2021||State||Four teenagers drown in Bhima river||Four teenagers, including three girls, drown in Bhima river while swimming at Lavagi on the Karnataka-Maharashtra border on Sunday. Deceased are: Arathi (13) and Vittal, both children of Shivananda Parshetti of Lavagi, and Sameeksha (14) and Arpitha (13), daughters of Shivaji Tanawade of the village. Only Arathi's body had been fished out of the river. Search operation is underway to recover three bodies. All four were swept away by the strong current of Bhima river while swimming. The Mandrup police in Maharashtra have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-teenagers-drown-in-bhima-river-991904.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka loan-to-deposit ratio down, but stable: RBI study||Loans disbursed by banks in Karnataka as a percentage of their deposits saw the “largest decline” among nine states during the pandemic, according to a Reserve Bank of India study that was commissioned by the B S Yediyurappa-led administration.  This means banks are lending less, which is bad news for the government that is pushing them to give more credit, especially in the agriculture and housing sectors.  The study found Karnataka to have suffered a decline in credit-deposit ratio of 5.13 percentage points in 2020-21 fiscal compared with 2019-20, the highest decline among Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra.  The CD ratio shows how much a bank lends out of its deposits or how much of its core funds are used for lending. A falling CD ratio can indicate excess liquidity because of higher deposits and a lack of demand for credit or loans.   The state government is worried because Karnataka’s CD ratio has gone from 77.08% in June 2019 to 71.92% in September 2020. It was this trend that drove the government to get RBI’s Financial Inclusion and Development Department to take up a study on Karnataka’s CD ratio.  Variation in Bengaluru Urban, which accounts for three-fifths of Karnataka’s banking business, had an impact on the CD ratio. The CD ratio in the capital district went from 79.69% in June 2019 to 71.66% in September 2020.  “One of the main reasons behind low CD ratio of Bengaluru Urban, as confirmed by major banks, is equity-funded IT/IT-enabled services sector reducing dependence on bank credit as also large inflows in the form of foreign investments, which reflect in the large deposit base in the district,” the study said.  “Also, high percentage of bulk deposits from government departments in Bengaluru Urban, high percentage of HNI customers and pensioners are also contributing to disproportionately high deposit base in the state.” Lower levels of CD ratio for longer periods could indicate “commercial considerations as rising NPAs lead to tightening of lending standards. It could also point to increasing dependence on the informal/non-bank sector for sourcing funds,” the study said.  There is some consolation, though. The CD ratio during the past 10 financial years was the most stable in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-loan-to-deposit-ratio-down-but-stable-rbi-study-991613.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown extension: CM will take a call on June 4 or 5, says Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi on Sunday said Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a final call on the extension of coronavirus lockdown on June 4 or 5. Speaking to media persons, he said it would be premature to predict the extension of lockdown now itself, as the chief minister has to take various aspects into account. "Yediyurappa has taken all the right steps in managing Covid during the second wave. Similarly, after consulting his cabinet ministers and experts, a decision would be taken before June 7, based on the number of positive cases and prevailing conditions at that time," he said.  Medicine for black fungus Joshi said the Union government led by PM Modi has been fighting Covid on a war footing. Within 10 days, Centre was able to increase its medical oxygen production capacity from 900 tonnes to 9000 tonnes. Remdesivir, which was short of supply a few days ago, is now being open to the market and there is no shortage of supply now.  Similarly, medicines against black fungus will be supplied in abundance in the next two to three days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-extension-cm-will-take-a-call-on-june-4-or-5-says-joshi-991737.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa to announce decision on lockdown on June 5 or 6||The Karnataka government will take a call on relaxing lockdown norms based on the Covid-19 situation in the state during the coming week. A meeting will be chaired with experts and state ministers to decide whether to extend the lockdown beyond June 7 or not, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said. "There are ongoing discussions on whether to extend the lockdown or not. The government will take a call based on what the situation in the state is on June 6," he said. Yediyurappa expressed concerns over Covid case numbers in some districts as cases reported there were more than expected. "We will discuss all this on June 5 or 6 in the presence of experts and ministers, and take a call (on lockdown regulations)," he said. He was speaking at the sidelines of an event held to mark seven years of NDA rule in the Centre. On directions by the Centre to extend lockdown till June 30, Yediyurappa said that Ministry of Home Affairs has left it to the discretion of the state governments to take a call based on the situation in the state. To a question, he said that the government would announce the second stage of the relief package to those affected by the lockdown. "We are doing preparations for it," he said. The announcement came amidst complaints from various groups of having being left out from the Rs 1,250 cr relief announced by the state on May 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-to-announce-decision-on-lockdown-on-june-5-or-6-991755.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress demands 'audit' to get 'real' figures of Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivakumar claimed that Karnataka has the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 and that the state government was hiding the real numbers. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said for every 100 deaths that occur due to Covid-19, the government was reporting only 30 cases. This, he said, was being done to hide the state government’s failure in managing the Covid-19 situation. He, however, did not give any report or document to prove his point. “This is based on the inputs provided by my party workers from across the state,” he said when asked for the authenticity of his claim. He blamed the state government’s lack of planning and preparation for the loss of so many lives. “The government failed to provide medical care, oxygen beds and vaccination to people as a result of which the doctors could not save lives,” he said. He demanded the state government to conduct a ‘death audit’ across the state to get the real figures on total Covid-19 casualties so that eligible beneficiaries can avail of benefits announced by State and Central government. “How will family members get benefit from welfare schemes announced if they are not declared as Covid death?” he questioned. ‘Will not sell vaccine-like them’ Shivakumar reiterated his demand for allowing the Congress MLAs to divert their local area development funds for the purchase of vaccine. “Let the state government allow us to purchase vaccines against Covid-19 from the MLA LAD funds. Unlike BJP MLAs and MPs, who are heard ‘brokering' deals to vaccinate people at private hospitals for Rs 900 a shot, we Congress leaders will ensure that every paisa given from government is spent on inoculating needy persons.” He added the Central government had recused itself from its primary duty of inoculating people. “No other previous central governments have escaped from its duty like the one headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is doing,” he said. ‘Reel package’ Trailing his gun on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Shivakumar termed the financial package announced as ‘reel package’ and not real financial packages that could help the poor. Not even 25 per cent of the financial package announced during the first wave reached the beneficiaries. This time too the state government has announced the package without applying their mind or logic. “Give me 15 days' time, will show you how relief packages are made and distributed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-demands-audit-to-get-real-figures-of-covid-19-deaths-in-karnataka-991823.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two children from rural Karnataka contract 'black fungus'; under treatment in Bengaluru||Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, which was till now affecting only adults, has been detected among children as two cases were reported in rural Karnataka. A 11-year-old girl from Ballari district and a 14-year-old boy from Chitradurga district have been infected with the fungal disease. Both are undergoing treatment at government hospitals here and their condition is said to be serious. They had contracted Covid-19 but were not aware of it, a health official said, adding they were admitted to the hospital after they developed complications. "Two children are undergoing treatment for the black fungus infection at Government Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospitals. They are suffering from Acute Juvenile Diabetes (AJD)," a senior health official told PTI. He added that they are in a critical state. According to the state health department, 1,250 cases of black fungus have been reported so far in the state. As many as 1,193 are currently under treatment and 18 are cured while 39 have lost their lives. Meanwhile, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar told reporters here that the state has so far received around 10,000 vials of amphotericin-B drug used for the treatment of the fungal infection, from the Centre. In government hospitals, we are providing the treatment and medicine free of cost, he noted. Black Fungus has emerged as a post-Covid-19 complication, especially among diabetes patients with high sugar levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-children-from-rural-karnataka-contract-black-fungus-under-treatment-in-bengaluru-991840.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Post-Covid inflammatory syndrome on the rise among kids||Cases of a rare inflammatory syndrome among children who recently recovered from Covid-19, which had been seen last year, have made a comeback in the second wave, doctors said. Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) is a rare complication of novel coronavirus infection, characterised by fever, inflammation, and multi-organ dysfunction that typically manifests two weeks after the child has been cured of Covid-19.  The exact data about how many children in Karnataka are affected is unknown. However, doctors believe that the condition affects some 5% of Covid-recovered children.  With Karnataka having seen 48,910 new child Covid cases since the start of the second wave on March 12 (including 812 new cases on Saturday), the potential number of sufferers could be sizable. Several major hospitals in the city reported treating between 10 and two dozen cases over the last 15 days. Well-known virologist Dr V Ravi, formerly of Nimhans, said the cases should refocus attention on child health and the fact that even children who have been cured of Covid-19 do not escape further complications.   At Aster Hospitals, 12 new cases were reported over the last 15 days, according to Dr Sagar Bhattad, consultant, Paediatric Immunology and Rheumatology, Aster CMI Hospital. “Many hospitals in the city are also witnessing similar numbers of cases. In fact, this disease is being noted in tier-two cities across the state,” Dr Bhattad said, adding that MIS-C is an immune-mediated disease secondary to Covid-19 and that it does not spread unless the child is or was suffering from the novel coronavirus. The problem may not be acute in Bengaluru because many paediatricians are now aware of the syndrome unlike last year, said Dr Jagadish Chinappa, a paediatrician at Manipal Hospital and a member of the Third Wave Advisory Committee. “But delays in seeking medical care can be serious,” he said. According to Dr Bhattad “If treated in time, its fatality is less than 2%.” However, identifying MIS-C cases is problematic as its symptoms mimic other illnesses, said Dr Sridhar M, a Pediatric Intensivist at Rainbow Pediatric Hospital, where some 15 cases have been treated since the start of the second wave.  MIS-C’s symptoms of fever lasting for over 48 hours, diarrhoea, lymph node swelling of the neck, skin peeling, red eyes, stomach pains, rapid breathing and fatigue can be confused for other ailments.  Misdiagnosis in rural areas where the number of paediatricians is generally low is problematic. As per data from the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), 57% of 2,958 paediatricians in Karnataka are concentrated in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada. “Children who recently recovered from Covid-19 and show these symptoms must be presented to paediatricians. The problem generally affects children aged between 5 and 17,” Dr Chinappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/post-covid-inflammatory-syndrome-on-the-rise-among-kids-991886.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not aware of kids dying due to Covid-19: K Sudhakar||Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar has said that the government was making extensive preparations for tackling the predicted third wave of Covid-19. The minister said that the state had enlisted 200 paediatricians and other personnel to help manage the future outbreak. He was speaking at a talk organised by Namma Bengaluru Foundation on Sunday. When asked what preparations the state was made to set up pediatric ICU infrastructure for children, Sudhakar said, “in the first two waves, I have not come across any child succumbing to this pandemic or a child going into a serious condition.” However, health department data shows that 73 children have died so far, including 32 in the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-aware-of-kids-dying-due-to-covid-19-k-sudhakar-991896.html
30-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At 28,053, Karnataka's recoveries outnumber new Covid-19 cases||Witnessing the lowest daily number in Covid-19 cases in 42 days, Karnataka reported 20,378 new cases on Sunday. The new numbers place the state’s total active caseload at 3.42 lakh after 28,053 people were discharged on Sunday. The state has now made an effort to increase its testing rates. In particular, due to pressure being placed on private labs to process a large number of RT-PCR samples, the number of Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) has increased. As per official data, on May 17, RAT comprised only 7 per cent of all testing. On Sunday, it comprised 23 per cent of the total of 1.38 lakh tests done. Among the districts, the largest number of cases were found in Bengaluru Urban, which accounted for 4,734 of Sunday’s new cases or 23 per cent of the statewide total. The next highest numbers were found in Hassan district (2,227 cases), followed by Mysuru district (1,559 cases) and Belagavi (1,171 cases). The number of 382 deaths reported on Sunday was also lesser than previous days. This is the lowest single-day casualties since May 21, when 353 deaths were recorded. 213 of the fatalities occurred in Bengaluru Urban. The city, which has increased its testing rates since May 18, has a test positivity rate of 11.38 per cent, as per the BBMP Covid War Room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-28053-karnatakas-recoveries-outnumber-new-covid-19-cases-991897.html
30-05-2021||West||Kolhapur model to safeguard children from third Covid-19 wave?||The ‘Corona: Children Awareness Programme’ initiated by Maharashtra Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil, who is the Guardian Minister of Kolhapur district, was rolled out on Sunday. The programme – brainchild of Jayant Asgaonkar, an MLC – covers students from nursery to Class 12. Patil now wants the ‘Kolhapur model’ to be replicated in the state and has initiated meetings with the state’s School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. “We will first have teachers and professors on board to raise awareness about the potential risk among students and their parents. The drive will inform the students on various aspects including precautionary measures, the potential risks of the third wave and the steps to be taken for testing and treatment if infected,” said Patil. Separate guidelines are being prepared under the guidance of a district task force of doctors. Asgaonkar shared the concept with Patil early last week, the Minister announced that it will be rolled out immediately from Sunday. “The potential third wave which may hit Maharashtra and other states in August-September is likely to affect children more as predicted by the experts from the health sector. The awareness among the school-going children who were largely unaffected so far is crucial to reduce the impact,” he said. According to Patil, by using the technology which they have been using for their online learning for more than a year, the drive will be implemented more effectively. “The online awareness drive will also help us to avoid gathering of the students, teachers and their parents at one place,” said Patil. “We want it to be implemented in other districts with participation from doctors, counsellors, locally elected representatives and education department officials along with teachers. I believe this will be helpful in reducing the impact of the third wave and promote scientific temper among the people of Kolhapur and Maharashtra” said Patil. So far, children are not covered under the vaccination programme making them vulnerable. The awareness campaign will tell them about the dos and don'ts among other things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kolhapur-model-to-safeguard-children-from-third-covid-19-wave-991659.html
30-05-2021||West||3 of family drown, one missing after boat capsizes in Gujarat||A couple and their three-year-old daughter drowned while one person was missing after their boat capsized in the Panam dam reservoir in Gujarat's Panchmahal district, a police official said on Sunday. The incident took place near Shehra town on Saturday evening when the victims, hailing from Boriavi village, were heading to another village in the country boat, he said. The bodies of three victims -- Suresh Dabhi (28), his wife Rinkuben (26) and their minor daughter -- were fished out from the reservoir by a rescue team late Saturday night, Shehra police station inspector H C Rathva said. The boat driver, Ramesh Patel (30), was missing and efforts were on to trace him, he said. A team of rescue personnel from neighbouring Vadodara was searching for the missing person, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-of-family-drown-one-missing-after-boat-capsizes-in-gujarat-991680.html
30-05-2021||West||Goa announces Rs 2 lakh compensation for Covid victims||The Goa government on Sunday announced compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for the kin of Covid-19 victims who were either breadwinners of the family or hailed from poor backgrounds. Making the announcement in his Statehood Day address, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant also said another scheme, called 'Mukhyamantri Anath Aadhar Yojana', will be launched, under which orphaned children will get monthly financial aid. The age limit for inmates in childcare institutions has been raised to 21, he said, and orphans, irrespective of whether their parents succumbed to the coronavirus infection, who are in Class X will be provided free laptops by the state government. Sawant said his government was trying its best to tackle the outbreak and the positivity rate of the infection was steadily declining in the state. The second phase of the vaccination drive for those in the 18-44 age group will begin from June 3, the CM said. Couples with children below the age of two, people with comorbidities, rickshaw-taxi drivers, seafarers, differently-abled persons etc would be given priority in vaccination, Sawant informed in his address to the state. He thanked previous governments for their efforts that helped shape the progress of the state and also hailed the Narendra Modi government at the Centre for its help in the past seven years, and more significantly during the coronavirus outbreak. Announcing an administrative decision, the CM said some legal documents, which still carry 'Goa, Daman and Diu' will now just have the word Goa, and the state law department has been asked to do the needful. He also said panchayats in a financially weak position would be given a fund of Rs 50,000 to tackle damages from the recent cyclone or the Covid-19 outbreak, and the amount would be transferred by Monday or Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-announces-rs-2-lakh-compensation-for-covid-victims-991733.html
30-05-2021||West||Gujarat: Maharaja of erstwhile Kutch state dies of Covid-19 complications||The Maharaja of Kutch, Maharrao Pragmalji III, the titular ruler of the Jadeja dynasty of the erstwhile Kutch state, died of complications related to Covid-19, sources in the royal family said on Sunday. The Maharaja, 85, had no children and with his death, the throne of the ruler of the erstwhile state remains vacant as he did not name an heir apparent, they said. Pragmalji III died on Friday and his last rites were conducted at Chhaterdi in Bhuj, the royal resting place, with Covid-19 guidelines, the sources said. He is survived by his wife, Maharani Priti Devi, the princess of the erstwhile state of Tripura, as well as a brother and a sister. His wife had also tested coronavirus positive and she underwent treatment at a private hospital in Bhuj. She is now out of the hospital and recovering, the sources said. Born as Prithvirajji on May 3, 1936, Pragmalji III was the eldest son of the erstwhile ruler of Kutch, Maharao Madansinhji. He was anointed as Maharrao and renamed Pragmalji III at a ceremony on October 17, 1991, after his father's death. He spent his early years in Mumbai and London before settling down in Bhuj, where he remained actively connected with the development of people in the region. He was in favour of a separate state status for Kutch, the largest district in Gujarat which had suffered a massive damage during the 2001 earthquake. The royal family owned several palaces like the Prag Mahal, Ranjit Vilas Palace, Aina Mahal and Vijay Vilas Palace. The Vijay Vilas Palace became popular after Bollywood movie "Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam" was shot here. The ruler of the Kutch state had ceded power to the Indian Union in May 1948. In a tweet on Friday in the Kutchi language, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the demise of the Maharaja and prayed for the peace of his soul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-maharaja-of-erstwhile-kutch-state-dies-of-covid-19-complications-991735.html
30-05-2021||West||Indian Navy to take charge of flying ICU||A Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU) has been installed onboard ALH Mk III from INAS 323 at INS Hansa in Goa by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). With ALH Mk III, an all-weather aircraft, being equipped with MICU, the Indian Navy can now undertake medical evacuation of critical patients by air even in unfavourable weather conditions. The MICU has two sets of defibrillators, multipara monitors, ventilator, oxygen support as well as infusion and syringe pumps. It also has a suction system to clear secretions in the mouth or airway of the patient. The system can be operated on aircraft power supply and also has a battery backup of four hours. The equipment can be installed in two to three hours to convert the aircraft into an air ambulance. This is the first of eight MICU sets to be delivered by HAL to the Indian Navy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-to-take-charge-of-flying-icu-991759.html
30-05-2021||West||Padmanabha Swamy Temple jumbo 'Darshini' gifted by erstwhile Travancore king dead||An elephant, gifted by the erstwhile Travancore king Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma to the famed Sree Padmanabha Swamy shrine here, died following a prolonged illness. The female jumbo, named Mathilakam Darshini alias Darshini, died on Saturday. It was believed to be aged between 55-58 years and was suffering from abdomen-related ailments for some time, sources here said. A darling of the devotees and the local people, the elephant had been a constant presence in various temple rituals especially during the annual 'arattu', the traditional procession in which the idol of the deity is taken for a holy bath. "Darshini was very calm and nobody has raised any complaint against her so far," a royal family member said after offering tributes to the dead animal. As per the temple records, Darshini and two other female jumbos were received from the forests of Western Ghats in the year 1966. As a mark of respect to the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, the elephants were given the names "Indira", "Priya" and "Darshini". King Chithira Thirunal, who liked the jumbo named Darshini very much, and gifted her to the Lord Padmanabha Temple then managed by the royal family. Several people, including royal family members and former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan, who is also a member of the temple administrative panel, offered his respects to the animal by adhering to Covid protocols. Though there was a demand from the devotees to lay the jumbo to rest on the temple precincts or near the shrine, it was later cremated at a forest department-owned land in Kulathupuzha near here due to space constraints, temple sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/padmanabha-swamy-temple-jumbo-darshini-gifted-by-erstwhile-travancore-king-dead-991781.html
30-05-2021||West||Covid vaccines found stored in normal fridge at Mumbai hotel||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday conducted an inspection at a hotel in suburban Andheri and found several Covid-19 vaccines stored there in a normal fridge, in violation of the laid down norms. The Covaxin doses found stored there have been sealed and an inquiry has been ordered, she said. The mayor conducted the inspection at The Lalit Hotel in Andheri East, during which some Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials accompanied her. Talking to reporters later, Pednekar said there is a tie-up between the hotel and a local private hospital. The hospital had procured the Covid-19 vaccine doses from the central government, which the civic and the state authorities were not aware of, she said. "The Lalit Hotel had received a proposal from the hospital that people can be vaccinated there (at the hotel). As per the proposal, those people, who do not have a family to look after following the vaccination, can stay in the hotel after inoculation...Here 500 people have been vaccinated," the mayor said. The hotel is not to be blamed, but the hospital has not adhered to the norms concerning the cold storage of vaccines, she said. "How did they get Covaxin doses when many BMC centres don't have them? I found doses, which were stored in a normal fridge. This can result in side-effects to those vaccinated. The recovered vaccines have been sealed and an inquiry will be carried out," Pedkenar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-vaccines-found-stored-in-normal-fridge-at-mumbai-hotel-991788.html
30-05-2021||West||Alert Central Railway motorman saves life by braking in time||Timely action by an alert motorman of the Central Railway saved the life of a person lying on track between Tilak Nagar and Chembur suburban stations in Mumbai. Motorman P K Ratnakar, while working on a Panvel local - leaving Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 14.12 hrs on Saturday noticed one person lying on the tracks. While negotiating to neutral section the speed of local train was slow in Tilak Nagar-Chembur section. He immediately applied emergency brakes and stopped the train just 10-12 metres before the person on track. Passengers in the train helped him to take away the person to safe place from track. The quick thinking by motorman Ratnakar, averted any untoward mishap. "The work done by him is highly commendable. Guard of the local train was also informed to apprise the same to the Control," a CR spokesperson said. Due to his alertness and timely, prompt action of the motorman saved  life of a person. He will be awarded suitably, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/alert-central-railway-motorman-saves-life-by-braking-in-time-991805.html
30-05-2021||West||Covid-19 super-spreaders: Surat starts green, white card plan||The Surat Municipal Corporation in Gujarat has introduced a 'green health card' for grocers, vendors, drivers etc to make people they come in contact with aware that the card-holder has been vaccinated against Covid- 19 with one or both doses, an official said on Sunday. These categories, as they come in contact with a large number of people in their line of work, can be "potential super spreaders" and it is for this reason that the SMC introduced the coloured health card system, he added. "The green health card will tell customers that people employed in such categories do not pose the risk of spreading the virus," the civic official said. Deputy Municipal Commissioner Ashish Naik said those who had not been vaccinated or even tested for the virus would be given white health cards. These people will have to get themselves tested once every week and would be allowed to work only after their report returns negative, Naik added. "Green health card-holders will no longer need weekly Covid-19 tests. We have already issued 89,000 white and 10,000 green cards so far," Naik said. Surat city has a caseload of 1,09,371 as on Saturday, including 1,607 deaths, while 1,05,562 have been discharged post recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-super-spreaders-surat-starts-green-white-card-plan-991807.html
30-05-2021||West||Have a nationwide policy for class 12 exams, CM Thackeray urges PM||With students of class 12 restlessly awaiting the decision on conducting board exams, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to have a “nationwide policy” for the examinations. “We have taken a decision for Class X examination, we are working out how to deal with Class XII examination,” Thackeray said. “I will write to the Prime Minister... if needed I will speak to him on this issue... let us have a nationwide policy on the issue on how to deal with the situation,” he said. The Maharashtra government has decided to give mass promotion to Class 10 students and the results will be declared in June based on the marks obtained by the students in Class IX exam and Class X internal exams. “We will soon take a decision on the Class XII exam... but if it is similar in all states that would be better for all,” he said, Thackeray also said that the state government has to rework strategies for education. “We have Work-from-Home for offices... for over a year, students are working online... We have to work out some solutions in the future and harness all technologies available,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-a-nationwide-policy-for-class-12-exams-cm-thackeray-urges-pm-991865.html
30-05-2021||West||CM Thackeray announces 'corona-free village' mission||Having faced two waves of Covid-19, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced a 'corona-free village' mission and prepared for the impending waves of the pandemic. “Let us work on ‘Corona-mukt gaon’... This will help in making the taluks and districts Covid-19 free,” Thackeray said. The lockdown-type strict restrictions have been extended till June 15 with some relaxations like in places where the positivity rate is below 10 per cent. The shop timings have also been extended from the current 7 am-11 am to 7 am-2 pm. Thackeray said that the relaxations would be announced in phases depending on the situation and not at one go. “Ahead of the third wave we have to take all precautions,” he said. “Lockdown is the worst thing to do to the people who love you... but we are forced to do it because of the situation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-thackeray-announces-corona-free-village-mission-991893.html
30-05-2021||West||At 18,600, new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra returns to September 2020 levels||The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra has improved and has returned to September 2020 levels as the single-day cases on Sunday was 20,000. The situation in Mumbai, the financial capital of Mumbai, has considerably improved, with that figure hovering between 900 to 1,100 for the last few days. On Sunday, the state recorded 18,600 cases and 402 deaths, taking the progressive total to 57,31,815 and 94,844, respectively. In another good sign, the active cases dropped below the three-lakh mark to 2,71,801 cases on Sunday. During the day, 22,532 patients were discharged, taking the total recovered patients to 53,62,370. While Mumbai logged 1,062 cases over the last 24 hours, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) saw 3,110 fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-18600-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-returns-to-september-2020-levels-991898.html
