31-05-2021||First Edit||Case for more consultations||The current face-off between the government and social media companies involve multiple issues like the limits of regulation of social media, including the government’s right to identify and punish offences, and the individual’s right to privacy. But these are not straight and simple issues because the regulatory powers can be misused and privacy concerns can be exaggerated. There is a contradictory dimension also to the privacy issue because social media platforms, which claim that they are committed to protect the privacy of their customers, share customers’ data with others or propose to do so. Some of these issues are involved in the case filed by WhatsApp, the messaging application used by 50 crore Indians, in the Delhi High Court against the government over the new IT rules that mandate, among other things, that digital media companies must disclose the identity of the ‘first originator of information’ when the government seeks it. WhatsApp contends that in order to comply with the new rules, it would have to break the end-to-end encryption that ensures user privacy, undermining people’s right to privacy. But the new user policy of WhatsApp allows it to share an individual’s information — generated when a user interacts with a business account on WhatsApp — with its parent company, Facebook, and other group firms which may use it for financial benefit. In other regions, such as Europe, users can refuse to allow WhatsApp to share their data, but in India, users do not have this option. This is because the European Union (EU) has a strong data protection law. India is yet to legislate such a law, though it is being formulated for over two years. This legal vacuum has enabled WhatsApp to discriminate against Indian users. The wider issue of the government demanding compliance with the new IT rules from intermediaries is also not simple. The more stringent rules had to be complied with by ‘'significant media intermediaries” before May 25. The demands included, apart from the government’s right to seek the origin of messages, appointment of compliance officers and other executives who will co-ordinate with law enforcement agencies. The IT rules themselves are problematic because they are not fully supported by legislation and the government’s grounds for stringent actions under them may not always be genuine. Its powers are liable to be misused. But non-compliance can lead to difficult situations that involve matters like the right to privacy and freedom of expression, national sovereignty, investment environment etc, none of which can be seen in isolation. While a judicial decision is awaited, there may be a case for more consultations, as some intermediaries have sought. There is a demand from other stakeholders also for extension of the compliance period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/case-for-more-consultations-991989.html
31-05-2021||In Perspective||Victims of discrimination||A YouTuber from Punjab calling an MLA from Arunachal Pradesh as “Chinese” recently caught the public’s attention after the story went viral on social media. But there could be many such incidents going unreported. Racial discrimination against North-Eastern people in mainland India is nothing new, though new incidents keep occurring. How could one forget Nido Tania, the boy from Arunachal Pradesh who was beaten to death by shopkeepers in a fight sparked by taunts on the hair colour of the Arunachalee boy in Munirka, Delhi? Memories of a few North-Eastern boys being denied entry in a supermarket in Bengaluru for physically resembling the Chinese and therefore a Covid carrier though they wore masks and showed them their identity cards are still fresh even after a year of its occurrence. The obvious question that comes to the mind then is, ‘what initiative has been taken to curb the menace?’ or to put in a different perspective, why is no effective step taken by the concerned to ensure the basic safety of the Northeasterners? The recent discrimination case involving the YouTuber from Punjab reveals an uncomfortable trend among some miscreants to use discriminatory words to humiliate and subjugate their North Eastern counterparts. These discriminatory acts stem from the comfort in the belief that incidents such as this do not attract any fearful consequences. It is thence commendable on the part of the Arunachal police to pursue the case with utmost seriousness to book the culprit and thereby send a stentorian message to the public. This effort of the police in collaboration with the Punjab police should be emulated by other states to give nothing away in cases of discrimination against the North East people if the intent is to sincerely address the issue. Geographical and physical differences should not be allowed to be misused as an opportunity to divide the people of India; discrimination has the dangerous potential of sowing seeds of disunity and could knock for six the integrity of the country. It is worth remembering that a year ago, an animal activist had called Nagas ‘Chinki’ and was booked by the Nagaland police and brought to Kohima to face trial. The accused did apologise and appeared remorseful and seemed to have learned her lesson. She was later released and it is highly doubtful the person will repeat the same mistake again. But the crux of the matter is if the punishment awarded is exemplary enough to discourage others from committing the crime. Stringent actions It is in this aspect the effort of the Arunachal police to nab the YouTuber despite his apology, that deserves adulation. Racial discrimination is too serious a matter to be dismissed with a note of apology merely. More stringent actions should be awarded to discourage potential discriminators. At a time when the nation is reeling under severe impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is unthinkable as to how a feeling of hatred and enmity could be developed against one’s own countrymen at this juncture. We should all hang our heads in shame and introspect. The challenge now is  to find a solution to put an end to these humiliating culture for good. Not all victims have the blessing like those in the case of the YouTuber from Rajasthan wherein the case has the close supervision of Union Minister Kiren Rijiju. That timely intervention of the minister could be the main reason for the swift punitive actions. Should all incidents of crime against North-Eastern Indians be then allocated to ministers for timely action? In all the cases involving discrimination of N-E people, the victims are not just those directly affected. India as a country that celebrates diversity is the main victim. Also, racial discrimination spans regional enmity as is evident in the past incidents. Such episode of social media news emanating from cases of discrimination against Northeasterners has in the past fuelled regional enmity and resulted in the attack on people belonging outside the region and vice versa. It is a dangerous trend detrimental to the idea of unity in diversity. Endowing paramount importance to the issue of racial discrimination is a pressing necessity that merits the collective endeavour of authorities concerned and the general public. The initiative warrants policies and actions devised, taking into account the grave ramifications it has beyond the concerns of North-Eastern Indians alone. The government has taken a commendable step of forming North East helplines to specifically attend to the concerns of North Eastern people in a few metropolitan cities. Considering the rise in crime against NE people in various places, is it time to ponder the possibility of installing NE helplines in all states? As for tackling the menace of the increasing discriminatory remarks, it is time discussion on the issue of racial discrimination is given a centrepiece in our social sphere to spread the awareness of it being a vicious social evil.  (The writer is an author and freelance writer based in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/victims-of-discrimination-991988.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Krishi Sanjeevini initiative gets good response in Dakshina Kannada||Krishi Sanjeevini, a novel initiative of the government to take labs to agriculture fields, study the conditions and address the needs of the farmers, has received a good response in Dakshina Kannada. According to Assistant Agriculture Director Veena, farmers have been seeking queries related to horticulture crops, especially arecanut and coconut, by dialling the number 155313. “As the activities related to agriculture crops, especially paddy, are yet to commence, the farmers might seek suggestions when the activities commence during the monsoon,” Veena told DH. "There are 1.50 lakh families dependent on agriculture for livelihood in Dakshina Kannada. The farmers should make use of the facilities," said DK Agriculture Department Joint Director Seetha. "At least two to three queries are received in a week from the farmers. The queries on the soil test could not be conducted due to the moisture content in the soil following the rainfall lashing the region for the last couple of days. The soil test will be conducted on the farmland by the officials once the moisture content of the soil reduces," the officer added. The Krishi Sanjivini van will take the lab to the farmers' fields to address the needs of the farmers about pest control, the fertility of the soil, weeds and suitable crops in the existing conditions. With this, farmers get support in the form of suggestions from officials for their farming techniques. Depending on the soil, water and pests inflicting the crops, the Agriculture Department personnel suggest remedies on the spot. To provide solutions on the spot, the vehicle is also fitted with the required software. The farmers are also guided on the nutrients for the soil. To ensure coordination between the officials from the agriculture department and technical staff, the vehicle has been equipped with satellite-based geo-fencing technology. It can function even in those villages that have no internet connectivity, the officials said. The Krishi Sanjeevini vehicle has one technical staff who also trains farmers on pest control and identification of pest menace, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krishi-sanjeevini-initiative-gets-good-response-in-dakshina-kannada-992060.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress leader Lawrence D’Souza seeks financial aid to labourers||District Congress Labour Cell president Lawrence D’Souza on  Monday sought financial assistance and other facilities for the labour class. "All commercial works have come to a halt due to The lockdown. The labourers are in distress. The state government should extend financial assistance and other facilities," he told reporters.  The family of the labourers who succumbed to Covid-19 should be given a compensation of Rs 10 lakh. The government should offer free education to their children. A monthly pension of Rs 10,000 should be paid to the labourers for a period of six months, he demanded. He urged the government to vaccinate labour classes on priority.  The tax collected by the urban local bodies should be waived off for the labourers' families. Financial assistance should be given to drivers and conductors of private buses and teachers of unaided schools. The honorarium for the Anganwadi workers should be hiked. The assistance should be given to beedi workers and also fishermen. The DK Congress Labour Cell would organise a blood donation camp at Vamanjoor church hall on June 2 at 9 am, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-leader-lawrence-d-souza-seeks-financial-aid-to-labourers-992189.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka students travelling abroad for study to get Covid-19 vaccine jab from today||In a big relief for students, who have got admissions in foreign universities, the state government has decided to vaccinate them against Covid-19 on a priority basis from Tuesday. In an official communication, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said that the students from Karnataka, who have secured admission in universities abroad, will be vaccinated on priority. The students will be given Covishield vaccine and even the gap between the two doses will be six weeks, he added.  This applies even to those who want to travel to other countries for work/employment reasons. The National Health Mission has issued a revised list of preferential groups for vaccination by adding four more groups which include students travelling to foreign countries for higher education and employment. This revised group also includes the workers of milk cooperative societies and cable operators. “As many students have got admissions at foreign universities and plan to travel early in July, we have decided to reduce the gap between two doses of Covishield,” Ashwath Narayan said in the press release. The gap between the two doses will be not less than six weeks. The central government has extended the gap between two doses to 12 to 16 weeks for other citizens.  The vaccination campaign for students travelling to foreign countries will begin at Bengaluru City University (BCU) in Bengaluru around 3 pm on Tuesday (June 1) at the administrative block.  The chief commissioner of BBMP as well as deputy commissioners of all districts have been asked to issue the necessary certificates to students going to foreign countries for studies as well as work purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-students-travelling-abroad-for-study-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-jab-from-today-992220.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 numbers high in Belagavi, Mysuru, Hassan but dip in positivity rate||An overwhelming 46.5% of the 3.14 lakh active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, till Monday, were in Bengaluru Urban district alone. Four other districts, led by Belagavi with 15,250 cases and Mysuru with 15,085 cases exceeded the 10,000-mark. Behind the Bengaluru Urban’s total fatality count of 13,345 was Mysuru with 1,624 deaths, Ballari (1,358), Dharwad (969) and Dakshina Kannada with 911 deaths. The total number of lives, claimed by the pandemic, stood at 29,090, according to the latest data furnished by the department of health and family welfare. In the 24 hours of Sunday, the dreaded virus took the lives of 411 people across Karnataka. While 242 of them were from Bengaluru Urban, 15 deaths were reported from Belagavi, 13 each from Mysuru and Shivamogga, 12 from Hassan, and 10 each from Dharwad and Uttara Kannada. Compared to a week before, the overall number of active cases across the state has seen a sharp decline. A week before, on May 24, the number of total active cases was 4.40 lakh. The fatalities till then were 25,811. The case fatality rate (CFR) for the day stood at 2.09%. However, it climbed to 2.47% on Monday. The decline in active cases has seen a uniform pattern across most districts. In Belagavi, the total active cases on May 24 was 17,441, as many as 2,191 more than what was reported on Monday. In Mysuru too, the active caseload of 15,455 was less than a week before. However, the decline was much slower here. The total number of deaths a week before was the highest in Mysuru at 1,507 after Bengaluru urban district. Ballari had reported 1,242 fatalities, Dharwad 868, Dakshina Kannada 861 and Tumakuru 816. The overall positivity rate for the state at 23.28% on May 24 came down to 13.57% a week later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-numbers-high-in-belagavi-mysuru-hassan-but-dip-in-positivity-rate-992229.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Monday relaxation: Heavy rush in markets, meat stalls do good business||A large number of people thronged shops and markets to purchase essential goods after two days of tough lockdown in Mysuru on Monday. The district administration had announced a tough lockdown in Mysuru district from May 29 till June 7, giving relaxation on Mondays and Thursdays, to enable the public to buy required items between 6 am and 12 noon. People were seen gathering at the markets, shops and roadsides buying vegetables, fruits and groceries. They never bothered to follow the Covid norms like social distancing. Though the police personnel were stationed at several areas, trying to stop the unnecessary movement of vehicles, at one point, they turned mute spectators. Usually, there are not much takers for meat and chicken on Mondays. But, this week, even the meat sellers were doing good business as the people were involved in buying the non-vegetarian food to store it to be used for Tuesday or Wednesday. The district administration had also ordered closure of meat stalls and permission given to do business only on Mondays and Thursdays. It may be mentioned that the meat sellers took exception to this claiming that both Mondays and Thursdays are no meat days and the business will be affected. They had even urged the administration to reconsider the decision. However, all meat and chicken stalls were busy doing business on Monday between 6 am and 12 noon. Similarly, all liquor shops too were found doing good sales. The Agriculture Produce and Marketing Committee (APMC) at Bandipalya too was overcrowded defeating the very purpose of lockdown. There was no social distancing and most of them were not wearing masks properly. A section of the people opined that the two days lockdown relaxation announced by the district administration as unscientific. The shops should be allowed to sell commodities from 6 am to 10 am on all the days. This would prevent panic buying and heavy rush, they opined. Traffic jam was common on the day, as the vehicles were parked haphazardly near the markets, causing inconveniences to others. However, the police swung into action after 12 noon and asked the shops to close. They also used public address system announcing the shopkeepers to close or face action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/monday-relaxation-heavy-rush-in-markets-meat-stalls-do-good-business-992234.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elected representatives flayed for criticising DHO||The members of the Government Medical Officers’ Association, district unit, took severe exception against the people’s representatives for abusing District Health Officer Dr T Amarnath in a meeting recently. In a press conference here, on Monday, Dr Devi Anand, President of Mysuru District Government Medical Officers Association, said, “The doctors are working risking their lives. But, the people’s representatives are defaming us. The representatives must cooperate during emergency situations rather than discouraging.” It may be mentioned that District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar had charged the DHO with derogatory remarks, during a meeting recently. Even MP Pratap Simha and MLAs had charged the officer.    Dr Amarnath has not done anything wrong in distribution of medicines. But, a few people representatives defamed him in a meeting in front of district-level officials. The doctors are upset with the attitude of the people’s representatives, he said. He also said that the doctors have threats at taluk and primary health care centres and the authorities have failed to give police protection. He also threatened of launching a protest if the authorities failed to ensure safety of the doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elected-representatives-flayed-for-criticising-dho-992238.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||700 plus Covid deaths not disclosed, alleges Sa Ra Mahesh||JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh alleged that the district administration is providing false information on Covid deaths and said that 700 plus deaths were not disclosed. The death rate has not declined as projected in the district. In a press conference here, Mahesh said that the district administration is not disclosing all the deaths reported due to Covid. According to him, the district administration has reported a total of 238 deaths between May 1 and May 29 but, the actual numbers are 969. The MLA displayed the documents collected by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). Suspecting more than 3,000 deaths in the district, Mahesh said he is collecting necessary documents to prove it. According to the MLA, a Covid infected person from K R Nagar taluk died two days ago. But, the death was not disclosed in the statement issued by the district administration.       To a query, Mahesh said, he will write to Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Chief Secretary and Human Rights Commission demanding an investigation. As per the documents availed from the district administration and MCC, 731 deaths reported due to Covid have not been disclosed. “If the government announces any benefits, these families will be deprived of it,” he said. Mahesh said, "The government is being misled to project Covid is on the decline in the district. The death rate has not declined and the statistics proves it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/700-plus-covid-deaths-not-disclosed-alleges-sa-ra-mahesh-992239.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Economist welcomes govt’s Covid package||The economists have welcomed the state government’s package ofRs 1,250 crore with an intention of reducing the social and economic stress of the people during Covid. But, there are certain challenges before the government to ensure that all the real beneficiaries get assistance. According to R H Pavithra, Associate Professor of Economics, Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), it is a difficult task to identify all the eligible beneficiaries. If these packages are given only to the registered beneficiaries, many of the domestic workers, rag pickers, loaders (hamalis), are not registered. These unregistered workers are in real need of these packages at this crucial situation, she said. The package of Rs 2,000 each to domestic workers, rag pickers, hamalis and Rs 3,000 each for construction workers is meager amount and insufficient for them to lead lives during the pandemic. The professor suggested that the foodgrains announced to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families  should be extended for a few more days till the situation returns to normalcy in terms of socio-economic and health. Meanwhile, the government should provide N95 masks, sanitisers, in large quantity through PDS for the BPL families, she said. Another important issue is that a large number of people, particularly labourers, have migrated from urban areas to rural areas during the lockdown. The government has not given any benefits or packages to these labourers or the agricultural labourers of rural areas at the foremost. Therefore, it is recommended to enhance the work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) and also to hike the wages of MNREGA labourers. The number of man days should also be increased, Pavithra suggested. According to her, the government has announced Rs 494 crore, out of Rs 1,250 crore, (40%), for the construction workers registered with Karnataka building and other constructions workers welfare board. But, the government was supposed to offer basic minimum requirement of the workers during the pandemic, as the construction owners, coming under the board, have taken the welfare measures, Pavithra stated. She also opined that it is better if the government extended time for repayment of loan borrowed by unorganised labourers from commercial or nationalised banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/economist-welcomes-govt-s-covid-package-992240.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen tragedy: Retd HC judge Patil visits dist hospital in Ch'nagar||B A Patil, retired High Court judge, appointed by the Karnataka government to probe the circumstances and events leading to the deaths of Covid patients at the Chamarajanagar district hospital due to scarcity of oxygen, visited the hospital on Monday and gathered information. Patil visited the hospital at 2.30 pm on Monday and held discussions with Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences Dean Dr Sanjeev, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr M C Ravi, District surgeon Dr Srinivas, Covid Nodal Officer Dr Mahesh and collected information. He also inspected the waiting hall at the Covid hospital, oxygen supplying unit, and newly established oxygen units. District Principal and Sessions Judge Sadashiva S Sultanpuri accompanied him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-tragedy-retd-hc-judge-patil-visits-dist-hospital-in-chnagar-992241.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||DHO serves notices for vaccinating forest dept staff||Mysuru District Health Officer (DHO) Dr T Amarnath has served show-cause notices on the Taluk Health Officers of Nanjangud and H D Kote for vaccinating forest department staff even though they have been listed as priority group by the State government. The forest department staff have taken an exception to the move pointing out that their department is at risk due to Covid-19 and forest duties. The May 20 letter of the National Health Mission (NHM) on priority groups in the 18 to 44 year age groups for vaccination lists the forest department along with 17 other groups. Deputy Conservator of Forest K C Prashant Kumar declined to comment on the decision of the health department officials. “There is a high risk of infection to the forest department staff and the possible spread of the infection from them. Our staff visit villages and tribal hamlets for planting of saplings, patrolling, checking man-animal conflict and other works. It is better if they are vaccinated. It is up to the health department to take a call,” he said. The DHO was not available for a comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dho-serves-notices-for-vaccinating-forest-dept-staff-992242.html
31-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Spat with DC: Speak with CM B S Yediyurappa, Shivakumar tells Pratap Simha||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar has challenged the Mysuru MP Pratap Simha to "speak to the chief minister and transfer the Mysuru deputy commissioner." "Both the DC and the MP are making allegations against each other. It is premature to judge who is right or wrong. If he (Simha) has problem with the style of functioning of the deputy commissioner, let him impress upon the CM to change the DC," Shivakumar said. Speaking to media persons in Dharwad on Monday after distributing food packets to the poor and auto drivers. He said that frequent transfer of officials was a tradition of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/spat-with-dc-speak-with-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-shivakumar-tells-pratap-simha-992247.html
31-05-2021||Main Article||Yediyurappa will have a say||There is speculation in Karnataka about replacing Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa (BSY as he is known popularly) following demand by his detractors for a change of leadership. The most recent of such demands were articulated by a couple of his own ministerial and legislator colleagues who tried rather unsuccessfully to raise the issue with the party high command. Earlier, a visit to Delhi by BSY’s trusted Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Vijayendra, BSY’s son and party vice president, was also seen as speculation for change of leadership, though the two of them vehemently denied it. Maybe such demands for change of Chief Minister is to be seen in the larger context of the special circumstances under which BSY was made Chief Minister in 2019 by the party violating its own unwritten rule that leaders above 75 years should not hold ministerial positions. But that was a concession made to reward BSY for his successful ‘operation Kamala’ to bring the party to power, toppling the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. Yet another reason for the frequent rise of the issue of leadership change lies in BSY’s inability to contain factionalism within the party with senior leaders like Basanagouda Patil Yatanal, who was minister in Vajpayee’s cabinet, frequently opposing his continuance as CM. What has perhaps added grist to the demand for change, is BSY’s inability to wrest the Maski assembly byelection seat recently from the Congress, though he succeeded in ensuring the victory of the party candidates in the other two byelections. Maski was a constituency where Yediyurappa’s son Vijayendra had supervised the entire byelection process including candidate selection and campaign management. The Belgaum Lok Sabha seat also was won by BJP but with a small margin. BSY’s detractors perhaps see a weakening of the hold of the father-son duo over the party and feel emboldened to raise the issue again. It is however imperative to look at the issue in the larger context of the reality of caste politics operating in the state. It is very well known that the Lingayat community, of which Yediyurappa is a long-standing dominant leader, and which accounts for about 17% of the population of the state, has had an array of strong leaders from within the community who donned the office of chief ministership, starting from B D Jatti, S Nijalingappa, Veerendra Patil, S R Bommai, J H Patel and presently Yediyurappa. Additionally, Yediyurappa has a few positives going in his favour despite his age. The most important of it is a fact that he worked hard for years, since his days in Jan Sangh, to build the BJP in the state, along with the late Ananth Kumar. In his political career, Yediyurappa has not only established himself as a durable leader but also identified himself with the farmers. He took up their cause, be it when he was in the Opposition or as head of the government;  he was the first CM to have presented a `farmers budget’, an idea followed later by many chief ministers in other states. Corruption cases As for his negatives, it must be underlined that BSY is a controversial leader, mired in corruption cases and misuse of power. He is also perceived to be blatantly promoting dynastic politics in the state by bringing in his sons into politics, with frequent accusations of his son Vijayendra, becoming a power centre. People and partymen also detest the manner in which BSY’s family members frequently interfere in the political and governmental affairs. In fact, this is one of the issues his detractors, like Yatnal, keep raising. Many ministers among Yediyurappa’s loyalists believe that the change of chief ministership may not happen as the state is facing a severe second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. But, paradoxically for the same reason, some, both within the government and in the BJP high command, feel the need for a younger, more energetic leader as the head of the government to steer the state out of difficult times, with health experts predicting a third wave around October-November. There are also some reports that Yediyurappa too is realising the possibility of his being eased out of office. However, if the change is to be effected in the near future, it may happen by ensuring an honourable exit for BSY by agreeing to some of his wishes, which may include appointing a person of his choice as CM, elevating his son Vijayendra to the position of either Deputy Chief Minister or state party president. BSY himself may be made Governor of a nearby state. The party may be forced to keep in mind the caste factor and Yeddyurappa’s stature in the party, leave alone the kind of political nuisance he can create, like he did in the past, in deciding on the choice of his successor. This may include whether to allow the post to be with the powerful Lingayat community itself or to elevate to the post of the CM a seasoned and experienced Vokkaliga leader to counter the Congress which is headed by the Vokkaliga strongman D K Shivkumar. It is also possible that the BJP leadership may spring a surprise, as it has done in the past, and choose a leader from the Scheduled Caste background, like  Deputy Chief Minister Govinda Karajol, a loyalist of BSY. If this is done, the party would ensure that it has kept in mind the need for bolstering its position among the SC, STs to face the Assembly elections successfully in 2023. The name of Pralhad Joshi, a Union minster, is also doing rounds. The party may move cautiously on the issue. Surely, Karnataka politics is poised for an interesting phase amidst the raging pandemic. (The writer is former Professor of Political Science, Bangalore University and former Senior Fellow, ICSSR, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/yediyurappa-will-have-a-say-991987.html
31-05-2021||Mysuru||Man cycles 300 km to get medicine for his son in Karnataka||A man cycled 300 km from his native village Ganiganakoppal near Bannur in T Narasipur taluk to Bengaluru to get medicines for his son with special needs. Shivu (name changed), a construction worker, pedalled for three days on his bicycle and brought medicines for his son, who is suffering from health issues since childhood. The boy is being treated by the doctors of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, for the last 10 years. Shivu used to visit Nimhans once in two months to procure medicines.  Due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, Shivu could not travel to Bengaluru to get medicines. Hence, he decided to go to Bengaluru on a bicycle and left the village on May 23 and returned on May 26, with medicines. Shivu said, “The doctors had said the chances of epileptic attack is high if the medicines are stopped before the boy turns 18-years. “I took out a journey on the bicycle. On learning about the incident, the doctors at Nimhans gave me Rs 1,000.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/man-cycles-300-km-to-get-medicine-for-his-son-in-karnataka-992237.html
31-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Imprisoned hopes of 'Achche din' turn 7||On his government's anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday shared a compilation of the pro-people measures it has undertaken in its seven years of tenure.  The statement, titled "Vikas Yatra" (development journey), said that the spirit of "seva" (service) has been a guiding light for the government in each step it has taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-imprisoned-hopes-of-achche-din-turn-7-991952.html
31-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 31||India on Monday reported 1.52 lakh fresh cases while 3,128 more people died of the virus, data by the Union Health Ministry showed. Coronavirus in India:   Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  28,046,766 as of May 31, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  329,100 as of May 31, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 2,56,92,342  Total Vaccination: 21,31,54,129  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-31-991953.html
31-05-2021||National||Diesel crosses Rs 98-mark in Rajasthan as prices rise||Diesel price on Monday went past the Rs 98-a-litre mark in a few places of Rajasthan as a relentless increase in fuel prices took rates to record-high levels. Petrol price was increased by 29 paise per litre and diesel by 26 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase - 16th this month - pushed petrol and diesel prices to a fresh all-time high across the country. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan saw petrol price climb to Rs 105.24 a litre and diesel to Rs 98.08 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. In Delhi, petrol comes for Rs 94.23 per litre and diesel is priced at Rs 85.15 a litre. The price of petrol, which had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, breached the psychological barrier in Mumbai on Saturday. Petrol now costs Rs 100.47 a litre in Mumbai and diesel comes for Rs 92.45 per litre. The increase in Monday is the 16th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 16 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 3.83 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.42. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diesel-crosses-rs-98-mark-in-rajasthan-as-prices-rise-991976.html
31-05-2021||National||Father Stan Swamy tests positive for Covid-19||Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has tested positive for coronavirus. Swamy, 84, who is suffering from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments, was shifted from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the Holy Family Hospital here on May 28, following the Bombay High Court's orders. Swamy was tested at the private hospital and his result came out positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, his lawyer Mihir Desai said. Desai alleged that this was a result of "criminal negligence" on part of the Taloja prison authorities, who failed to provide adequate care to the inmates and conduct their RT-PCR tests timely. On May 28, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NR Borkar directed the state prison authorities to ensure Swamy was shifted from the Taloja prison to the hospital, after Desai moved the bench seeking an urgent hearing. Swamy had been in the Taloja prison hospital since his arrest in the case in October 2020. Desai had earlier moved a vacation bench led by Justice SJ Kathawala, seeking medical aid and bail for Swamy on health grounds. At that time, the bench said while the issue of medical bail would be decided later, Swamy could be shifted to the state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai for treatment. Swamy, who was then present before the court via video-conferencing, refused to get admitted to the J J Hospital, saying he had been there twice earlier already but found no relief. He had said that he would rather die in prison than go to the J J Hospital. Swamy had told the HC that his mental and physical health declined steadily while at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC for interim bail. Advocate Desai had told the bench that considering his ill health and co-morbidities, Swamy was at the risk of contracting the coronavirus infection. Swamy had said he was also worried about his co- inmates at the hospital. On both the hearings, the NIA's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, and the state's counsel, Y P Yagnik, objected to advocate Desai's request. They had said the state could not be expected to bear the cost of Swamy's treatment at the private hospital and suggested he may be shifted to the J J Hospital. The bench led by Justice Shinde, however, permitted Swamy to be shifted to the Holy Family Hospital after Desai said the cost of treatment would be borne by Swamy and his aides. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have also claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the probe into the case. Watch the latest on DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/father-stan-swamy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-991980.html
31-05-2021||National||India reports over 1.52 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases, 3,128 deaths||The toll climbed to 3,29,100 with 3,128 more fatalities, according to the ministry data. The daily test positivity rate was recorded at 9.07 per cent, less than 10 per cent for the seventh consecutive day. Weekly positivity rate has declined to 9.04 per cent, the ministry said. As many as 16,83,135 samples were tested on Sunday, taking the total tests to 34,48,66,883, it said. The active cases have reduced to 20,26,092, comprising 7.22 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has improved to 91.60 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,56,92,342, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.17 per cent, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-over-152-lakh-fresh-covid-19-cases-3128-deaths-991969.html
31-05-2021||National||Mehul Choksi admitted to hospital; tests Covid negative||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi was admitted to a hospital in Dominica following a health complaint, according to a Times of India report.  The 63-year-old had tested negative for Covid-19. However, there was no information on the health concern. Choksi was admitted to Dominica China Friendship Hospital in Roseau after he was taken out of the police custody, the report said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-admitted-to-hospital-tests-covid-negative-992003.html
31-05-2021||National||Delhi HC dismisses plea to halt Central Vista redevelopment work, fines petitioners Rs 1 lakh||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed the plea to halt construction of the Central Vista project in the national capital, saying the work on the project of national importance has to be completed within a time-bound schedule by November 2021. The ongoing construction work for the Central Vista Project has been criticised by the main Opposition Congress party in view of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Refusing to suspend the construction works, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said, “Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project is equally important and essential as the Central Vista Project (the main project). If this type of project is stopped, the main project cannot be completed within the stipulated time." Maintaining that the project is of “vital importance and essential,” the bench said that it cannot be seen in isolation as that clearance to the project has already been upheld by the Supreme Court.  “The whole Central Vista is an essential project of national importance where the sovereign functions of the Parliament will be conducted. The public is widely interested in this project,” it said. The court imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on petitioners, Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, saying their plea was a motivated one and not a genuine public interest litigation. It pointed out the construction activity of the essential project or of a project of national importance cannot be stopped especially when the conditions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on April 19 were not flouted. It noted the workers were staying at the site and all facilities have been provided and Covid-19 protocols are adhered to. The petitioners sought suspension of work on the redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue, which includes both sides of Rajpath, where Republic Day celebration during the pandemic. The top court in January gave its nod to the proposed project, which envisaged a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs. It is proposed to be constructed by August 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-to-halt-central-vista-redevelopment-work-fines-petitioners-rs-1-lakh-992009.html
31-05-2021||National||Not the time to fight with state governments: Kejriwal on Bengal chief secy transfer||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that this was not the time to fight with state governments, but to confront the coronavirus pandemic together. Kejriwal was reacting to reports of the sudden transfer of West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandhopadhyay by the Centre that snowballed into a major controversy. "This is not the time to fight with the state governments, but to fight the coronavirus together with everyone," Kejriwal tweeted, tagging a news report that Bandhopadhyay might likely to continue as chief secretary amid the relief relief for cyclone and Covid "This is the time to help the state governments, to provide them with vaccines, to work with all the state governments as team India. The whole life is left for politics," Kejriwal tweeted. The Centre had in a surprise move on Friday night sought Bandhopadhyay's services and asked the state government to immediately release the top bureaucrat. Bandhopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on May 31 after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension following a nod from the Centre to work on Covid management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-the-time-to-fight-with-state-governments-kejriwal-on-bengal-chief-secy-transfer-992020.html
31-05-2021||National||SC gives time to Centre till Thursday to decide on Class 12 board exams||The Supreme Court on Monday gave time to the Centre till Thursday to take a decision on the Class 12 exams by the Central Board of Secondary Education. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, however, made it clear to the Union government if the authorities wished to depart from the decision taken in the previous year of not holding the examinations then they must come up with good reasons to satisfy the court. Attorney general K K Venugopal, at the outset, asked the court adjourn the matter as a meeting has been called to take the decision in the matter. "You take a decision. But if you are departing from the decision taken last year not to hold the exams, you must give us good reasons," the bench said. The court referred to petitioner, advocate Mamta Sharma's contention that last year's policy should be followed, saying the situation was almost similar the last year. Sharma, in her plea, asked the court to issue directions to the boards to cancel the Class 12 examinations, and devise an objective methodology to declare the result within a specific time-frame. “The Covid -19 situation is more severe in comparison to last year and require the respondents to adopt the same criteria of assessing the grading/marks of class 12 students as done in the last year," she said. The court may exercise its power under Article 142 of the Constitution to direct the boards to implement the methodology, adopted for Class 10, to declare the Class 12 result after cancelling the examinations, it pleaded.  "We will keep this in mind and give a response to the court by Thursday," Venugopal said. The court wanted the decision, if at all made to hold the examinations, should be based on tangible reasons to enable it to analyse it. Sharma's plea sought quashing of notifications issued by CBSE and ICSE deferring the exams to an unspecified date, saying students cannot be subjected to suffer uncertainty amid unprecedented public health crisis. Following the pandemic last year, the court had asked the boards to determine and declare Class 12 exam results on the basis of previous assessment of students. The court posts the matter for consideration on June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-time-to-centre-till-thursday-to-decide-on-class-12-board-exams-992024.html
31-05-2021||National||States can't be left in lurch: SC to Centre on Covid-19 vaccine dual pricing||The Supreme Court on Monday posed tough questions to the Centre in connection with its Covid vaccine policy and pointed towards various flaws, particularly the shortage of vaccine doses, and its unavailability in rural areas, pricing, and registration for vaccination. Though the Centre maintained that it expected to vaccinate all by the end of December 2021, a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud sought to know the rationale for the dual policy of procuring certain amount of vaccine and not willing to give it to states at the same rate.  The top court asked the Centre to file a copy of its policy document on vaccine procurement and its pricing within two weeks, and also consider amending it to make it inclusive for rural areas. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhatt, gave two weeks time to the Centre to explain its logic on pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and how the existing policy was framed. "We are keen to understand the rationale behind dual pricing,” the bench said. Taking up a Suo Motu matter, the court asked why several state governments and municipal corporations were now issuing global tenders to procure vaccines while noting that the Centre has failed to submit a national policy document on Covid vaccines to date. The bench also asked the Centre, why it has left it to manufacturers to fix the price of vaccines, and stressed that the Centre has to take over the responsibility for one price for the nation. It also asked why states had to pay more for the vaccines than the Centre.  "I was reading the Constitution. Article 1 says Bharat is a Union of States. When the Constitution says that then we follow the federal rule. The Government of India has to procure the vaccines and distribute them. Individual States are left in lurch," Justice Chandrachud asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The bench also pointed out it refrained from entering the realm of policy-making as it would “hamper” initiatives undertaken by the Centre for negotiations with vaccine manufacturers. It referred to the visit of the External Affairs Minister to the US for negotiations which showed that the Centre was working seriously. The bench noted that for the population above 45 years, procurement is by Centre as of May 1, and for below 45, 50 per cent to states is by manufacturers on pro-rata basis. "The price is determined by Centre. What is the basis for the Centre to say that for 45 and above we will supply and procure vaccines free of charge and for below 45 states will have logistical arrangements?" the bench asked. The bench further said that the government's rationale was high mortality in the 45+ group, but in the second wave this group was not seriously affected, instead, it was the 18-45 age group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-cant-be-left-in-lurch-sc-to-centre-on-covid-19-vaccine-dual-pricing-992037.html
31-05-2021||National||Twitter has to comply with new IT rules for digital media, says Delhi HC||In the middle of a spat between the Centre and Twitter, the Delhi High Court on Monday said the new rules for social media companies had to be complied with if those were not stayed. The court issued a notice to Twitter on a plea by lawyer Amit Acharya alleging the company has yet not complied with Rule 4 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The microblogging site, for its part, told the court that it has already appointed a Resident Grievance Officer on May 28, in accordance with the terms of the New Social Media Intermediary Rules 2021. The Central government counsel, however, contested the claim. A bench of Justice Rekha Palli sought a response from Twitter on the petition. "I am inclined to issue notice. If the rules have not been stayed, then they have to comply with the rules," the judge said. Senior advocate Sajan Povayya, appearing for Twitter, submitted that the rules were not complied with when the petition was filed, but were being complied with now.  The Resident Grievance Officer was appointed on May 28 and we will file an affidavit in this regard, he said. The counsel for the petitioner contended it was not yet clear if the appointment was in accordance with the terms of the new rules. The court, which sought a response to the petition, posted it for consideration on July 6, 2021. After the development, a spokesperson of Twitter, a US-based company said, "We strive to comply with applicable law in India. We continue to be strictly guided by principles of transparency, a commitment to empowering every voice on the service, and protecting freedom of expression and privacy under the Indian law."   The petition claimed the Centre had given three months to every social media company to comply with the Rules, which was over on May 25, but Twitter had failed to appoint any Resident Grievance Officer to redress the complaints of its users with regard to the violation of the provisions of the Rules.  Twitter had earlier expressed concern over the new intermediary rules, describing them as a "dangerous overreach that is inconsistent with open, democratic principles". WhatsApp has separately challenged the validity of the rules in the High Court, claiming it would break the privacy of users and end-to-end encryption of its service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-has-to-comply-with-new-it-rules-for-digital-media-says-delhi-hc-992041.html
31-05-2021||National||Covid-19: NHRC acting chief stresses on need for self-analysis||"We will have to think about where the mistake took place. Instead of discussing the action of the government, we will have to focus on how we all can make a contribution," he said on Sunday at a webinar organised on the topic 'Corona and India'. Emphasising on the need for improvement in the health sector of the country, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) acting chief said the third-largest number of deaths due to the infection have been reported from India. He said that we need to prepare for a possible third wave of Covid and keep in mind the safety of children. We will have to learn from our experience and recognise our strengths and work in a manner so as to ensure that the lives of common people are safe, Pant further said. The NHRC has given several guidelines to the Centre and State governments relating to containment zones, community participation, accountability, facilities enhancement and electric cremation, he said. Speaking at the webinar, former Biju Janata Dal MP Tathagata Satpathy said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last year stated that we have defeated coronavirus but this was his mistake. At that time, the fear of Covid disappeared from the minds of the people, he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-nhrc-acting-chief-stresses-on-need-for-self-analysis-992049.html
31-05-2021||National||Policymakers must have 'ears on ground', SC says on mandatory registration on Co-WIN||The Supreme Court on Monday told the Centre that its policymakers must have an ear to ground and "smell the coffee" to take into account the digital divide as they made it mandatory for people between 18 to 45 years to register on CoWIN app to get vaccinated for Covid-19.  The top court says the government must change its policy to consider the hardship of the rural population. “You must smell the coffee and see what is happening across the country," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. "How are you answering the digital divide? You keep on saying digital India, digital India but the situation is actually different in rural areas. How will an illiterate labourer, from Jharkhand get registered in Rajasthan," the bench further asked the officer. The law officer pointed out there was a constraint of human and infrastructural resources. It was therefore considered prudent not to permit walk-in registration for 18-45 years. "Citizens who don't have access to internet can take help from friends and relatives. Online registration decision has been taken since vaccines are not unlimited and if walk-in is allowed, then there will be crowding. But now walk-in is allowed," he said. The court stressed that the Centre’s vaccination policy should not be carved in stone, rather it should evolve based on the ground situation.  Citing technical glitches on CoWIN application used for registration for vaccination, the bench said they had received distress calls from Bengaluru, Kochi and places all over the country, as slots got booked within two minutes.  The bench suggested Centre must know the ground situation and change its policy accordingly. “If we had to do it, we would have done it 15-20 days back," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/policymakers-must-have-ears-on-ground-sc-says-on-mandatory-registration-on-co-win-992055.html
31-05-2021||National||Administrator never tried to understand islanders' culture, says Lakshadweep MP||Administrator Praful Patel has been to Lakshadweep for just 15-20 days in the past five months, and cared little to understand the islanders' culture and ecology, its MP Mohammed Faizal said. Faizal asserted that a legal recourse would be sought if the Centre went ahead with the controversial laws for the archipelago. The NCP leader, who has been demanding recall of Patel as administrator, said the draft laws were being opposed by every section of the Lakshadweep society, even the local BJP leaders. He alleged that the draft legislations were in blatant violation of the Supreme Court guidelines for carrying out developmental work on the ecologically-sensitive islands. Patel was given the charge of the Lakshadweep administrator following the death of Dineshwar Sharma in December last year. Faizal said Patel was trying to have a "one-man show" on the islands without consulting the locals or even their representatives. "He (Patel) is completing five months after assuming charge. In these five months, his presence on the islands must have been for 15-20 days. He has never been to the island to the understand its people concern, their heritage and culture," Faizal told PTI in a telephonic interview. The Lok Sabha MP said Patel had been pushing for laws that have riled the islanders, majority of whom are Muslims. The legislations include ban on cow slaughter, two-child norm for those wanting to contest the panchayat elections and allowing liquor to be served at resorts on inhabited islands. The Population Foundation of India said the proposed two-child norm was "suicidal" and defied all logic. The NGO pointed out that according to the National Health and Family Survey of 2019-2020, Lakshadweep had a total fertility rate of 1.4, which is far less than the national average of 2.2 and a cause for concern. People also have apprehensions about the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) and the draft Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (LPASAR), Faizal said. The LDAR is aimed to oversee development of towns on the islands with sweeping changes in the way land can be acquired and utilised. The LPASAR provides for powers to detain a person for up to a year to prevent him from "acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order". A group of locals have already challenged the draft laws in court. "If the Centre goes in the support of Praful Patel, the next option for us is to approach the courts for interference," Faizal said. "We will continue to oppose this politically with the Centre to hear our voice and consider our genuine demands." Administrators play a crucial role in a place like Lakshadweep. If any officer commits a mistake, people rush to the administrator to find "final solace", according to Faizal. "But all these atrocities are happening from that chair," he said, adding that it was causing paining to the people. "They never had such an administrator in their life. And the Centre is getting blamed. Centre should take an immediate call on this," Faizal said. The administrator's move has been met with criticism by several opposition parties. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan moved a resolution in the Assembly on Monday, expressing solidarity with the people of Lakshadweep. Faizal said NCP president Sharad Pawar also sought a meeting with the prime minister and the Union home minister to discuss the issue. "We're waiting for that and we are hopeful that something will come out and if it is not happening in that way, then the next option is approaching the court," he said. Faizal added that Patel had done little to address the concerns of the people over the new laws. The administration has tried to justify that the LDAR would help in the development of the islands. "In the last 14-15 years, educated local people have given their proposal for developing tourism. Nothing has been done on that. Their demands have not been acceded to. We are not against the development of tourism. I am very much for that," he said. Faizal underscored the need for due consultative process in Lakshadweep as it also has a district panchayat that plays a crucial role in decision-making. "There are 10 islands and people are elected to the district panchayat. It would have been an apt situation if this was placed before the district panchayat, where I am also a member. A detailed discussion would have happened, things could have been done in a better way," he said. The parliamentarian said it was difficult to fathom why was the Centre not recalling Patel as "his actions are giving it a bad name". He pointed out that the name of Patel, who is also the administrator of the Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, cropped up in the suicide of the Union territory's MP Mohan Delkar earlier this year. The Mumbai Police has registered a case against eight people, including Patel, for abatement to suicide after Delkar killed himself at a city hotel. "I don't know why the Centre is supporting such a person who is maligning its image. Why are they getting defamed?" Faizal asked. "The Dadra and Nagar Haveli issue happened. People of Dadra and Nagar Haveli asked for a change because they lost their leader. There is a case against him. It does not look nice for an administrator," he said. "The Centre should take these things very seriously. This is no prestige matter," Faizal said, adding that the government should listen to the people's outcry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/administrator-never-tried-to-understand-islanders-culture-says-lakshadweep-mp-992064.html
31-05-2021||National||Dr. Reddy's in talks with government to bring Russia's Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine||Dr. Reddy's is also in talks with the Indian government and the private sector to supply the two-dose Sputnik V vaccine, which the company expects to commercially launch in the country in the middle of next month. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-reddys-in-talks-with-government-to-bring-russias-sputnik-light-covid-19-vaccine-992072.html
31-05-2021||National||New Covid-19 cases in India dip in May but fatality still high||India’s fresh Covid-19 cases dipped to 1.52 lakh cases on Monday, giving further assurance that the country’s second wave may be on the wane after it swept across the country with deadly ferocity in the last two months. The second wave peaked somewhere around the early part of the month when the country logged more than 4 lakh cases on four consecutive days and India’s daily positivity rate had skyrocketed to nearly 25 per cent. The last two weeks have seen a sharp decline in both figures as the daily positivity rate fell to 8 per cent, though the daily case fatality rate or the deaths-to-cases ratio is still at elevated levels, coming in at just a shade over 2 per cent on Monday.  The rise in death numbers and the concurrent fall in new and active cases can be accounted for to an extent by factoring in a roughly two-week lag in fresh cases pushing up the death count. Comparing the two most brutal months during the second wave, India recorded 2.31 lakh daily average cases in April, which grew to 2.96 lakh cases in May so far, reflecting the virus’ acceleration in the early parts of the month. While April clocked 1,629 daily deaths on an average, the figure has more than doubled in May at nearly 3,910 deaths every day. Among major states, Maharashtra, the state which had met the second wave earlier than others, averaged 59,649 cases a day in April but that figure fell to 37,645 in May. Delhi too has seen a steep drop off in cases and has one of the lowest positivity rates in the country at 1.25 per cent as on Monday, down from an alarming rise at the end of last month when every third person was testing positive for the virus.  On the flip side, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are still seeing high rates of infection even as the states’ positivity rates eased slightly from more than 20 per cent earlier this month to around 15 per cent by Monday. Though the statistics show a definite downtrend in the second wave, many states have taken a cautious stance and extended lockdowns for fear that reopening too quickly may push numbers up once more as people would shed Covid-19 norms. The Centre on Sunday promised states 50 per cent more vaccines in June than they have received this month in a bid to vaccinate as many people as possible to avert the onset of a possible third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-covid-19-cases-in-india-dip-in-may-but-fatality-still-high-992073.html
31-05-2021||National||Covid-19 curfew in Andhra Pradesh extended till June 10||The Covid-19 lockdown in Andhra Pradesh has been extended till June 10. The curfew relaxation timings would remain the same, from 6 AM to 12 noon. The state recorded 7,943 positive Covid-19 cases, out of the 83,461 samples tested from Sunday to Monday morning. This is a major drop in the daily addition, from 20,937 cases reported 10 days back. In a review meeting on the prevailing pandemic situation and the vaccination status on Monday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy directed the officials to vaccinate the students going abroad for studies and also the people traveling overseas on work visas and provide them a certificate stating so. Officials explained that the Covid-19 positivity rate which was at 25.56 per cent on May 16 is now about 16 per cent. They added that active cases have reduced from two lakhs to 1.6 lakh. The recovery rate has also significantly improved from 84.32 per cent on May 7 to 90 per cent at present. Compared to 19,175 calls earlier to the 104 services, it was only 3,803 calls on May 29, which indicates that active cases have reduced in all the districts, officials stated. The daily requirement of medical oxygen has also decreased to 490 metric tonnes.  'Black fungus' At least 1,179 'Black fungus' cases have been reported in the state, out of which 1,068 patients are under treatment, 97 people recovered and 14 died. Investigations revealed 'black fungus' infection in 40 people who were not infected with Covid-19. The Chief Minister directed the officials to ensure that the required injections and tablets were available to the infected. Officials informed the CM that they have till now identified 92 orphans whose parents succumbed to Covid-19 and that Rs 10 lakh was deposited in the accounts of 43 children. The Chief Minister advised that the money be invested in schemes with good returns so that it will meet their monthly needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-curfew-in-andhra-pradesh-extended-till-june-10-992077.html
31-05-2021||National||Delhi CM will continue to demand Covid vaccines despite attack by BJP: Sisodia||BJP leaders "criticise and abuse" Arvind Kejriwal whenever he works for the people, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged on Monday, while asserting that the chief minister will continue to demand Covid-19 vaccines, despite the attack on him by the ruling party at the Centre. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief J P Nadda have "criticised and abused" Kejriwal as he has started demanding more vaccines for Delhi, he said. "BJP leaders have been criticising and abusing Kejriwal because they want to cover up the failure of their government in vaccine management. But no matter how much they abuse, Kejriwal will continue to demand vaccines for the people of Delhi," Sisodia said in an online briefing. He also claimed that the BJP stopped Delhi's medical oxygen supply and that it was Kejriwal who fought for its resumption to save lives. When it was time for vaccine procurement, the BJP was busy in "poll management and image management", the deputy chief minister said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital is committed to getting every Delhiite inoculated before the third wave of the coronavirus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cm-will-continue-to-demand-covid-vaccines-despite-attack-by-bjp-sisodia-992079.html
31-05-2021||National||Central Vista: Heritage buildings will not be demolished, assures Puri||Dismissing concerns over the fate of heritage buildings due to the redevelopment of Central Vista, Union Housing and Urban Development Minister Hardeep Puri on Monday said no such buildings will be demolished. Insisting that the Central Vista project has legal clearance, the Minister said “none of the historic, cultural, iconic buildings will be touched and will remain exactly as they are." Hitting out at the Opposition parties, Puri said he has been noticing that a false narrative is being created over the Central project. "It is not a vanity project, and this is a project of necessity," Puri asserted while addressing a press conference. He also said no design has been finalised for a new Prime Minister's residence and only two projects — the Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue — are currently being executed at a cost of around Rs 1,300 crore. The old Parliament building comes under Seismic Zone IV and... the people’s representatives should be able to sit and conduct the business,” he also said. The minister cited an article written by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh calling for a new Parliament building and said that in 2012, Meira Kumar’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) wrote to the housing ministry’s secretary clearly saying that a decision has been taken to build a new Parliament building. The Central Vista redevelopment project involves constructing a new Parliament building, offices to Members of Parliament, remodelling of Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath), constructing new residences for the Vice President and the Prime Minister, inter-connected common secretariat comprising 10 new buildings and demolishing some buildings on either side of Rajpath. The Centre had planned to complete the entire Central Vista project, entailing an expenditure of Rs 23,000 crore, by 2024, but the deadline had already been extended to 2026. Opposition parties have criticised the Centre for pursuing the Central Vista project amid the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded the project be scrapped and the money utilised to improve healthcare infrastructure across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-heritage-buildings-will-not-be-demolished-assures-puri-992085.html
31-05-2021||National||EPFO members can now avail second Covid-19 advance||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Monday allowed its subscribers to avail the second non-refundable Covid-19 advance in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic and subsequent outbreak of mucormycosis or black fungus. The amended Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 now provides for non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75 per cent of the amount standing to member's credit in the EPF account, whichever is less. Members can apply for a lesser amount also. It was first introduced in March last year. The provision for special withdrawal to meet the financial need of members during the pandemic was introduced in March 2020, under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). An amendment to this effect was made by the Ministry of Labour and Employment in Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 by inserting therein sub-para (3) under paragraph 68L, through notification in the Official Gazette. According to an official statement issued by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the Covid-19 advance has been a great help to the EPF members during the pandemic, especially for those having monthly wages of less than Rs 15,000. As on date, EPFO has settled more than 76.31 lakh Covid-19 advance claims thereby disbursing a total of Rs 18,698.15 crore. "During the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, ‘mucormycosis’ or black fungus has been declared an epidemic recently. In such trying times, EPFO endeavours to lend a helping hand to its members by meeting their financial needs. Members who have already availed the first Covid-19 advance can now opt for a second advance also," the statement said. It said it has been decided to accord top priority to Covid-19 claims considering the urgent need of members. "The EPFO is committed to settle these claims within three days of their receipt. For this, EPFO has deployed a system-driven auto-claim settlement process in respect of all such members whose KYC requirements are complete in all respects. Auto-mode of settlement enables EPFO to reduce the claim settlement cycle to just three days as against the statutory requirement to settle the claims within 20 days," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/epfo-members-can-now-avail-second-covid-19-advance-992112.html
31-05-2021||National||Time to define sedition law, its application on media: SC||"We saw news reports on bodies being thrown in the river, has a sedition case filed against TV channels for the reportage?," the Supreme Court on Monday asked sarcastically, taking note of cases being lodged against media persons during the Covid-19 pandemic. Taking up a Suo Motu on ensuring supplies of medicine and drugs during the Covid-19 pandemic, a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud referred to a news report on dead bodies being thrown in river in Uttar Pradesh. "A news report yesterday showed that bodies were being thrown in the river. I don't know if a sedition case has been filed against the news channel yet or not," Justice Chandrachud remarked. Separately, the top court said it is time the penal provisions particularly related to sedition are defined and interpreted particularly with regard to their application on the media in view of freedom guaranteed to the press under the Constitution. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat protected two Telugu channels TV5 and ABN Andhrajyothi against any coercive action in the FIR lodged against them for telecasting interviews of rebel YSR Congress MP Raghu Rama Krishna Raju. "We are of the view that provisions of 124 A and 153 of the IPC require interpretation particularly on the right of press," the bench said. The channels led by senior advocate Shyam Divan contended that this was an unfortunate assault on freedom of the press and there were charges for sedition and creating enmity between groups under the IPC against them. They accused the Andhra Pradesh government of trying to silence the media and critics on the handling of Covid-19 situation. The top court issued a notice to Andhra Pradesh on a petition seeking contempt action against the top state officers and stayed criminal proceedings in the FIR. The court posted the matter for consideration after six weeks. The FIR indicated that it was a suo moto case based on an inquiry report of the DIG, CID, Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-to-define-sedition-law-its-application-on-media-sc-992119.html
31-05-2021||National||India to study feasibility of mixing 2 different Covid-19 vaccine doses||India may soon start testing the feasibility of mixing two different doses of Covid-19 vaccines to see if it helps in boosting one's immune response to coronavirus.  Dr N K Arora, chairman of Covid-19 working group under National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), told ANI that the process may start in a few weeks.  He also said that India will have 20-25 crore vaccine doses per month by August and another 5-6 crore doses will come from other manufacturing units or from abroad. "The objective is to vaccinate 1 crore people every day," Dr N K Arora said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-study-feasibility-of-mixing-2-different-covid-19-vaccine-doses-992121.html
31-05-2021||National||'Additional 30,100 vials of Amphotericin-B allocated to states, UTs'||An additional 30,100 vials of Amphotericin-B was allocated to all the states and Union Territories by the Centre on Monday to combat the 'black fungus' infection, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said. "Additional 30,100 vials of #Amphotericin-B have been allocated to all the States/UTs and Central Institutions today," the Minister tweeted on Monday. He said an additional 1,930 vials of Amphotericin-B has been allocated to Karnataka. With this, the state has so far received 12,710 vials. According to the state health department, 1,250 people have been infected by 'black fungus' so far in Karnataka, of whom 39 have died and 18 have recovered. The other 1,193 infected people are undergoing treatment, it said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/additional-30100-vials-of-amphotericin-b-allocated-to-states-uts-992127.html
31-05-2021||National||Centre vs Bengal: Chief Secy Bandyopadhyay issued show cause notice as row heats up||West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was on Monday issued show cause notice by the Centre for not reporting for duty in the national capital hours before Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee surprised her opponents announcing his retirement from the service and appointing him as her advisor. As the battle of attrition intensified over his "unilateral" transfer, sources said the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) issued the notice to the 1987-batch West Bengal cadre IAS officer as he showed no intent to join duty in Delhi at 10 am on Monday. The move to issue show cause notice came hours after Mamata shot off a letter to Prime Minister Modi refusing to relieve Bandyopadhyay, who was to retire on Monday but was given a three-month extension on May 24 on a request by the West Bengal government. Bandyopadhyay did not fly to Delhi but conducted his official duties at the Secretariat in Kolkata, as the State did not relieve him from his duties. Sources said the extension for Bandyopadhyay was based on the Bengal government's specific request for his service as Chief Secretary. With the withdrawal of the request and appointment of a new Chief Secretary, they claimed, the Centre's order extending his services also stood nullified. Soon after the show cause notice was issued, Mamata surprised the Centre by announcing Bandyopadhyay's retirement on Monday itself and his new assignment while attempting to counter action against him. This is not the first time that Bandyopadhyay is on the line of fire as he and Director General of Police Virendra had not appeared before the Ministry of Home Affairs in December last year following summons from the Centre to explain the law and order situation in the state after BJP president JP Nadda's convoy was attacked. The latest episode is also a re-run of the chain of events post the attack on Nadda's convoy when the West Bengal government refused to repatriate three IPS officers -- Bholanath Pandey, Praveen Tripathi and Rajeev Mishra -- to the Centre after the incident despite repeated reminders. These officers were part of the security detail of Nadda when he visited Bengal as part of a political campaign and stayed in the state even after the directions from the Mamata govt. Bandyopadhyay was transferred last Friday to Delhi after he did not attend a meeting by Modi on cyclone relief measures in Bengal, which was also not attended by Mamata. With the 1987-batch Bengal cadre officer continuing to put up in Bengal and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee writing to Modi refusing to relieve him, another confrontation is brewing. The issue is going to snowball into another battle with Mamata herself questioning the transfer without prior consultation with the State. The Section 6(1) of The Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954 stipulates that the Centre can bring an officer on deputation with the "concurrence" of the state government. In case of any disagreement, it says that the matter shall be decided by the Centre and the state government shall give effect to the decision of the central government. Banerjee argues that there was no prior consultation about Bandyopadhyay's deputation and the Centre took a "unilateral" decision. Former bureaucrats pointed out that officers are not usually sent on deputation against their will, though the Centre has the authority to do so. Also on taking action against Bandyopadhyay, they said that the rules are in a grey area. According to Section 7 of The All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969, it is the state government which has the "authority to institute proceedings and to impose penalty" on officers "if he is serving in connection with the affairs of that State, or is deputed for service in any company, association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Government of that state or in a local authority set up by an Act of the Legislature of that State".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-vs-bengal-chief-secy-bandyopadhyay-issued-show-cause-notice-as-row-heats-up-992132.html
31-05-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Must have ears on ground, says SC on mandatory CoWIN registration||In your evening news brief, policymakers must have 'ears on ground', SC says on mandatory registration on CoWIN; Bengal govt will not release Chief Secretary for Central duty, says Mamata Banerjee and China says couples can have three children.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 31, 2021: The Supreme Court Monday posed searching questions to the Centre on the Covid-19 vaccine procurement policy and need for mandatory registration on the CoWIN app for people to get vaccinated without keeping in mind the real 'digital India' situation, observing that the policymakers must have an ear to the ground. A special bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindrabhat said that since the Centre has made CoWIN registration mandatory for vaccination, how is it going to address the issue of digital divide facing the country.   West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that the state government will not release Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay for Central duty as he is needed for Covid-19 management in the state. In the letter, where she outlined that the new order came after the Centre had granted him an extension, Mamata said it would be "sad and unfortunate" if the reason for Bandopadhyay's transfer was over the meeting at Kalaikunda.   China announced on Monday that married couples may have up to three children, a major policy shift from the existing limit of two after recent data showed a dramatic decline in births in the world's most populous country. The change was approved during a politburo meeting chaired by President Xi Jinping, the official news agency Xinhua reported. In 2016, China scrapped its decades-old one-child policy — initially imposed to halt a population explosion — with a two-child limit, which failed to result in a sustained surge in births as the high cost of raising children in Chinese cities deterred many couples from starting families   Source: DHNS/PTI/Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-must-have-ears-on-ground-says-sc-on-mandatory-cowin-registration-992140.html
31-05-2021||National||Complete shutdown in Lakshadweep extended by seven days||The Lakshadweep administration on Monday announced the extension of the complete shutdown for seven more days, beginning May 31, considering the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the islands. The complete shutdown was first announced on May 24 for a week. Lakshadweep District Collector S Asker Ali, in order, also announced a night curfew in five islands, including Kiltan, Chetlath, Bitra, Kadmath and Agatti. He said the present situation made it necessary to regulate movement of people, enhance testing capacity, ensure strict enforcement of prescribed containment strategies, focus on surveillance and strict observance of standard Covid-19 protocol to prevent further spread of the virus as per the latest guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Many essential services, including water supply, fire, electricity, police, health, disaster management, shipping, guest house, BSNL, people managing Covid-19, Indian Navy and Coast Guard have been exempted from the shutdown on production of ID-card with Covid negative test report, the order said. "Non-compliance will be taken seriously by the authority and appropriate actions will be taken as per the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act-2015 and Indian Penal Code," it said. According to officials, there are 2,006 active cases in the islands. The Test Positivity Rate is comparatively high in Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Androth, Amini and Minicoy, they said. Authorities said the 'corona curfew' enforced in all islands with different timings and exemptions has become an effective tool in the overall containment strategies. Last week, the Kerala High Court had dismissed a plea challenging a single bench order in which the court accepted the Lakshadweep administration's contentions in support of the revision of Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) in connection with the Covid-19 management in the islands. The single bench had dismissed a plea challenging the revised SOP issued on December 22 last year, which substituted the earlier mandatory institutional and home quarantine of all persons travelling to the island, with just a negative test report of RT-PCR, obtained 48 hours before the travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complete-shutdown-in-lakshadweep-extended-by-seven-days-992147.html
31-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India reports 1.52 lakh new cases, lowest daily rise in 50 days||India's Gross Domestic Product for the financial year 2020-21 contracted by 7.3 per cent, according to government data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-reports-152-lakh-new-cases-lowest-daily-rise-in-50-days-992155.html
31-05-2021||National||Antibody cocktail for Covid-19 unlikely to cause mutations: Dr Gangakhedkar||Monoclonal antibody cocktail used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients is unlikely to lead to the mutation of the virus, according to Raman Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He also told that rational use of the antibody cocktail based on evidence is “vital” to promote it. He suggested that the antibody cocktail should be administered sooner, ideally within three to 10 days of the patient getting diagnosed with Covid-19.  The Roche’s antibody cocktail, which is a mixture of Casirivimab and Imdevimab, came to the limelight last year when it was used to treat the former US President Donald Trump after he tested Covid-19 positive. According to Dr Gangakhedhar, the effectiveness of this cocktail is only limited to the present variants of the Covid-19 virus, there’s no evidence to indicate that monoclonal antibody treatment will work on the new variants. Roche’s antibody cocktail received emergency use approval in India from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) earlier this month and high-risk Covid-19 patients have started receiving this treatment. The Roche's Antibody Cocktail is priced at Rs 59,750 per dose in India for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 patients with high risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antibody-cocktail-for-covid-19-unlikely-to-cause-mutations-dr-gangakhedkar-992158.html
31-05-2021||National||Retail inflation for industrial workers eases to 5.14% in April||Retail inflation for industrial workers marginally eased to 5.14 per cent in April compared to 5.64 per cent in March, mainly due to lower prices of certain food items. "Year-on-year inflation for the month (April) stood at 5.14 per cent compared to 5.64 per cent for the previous month and 5.45 per cent during the corresponding month of the previous year," the labour ministry said in a statement on Monday. According to the statement, food inflation stood at 4.78 per cent in April against 5.36 per cent in the previous month. The same was at 6.56 per cent in April 2020. The All-India CPI-IW (Consumer Price Index-Industrial Workers) for April 2021 increased by 0.5 points and stood at 120.1 points from 119.6 points in March. In terms of one-month percentage change, it rose by 0.42 per cent in April compared to March this year while the increase was 0.92 per cent as against the same period a year ago. The maximum upward pressure in current index came from Food & Beverages group contributing 0.43 percentage points to the total change. At an item level, Arhar Dal, Masur Dal, Fish Fresh, Goat Meat, Poultry Chicken, Eggs-Hen, Edible Oils, Apple, Banana, Grapes, Leechi, Orange, Papaya, Tea Leaf, Tea Hot-drink, Barber/Beautician Charges, Flowers/Flower Garlands, Doctor's Fee, Rail Fare, Servicing Charges of Motor Cycle and Cable Charges were among those that contributed to the rise in the index. However, the increase was largely checked by items such as Rice, Onion, Bitter Gourd, Drum Stick, Lady Finger, Parval, Cooking Gas and Petrol. At a centre level, Jabalpur recorded maximum rise of 3.6 points followed by Raipur and Bhavnagar with an increase of 3.2 and 3.1 points, respectively. Six centres recorded an increase between 2 to 2.9 points while the rise was between 1 to 1.9 points at 11 centres. At 49 centres, the increase was in the range of 0 to 0.9 points. Coonoor registered the maximum decrease of 2.3 points while three centres witnessed a decline between 1 to 1.9 points, and 15 centres saw a decrease between 0 to 0.9 points. Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said the rise in the index will result into increased wages of working class population by way of an increase in dearness allowance payable to them. "Decline in inflation during April 2021 is a sign of respite for consumers which is mainly due to lower retail prices of vegetables," he noted. CPI-IW is the single most important price statistics that have financial implications. It is primarily used to regulate the dearness allowance of government employees and workers in industrial sectors. It is also used in the fixation and revision of minimum wages in scheduled employments besides measuring the inflation in retail prices. Director-General Labour Bureau D P S Negi said the rise in the index during April 2021 is in line with all other price indices compiled and released and decline in inflation during the month has been observed across all retail price indices released by other government agencies. The Labour Bureau, an attached office of the Ministry of Labour & Employment, has been compiling Consumer Price Index for Industrial Workers every month on the basis of retail prices collected from 317 markets spread over 88 industrially important centres in the country. The data is released on the last working day of succeeding month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retail-inflation-for-industrial-workers-eases-to-514-in-april-992160.html
31-05-2021||National||Asset monetisation to gather pace in road sector, as per domestic rating agency Crisil||Asset monetisation in the roads sector will see an acceleration as engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) companies in this space pursue growth and is also aided by various government initiatives, according to domestic rating agency Crisil.         Crisil Ratings in a note issued on Monday said that the healthy order book position of the road EPC companies, which stands at over 3 times revenue at present, is expected to improve further supported by new project awarding momentum.         "Asset monetisation will gather pace in the roads sector as road-building engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) companies pursue growth backed by the government's thrust to the sector," it said.         The rating agency said  the asset monetisation potential is supported by healthy investor interest either through investment at asset level, or infrastructure investment trusts (InvITs).   Crisil Ratings director Anand Kulkarni said: "We foresee monetisation potential at  Rs 72,000 crore (enterprise value) for the NHAI and private developers, which can be realised through InvITs, private sale and toll-operate-transfer models over the next three years."         "The capital so unlocked will be available to accelerate awarding of projects under the NHAI's ambitious Bharatmala Pariyojana, and support growth of road EPC companies," Kulkarni added.         According to its estimate, Crisil Ratings said total awarding of roads by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways this fiscal to be 15 per cent higher on-year, which should help continue the buoyancy from last fiscal, when project awards had increased 23 per cent to 11,000 km. The rating agency noted that road EPC companies are well-placed to tap this opportunity, shows an analysis of 17 large road EPC companies, which account for 65 per cent of the sector's revenue.         Crisil Ratings said the expectation of asset monetisation is also supported by the past performance of road EPC companies.         "Between fiscals 2016 and 2021, sale of assets to InvITs or to private equity funds helped unlock Rs 80,000 crore of enterprise value for the sector (Rs 50,000 crore for the road EPC companies analysed)," the rating agency said adding that around 60 per cent of this was through four InvITs.         It further said the leverage of these companies is estimated to have improved to 1.25 times as on March 31, 2021, from 1.87 times as on March 31, 2016, largely supported by asset monetisation.         Noting that while credit profiles of the road EPC companies will remain comfortable, Crisil Ratings said, "the sustenance in economic activity amid the ferocious second wave of the pandemic will require close monitoring."         "Any prolonged impact on traffic would hinder the timelines of asset monetisation in the near term,"it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asset-monetisation-to-gather-pace-in-road-sector-as-per-domestic-rating-agency-crisil-992164.html
31-05-2021||National||'Black fungus' found in brains of many patients in Indore||Mucormycosis or 'black fungus' has been detected in the brains of at least 15 per cent of patients admitted for the infection in Government Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, a senior doctor said on Monday. Of the 368 mucormycosis patients admitted in MYH, an initial study has shown that 55 of them have the infection in their brains, and this has been confirmed by CT (computerised tomography) and MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scans, said Dr Rakesh Gupta, head of department, neurosurgery, MYH. While most of these patients had a "small size infection" in their brains, four had to go undergo major brain surgery to prevent the spread of infection, Dr Gupta said. He said the infection had reached the brains of these patients through their sinus before hospitalisation. Some other experts said the initial symptoms of 'black fungus' infection in the brain included headache and vomiting, with the patient later losing consciousness as the infection spreads. Meanwhile, another official said the shortage of Amphotericin-B injections was affecting efforts to tackle the 'black fungus' infection. While 'black fungus' infection is being found mostly in Covid-19 patients and those who had recovered from it, there are some cases where mucormycosis has struck those who never contracted coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/black-fungus-found-in-brains-of-many-patients-in-indore-992169.html
31-05-2021||National||Covid-19 curbs extended till June 9 in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Monday extended the coronavirus-induced restrictions till the morning of June 9, but allowed more relaxations such as reopening of barbers and salons. It also extended the shop opening time by an hour. All shops will now be allowed to open from 9 am till 4 pm, from earlier till 3 pm. "After detailed discussions, it was decided to continue the existing restrictions until 6 AM on 09/06/2021 (Wednesday),” according to an official release. The decision was taken in a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by Chandigarh Administrator and Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore here.  All sports facilities will be opened for sportspersons who can utilise the infrastructure by strictly following Covid protocol, according to the release. However, swimming pools and gyms will continue to remain closed. The administration also allowed reopening of barbers and salons in the city. Spa and massage centres will continue to remain closed. Night curfew in the city is in place from 6 pm till 5 am on weekdays. The weekend curfew starts at 6 pm on Friday and continues till 5 am on Monday.  The city has been witnessing a decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 infections for several days. In the review meeting, the administrator expressed concern over the plight of the children who lost their parents to Covid-19. He directed that the school fees of all such children be waived and if any child needs accommodation in the administration's welfare home, it will be provided free of cost. He also directed the Social Welfare Secretary to prepare a comprehensive scheme in consultation with the sub-committee of the Administrator's Advisory Council so that the affected could be fully rehabilitated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-curbs-extended-till-june-9-in-chandigarh-992174.html
31-05-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: What are the common side effects and what can you do to combat them?||With governments across the globe now focusing on vaccination, scientists are keeping an eye on the side effects of these Covid-19 vaccines. All the three vaccines approved in India — Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik — have mild side effects.  A total of 21,31,54,129 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in India, as of May 31, 2021. While the government is working towards producing and importing more Covid-19 vaccines, more people are coming in front to get vaccinated. Some people who have taken vaccine doses have experienced side effects. While one's reaction to the vaccine varies from person to person, here’s a list of common side-effects of Covid-19 vaccine, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW): > Mild Headache > Pain and swelling at the injection site > Fever and chills > Irritability > Fatigue > Body ache > Nausea > Abdominal pain These side effects are not long-lasting and should go away in a few days. You may not necessarily have to experience all of them. All three Covid-19 vaccines available in India, Covishield, Covaxin, and Sputnik V, have recorded different side effects. Here are some useful tips from the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to help you cope with the side effects: > For any pain and discomfort you may experience in your body, you can take over-the-counter medicine, such as paracetamol, ibuprofen, etc after consulting your doctor. > To reduce the pain and swelling on the arm, you can apply a clean, cool, and wet cloth over the area where you got the shot. > Drinking lots of water is advisable to stay hydrated and reduce the discomfort that is caused by fever. > It is not recommended to take the medicines before you get your vaccine shot. The side effects experienced after the second dose of the vaccine are more intense than the first dose. However, it is to note that these just indicate that your body is reacting to the vaccine and building protection against the virus. If the side effects don’t reduce after 24 hours or seem to increase then it is advised to contact your doctor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-what-are-the-common-side-effects-and-what-can-you-do-to-combat-them-992178.html
31-05-2021||National||Exams should be conducted for class 12, says RSS affiliate; suggests options can be given to students||With the Centre to take a call on conducting Class 12 board exams within two days, an RSS-affiliated body on education on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to ensure that the exams are held and suggested various options including changing the pattern to objective and allowing students to solve question papers at home or take exams of only 2-3 subjects. The organisational secretary of Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas (SSUN), Atul Kothari, in a letter to both Modi and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, favoured holding of exams in the respective schools in different shifts with teachers coming from outside. He also asked them to consider holding open book exams. Underlining that the studies of a large number of students have been impacted due to Covid, he said they should be allowed a gap year or exams can be conducted twice. Emphasising the importance of Class 12, Kothari said, "While keeping the future of students in mind, Class 12 board exams should be conducted. Some options may be given to students due to the unforeseen circumstances." Describing the board exams during the pandemic as a "big challenge" in front of the country's education system, the SSUN suggested four options for conducting exams. While three favoured offline exams with the physical presence of students, one was for online exams, though it did express reservations on it citing the digital divide in the country. The first option suggested by SSUN is to simplify the entire exam process by taking exams of only two-to-three subjects. And for formulating marks, it suggested that 40 percent weightage can be given to class 10 score and 30 percent weightage each to marks obtained in class 11 and class 12 board exams. The second option is to change the pattern of the exams to objective type with each student being given a personal kit which will include a question paper and answer sheet. It will reduce the time and ease the process of both conducting and evaluating the board exams, the letter states. The third option is to conduct exams in two phases — in the first phase, which will have 80 percent weightage, students can collect their question paper and solve it at their homes, while the second phase, which could be optional, can take place in schools with 20 percent weightage, according to the letter. On the option of conducting online exams, SSUN said it would be difficult to hold it across the country due to the digital divide. The online exams should be like "on-demand exams" conducted by the National Institute of Open School. Students should have the freedom to choose any three subjects and any time slot for appearing for the exams. Besides all these options, SSUN suggested that open exams should also be considered though students and teachers in India are not fully trained for this pattern. Earlier in the day, the Centre informed the Supreme Court it will take a final decision within the next two days on whether to conduct class 12 board exams amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of class 10 exams and postponement of class 12 exams in view of the surge in coronavirus cases. The Ministry of Education had recently sought detailed suggestions from the states and Union Territories on the proposals discussed in a high-level meeting held on the issue. The CBSE had proposed conducting the exams between July 15-August 26 and the result to be declared in September. The board had also proposed two options: conducting regular exams for 19 major subjects at notified centres or conducting shorter duration exams at respective schools where students are enrolled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exams-should-be-conducted-for-class-12-says-rss-affiliate-suggests-options-can-be-given-to-students-992181.html
31-05-2021||National||Lakshadweep MP says Amit Shah has assured draft laws won't be finalised without consulting locals||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has assured that the new draft laws for Lakshadweep which are being opposed by the islanders will not be finalised without consulting local representatives, its MP Mohammed Faizal said on Monday. Talking to reporters after meeting Shah here, Faizal said he apprised the home minister of the strong opposition to the draft laws proposed by new administrator Pradip Patel.  Faizal said he also told Shah about the widespread protests on the islands and opposition from several other quarters to the proposed legislations. "He has assured that whatever laws that are under the consideration, they will be sent to Lakshadweep where they will be consulted with the local representatives in the district panchayat. People's consent will be taken into consideration before they are finalised," Faizal said. Faizal has also sought removal of Patel, the administrator of the Union Territory. Faizal said Patel has been pushing for the laws -- from ban on cow slaughter to two child norm for those wanting to contest the gram panchayat elections, allowing liquor to be served at resorts on inhabited islands -- that have upset the islander. The majority of the residents of the islands are Muslims. Besides people have apprehensions about the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) and the draft Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, Faizal said. LDAR is aimed at overseeing development of towns on the islands with sweeping changes in the way land can be acquired and utilised, while the draft Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation provides for powers to detain a person for up to one year to prevent him from “acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It allows for detention for anti-social activities from six months to a year without legal representation. A group of locals have already challenged the draft laws in court. Faizal said his party NCP president Sharad Pawar has also sought a meeting with Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the issue. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the chief ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu too have opposed the draft laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakshadweep-mp-says-amit-shah-has-assured-draft-laws-wont-be-finalised-without-consulting-locals-992200.html
31-05-2021||National||Covid-19 norms: Madras High Court orders inspection of Renault-Nissan unit||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Tamil Nadu government to depute a senior official to carmaker Renault-Nissan's plant near here to ascertain whether Covid-19 protocols were followed in full. The government should depute an official of the Directorate of Industrial Safety to the unit by 10 am on Tuesday, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The bench gave the direction while passing further interim orders on a public interest writ petition from the workers union of the unit on Monday. The PIL challenged an order dated May 8 of the State Revenue and Disaster Management permitting the company to start work at the factory subject to certain protocol conditions. It is the assertion of the workers that the employer cannot avail of the exemption to the lockdown without complying with the attendant conditions of maintaining Covid-19 protocol, particularly social distancing. The distancing norms cannot be maintained in the production procedure adopted by this employer, particularly in the assembly line, they contended.  The distancing norms have to be maintained without exception, the court said. For such a purpose, the management and the workmen should continue their discussions to arrive at a reasonable solution in the course of the week. It will be open to the management or the workmen to request the government official concerned to be present during the discussions to mediate between the two sides, if necessary, the court said. It is hoped that an amicable resolution would be reported to the court when the matter appears next on Friday. The employer should indicate the number of workmen infected, including the details of how many are in hospital and how many are at home, the bench added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-norms-madras-high-court-orders-inspection-of-renault-nissan-unit-992205.html
31-05-2021||National||Indian mountaineer scales Mount Everest in carbon neutral effort||Indian mountaineer Harshvardhan Joshi has achieved the rare feat of scaling the world's highest peak, Mt Everest, using eco-friendly means, according to a media report on Monday. Joshi, 24, a resident of Navi Mumbai, completed the expedition on May 23, The Himalayan Times reported. He was part of a three-member team of Satori Adventure Everest Expedition. The other members were Nepalis Furte Sherpa and Anup Rai, Managing Director at Satori Adventure Rishi Bhandari told the newspaper. Bhandari said the expedition was one-of-a-kind as the team did not burn non-renewable fuel for heating and other purposes. Joshi and his team used mobile solar panels for heating. Generally, expedition teams carry diesel for use. Joshi and his team are yet to reach Kathmandu as they encountered storms and some delay due to Covid-19 restrictions during their climb down, the report said. Mumbai-based Chirag Rural Development Foundation representatives said Joshi has promised to install solar power systems in the remote villages of the Himalayas in Nepal. Chirag Rural Development Foundation (CRDF) provides eco-friendly lighting solutions in rural areas. Founder of CRDF Pratibha Pai said: "We congratulate him (Joshi), as he shines in the reflection of 'green glory'. Harsh has conquered Everest benevolently and graciously -- choosing a sustainable path to fulfill his dream and using renewable and clean solar power to protect the mountains."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-mountaineer-scales-mount-everest-in-carbon-neutral-effort-992213.html
31-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Japan to extend its emergency aid to India||Japan is extending its emergency aid of nearly $14.8 million (Rs 107 crore), which includes additional medical supplies, to India to help its “friend” fight the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the Japanese foreign ministry. India reported the lowest daily new coronavirus infections in 50 days with 1,52,734 cases, taking the country’s total tally to 2,80,47,534. The death toll climbed to 3,29,100 with 3,128 daily deaths, said the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. “The Government of Japan decided to extend Emergency Grant Aid of approximately 14.8 million US dollars to India in response to the current surge of Covid-19 infections in India,” Japan's foreign ministry said in a statement. “Japan stands with India, our friend and partner, in her efforts to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic through this additional emergency assistance, and hopes that Japan’s assistance will contribute to alleviating and containing the Covid-19 situation in India,” it said. Through this assistance, an additional 1,000 ventilators and 2,000 oxygen concentrators will be provided to India through the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) as part of the assistance of up to $50 million (Rs. 362 crore) announced on May 5. As a result, 1,800 ventilators and 2,800 oxygen concentrators in total will be provided to India through a series of recent Japanese assistance, the ministry said in a statement issued on May 28. Earlier last month, Japan had announced to provide 300 oxygen concentrators and 300 ventilators to India. On May 5, Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi told his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar that Japan was ready to provide additional grant assistance of up to $50 million to India, based on New Delhi’s needs. As India battles a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, around 40 countries have sent medical supplies, including oxygen-related equipment, to help it tide over the situation. Besides Japan, the leading countries that have supplied assistance to India include the US, France, Russia, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-japan-to-extend-its-emergency-aid-to-india-992248.html
31-05-2021||National||New Covid cases decline; vaccination drive set to be ramped up||Daily coronavirus recoveries continued to outnumber the new positive cases for the 18th consecutive day on Monday, with the second wave of the pandemic showing a declining trend. According to the health ministry, the case positivity rate too remained below 10 per cent for seven consecutive days and had settled at 9.07 per cent on Monday, while the recovery rate remained above 91 per cent for five successive days. The death toll too maintained the declining trend with 3,128 deaths reported on Monday taking the total deaths to 3,29,100. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a virtual meeting with state and UT officers, also asked states to increase the pace of the vaccination drive as nearly 12 crore doses would be available to them during June. “Nearly 12 crore (11,95,70,000) doses will be available to States and UTs in June 2021 enabling them to ramp up the vaccination numbers,” he said adding that they should focus on setting up vaccination centres nearer to homes of the elderly and differently-abled.  The number of people who have recovered from the disease in last the 24 hours increased by 2,38,022 taking the total persons cured of Covid-19 to 2,56,92,342. The case fatality rate stands at 1.17 per cent. The total number of tests reported on Sunday were 16,83,135, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far in the country to 34,48,66,883. The active cases have further reduced to 20,26,092, comprising 7.22 per cent of the total infections. Bhushan asked the state governments to focus on a community-based approach and conduct vaccination sessions in non-health facilities such as community centres, RWA offices, schools, old age home and panchayat offices nearer to the homes to ensure that the differently-abled and the elderly get their jabs. The state and UT officers were also asked to proactively engage with private hospitals for Covid-19 vaccination and set up a team of two to three officials to coordinate with vaccine manufacturers to ensure timely supplies of vaccine doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-covid-cases-decline-vaccination-drive-set-to-be-ramped-up-992250.html
31-05-2021||National||After defending Quad in US, Jaishankar to chair BRICS meet with China, Russia foreign ministers on Tuesday||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will hold a virtual meeting with his counterparts from other BRICS nations, including Wang Yi of China and Sergey Lavrov of Russia, on Tuesday, just days after his visit to the United States, where he strongly defended the ‘Quad’. Jaishankar will chair the virtual meeting of the BRICS Foreign Ministers, who will discuss the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the need for strengthening and reforming the multilateral system with a view to enhancing its capacity to effectively address the diverse challenges of the time and to adapt them to contemporary realities, the Ministry of External Affairs stated in a press-release issued in New Delhi. Moscow over the past few months repeatedly conveyed to New Delhi its displeasure over the ‘Quad’, a coalition forged by India, Australia, Japan and the United States to counter the hegemonic aspirations of China in the Indo-Pacific region. Jaishankar, who was on a visit to the US from May 24 to 28, tacitly dismissed Russia’s views on India’s participation in Quad. “You know at some stage, we have to put the Cold War behind us. It is only those who are stuck in the Cold War who cannot understand Quad,” the External Affairs Minister told journalists after his meeting with the US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Joe Biden of the US, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan and Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia had a virtual summit on March 12 to elevate the ‘Quad’, which the four nations had revived in 2017 to build a coalition of democracies to counter China. The stand-offs between the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army in Doklam in western Bhutan in June-August 2017 and in eastern Ladakh since April-May 2020 took the relations between New Delhi and Beijing to a new low. strategic convergence with the US to counter China in the Indo-Pacific however grew, particularly over the past few months. It, however, caused wrinkles in India’s relations with Russia. Lavrov had in December 2020 called the Quad a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool, which was being used by the US to implement its “devious policy” of engaging New Delhi in games against China as well as to undermine Russia’s close partnership with India. Moscow’s envoy to New Delhi, Nikolay Kudashev, last month said that the Indo-Pacific strategy of the western nations was aimed at reviving the Cold War-era thinking and Cold War-era structures. “Quad today fills a very important gap that has emerged in contemporary times, where there are global or regional requirements, which cannot be filled by a single country. It cannot even be filled by one bilateral relationship, and which is not being addressed at the multilateral level,” Jaishankar told journalists in Washington D.C. He is now set to join his Chinese and Russian counterparts in the BRICS (a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) conclave to discuss “global and regional issues of concern, sustainable development, countering terrorism” and people-to-people cooperation. Brazil’s Foreign Minister Carlos Alberto Franco França, South Africa’s Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Grace Naledi Mandisa Pandor, will also join the virtual meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-defending-quad-in-us-jaishankar-to-chair-brics-meet-with-china-russia-foreign-ministers-on-tuesday-992254.html
31-05-2021||National||Men bury father’s body using excavator in viral clip||A video clip in which three men can be seen burying a body wrapped in a plastic sheet with the help of an excavator went viral on social media. It was later found that the clip was captured in Parsa Shukl village in Sant Kabir Nagar district and three men were burying the body of their deceased father along with some packets and sheets, police said. Village head Triyoganand Gautam said, “We offered help to perform last rites of the man but his sons didn’t accept it." The 60-year-old died of Covid about a week ago, said Gautam. His sons said they were not sure of the Covid-19 protocol so they buried the body with a JCB machine to prevent others from getting affected. On Sunday, two men were arrested after they were caught on tape rolling down a coronavirus patient's body from over a bridge into the Rapti river in the Balrampur district in the state. Earlier in the month, several bodies were seen floating in the Ganga and Yamuna rivers in the state, triggering apprehensions that these were of Covid-19 patients. On Sunday morning, six bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims were found floating in the Ganga in Fatehpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/men-bury-father-s-body-using-excavator-in-viral-clip-992258.html
31-05-2021||National||Gujarat doctors approach police for action against Ramdev||Prominent association representing doctors in Gujarat on Monday approached the Ahmedabad city police and sought registration of an FIR against yoga guru Ramdev for his alleged disparaging remarks against modern medicine and its practitioners. Senior doctors and office-bearers of the Gujarat unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) submitted separate applications to the Navrangpura police, seeking action against Ramdev, who is in the eye of a storm over his remarks on allopathy and vaccines. They urged the police to lodge an FIR against Ramdev under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act (invoked in view of the Covid-19 pandemic). Police said they have accepted the "memorandums" from the doctors. "We have accepted the memorandums given by the IMA and the AMA. However, the issue they have raised is beyond our jurisdiction," said Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone-1, Ravindra Patel. No FIR will be lodged in the city, he said. In the application, the IMA alleged that Ramdev was trying to incite people against doctors by claiming that allopathy is a "stupid science" and "lakh of people died after consuming allopathy medicines". "Ramdev talked rubbish about modern medicine. He even said people need not take vaccine against coronavirus. If people do not take vaccine, it will be difficult to stop the third (coronavirus) wave. "We want the police to take action against Ramdev for his comments," said Dr Devendra Patel, President, IMA-Gujarat. Dr Mona Desai, immediate past president, AMA, said at the time of a pandemic, Ramdev is "misguiding people" and using "bad words" for doctors who have served people by risking their own lives. AMA president Kirit Gadhavi even sought pressing of sedition charges against Ramdev for "downplaying the importance of coronavirus vaccine". A few days ago, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". The IMA, the apex medical body of modern doctors, had served a defamation notice on Ramdev for his remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-doctors-approach-police-for-action-against-ramdev-992260.html
31-05-2021||National||Tobacco-free society remains important personal mission: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said making society free of tobacco continues to remain an important personal mission and he has been working towards it for the last three decades. Vardhan was responding to a tweet by World Health Organisation (WHO) Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. "Pleased to award @drharshvardhan, Health Minister, with the special recognition for tobacco control. His leadership was instrumental in the 2019 national legislation to ban e-cigarettes & heated tobacco products. Thank you, Minister! https://bit.ly/3fG1Vbj #WorldNoTobaccoDay," Ghebreyesus tweeted. Union Minsiter Vardhan said on Twitter," Thank you my dear friend @DrTedros for bestowing this honour upon me." "#TobaccoFreeHomes & #TobaccoFree society continue to remain important personal missions in my life, both of which I have been working towards since the last three decades," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tobacco-free-society-remains-important-personal-mission-harsh-vardhan-992261.html
31-05-2021||National||Chhatrasal Stadium murder case: Police take Sushil Kumar to Haridwar||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch on Monday took two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, arrested in connection with the murder of a wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium, to Haridwar where he allegedly fled following the incident, officials said. Kumar was taken to Haridwar to ascertain the sequence of events following the incident, they said. Kumar and his associate Ajay were earlier taken to Bathinda and Chandigarh to ascertain the sequence of events that unfolded after they fled the city following the wrestler's death. Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. The international wrestler was arrested, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar, on May 23 from outer Delhi's Mundka area. Police said a total of nine people, including Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident. Police had earlier said Kumar has been evasive and has not been cooperating with the investigators during questioning. On Thursday, a video surfaced on social media purportedly showing Kumar and his associates allegedly hitting another man with sticks. In the video, Kumar and his associates are purportedly seen carrying sticks in their hands while the injured man can be seen lying on the ground. On Wednesday morning, police had said four associates of Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of the 23-year-old Sagar, were arrested. Several teams, including the Crime Branch and four teams of the Special cell, had conducted raids in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana and Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhatrasal-stadium-murder-case-police-take-sushil-kumar-to-haridwar-992263.html
31-05-2021||National||Seeking price capping waiver, Cipla says it is close to commit over $1 bn to Moderna for Covid-19 vaccine||Seeking fast-track approvals to bring Moderna's single-dose Covid-19 booster vaccine in India expeditiously, Cipla has requested the government for indemnification and exemptions from price capping, bridging trials and basic customs duty, while stating that it is close to committing over $1-billion as advance to the US major, sources said on Monday. Commending the government for its efforts to increase the vaccine availability in the country for achieving effective protection against Covid-19, the Indian pharma giant has said its discussions with Moderna on the Covid-19 booster vaccine are nearing finalisation and for that, they are seeking the "partnership and support of the government to make this programme successful". Requesting the government to provide confirmation on four critical points --- exemption from price restriction, indemnification, bridging trial waiver and basic customs duty exemption, Cipla has said such an assurance will help make this significant financial commitment of more than $1 billion (over Rs 7,250 crore) advance to Moderna for its booster vaccine in India, sources privy to the development said. Cipla's latest communication to the government, dated May 29, follows a high-level meeting held recently during which it was discussed that Moderna has proposed to launch a single-dose vaccine for the Indian market, for which, they were in discussion with Cipla and other Indian companies. It was also discussed in that meeting that orders for supply of the vaccine in 2022 may be placed with Moderna expeditiously and that Cipla has evinced interest to procure 50 million doses from Moderna for 2022. It was also suggested that Cipla may be asked to submit their specific requests to the government on their request for a "confirmation from the Government of India in respect of stability in regulatory requirements/policy regime" and a decision on that can be taken thereafter expeditiously. Taking the matter forward, Cipla has now written to the government, "It is imperative Cipla brings Moderna booster vaccines to India urgently, having immediately made available the largest portfolio of Covid-19 drugs amongst Indian pharmaceutical companies, including the state-of-the-art antibody cocktail of Casirivimab and Imdevimab." Stating that Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine has been rated at the highest efficacy with least side effects and that the US company was also leading the development of boosters and vaccines for adolescents and paediatrics, Cipla has told the government that it needs assurance from the government to include Moderna booster vaccine under the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, announced in April and made effective from May 1. The company has said it is a "need of the hour" to provide access to quality vaccine booster to bolster India's fight against Covid-19 and that it is looking forward to the government's assurance to help it expeditiously close its supply arrangement with Moderna. Seeking exemption from price restriction, Cipla said, "Given the size of the population we need to immunize with boosters, it is our avid belief that the government and private players can work together to deliver the vaccination programme, best serving the public interest." "Any restriction brought on pricing may dissuade the mRNA players from providing their vaccines in India, considering the serious competing demand by other countries chasing the limited supply of vaccines," a source quoted Cipla as having communicated to the Indian government. The company has further requested for the government's assurance that no price capping would apply for imported vaccines to be provided through private hospitals and that the booster vaccine can be covered under the liberalised pricing policy and kept exempt from any price capping. Cipla has also sought indemnity in case of any adverse effects or complications caused by the Moderna vaccine and cited instances of the US Countermeasures Injury Compensation Program (CICP) and similar programmes in the UK, Canada, EU, Singapore and even the WHO-led Covax, that protect vaccine manufacturers/distributors from claims and underwrite the compensation burden. On basic custom duty exemption, Cipla said it appreciates the government's intent on exempting basic customs duty on import of Covid-19 vaccines and urged it to be extended to the whole of 2022. It also lauded NITI Aayog's recent statement on "Myths and Facts on India's Vaccination Process" where it had said that bridging trial requirement for vaccines approved by the US FDA, EMA and others will be waived off altogether for well-established vaccines, manufactured in other countries. The company has sought confirmation that the Moderna booster vaccine, having received the USFDA's Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) will not require a bridging trial in India. However, Cipla stated that as Moderna's India partner, it will comply with post-marketing surveillance requirements. Similar requests for indemnity and exemption from bridging trials have been made by another US major Pfizer as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seeking-price-capping-waiver-cipla-says-it-is-close-to-commit-over-1-bn-to-moderna-for-covid-19-vaccine-992264.html
31-05-2021||National Politics||Bengal stands up to bullies: Mahua Moitra responds to the Centre-WB row gen-Z style||Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra tweeted a gif captioning it "Bengal stands up to bullies" minutes after Mamata shot off a letter to PM Modi over the transfer ob Bengal's Chief Secretary. The gif shows a young cat clawing at what looks like the stuffed toy of a tiger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bengal-stands-up-to-bullies-mahua-moitra-responds-to-the-centre-wb-row-gen-z-style-992011.html
31-05-2021||National Politics||'Zero vaccine policy acting like dagger in Mother India's heart', alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that the central government has a "zero vaccine policy" which is acting as a "dagger in Mother India's heart". He also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over media reports which claimed that post-Covid the unemployment rate was in double digits in May this year. "The zero vaccine policy of the Modi government is acting like a dagger in Mother India's heart. Sad truth," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Modi Govt’s non vaccination strategy is a dagger in Bharat Mata’s heart. Tragic truth. "One man and his arrogance + One virus and its mutants," he said in another tweet, citing a report that claimed that "97 percent of Indians are poorer post-Covid". One man and his arrogance + Gandhi has been critical of the Modi government's handling of the Covid pandemic and its vaccine policy. The BJP has accused the Congress of spreading misinformation and fear on vaccination as part of a campaign against the Modi government. It said Gandhi should rather be concerned about the Congress-ruled states as they have not been able lift their quota from vaccine producers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/zero-vaccine-policy-acting-like-dagger-in-mother-indias-heart-alleges-rahul-gandhi-992171.html
31-05-2021||National Politics||Karni Sena demands a change in title of Akshay Kumar's 'Prithiviraj'||The Shree Rajput Karni Sena, which had organised protests over the release of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s Padmaavat citing distortion of facts, has focused its attention on the upcoming Akshay Kumar starrer Prithviraj and is demanding that the title be changed. The organisation, a fringe group that takes up issues related to the Rajput community, wants that the title of the Yash Raj Films historical drama should reflect that the greatness of the last Hindu emperor Prithviraj Chauhan. Just naming it Prithviraj does “injustice with his glory”, it said while warning of protests over the issue. “The filmmakers have made the film on the great king Prithviraj Chauhan who was the last Hindu emperor and a great Rajput king. How can the name of the film be kept just Prithviraj? The title should have the full name,” Mahipal Singh Makrana, national president of the Shree Rajput Karni Sena, told PTI. He said the Karni Sena's Mumbai team, led by Dilip Singh, had filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police last week, raising objections over the title, but no FIR had been registered yet. There was no response from the production house when reached for a comment. In March last year, Karni Sena members, led by Makrana, had disrupted the shooting of Prithiviraj on the outskirts of Jaipur. According to Makrana, filmmakers should give due respect to historic personalities when they make biopics. “Our ancestors made history by sacrificing their lives. It is history for us and business for the filmmakers. History is made to protect the culture and not for doing business and earning profits." Prithviraj is directed by critically-acclaimed writer-director Chandraparaksh Dwivedi, best known for directing and starring in the television epic Chanakya (1991) and directing 2003 film adaptation of Amrita Pritam's novel Pinjar. It is produced by Yash Raj Films and also features Miss World 2017 Manushi Chhillar as Sanyogita, opposite Kumar's Prithviraj Chauhan. Makrana said Dwivedi had given an assurance that the Karni Sena would be provided with a copy of the film's script and had not revealed the title of the film. “Since the movie is based on Prithviraj Chauhan, we wanted to go through the script to make sure that there is no distortion of historic facts in the movie and the director had assured us that the script will be provided but nothing happened after that. At that time, the director did not disclose the title of the movie. Now, it is clear that the title is just Prithiviraj which is injustice with the glory of the king,” he said. The Karni Sena leader said they will plan a protest if the title of the film is not changed or if they find any distortion of historic facts in the movie. Prithviraj was supposed to release in November this year but there is no clarity whether producers will stick to the original release date or extend it further given the Covid situation. In 2017, Bhansali's Padmavati attracted major controversy with the group protesting against the film claiming that the director portrays a Rajput queen in negative light. The movie's sets were vandalised and Bhansali was assaulted during the shooting of the movie while lead actor Deepika Padukone also received threats of violence. The film finally released in January 2018 with the changed title of Padmaavat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/karni-sena-demands-a-change-in-title-of-akshay-kumars-prithiviraj-992190.html
31-05-2021||National Politics||Bank frauds on the rise under Modi government, says Congress||The Congress on Monday alleged that banking frauds have risen under the Modi government and accused it of allowing the fraudsters to either continue functioning in the country or leave. Citing an Reserve Bank of India (RBI) report, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh alleged that there have been bank frauds to the tune of Rs 5 lakh crore. "The Modi government has weakened the banking system by allowing the fraudsters to either continue functioning in the country or leave the country without making any efforts to recover the fraud amounts. It has also not provided enough capital support to the banks. "The Congress party urges that the Modi government handles these fraudsters with an iron fist and make sure that the entire amount, that belongs to our nation, be recovered as soon as possible," he told reporters.  Vallabh said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) annual report for 2020-21 points out certain alarming statistics and alleged that the failure of the Modi government in controlling infections due to the second wave of Covid-19 is denting a heavy blow again to the economy.  He said, "The March 2021 round of the Reserve Bank's consumer confidence survey (CCS) showed a worsening consumer sentiment on the back of deteriorating sentiments on general economic situation, income and prices." On bank frauds, he said, the RBI report says the cases and amount has been on a rapid rise since 2014-15. "In the year 2020-21 alone, the total amount of fraud was Rs 1.38 lakh crore," he said.  The total fraud amount has been increasing since 2014-15 and increased at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 57 per cent up to 2019-20, he said, adding that for the year 2020-21, when loan moratorium was in effect till August 31, 2020 and restructuring initiatives were in effect for until December 31, 2020, the fraud amount for the entire year was still Rs 1,38,422 crore, Vallabh said. "In the last 3 years, the average fraud amount increased from Rs 10.5 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 21.3 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 18.8 crore in 2020-21. The average fraud amount was Rs 4.2 crore in 2014-15. Hence, the average fraud amount has become 4 to 5 times under Modi 1.0 and Modi 2.0," he alleged. The Congress leader alleged that the details provided by RBI highlight a glaring reality on both the fraud and the state of the economy and it clearly vindicates the fact that the Modi government is all talk and no action, similar to all its poll promises. "Why has the government failed to curb the bank frauds in the last 7 years? What is the government doing to recover the amount involved in these bank frauds? How much amount has been collected from these fraudsters who are weakening our banking system," he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bank-frauds-on-the-rise-under-modi-government-says-congress-992216.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Major tragedy averted as security forces destroy IED in J&K's Pulwama||A major tragedy was averted on Monday as security forces detected and destroyed an improvised explosive device (IED) in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. A joint team of security forces detected an IED planted near Railway link road at Panzgam under Awantipora police station area, a police official said. He said the IED was destroyed by a bomb disposal squad without causing any damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-tragedy-averted-as-security-forces-destroy-ied-in-jks-pulwama-992031.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Dozens of bodies found floating in Ganga again||After a gap of a few days, dozens of dead bodies were found floating in Ganga again in Unnao and Fatehpur districts of Uttar Pradesh on Monday. According to the reports, several dead bodies were seen floating in the river near Buxar ghat in Unnao district. The locals said that these bodies had been buried in pits, which were barely three to four feet deep, and were afloat after the river breached its banks following heavy rains the past two days. ''A large number of bodies are buried in such pits along the bank of Ganga in the district... more bodies will be afloat as the river further breaches its banks after the rains in the monsoon season,'' said a local resident. Similarly, six decomposed dead bodies were found floating in the Ganga in Fatehpur district. The district officials had the bodies fished out and got them cremated following the Covid protocols. Reports said that people had dumped the dead in the river as there was an acute shortage of wood for pyre. A majority of the bodies were suspected to be those who had died from Covid-19.    According to sources, the UP government officials knew that bodies of Covid patients were being dumped into the river. The state government has deployed security personnel along the banks of the major rivers to prevent the dumping of bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dozens-of-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-again-992032.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Bihar extends Covid lockdown till June 8||The Bihar government on Monday extended the lockdown by another week, till June 8, but eased some of the restrictions in order to facilitate business activities. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar made the announcement on social media after chairing a meeting of the crisis management group that comprises his cabinet colleagues and top officials. कोरोना संक्रमण को देखते हुए लॉकडाउन को एक सप्ताह अर्थात 8 जून, 2021 तक बढ़ाने का निर्णय लिया गया है। परन्तु व्यापार के लिए अतिरिक्त छूट दी जा रही है।सभी लोग मास्क पहनें और सामाजिक दूरी बनाए रखें। "In view of the corona outbreak, a decision has been taken to extend the lockdown by a week, till June 8. However, some extra concessions will be made for business activities. People are requested to wear masks and maintain social distancing," Kumar tweeted in Hindi. Detailed guidelines regarding the extended period of the lockdown will be released later in the day, officials said. The lockdown was first clamped from May 5 to 15, then extended till May 25 and again up to June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-extends-covid-lockdown-till-june-8-992040.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||IAF joins fire fighting operation as forest blaze rages in J&K's Udhampur||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Monday joined a fire fighting operation to control a massive forest fire in Ghordi block in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The fire in Daya Dhar forest started on Sunday and engulfed a vast area, damaging hundreds of trees, the officials said. The forest protection force, along with fire department and emergency services personnel, police and civilian volunteers from nearby villages are making efforts to put off the blaze in the forest, home to various species of wild animals and birds. The IAF deployed its choppers with a bucket carrying thousands of litres of water early Monday morning to help douse the fire, responding to the call of Udhampur Deputy Commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib. The officials said the cause of the fire was not known immediately but it is believed that the blaze started after the dry grass caught fire due to rising mercury. "The exact damage caused to the green gold and the wildlife would be known only after the fire is controlled completely,” a forest official said. District Development Council (DDC) member, Ghordi, Rakesh Chander Sharma said 80 per cent of the fire was controlled and joint efforts are on to douse the flames. "The fire has engulfed a vast forest area and the damage to wildlife is enormous. We have an endangered species of peacocks and other wild animals including leopards, deer, bears and wild pigs," Sharma, a BJP leader, said. He said an IAF chopper joined the fire fighting operation around 7 am and had made many sorties to douse the fire. Sharma said the fire threatened several villages, including Gorla, Jilad and Kasoori, but hailed the local volunteers who started the fire fighting operation soon after the blaze was noticed in the forest. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-joins-fire-fighting-operation-as-forest-blaze-rages-in-jks-udhampur-992045.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||3,000 junior doctors in MP go on strike amid Covid-19 pandemic||Nearly 3,000 junior doctors in Madhya Pradesh on Monday struck work, barring Covid-19 duties, to press for their demands, including free treatment for them and their families if they contract the coronavirus infection. MP Junior Doctors Association president Arvind Meena told PTI that their members were abstaining from work at the Out Patient Departments (OPDs), the In-Patient Departments (IPDs) and other wards of various health care facilities. "If the written orders (complying with the demands) are not released by this evening, then we would be compelled to withdraw from Covid-19 duties across the state from June 1," he said. They have demanded that beds for junior doctors serving Covid-19 patients be reserved in separate areas in case they contract the infection, he said. "Treatment should be free for such doctors as well as their kin. We also need a hike in stipend," Meena said. He said their association comprises around 3,000 members from six medical colleges in the state. Earlier, the junior doctors went on a strike on May 6, but resumed a few hours later after the state government assured them that their demands would be met. "While the state government promised 24 days ago that our demands would be met, nothing has moved since, Meena claimed and demanded that the government release a written order fulfilling their demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3000-junior-doctors-in-mp-go-on-strike-amid-covid-19-pandemic-992059.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Better do your job: Delhi HC raps DCGI for not properly examining how Gambhir secured Fabiflu stock||The Delhi High Court Monday came down heavily on the drug controller for not properly examining how BJP MP Gautam Gambhir procured a huge quantity of Fabiflu, used for treating Covid-19 patients, and said the tendency of people to take advantage of a situation to appear as saviours has to be denounced. The High Court said its confidence in the drug controller has shaken and rejected its status report filed in connection with its inquiry into procurement of the medicine by the cricketer-turned-politician Gambhir. The high court said everyone knows that the drug was in short supply and while Gambhir bought thousands of strips of the medicine, other people who needed it could not get it on that day. “You (drug controller) are wrong to say it was not in short supply. You want us to shut our eyes. You think you would get away with this. “You can’t take us for a ride. If you think we are so gullible, so naive, we are not. You better do your job. If you can’t do your job, tell us, we will have you suspended and let someone else do your job,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said. The bench also pulled up Gambhir for again making a statement that he will continue to do such work. “We have already said it is a malpractice. This tendency of people trying to take advantage and then trying to appear as a saviour when they themselves created the problem, has to be denounced. And then the person goes on to state he would do it again. If it continues, we know how to deal with it,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/better-do-your-job-delhi-hc-raps-dcgi-for-not-properly-examining-how-gambhir-secured-fabiflu-stock-992070.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to relax corona curfew in 61 districts from Tuesday||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday extended the relaxations announced in the coronavirus curfew to six more districts from June 1, allowing shops and markets outside the containment zones to open for five days a week. The relaxations will be applicable to a total of 61 districts from Tuesday, while 14 districts with an active Covid-19 caseload of over 600 have been kept outside the purview of the order for the time being. "The relaxations were announced in 55 districts on Sunday, which has now been increased to 61 (of the state's 75 districts). According to latest reports, the active caseload has fallen below 600 in Sonbhadra, Deoria, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Bijnore and Moradabad, and the relaxations will be applicable in these six districts as well," an official spokesperson said here. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath with senior officials, he added. The 14 districts where there would be no relaxations are Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Lakhimpur-Khiri, Jaunpur and Ghazipur, the spokesperson said. In the remaining 61 districts, shops and markets outside the Covid-19 containment zones will be allowed to remain open from 7 am to 7 pm from Monday to Friday, he said. Eateries on highways and vendors will also be allowed to operate, according to a statement issued by the state government. The night curfew will remain in place from 7 pm to 7 am and weekend restrictions or the "corona curfew" will also be in place on Saturdays and Sundays. Instructions were issued that over the weekend, cleanliness, sanitisation and fogging campaigns will be carried out. Shopkeepers and their employees will have to wear masks, maintain a two-yard distance with each other and customers, and ensure the arrangement of hand sanitiser. These rules will also be applicable to the customers. While there would be full attendance for the frontline workers, for the rest of the government employees, there would be 50 per cent attendance on rotation. A Covid help desk must also be established at all offices. The private sector has been asked to encourage the employees to work from home. According to the statement, industrial units will stay open while vegetable markets in the densely-populated areas will function in open places. At railway stations, airports and bus stands, all Covid protocols have to be followed. Screening of passengers and antigen tests have to be conducted. The roadways buses have been allowed to operate within the state. Schools, colleges and educational institutes will remain closed while teachers and other staff have been allowed to come to school for administrative work. Not more than five devotees will be allowed inside a religious place at a time. Coaching centres, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, clubs and shopping malls will remain closed, the statement said. A maximum of 20 people will be allowed at a funeral procession, it added. The government has also decided to conduct a detailed study on coronavirus mutation. "It has been directed by the chief minister to do genome sequencing of the virus with the help of the Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI). In the future, it will help in dealing with the virus," the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-relax-corona-curfew-in-61-districts-from-tuesday-992071.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 deaths in May raise an alarm in Jammu & Kashmir||Even as Jammu and Kashmir’s positivity rate has started to slide, the high number of Covid-19 fatalities in May has become a cause for concern. The union territory (UT) recorded over 41 per cent of its total Covid deaths in May only. As per the official figures, the death toll on April 30 was 2283 which increased to 3870 on May 30. The other worry in the UT has been that deaths have more or less remained constant everyday throughout the month. The month started with 47 Covid deaths in J&K on May 1. A week later on May 8, the number was 60 while on May 15, the number slightly grew to 63 before coming down to 48 on May 22. On May 29, the UT reported 46 deaths but on May 30 the deaths came below 30 mark for the first time in over a month. The figures also point out the Jammu division is witnessing the majority of Covid fatalities in the second wave in comparison to Kashmir. However, Kashmir is recording a higher number of daily cases. The deaths in the Jammu region more than doubled in May. On April 30 the death toll in Jammu was 889 which increased to over 1888 on May 30. In Kashmir the number of Covid deaths was 1394 on April 30 which increased to 1982 on May 30. Similarly, out of total 278859 positive cases, J&K has recorded 112857 cases in May which is over 40 per cent of total cases. However, from the high of 10.93 per cent on May 7, the positivity rate in the UT has come down to 5.31 per cent on Sunday. Health experts say with a gradual decline in active cases, over the next few days, the death rate too will come down. “There is always a lag time between a surge and casualties. A patient usually stays in ICU for 14 days before he recovers or dies. Hence, a surge in deaths remains even weeks after cases start declining,” a senior medico at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar told DH. He said the fatality rate in the second wave is higher than the first one due to the mutant virus. “When the cases were at peak earlier this month, getting ICU and ventilator beds was difficult. Treatment in severe cases may have got delayed and many Covid patients may even have died at home in May,” the doctor revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-deaths-in-may-raise-an-alarm-in-jammu-kashmir-992074.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi International Airport launches dedicated Covid-19 vaccine centre||Delhi International Airport on Monday announced the launch of a dedicated Covid-19 vaccination centre in association with Manipal Hospital from June 1. Set up at Terminal-1 of Indira Gandhi International Airport, the facility aims to provide vaccination opportunity to over 60,000 employees of various stakeholders -- airlines, cargo business, ground handling agencies, Air Traffic Control, among others, working at the airport, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) said in a release. All staff who are over 18 years of age can register themselves and get jabbed at the centre on a payment basis, either through their employer or directly by themselves. The government has identified aviation as a priority sector and those working with it should be considered as a priority group for vaccination, this current effort by DIAL is in line with that, it said. “All airport staff, including that of stakeholders, work round-the-clock to ensure the airport remains operational. “They provided much-needed support to the country and the countrymen during the lockdown. We are launching the vaccination drive for these Covid warriors who are part of the airport's ecosystem to save them from this dreaded virus,” DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said. Employees who have not been vaccinated will have to register themselves on the central government's website COWIN.GOV.IN or through the Aarogya Setu app only. Following this, employees can visit the vaccination centre between 10 am to 5 pm and get themselves inoculated, according to DIAL. The facility is equipped with facilities such as a registration centre, waiting lounge, and an observation lounge for those who have been vaccinated, the operator said. Besides, there would be a provision of doctors and an ambulance as well to deal with any emergency. As per the Covid protocol, nobody would be allowed to enter the vaccination centre without registration and thermal screening, the private airport operator added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-international-airport-launches-dedicated-covid-19-vaccine-centre-992081.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||A look at how Delhi battled the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic in May||After the national capital reeled under the harsh Covid-19 second wave in April, the month of May brought some respite to New Delhi due to strict lockdown and possibly the national vaccination drive.  On May 30, Delhi reported 946 new cases of Covid-19, its lowest single-day count since March 22, and 76 deaths, the lowest in over a month. The state's positivity rate stayed under 2 per cent for the fifth day, at 1.25 per cent. Here's a look at the Covid-19 statistics of the national capital in the month of May: From April 1, Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases began a steady climb, going from 2,720 on April 1 to more than 10,000 in 10 days. Throughout the month, the capital struggled for oxygen, medical supplies and hospital beds, with fatalities touching record highs. The Arvind Kejriwal government was forced to impose a lockdown in the city on April 19 to control the spread of Covid-19 and manage the diminishing medical supplies. This lockdown, which will be lifted in phases starting today, led to the cases plateauing in the capital and other highly infected regions by the first week of May. Cases took a dive from 25,212 on May 1 to 946 on May 30, registering a steady decline through the month. The number of deaths in the capital fell from over 400 in the first week of May to 78 on May 30. The fatality rate in Delhi now stands at 1.69 per cent. The positivity rate in the national capital fell steadily through May from 31.61 per cent to 1.25 per cent. The last time Delhi's positivity rate was under 2 per cent before May 26 was March 27, when it was 1.70 per cent. In the week ending May 16, Delhi logged an average of 10,043 new cases a day. The week before that, the city saw an average of 18,374 cases every day. Vaccination Delhi's vaccination numbers have been a rollercoaster ride through the month. The month started with over 45,000 beneficiaries for vaccines in the first week of May, and the number fell as low as around 5,000 on May 15 and close to 4,000 on May 24.  The Aam Aadmi Party government continued to engage in a war of words with the Centre over vaccine distribution. CM Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia slammed the BJP-led government for the shortage of vaccines and its 'flawed' procurement plan. "BJP leaders have been criticising and abusing Kejriwal because they want to cover up the failure of their government in vaccine management. But no matter how much they abuse, Kejriwal will continue to demand vaccines for the people of Delhi," Sisodia said in a briefing earlier today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-look-at-how-delhi-battled-the-second-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-may-992088.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi finishing vaccine supply too soon; Haryana administering doses in small numbers over several days: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Monday accused his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal of playing politics over anti-Covid vaccines, saying the national capital is exhausting its supply too soon while his own state is stretching it over a longer period. His comment on vaccine rationing invited a sharp reaction from the Congress, which said Haryana has vaccine doses but is administering them to people in small numbers over several days. "Deliberate delay in administering vaccines is also being termed as a strategy. He (CM) says the government has vaccines, but these will be administered to people in small numbers over several days. This is the reason why the people of Haryana are not able to get the vaccines..," Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a tweet. Claiming that Kejriwal always has a critical tone, Khattar said Delhi is getting more vaccine doses considering the size of its population. Giving an example of his own state and virtually admitting to rationing of vaccines, Khattar said, "Even we (Haryana) can administer two lakh doses in one day and exhaust our stock. But we know how much stock we are getting and if we keep administering 50,000 to 60,000 doses to people daily, this (stock) will keep going on." He said given the present pandemic situation, the Centre is doing its best to lend assistance to the states. "So far, all vaccination doses are coming from the Centre's side. Delhi's population is two crore, our population is 2.90 crore," the Haryana chief minister said. "If we go by this ratio, Delhi has got 51 lakh vaccine doses and accordingly we should have got 74 to 75 lakh doses, but we have got only 58 lakh doses. If one goes by per million population, Delhi has got more and Haryana has got less vaccine doses," he added. His remarks come amid Kejriwal's demand for more vaccine doses from the Centre. "Whatever stock is available, it has to be distributed to the entire country. Delhi alone cannot get it. And if the entire country has to get it, then it will be given on a pro rata basis," the Haryana chief minister said. Khattar said many states, including Haryana, are also making efforts to procure vaccines from abroad by floating global tenders. "The Centre is already giving vaccines and will keep giving in future too. But he (Kejriwal) always indulges in drama," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-finishing-vaccine-supply-too-soon-haryana-administering-doses-in-small-numbers-over-several-days-khattar-992101.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi likely to get Sputnik V in June, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi is likely to receive the first consignment of Sputnik V, the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, in June, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, while stressing that vaccination is key to the fight against coronavirus. The chief minister also said the city currently has around 944 cases of mucormycosis or 'black fungus', including 300 at the central government-run hospitals. He inaugurated a free walk-in vaccination facility for journalists and their families at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya at DDU Marg in ITO. "We have started this vaccination facility for journalists and their families. There was a demand from journalists to start a special vaccination facility for them. The vaccines are being administered to those who are in the 18-44 age group as well as those aged above 45. "I urge all journalists to come in large numbers and get vaccinated. You can protect yourself from coronavirus only through vaccination," he told reporters. The chief minister said there are around 650 cases of 'black fungus' in Delhi government hospitals but there is a shortage of drugs used to treat the disease. "There are 300 cases of 'black fungus' in central government hospitals and around 650 in Delhi government hospitals. However, the supply of injections is low. We had received 1,000 injections the day before yesterday, but did not receive any injections yesterday. It takes 3-4 injections per person per day," he said. Kejriwal said Delhi is likely to get a consignment of the Sputnik V vaccine that will be imported by the firm concerned after June 20. "Sputnik will probably offer vaccines after June 20. They will start the vaccine production from the month of August. They are importing the vaccines right now, and they will allot a section of their imported vaccines to the Delhi government," he said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V with certain conditions. Dr Reddy's Laboratories will import the vaccine in the country. The process of lifting the lockdown gradually in the capital also began from Monday, starting with resumption of construction activities and reopening of factories for a week. However, many people also faced certain issues on the first day. On being asked about the problems faced by people, he said, "We will rectify whatever issues people are facing. I observed that the portal was facing some issues today. We are working towards resolving those and all the other issues based on the feedback from the people," he added.   Kejriwal had shared a video on Twitter in which Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar had accused him of politicising the vaccination issue and had said that the national capital is getting more vaccine doses than other states. Khattar even suggested that Delhi was vaccinating people at a fast pace. On being asked about Khattar''s remarks and his tweet, he said, "If we do not vaccinate people at a faster pace and as soon as possible, how will we ensure vaccination for all our people and protect them from corona?" The Delhi government has floated a global expression of interest (EOI) for the procurement of the Covid-19 vaccine on an urgent basis. Asked on the issue of states being held responsible for the procurement of vaccines, he said, "How will the states procure the vaccines? It has been one-and-a-half to two months since the Centre had announced that states should float the tenders. There are 36 states and Union Territories. Every state and every political party has tried its best to procure the vaccines by filing global tenders." Kejriwal said none of the states has been able to procure a single injection on their own until now. "It has become apparent that states are not able to procure vaccines on their own and the central government has to do it. States should be held responsible if and when they are not able to make proper arrangements to administer the vaccines after the Centre has procured, produced and supplied the vaccines to us.  "Thus, I feel that procurement, production, and distribution of the vaccines is the responsibility of the central government, and administering the vaccines is the responsibility of the state governments." There are people in the 18-44 age group who had received the first dose of Covaxin on May 1 and are due for their second dose. However, the vaccination for this age group has been shut owing to the stocks getting over. "As soon as Covaxin is available, we will first administer it to those who are due for their second dose," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-likely-to-get-sputnik-v-in-june-says-arvind-kejriwal-992115.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Mobile app launched to help Covid patients in Noida||A new mobile phone application to easily connect people, especially from rural areas, with doctors for medical consultation amid the Covid-19 outbreak was launched in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district on Monday. The app 'Upchaar', an initiative of Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh with support from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), was launched by District Magistrate Suhas L Y, Police Commissioner Alok Singh and Yamuna Authority CEO Arun Vir Singh. According to officials, the bilingual Android app, which has been developed by Nashik-based Gunvant Battase, will be available on Google Play Store in a day or two while work is underway for its iOS version also. "During the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, we could not get locals admitted to hospitals. There were many people who could have got treated at their homes only but could not because of lack of consultation from doctors," MLA Singh said. While explaining the features of the app, Battase said anybody in Gautam Buddh Nagar can register themselves on the app using their mobile number followed by a one-time password (OTP). "The OTP is sought to ensure that the person has not given a fake mobile number," he added. The app, available in Hindi and English, is aimed at helping the rural people but its benefit is not limited only to them, MLA Singh said. GIMS Director Brig (retired) Dr. Rakesh Gupta said on one hand the pandemic has caused trouble to everyone but on the other it has been useful too as technology improved leaps and bounds during the year. "We (GIMS) will provide all support, like doctors for consultation, and try to expand it further. We can also make a separate cell for Covid patients," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-app-launched-to-help-covid-patients-in-noida-992135.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||UP nurse accused of throwing Covid-19 vaccine-filled syringes in dustbin; dismissed||An ANM (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife) was accused of throwing vaccine-filled syringes into the dustbin at a primary health centre in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district, about 400 kilometres from here. According to the sources, the ANM, identified as Niha Khan, was dismissed from service and a case was also registered against her under different sections of the IPC. Sources said that Khan, who was entrusted with the task of vaccinating the people between 18-44 age group at Jamalpur PHC in the district, would insert the needle into the body of the beneficiaries but would not inject the vaccine. ''She used to throw the loaded vaccines into the dustbin...the people thought that they had been vaccinated....the names of the beneficiaries were also uploaded on the portal,'' said a health official in the district. He said that as many as 29 loaded vaccines were recovered from the dustbin. A preliminary inquiry conducted into the matter by a two-member committee revealed that the ANM did it with the intention of ''harming the vaccination campaign'', he said. ''A case has been registered against the ANM....she has also been dismissed from service....directives have been issued to the concerned medical officers to take measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents,'' the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-nurse-accused-of-throwing-covid-19-vaccine-filled-syringes-in-dustbin-dismissed-992150.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||India restricts import of 108 military weapons, systems||In a major push to promote the domestic defence industry, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday approved imposing restrictions on the import of 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars. The first negative list for defence imports comprising 101 items was issued last year. The restrictions on import of the 108 items that figured in the second list will progressively come into effect in the period from December 2021 to December 2025, officials said. They said the second list has been prepared by the defence ministry after several rounds of consultations with state-owned and private defence manufacturing industry bodies. The first negative list of items for defence imports included towed artillery guns, short-range surface-to-air missiles, cruise missiles, offshore patrol vessels, electronic warfare systems, next-generation missile vessels, floating dock and anti-submarine rocket launchers. The second negative list for imports was approved by the defence minister, officials said. "In pursuance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's endeavour of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and to boost indigenisation in the defence sector, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved a proposal of the Department of Military Affairs to notify the 'second positive indigenisation list' of 108 items," the defence ministry said. "This will give a further boost to indigenisation with the active participation of public and private sector for fulfilling the twin objectives of achieving self-reliance and promoting defence exports," it said. The ministry said all the 108 items will now be procured from indigenous sources as per provisions of the Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) 2020. In the last couple of years, the government has taken a series of measures to boost the domestic defence industry. The new defence procurement policy of the defence ministry projected a turnover of Rs 1.75 lakh crore ($25 billion) in defence manufacturing by 2025. India is one of the most lucrative markets for global defence giants. The country figured among the few top importers of military hardware in the world for the last eight to ten years. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around $130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-restricts-import-of-108-military-weapons-systems-992165.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi records lowest mean maximum temperature since 2008: IMD||Delhi recorded a mean maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius in May, the lowest for the month in 13 years, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. Also, this is the first time since 2014 that the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, did not record a heat wave in the pre-monsoon period, the IMD said. The city had recorded a mean maximum temperature of 37 degrees Celsius in May 2008, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD.  The city had recorded a maximum temperature of 23.8 degrees Celsius on May 19, 16 notches below normal and the lowest in the month of May since 1951, it said. He also said this is the first time since 2014 that Safdarjung did not record a heatwave in the pre-monsoon period. First, frequent western disturbances kept the mercury in check and later cyclone Tauktae led to "record" rains, Srivastava said. It is also the first time since 2011 that Palam did not record a heatwave in the pre-monsoon period this year, he said. For the plains, a "heat wave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A "severe" heat wave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. Delhi also received 144.8 mm rain in May this year, the highest for the month in 13 years, the weather department said. "No rain is predicted in the next four to five days. So, this is the highest rainfall in May since 2008," Srivastava said. The Safdarjung Observatory had recorded 21.1 mm rainfall last year, 26.9 mm in 2019 and 24.2 mm in 2018. A record 119.3 mm rainfall had pounded Delhi under the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance between 8:30 am on May 19 and 8:30 am May 20, breaking all the previous records for May. This was double the previous record rainfall of 60 mm on May 24 in 1976, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-lowest-mean-maximum-temperature-since-2008-imd-992180.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP spar over non-payment of salaries to civic body employees||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday hit out at the BJP over the non-payment of salaries to Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) employees and sought fresh elections to the civic body. The BJP, however, accused the AAP government of not releasing funds it owes to the corporation. Earlier in the day, the Delhi High Court directed the North Municipal Corporation of Delhi (North MCD) to disclose its list of assets and bank balance to examine the issue of non-payment of salaries to the employees and pensions for those retired, saying the right to receive dues constitutes their fundamental right. The High Court warned it will now start attaching the civic body's properties as the employees and retired staff cannot wait endlessly for salaries and pensions. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak demanded that the municipal corporation should be dissolved and fresh elections be held. "An embarrassing day for BJP's MCD, High Court will auction properties of MCD to pay salaries to employees. BJP has looted MCD for 15 years so much that today there is no money to pay salaries to employees," he said in a statement. "BJP no longer has any right to remain in MCD… MCD should be dissolved and fresh elections should be held," he added. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor asked Pathak to stop shedding "crocodile tears" for MCD employees and release funds that the Arvind Kejriwal government owes to the corporation. "Durgesh Pathak should know the three MCDs have paid salaries to their employees as well as they could after the Delhi government released their first quarter funds in the middle of May after a 46-day delay,” Kapoor said. “If Durgesh Pathak is really concerned about MCD employees’ salaries, he should ask the Delhi government to release all arrears of municipal funds and henceforth, release quarterly funds on due dates," Kapoor added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-spar-over-non-payment-of-salaries-to-civic-body-employees-992225.html
31-05-2021||North and Central||Kharge steps in to broker peace in Punjab Congress||Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge-led panel on Monday launched efforts to defuse the factionalism in the Punjab unit that could derail the party’s prospects of retaining power in the border state. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar met the three-member panel that includes AICC General Secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and senior leader J P Agarwal as the party began reconciliation efforts between Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and key detractor Navjyot Singh Sidhu. The one-on-one meetings with party MLAs and senior leaders from the state would continue till Wednesday as the party weighed options to appoint a deputy chief minister to give representation to the ginger group in the Punjab unit. Sidhu, who had a bitter fallout with Amarinder Singh after the Lok Sabha elections, walked out of the Punjab government and has been targeting the chief minister on the issue of investigation in the sacrilege case. Sidhu, considered close to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, is expected to meet the Kharge-led panel on Tuesday. With the Akali Dal in disarray and BJP having a marginal presence, Congress’ prospects appear bright in Punjab which goes for elections early next year. However, the public fight between Singh and Sidhu could prove to be a dampener if reconciliation is not achieved soon. Sidhu had met the chief minister at least twice since November last year as Rawat doubled up efforts to bring about a rapprochement between the two leaders. The last meeting between Sidhu and the chief minister took place on March 18, raising hopes of peace, but things took a turn for the worse soon after. In April, the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed the Punjab government probe into the incidents of alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 and the subsequent police firing on protesters in Kotkapura village. Sidhu has been targeting the chief minister, accusing him of shielding arch-rival and Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal. Singh had rejected Sidhu's reported claims to the post of the President of the Punjab Congress contending that there were several leaders who had served the party for decades who could feel ignored if the post went to an outsider.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kharge-steps-in-to-broker-peace-in-punjab-congress-992257.html
31-05-2021||Oasis||It is God alone who helps the world||Sri Ramakrishna once said: “Man cannot really help the world. God alone does that — He who has created the sun and the moon, who has put love for their children in parents' hearts, endowed noble souls with compassion, and holy men and devotees with divine love. The man who works for others, without any selfish motive, really does good to himself. There is gold buried in your heart, but you are not yet aware of it. It is covered with a thin layer of Earth. Once you are aware of it, all these activities of yours will lessen... Through selfless work, the love of God grows in the heart. Then, through His grace, one realises Him in course of time. God can be seen, one can talk to Him, as I am talking to you.” Religion and spirituality are different. Religion is the outer shell of the coconut whereas spirituality is the sweet nectar inside. It brooks no barriers. Religion can be potentially divisive ("mine is better than yours"). Yet religion if properly understood can be useful, helpful and healing depending upon the level of spiritual maturity of the seeker. Being spiritual is to see the higher side of the individual triumph over the lower part. Spirituality is therefore about recognising an invisible sense of order in worldly disorder. One is reminded of 'Amma' when she said that the major problem in the world stems from the fact that human beings live too much in their heads when in fact they must live in their hearts. It is a revelatory and humbling insight. We were once in Tirupati with our Guru. We were offered VIP passes by people known to us. Our Guru declined the offer. That day we waited close to ten hours in the queue before we reached the inner sanctum. Someone complained to him and asked him why had he refused the VIP passes. He turned to him and gently said: “When you come to God, you must come on bended knees and await His pleasure. This is the way to go to God.” He meant that do not approach God with a sense of entitlement. Instead, abandon all supports and seek refuge in Him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/it-is-god-alone-who-helps-the-world-991981.html
31-05-2021||Opinion||Modi govt has undone UPA’s hard work on the economy||Anniversaries offer us a chance to reflect and reassess. This week marks the seven years of the present government and an assessment is long due. A defining highlight of the first seven years of Manmohan Singh’s government was the reduction in poverty by 15 percentage points - almost 14 crore people were lifted out of poverty. The average GDP growth rate was 8.5 per cent (2004-05 series). Inclusive economic growth was accompanied by landmark legislation like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Ac (MGNREGA), Forest Rights Act, and the Right to Information Act. What has been the record of the present government? Narendra Modi inherited from the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) an economy on the ascendancy. Luck favoured the government as international crude oil prices crashed soon after. The July-September quarter of 2016-17 recorded a growth rate of 9.7 per cent, the highest quarterly growth recorded under this government. This was the quarter before the catastrophic demonetisation. The annual growth rate in 2016-17 was 8.3 per cent. It has only fallen since and is estimated to be (-)8 per cent in 2020-21. Demonetisation is not the only culprit. An ill-designed and ill-implemented Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime broke the back of small businesses. An unplanned lockdown and a stingy stimulus contributed to the economic contraction. Below is a tabulation of the growth rate of GDP and other major items for 2013-14, 2019-20, and 2020-21. Even before the pandemic impacted the economy, this government fell short of its predecessor on all fronts.  The low growth of the past seven years has been accompanied by financial profligacy. India’s debt-GDP ratio touched a high of 90 per cent in 2020; this was 67 per cent in 2014. Wholesale inflation in March was at an eight-year high. The economic distress has manifested in the form of job losses and a high unemployment rate. In 2017-18, India recorded its highest unemployment rate in 45 years, increasing from 2.2 per cent in 2011-12 to 6.1 per cent. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate was 11 per cent as of May 25. Salaried jobs have been declining since March 2019. Half of the manufacturing jobs have been lost in the last five years. Lack of quality jobs is forcing educated youth to take up menial employment not commensurate with their skills and aspirations. The past seven years have been witness to India regressing on poverty reduction. A suppressed NSS survey (conducted in 2017-18) showed that consumer spending had fallen for the first time in four decades. People in rural India had resorted to a reduction in food consumption, raising fears of increasing poverty and malnutrition. An analysis of the survey findings estimated an increase in rural poverty by four percentage points. The increase in poverty can also be deduced from the latest National Family Health Survey data. Thirteen of the 22 states for which data is available reported an increase in stunting.  It bears mentioning that stunting reduced 10 percentage points between 2005-06 and 2015-16. The gradual increase in poverty accelerated with the pandemic. Pew Research Centre estimates 7.5 crore Indians fell below the poverty line during the pandemic. The middle class, India’s engine of growth, shrunk by 3.2 crore. The State of Working India 2021 report estimates poverty rate increasing by 15 and 20 percentage points in rural and urban areas respectively.” Concurrent to the shrinking middle class and rising poverty is the increase in fortunes of the richest Indians. According to one report, Indian billionaires’ worth increased by one-third between 2019 and 2020. The number of India’s dollar billionaires rose from 102 to 140 last year. Worsening inequality is untenable and unfortunately, the government has had a role to play. In September 2019, the government reduced corporate tax for domestic manufacturers from 30 to 22 per cent, foregoing revenue to the tune of Rs 1.45 lakh crore. Contrast this with how excise on petrol and diesel has been periodically increased and is nearly eight times the rate in 2014. Excise on petrol, diesel, and natural gas constitutes 12 per cent of the total revenue – this was 4.3 per cent in 2013-14. The decline is not limited to economic indicators. Over the past years, India has fallen on the press freedom index, the democracy index (labelled a ‘flawed democracy’), gender gap index, hunger index, religious freedom index to name a few. Contentious legislation like revoking Article 370, Citizenship Amendment Act have contributed to the democratic backsliding. In seven years, the government has promulgated way more ordinances (76) than what the UPA did in ten years (61). These seven years have been a story of major setbacks, reverses, and a secular decline across sectors. It is natural to feel nostalgic around anniversaries. Ruminating of the past may invoke anxieties about the future. The BJP leadership announced that it would not be celebrating the completion of seven years of government. It is a good decision. The party and the government must instead reflect, review, and rectify their mistakes. (The author is National Coordinator at the Research Department, All India Congress Committee) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-govt-has-undone-upa-s-hard-work-on-the-economy-992065.html
31-05-2021||Opinion||Sexually transmitted infections likely to rise amid Covid-19||If you were paying attention to social media recently, you might have come across a viral ad for EXTRA gum depicting scenes of post-pandemic life: people slowly peeking out from behind closed doors, shutting their laptops before bursting maskless out of their toilet paper–filled dens into the street. The actors, all unwashed and unkempt, run gleefully to the nearest park where each proceeds to pounce on the first stranger they encounter and initiate a passionate make-out session, set to Celine Dion’s power ballad “It’s All Coming Back to Me Now.” It’s been over 100 years since the “Spanish” flu pandemic stifled our sex lives to the extent that we’ve experienced during Covid-19. As a sexual health physician and researcher, I can attest to seeing empty waiting rooms for months as people kept their social and sexual distance, their desire squelched by fear of contagion. Certainly, there were some for whom pandemic-induced abstinence was short-lived, and I was gratified to see public health agencies in New York and Canada cheerfully providing guidance on the matter: encouraging masked sex or even use of glory holes in barriers such as bathroom doors to facilitate anonymous oral sex. For the most part though, our sexual appetites languished alongside our psyches as we exhausted our energy just trying to survive. And it wasn’t just Americans: studies from the U.K., China, Israel and Australia found that 40–60 per cent of people reduced their number of sexual partners or the frequency of sex during the pandemic. As a consequence of our collective abstinence (plus a national shortage of testing kits), rates of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in the US plummeted in the second quarter of 2020, after previously reaching record highs in 2019.  Now that vaccines have arrived in the US en masse, there’s little holding us back from having sex again. Celine Dion’s ballad would imply that our muscle memory around sex will be like that of riding a bicycle: even if we haven’t done it for a while, we still haven’t forgotten how. What isn’t clear is whether we’ll still have the drive. For nearly two decades prior to the pandemic, American sexuality had been on a downward slope, even among the most sexually active age demographic. In a study of over 9,000 adults based on surveys from 2000 to 2018, a third of young men aged 18–24 reported no sexual activity in 2018; activity also declined over the study period for both men and women aged 25–34.   For those of us who do resume having sex, it's logical to think that a year of living with Covid, donning masks, getting tested and negotiating safe socialising would translate to discussing safer sex. Not so, says Lisa Wade of Tulane University, who has interviewed over 120 college students about sexual behaviour during the pandemic. Despite a diversity of race, sexual orientation and prior sexual experience among her study participants, when asked whether living through Covid has changed the way they think about sex and STIs, their responses are “strikingly consistent”: a wrinkled nose, a look of confusion, and a resounding “no.” Wade’s students are testing 2–3 times per week for Covid and have no qualms about asking each other about their test results. Yet asking about testing for STIs does not come as naturally. STIs are still accompanied by a stigma that shrouds these discussions in judgment along the lines of, “Why would you need to test?” and “What have you been up to?” Even those who felt comfortable asking others to wear a mask can find it awkward to ask a partner to use condoms or are met with resistance when such requests are made. Our resistance to condoms and barriers cuts across gender, age and sexual orientation. HIV researchers have long understood the concept of “condom fatigue” among men who have sex with men, a weariness experienced after years being told to use condoms by HIV prevention campaigns. As Benjamin Klassen of Simon Fraser University found in 2019, condoms among gay men now hold similar status as public transportation: something you’d love everyone else to use without having to use it yourself. Condoms are losing popularity with the Generation Z set as well, even though teens are the age group most likely to use condoms. According to the CDC’s Youth Risk Behavior Survey, condom use by high school students during their most recent sexual encounter declined from 62 per cent in 2007 to 54 per cent in 2019.  The outlook is even worse for dental dams, squares of latex placed over the vulva for oral sex.    Juliet Richters of University of New South Wales found less than 10 per cent of Australian women who had sex with women had ever used a dental dam, and only 2 per cent used them consistently. In our current era of technological innovation, it seems like we should have something better than barriers—perhaps a smartphone app or an STI-blasting laser. Yet condoms remain the only multipurpose prevention device that provides both contraception and protection against STIs/HIV. But hopefully, that’s set to change. Groups such as the global Initiative for Multipurpose Prevention Technologies (IMPT) are working to advance the development of at least 20 products: pills, rings, diaphragms, gels, injectables and implants, with each product providing protection against at least two conditions: unplanned pregnancy, STIs, or HIV. What about building a better condom? The Gates Foundation tried to give it a go, offering $100,000 seed grants to companies in 2013 to develop a next-generation condom that “preserves or enhances pleasure” in order to “improve uptake and regular use.” By 2019 three of the 11 initial awardees had received an additional $1 million to advance to the clinical trial stage. Whether these products survived the pandemic and will make it to market remains to be seen. At least for the moment, traditional condom sales are surging, but unlikely to endure long term as we fall back into our old usage patterns. Then there’s always hope of an STI vaccine. While there are none immediately forthcoming, new clinical trials are ongoing for vaccines against herpes and gonorrhoea. And as Operation Warp Speed has shown, pharmaceutical companies can create effective vaccines quickly with enough political will and financial support. But whether the future of prevention is a better condom, a new device or an STI vaccine is unimportant. What’s crucial is having prevention products that people will actually use. If predictions of a Roaring Twenties redux or a post-Covid Summer of Love hold true, then a rise in STIs and HIV are sure to follow. It will take more than our old barrier methods to meet the current needs of our sexually diverse population. We must invest in development of new prevention products now, or risk being caught with our pants down later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sexually-transmitted-infections-likely-to-rise-amid-covid-19-992206.html
31-05-2021||Panorama||A glut of Chinese masks is driving US companies out of business||Mask mandates have eased, a welcome milestone in the battle against Covid-19. But for the two dozen domestic companies that jumped into the mask-making business last year, the good news comes with a downside: a calamitous drop in sales. Some of the slackening demand is tied to the loosening of masking guidelines by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, but industry experts say a bigger factor has been the return of inexpensive protective gear from China that began flooding the American market earlier this year. Industry executives and some members of Congress have accused China of dumping, noting that many imports are priced so low — sometimes a tenth of what American factories charge for comparable products — that there is little chance for domestic companies to survive. In recent weeks, at least three companies have stopped producing masks and medical gowns and several others have markedly scaled back production, among them Premium-PPE, a year-old surgical mask-maker in Virginia that recently laid off most of its 280 workers. “Our industry is in break-glass mode,” said Brent Dillie, the co-owner of the company. Like other start-ups, the company got into the mask business after China, the world’s largest producer of protective medical gear, halted exports at the start of the pandemic. “Six months from now, many of us won’t be around and that won’t be good for America the next time there’s a national health emergency.” The crisis faced by domestic producers is an urgent test for the Biden administration and embodies two of its most important priorities: Shore up American manufacturing and ensure that health care workers will never again scramble to find adequate protective gear. Those shortages, health experts say, most likely contributed to the high rates of infection among frontline workers, more than 3,600 of whom died of Covid-19 during the first year of the pandemic, according to a tally by The Guardian and Kaiser Health News. The White House has announced a few measures aimed at buoying domestic producers of personal protective equipment, but industry executives say they are still awaiting more substantial trade policies and supply-chain reforms that would bolster their companies’ chances of survival. Tim Manning, the White House Covid-19 supply coordinator, said the administration has tried to address some of the industry’s challenges: They have pushed federal agencies to procure domestic supplies and they have introduced start-ups to the distribution giants that supply the nation’s hospital chains. The administration, he said, was also poised in the coming months to allocate billions of dollars in federal relief spending that would replenish the Strategic National Stockpile with American-made medical goods. “The scale and scope of these efforts is something we’re still working through,” Manning said in an interview. In Congress, a bill with bipartisan support would allocate $500 million in annual spending over the next three years to support domestic manufacturers of vital medical equipment. While industry executives commend these moves, they say that time is running out. The American Mask Manufacturer’s Association, a recently created trade group, said its 27 members had already laid off 50% of their workforce. Without concerted action from Washington, most of those companies will go belly up within the next two months. An immediate boost, they say, would be to rescind the CDC guidelines, born during the pandemic, that force health workers to repeatedly reuse N95 masks, even though they are designed to be thrown away after contact with each patient. Many hospitals are still following the guidelines, despite the 260 million masks that are gathering dust in warehouses across the country. “We’re not looking for infinite support from the government,” said Lloyd Armbrust, the association’s president and the founder and chief executive of Armbrust American, a mask-making company in Texas. “We need the government’s support right now because unfair pressure from China is going to kill this new industry before the legislators even get a chance to fix the problem.” The association is planning to file an unfair trade complaint with the World Trade Organisation, claiming that much of the protective gear imported from China is selling for less than the cost of production. The price for some Chinese-made surgical masks has recently dropped to as low as 1 cent, compared with about 10 to 15 cents for American masks that use domestically produced raw material. “This is full-on economic warfare,” said Luis Arguello Jr., vice president of DemeTech, a medical-suture company in Florida that earlier this month laid off 1,500 workers who made surgical masks. He said that in the coming weeks, 500 other workers who make N95 masks would also likely be let go. “China is on the mission to make sure no one in the industry survives, and so far they’re winning,” Arguello said. The Chinese Embassy in Washington did not respond to requests for comment. The International Trade Administration, a division of the Commerce Department, declined to say whether it would support an anti-competitive complaint against China. The agency, a spokesperson said in a statement, “continues to monitor market trends closely and assess options to ensure American manufacturers are competing on a level playing field.” The office of the United States Trade Representative, which makes trade policy recommendations to the President, did not respond to interview requests. The flood of inexpensive imports also affects producers of other medical gear. Merrow Manufacturing, a 183-year-old textile company in Fall River, Mass, produces an unlikely array of goods — from lingerie and bulletproof vests to tank covers. It entered the surgical gown business last year, prompted in part by the desperation of hospitals across New England that suddenly could not obtain medical supplies from China. “Our phones were ringing off the hook with people asking if we could help,” said Charlie Merrow, who runs the company with his brother. Hundreds of workers were quickly retrained, dozens more were hired and after a retooling that cost $10 million, Merrow’s sewing machines were churning out 7,00,000 gowns a week by last summer. The governor of Massachusetts stopped by the factory to lionize their efforts. The governor of Rhode Island described the Merrows as heroes. These days, not many hospitals are calling, and Merrow recently stopped production after the number of unsold gowns hit a million. The company’s $18 reusable gowns, he said, don’t stand a chance against similar products from China that sell for $6. “It’s really a lost opportunity for the country when you consider that our national security is at stake,” he said. The Merrows are determined to stay in the protective gear business. They are pivoting to making scrubs and other medical garments from recycled material, but other companies have decided to call it quits. National Filters, a surgical mask company in Harbor Beach, Mich., ceased production earlier this month, and Protective Health Gear, a year-old mask start-up in Paterson, N.J., is weeks away from laying off its remaining 40 workers. “We’re hanging on by a thread,” said Brian Wolin, the chief executive. The industry shakeout comes as no surprise to Mike Bowen, the co-owner of Prestige Ameritech, a Texas company that is one of the largest mask manufacturers in the country. Bowen, who has been in the business since 1986, has long warned political leaders in Washington about the nation’s dependence on foreign suppliers. “I have 14 years of letters to presidents, members of Congress and hospital executives telling them a whole bunch of people are going to die without serious changes, and that’s exactly what happened,” he said. (International New York Times)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-glut-of-chinese-masks-is-driving-us-companies-out-of-business-991993.html
31-05-2021||Panorama||Developing bloc should initiate talks to reform IPR regime||South Africa and India, leading a group of 100 countries, have been jointly communicating with the WTO for a waiver from TRIPS agreement (Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) since October 2 last year. While many developed countries continue to oppose this, the Government of India (GOI) is optimistic about the waiver. Still, any intervention, in favour of temporary TRIPS waiver is misplaced. Put simply, this is the reason why the developing bloc should look forward to learning from some of their own positions, which are sufficiently helpful to understand and resolve this dilemma. Take Cipla v Bayer in the Delhi High Court, for instance. In 2008, India granted Bayer a patent for ‘Sorafenib tosylate’, marketed and manufactured as Nexavar by Bayer. Cipla wanted a licence for a generic version of the patented drug which Bayer challenged in the court, interpreting the terminology of ‘spurious drugs’ differently. Bayer also wanted the court to legislate patent-linkage regime, but the court, without mincing words, noted in the historic judgement that it would undermine “Bolar/Early Working” and violate Article 27 of TRIPS, which, if not taken into consideration, also would give rise to—among many other problems—the patent rights policing that is enforceable only by publicly funded statutory authorities. The court further dismissed Bayer’s application with costs, observing that these tactics could derail independent applications of other players (here, Cipla). Novartis AG v Union of India in the Supreme Court of India presents an interesting example of interpretation of TRIPS by a developing nation. With reference to India’s commitment to the TRIPS, Novartis challenged the constitutionality of the Section 3(d) of Indian Patents Act (IPA), 1970. The contention here was: Whether any change in bioavailability does necessarily improve the therapeutic efficacy. In this case, there was no concrete research data available, so the court held that, in the absence of new evidence to justify superior reactivity, there was no question of extraordinary rights for the manufacturer.  Though it had been argued that Section 3(d) is far too vague, the Novartis case offered a clear-cut answer. Besides, Article 21 of the TRIPS also conditionally allows members to “determine conditions on the licensing.” Further, it's important to note that Section 53 of the IPA inherently opposes the evergreening of the patent in India. As IPA, under Section 92, describes special provisions, including circumstances of national emergency, or extreme urgency, or in case of public non-commercial use including public health crises, for compulsory licences on notifications by the GOI. Also, that Doha Declaration on TRIPS and Public Health, many commentators emphasise, seems to have the potential to challenge the monopoly of the pharmaceutical corporations. Solution to this problem is not that simple. Some are of the opinion that Article 31 of the TRIPS permits the use without authorisation of the right holder which may also be waived in the case of a national emergency, and for public non-commercial use. But this should be read with Article 30 that clearly mentions that exceptions should not harm "legitimate interests" of the patent owner. For instance, the case of compulsory licensing for the use of Canadian HIV-drug TriAvir in Rwanda clearly tells us the messy nature of this pathway. Manufacturer Apotex concluded that the mechanism should be changed for an efficient implementation. This, along with a limited market for specific drugs, alienated generic manufacturers, the fact notwithstanding high diplomatic costs to convince countries to notify drugs under WTO rules. Yet there is a catch-22 situation here: the political side of this problem cannot be neglected, for this could provoke retaliatory actions, for instance, in the form of withdrawal of products from the market.  For instance, when Brazil, using TRIPS, tried to pressurise US pharmaceutical companies to fall in line with the internal regulations, US approached WTO “challenging the legality of local working requirements under TRIPS"— this serves as a "balancing mechanism". And, most recently, the Biden Administration, by invoking the US Defence Production Act, a wartime production law, jeopardised the global supply chain of materials, including cell culture media and single-use tubing assemblies, required for vaccine production, thus, affecting Serum Institute of India (SII), world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, among others. Advantages of TRIPS flexibilities such as compulsory licensing may also offer few disadvantages: the joint proposal of South Africa and India has rightfully expressed concerns of “countries with insufficient or no manufacturing capacity” regarding the requirements of “Article 31b and consequently the cumbersome and lengthy process for the import and export of pharmaceutical products.” It is now easy to understand that all developing countries do not have enough resources to utilise flexibility within the TRIPS Agreement and risk arousing wrath of hegemons. As the inherent flaws of developing countries—inefficient courts, understaffed bureaucracies and ill-equipped pharma industries—are very much the parts of the problem. Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist at the World Health Organisation (WHO), like many other scientists, is very hopeful about Covax. However, huge donor contributions and pledges for the global vaccine facility, for instance Covax, will be of no value if the vaccine supplier, here SII, is constrained by inaction of developed countries that has led to supply chain disruption, of which Intellectual Property (IP) regime, of course, is a major component. Swaminathan recently recounted, "30 years for hepatitis B vaccines to get to developing countries," perhaps rightly so. As a result, the whole affair becomes the epitome of hypocrisy. The politico-economic conundrum that the Intellectual Property Rights have exceptionally become in the pharmaceutical industry, demands a solution that is feasible—both politically and economically. Covid-19 presents a huge opportunity for the developing bloc to find a longer-term solution to the TRIPS dilemma at the 12th WTO Ministerial. It is time for developed countries to finally acknowledge their privilege and recognise the insecurities of developing countries. The cost of the failed Doha Round is a fact. But can there be ‘Planet B’? So why is this ‘Plan B’ of dehumanisation? (The writer researches and writes on socioeconomic inequality and human rights issues)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/developing-bloc-should-initiate-talks-to-reform-ipr-regime-991994.html
31-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Our companion ungods||I have grown up with the belief that God is universal and beneficial. Dharmasamsthapanarthaya sambhavami yugeyuge (for the preservation of Dharma, I appear time after time). Now in the last chapter of my infinitesimal life, I not only see no message but surrounded by meaningless darkness. The way we have always lived is challenged by ungodly forces. Universal? yes.  Beneficial? certainly not. Example: Covid-19. We see some additional appearances that turn humans helpless. There are storms and hurricanes, floods and fires ever so often. One example is Isaias, a tropical storm, that literally knocked down trees, brought down electric lines, plunged millions of homes into darkness and caused fire, floods and accidents everywhere.  In this small New England coastal town where I live, the panic was in the air the minute weatherman announced the arrival of  Isaias from the south by way of Miami. As time ticked, the announcement kept changing and finally it was known to arrive from the Carolinas. What was emphasised, however, was the unpredictable nature of the hurricane. This also meant there was a need for elaborate preparation. People ran to fill their refrigerators and toilet supplies. My main concern was my patio garden which included five tomato plants grown tall and full of fruit and four small basil plants all neatly lined up in the middle of the patio. Isaias was expected at 4 pm. The rain began on time. The whirlwind shook trees like feathers. Instead of being threatened by Isaias, I decided to enjoy the event by getting snugly into bed and watching the wind and the rain in action.  As the rain grew heavier, I got worried about my garden and got up to check the patio. The pots had rolled over. The tomato plants were on their sides, the wind having put them to bed. "Oh! no," I screamed and ran outside. I struggled to get all the pots straight. No easy task. The rain was beating down on my face so hard that I felt I was wiping out my eyes off my face whenever I cleared the rain with my hand. I finally decided that was it, and swept the rainwater from my head and face. I had saved my plants. I stepped inside and closed the sliding door. When I looked back, I saw to my amazement the rain had stopped. Switched off, actually. There was even a ray of the sun making an appearance from nowhere like a joke. I was totally drenched and furious. The only sane thing to do seemed to go straight to the bathroom and take a shower. And that’s just what I did.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/our-companion-ungods-991982.html
31-05-2021||Second Edit||Clear uncertainty over BSY||Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown and it can only get worse when you sit on a throne of thorns. This has been Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s predicament ever since he assumed office in July 2019, with undying speculation about his ‘imminent’ change giving him sleepless nights. Ironically, the threat to the chief minister’s chair comes not from the opposition, but from the ruling BJP members themselves who lose no opportunity to embarrass him.  The high command’s continued refusal to initiate action against such members gives rise to doubts that they may be enjoying the tacit support of Delhi leaders. At the core of the criticism against Yediyurappa is that he has given a free hand to his son B Y Vijayendra—who is often referred to as super chief minister—to run the government. BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has repeatedly accused the chief minister’s family of large-scale corruption, including accepting bribes for sanctioning projects and transfers. Similar charges have also been levelled by Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar and others. The cabinet itself is a divided house, with the open differences between ministers leading to indecisiveness and denting the fight against Covid-19 right from the start. In an unprecedented move, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa submitted a written complaint to the Governor accusing Yediyurappa of several serious administrative lapses and irregularities in the release of funds. The chief minister’s decision to grant about 3,600 acres of land to Jindal Steel Works (JSW) at a “throwaway price” after strongly opposing the move when it was mooted by the previous Kumaraswamy government, also drew sharp criticism from a group of BJP legislators led by Hubli-Dharwad (West) MLA Arvind Bellad and BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, who smelt a scam. Unfortunately, Yediyurappa has failed to display leadership qualities and has emerged as a weak chief minister unable to control either his ministers or his family’s interference in governance. During the cabinet reshuffle some time ago, he had bowed to pressure and changed the portfolios five times in three days.  If the chief minister is unable to discharge his duties for reasons of age or health, he should honourably resign instead of depending on the unconstitutional crutches provided by son. The BJP high command too should take a decision one way or the other without any delay, for no chief minister can effectively discharge his duties when the sword of Damocles is constantly hanging over his head. In the end, when the administrative machinery is in a state of flux, the state suffers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/clear-uncertainty-over-bsy-991990.html
31-05-2021||South||Kerala Assembly unanimously passes resolution seeking Centre's intervention in Lakshadweep issue||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan moved the resolution in the house that was backed by the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front. Vijayan alleged that the Sangh Parivar was experimenting the saffron agenda at Lakshadweep by sabotaging the culture and life of the people and laying a red carpet for corporates. He reminded that such efforts to impose agendas with vested interest on people had witnessed strong resistance from people at various parts of the world. Vijayan said that the Patel administration was even painting the coconut trees at the island saffron, imposing norms like the two-children policy and land reforms that were unheard of and warning of hefty fines for non-adherence. A beef ban was imposed at Lakshadweep even as beef was a key component of the diet of the majority of islanders. The powers of the panchayat were being encroached upon by the administrators especially in key sectors like fisheries, agriculture, health and education and a dictatorship was being imposed, affecting the peaceful living condition in the region that had a historical relationship with Kerala. Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan alleged that human rights violation was taking place at Lakshadweep. Indian Union Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty said that Lakshadweep was being made a place of experimenting saffron agenda by the Sangh Parivar. Meanwhile, BJP Kerala president K Surendran criticised that the Kerala Assembly was being misused by the CPM and the Congress with vested interests by using the house to pass a resolution against Lakshadweep even as the 'reforms' in Lakshadweep did not have any direct connection with Kerala. "Allegations of imposing saffron agenda on an island with a 99 per cent Muslim community was being raised with vested interests. The CPM and Congress had been often misusing Kerala Assembly for passing resolutions against the centre," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-unanimously-passes-resolution-seeking-centres-intervention-in-lakshadweep-issue-992007.html
31-05-2021||South||Not certified as Covid cure, Andhra Pradesh govt okays use of Ayurvedic 'miracle cure'||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has allowed the public distribution of the Krishnapatnam medicine touted as a miracle drug to cure, prevent Covid-19. The approval is based on the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), New Delhi report that the herbal concoctions made by a local, unregistered Ayurvedic practitioner Bonige Anandaiah are unharmful. The studies, however, stated that there is no evidence of the herbal medicine curing Covid-19. Willing people can take the Krishnapatnam medicine but only in addition to the regular treatment, CMO officials informed on Monday. The herbal eye drops haven't been given approval, pending the report on their safety, which is expected in about three weeks. Thousands of people – from neighbouring states like Telangana, and some reportedly from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka – had thronged the tiny village along the sea coast in Nellore district seeking a spoonful of the paste prepared and distributed by Anandaiah and his men, free of cost. The Covid-19 remedies offered also included herbal eye drops, which several Covid-19 patients claimed helped their oxygen levels improve significantly and instantly. The dispersion was, however, stopped a fortnight back after the AP Lokayukta ordered a probe and the district administration, police department too expressed fears over the mass gathering of people, including many positive patients becoming a super spreader event. But the huge support the medicine has received from the public and political leaders across the spectrum has prompted Chief Minister Reddy to direct the officials to verify the medicinal worth of the “Krishnapatnam cure” through Ayush, ICMR and other bodies. Meanwhile, Kotaiah, a retired headmaster whose video about the eye drops “healing him” went viral on social media 10 days back, expired on Monday. His claims of revival within minutes from a gasping condition have added to the multitudes of people queuing up for KMs at Krishnapatnam for the herbal medicine. Kotaiah was later admitted into the Nellore government hospital and was under critical care. Speaking to DH, District Medical and Health Officer Dr S Rajya Lakshmi said that he had comorbidities. “Like stated earlier too, Anandaiah's medicine is not harmful but it will also not help in curing, preventing Covid-19. In the tests we conducted in the Krishnapatnam etc villages, some of the locals have tested positive,” the DMHO said. The herbal medicine distribution is expected to resume from Tuesday, this time under the government aegis and following the Covid-19 appropriate protocol like social distancing. Relatives, friends can collect the medicine on behalf of the positive patients whose entry is now prohibited at Krishnapatnam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-certified-as-covid-cure-andhra-pradesh-govt-okays-use-of-ayurvedic-miracle-cure-992131.html
31-05-2021||South||Sasikala cannot re-join the party under any circumstances: AIADMK||Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition party, AIADMK, on Monday, ruled out taking its ousted interim general secretary V K Sasikala back into the party, saying there was “no chance” for such a development. Party deputy coordinator and MLA K P Munusamy, a known Sasikala opponent, spoke to reporters in Krishnagiri on Monday to “clarify the party’s stand” vis-à-vis the long-time aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. “It is better she (Sasikala) keeps quiet for the sake of Amma’s soul,” he said. His comments come after Sasikala’s renewed attempt to take control of the AIADMK which is still smarting under the defeat suffered in the April 6 assembly elections. “Under no circumstances, she (Sasikala) should be allowed inside the party. There is no chance for (her reinduction into the AIADMK). The party cadres are clear, and they want to lead the party. They will not be able to come inside the party,” Munusamy added. He was the first leader in the AIADMK to raise his voice against Sasikala taking over as interim general secretary following Jayalalithaa’s demise in 2016. His comments come days after Sasikala expressed interest to take a plunge into active politics to “set right” the AIADMK, which is beset with a factional feud between Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam. In telephonic conversations with her supporters, audio clips of which were leaked to the media, Sasikala is heard telling them that she was saddened with the public spat between Palaniswami and Panneerselvam and that she will “come soon” once the Covid-19 second wave subsides. Sasikala's outreach came three months after she announced that she was “stepping aside” from politics after she came out of the Parapanna Agrahara prison in Bengaluru. Sasikala's assertions come at a time the factional feud between OPS and EPS is out in the open yet again. Though they never shared the best of relations, the two leaders were forced to put up a united face in the run-up to the assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-cannot-re-join-the-party-under-any-circumstances-aiadmk-992182.html
31-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu may suspend its vaccination drive due to shortage of vaccines||Tamil Nadu on Monday said it would be forced to suspend the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state as it has enough doses to vaccinate beneficiaries for only the next few days. Principal Secretary (Health) Dr J Radhakrishnan said the Centre has informed the state government that the next supply of vaccines will be available only on or after June 6. The state on Monday evening had just 4.93 lakh doses in stock, Radhakrishnan said, adding that the stock is expected to be over by Wednesday. “For the past few days, barring Sunday, we have been vaccinating 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh people a day and if the same momentum is maintained, the vaccines are expected to be over by Tuesday. We have to suspend the drive, and there is no other way,” Radhakrishnan said. The state has so far received 82.49 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre to be administered to those above 45 years of age, while 13.10 lakh was received from vaccine manufacturers under the state quota. The vaccination drive, which was quite slow in Tamil Nadu, picked up pace in the past week with those belonging to 18-44 years of age coming in droves to get vaccinated. As of Sunday night, 87.70 lakh doses had been administered to people in Tamil Nadu. Radhakrishnan said the Centre is yet to supply 1.74 lakh doses of vaccine to the state promised for May. Though the allocation to Tamil Nadu for June has been increased to 42.58 lakh, the first supply will be on June 6 and the second on June 9, tentatively. “If we receive vaccines by Tuesday or Wednesday, we do not have to suspend the drive. Else, we have to,” Radhakrishnan added. The state government has floated a global tender for buying 3.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines to be administered to those belonging to 18-44 years of age. The state has also asked the Centre to give the Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC) on the outskirts of Chennai to it on lease for the production of vaccines by a private player.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-may-suspend-its-vaccination-drive-due-to-shortage-of-vaccines-992203.html
31-05-2021||South||Vicar held for conducting mass during lockdown in Kerala||A vicar and 24 others were held by the police at Angamaly in the suburbs of Kochi in Kerala for conducting a first holy communion flouting Covid protocol. Father George Palamattam of Angamaly Poovathuserry St Joseph Church was arrested by the police. The first holy communion was held on Monday morning. According to the Chengamanad police, a case was registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance against the priest and 24 others who attended the function. They were later released on bail. The charge sheet would be submitted to the court for further actions. As per the ordinance, violations can attract imprisonment up to two years and fine up to Rs 10,000. A lockdown is in place in Kerala till June 9 and worship centres are not supposed to allow public but can only conduct regular rituals. Kerala recently witnessed a row over the Church of South India's South Kerala diocese conducting a retreat flouting Covid protocol. Over 100 priests tested positive for Covid-19  and a few of them had died. A police case was registered against a bishop and priests in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vicar-held-for-conducting-mass-during-lockdown-in-kerala-992217.html
31-05-2021||South||Wife not entitled to insurance money if not contributed by deceased husband, says Madras High Court||The wife will not be entitled to any legal share in the insured money, if her deceased husband did not contribute any premium, the Madras High Court has ruled. Justice S Vaidyanathan gave the ruling while passing interim orders on a petition from G Asha, wife of Ganesh Raja of Veppampattu in Tiruvallur district, recently. The judge said he wants to know as to who had paid the premium in its entirety till the demise of Ganesh Raja, either her father-in-law or her deceased husband himself. Till time the fact as to who had paid the premium to the insurance company and whether any single pie had been contributed by the deceased or not, is known, this court cannot decide the issue relating to the entitlement of the petitioner to claim a share in the maturity amount, the judge said. In case the deceased husband had not made any contribution towards premium, there is no justification on the wife's part to seek her share, he said. "It is no doubt true that wife, mother and children are class-I heirs of a male deceased and not the father. But the heirship will not be taken into account for this type of contingency, in case the entire contribution is not made by the deceased and the same has been paid only by the father of the deceased."  "In such circumstances, it is for the father of the deceased to decide to give the money in its entirety or in proportionate to any person, including class-I heirs," the judge added. It is needless to state here that if a deceased has already declared the nominee and if that person falls under the category of class-I heir other than father, then there may not be any problem in disbursement of the maturity amount. In the present case, in case the woman's father-in-law is able to establish that only he paid the entire premium by way of NEFT/RTGS /Transfer, other than remittance by cash in the name of his son, then there is no justification on the part of the petitioner to seek for her share in the amount and she has no case at all, the judge said. He then directed the LIC to circulate this order to all its branches situated in Tamil Nadu and collect details of similar cases and produce them before the court on June 28, the next date of hearing by way of counter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wife-not-entitled-to-insurance-money-if-not-contributed-by-deceased-husband-says-madras-high-court-992236.html
31-05-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan urges 11 counterparts to press Centre for free Covid-19 vaccines||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged his counterparts in non-BJP ruling states to jointly pressurise the Centre to provide Covid-19 vaccines to all states free of cost. In a letter to eleven Chief Ministers, Vijayan said that putting the responsibility of vaccinating the entire population defied the basis of cooperative federalism. Hence states should unitedly put forth a genuine demand that the Centre should procure the vaccines required by states and distribute them free of cost.  He also said that vaccine manufacturing companies were looking for financial gains by exploiting the situation. Foreign firms are now willing to enter into agreements with states for vaccine supply. Hence it would be also cost-effective for the Centre to procure the vaccines and distribute them to the states. He also said that the financial situations of the states would be in dire straits if the burden for procuring vaccines fell entirely or even substantially on the states. Since experts warned of a third Covid-19 wave, it was necessary for the states to be prepared to meet the eventualities. Herd immunity will be effective only if a substantial section of the population was vaccinated, he pointed out. Vijayan had earlier written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre to float a global tender for procuring vaccines required by the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-urges-11-counterparts-to-press-centre-for-free-covid-19-vaccines-992245.html
31-05-2021||South||CM Jaganmohan Reddy lays foundation for 14 new medical colleges in Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy laid the foundation for the construction of 14 medical colleges in the state. The colleges are slated to be completed in three years with an estimated cost of about Rs 8,000 crore. The decision to set up 16 new medical colleges was taken last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Construction of two such colleges at Pulivendula and Paderu is already under way. Eleven medical colleges are operational in the state at present, CMO officials said. Reddy said that the government would set up a 500-bed, multi-specialty hospital attached with each of these new medical colleges, with modern infrastructure and state-of-the-art facilities.  Speaking during the virtual event on Monday, the Chief Minister said that his government is committed towards developing public healthcare facilities, and is establishing a medical college with a super specialty hospital in every parliamentary constituency and also a nursing college affiliated to the medical colleges. Reddy said that the state lacks superior medical infrastructure in the private sector like that in Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Chennai. “To fill the gap, our government has decided to hand over five-acre land free of cost to private hospitals ready to invest Rs 100 crore and start super-specialty hospitals in three years.” CM Reddy has last week announced a plan to set up 16 health hubs across the state to accommodate the private health care facilities. The CM also recalled his Nadu-Nedu initiative, intended to transform government medical institutions with an expenditure of about Rs 16,300 crore. “The formation of 10,111 YSR Village Clinics is underway, in addition to two PHCs in every mandal and 560 Urban Health Centres, 52 Area Hospitals and 190 CHCs across the state.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-jaganmohan-reddy-lays-foundation-for-14-new-medical-colleges-in-andhra-pradesh-992253.html
31-05-2021||State||Two held for jewellery shop theft in Sullia||The police have arrested two persons in connection with a theft at a jewellery shop in Sullia. According to Sullia police, the arrested are Tangaccha alias Mathew alias Mohammed alias Basheer (50), a resident of Taliparambu in Kannur district, and Shibu (48), a resident of Thrissur district in Kerala. The arrested had stolen gold ornaments worth Rs 7.50 lakh and Rs 50,000 cash from the store on the night of March 31. The police have recovered gold ornaments worth Rs 6,61,500 from the arrested. Ornaments recovered DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane said after Shibu complained of abdominal pain on Saturday night, he was shifted to a hospital for treatment. The doctors, in the X-ray, found some objects in his intestine and was admitted for monitoring and further care. During the interrogation, Shibu told police that he had swallowed some gold ornaments with ice cream in order to hide stolen property. On Sunday morning, around 35 grams of gold ornaments were recovered. Shibu has been discharged from the hospital and is remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-held-for-jewellery-shop-theft-in-sullia-991943.html
31-05-2021||State||Karnataka HC starts live streaming on experimental basis||The Karnataka High Court, on Monday, for the first time, streamed the live telecast of court proceedings on YouTube. The further hearing on two clubbed PILs filed on the Karwar port expansion issue was telecast on Monday afternoon. Prior to the telecast, Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka informed the advocates in these petitions about the decision to stream live proceedings. “It is our duty to put the members of the bar on the notice,” the chief justice said orally. The chief justice also said that the live streaming of the proceeding is being done on an experimental basis. A further decision on continuing with the live streaming will be taken based on the inputs. The High Court has been conducting proceedings on the virtual mode in the wake of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. The legal fraternity has been demanding the live streaming of the court proceeding in the interest of the public/litigants. Supreme Court counsel K V Dhananjay hailed it as a great step forward.  “The legal community should be grateful to Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka. In the coming days, we expect different courtrooms of the High Court to provide live streaming. May be going forward, we would see district courts also wired for the facility. This is important in view of greater accountability and transparency,” he said. Earlier, the Gujarat High Court had started live streaming on YouTube. The move was with a view to effectuating and broadening the implementation of the open court concept.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-starts-live-streaming-on-experimental-basis-992222.html
31-05-2021||State||Cooperation department to disburse Rs 20,810 crore loan this year||The cooperation department will disburse crop loans worth Rs 20,810 crore to around 30 lakh farmers in the 2021-22 fiscal. According to Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, the measure is to ensure easy financial assistance to farmers ahead of cropping seasons. In the last fiscal, the department had set a target to provide Rs 15,400 crore as short, medium and long-term loans to farmers. Against this, Apex Bank and 21 DCC banks disbursed Rs 17,490 crore and achieved 114% target, he said. The loan last year was provided to 25.93 lakh. This year, based on the directions of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, more farmers will be offered loans for agricultural purposes, Somashekar said. The target is set based on discussion held with various DCC Banks and department officials, he said, adding that all cooperative banks have been issued strict instructions to ensure that the loan target is reached.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cooperation-department-to-disburse-rs-20810-crore-loan-this-year-992223.html
31-05-2021||State||Varsities say no to offline classes before vaccination of students||Urging the state government to vaccinate college students at the earliest, universities in Karnataka say that they will be unable to start offline classes for the coming academic year 2021-22, without students being vaccinated. The varsities stuck to the online mode of teaching during the previous year. Their demand comes even as students going abroad for higher education have sought vaccination at the earliest in the wake of foreign universities mandating the same.  Speaking to DH, Fr V M Abraham, Vice-Chancellor, Christ University said students can be invited to campus only if they had completed both doses of vaccination. “The university is even planning to conduct convocation only after all students are vaccinated. I think it is justified in the interest of everyone’s health and safety. Until then, the institution will stick to online classes,” he said. M R Doreswamy, Chancellor, PES University had a similar view. Whether a student was from within the state or outside the country, vaccination should be mandatory before starting offline classes, he said. While urging the government to ensure vaccination for all college students at the earliest, Doreswamy said offline classes were necessary for effective learning. “Online classes cannot replace offline classes. It can only be a temporary solution,” he observed.  Many universities in Karnataka, especially those in Bengaluru, also see a number of foreign students. “Those travelling to India for studies will be required to produce proof of vaccination,” said Dr N V H Krishnan, Registrar, Jain Deemed-to-be University. Once the lockdown is lifted, the university will give an option to students to choose between offline and online classes, he added.  Government universities have different challenge to face. Many of them cater to a large number of rural students. Since rural Karnataka is now seeing a spike in cases, faculty in these universities have also urged the government to vaccinate students at the earliest.  “Unless the government takes initiative in vaccinating all these students, it will be a challenge to conduct offline classes,” said University of Mysore Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar. While the university can comfortably conduct online classes for about eight weeks in a semester, it will have to go for offline classes for the rest. “Since there will be practical work, students need to come to the campus,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/varsities-say-no-to-offline-classes-before-vaccination-of-students-992224.html
31-05-2021||State||Ramesh Jarkiholi CD row: Karnataka HC takes note of woman's letter, asks SIT to respond||The High Court on Monday directed the Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the cases connected to sleaze CD involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, to respond to a letter purportedly written by the woman in the video. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing two PILs filed in regard to issues surrounding the controversial CD and subsequent investigation ordered by the government. The bench perused three reports signed by the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) attached to the SIT pertaining to three FIRs. Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi informed the court that a closure report (B report) has been filed in one of the FIRs registered with the RT Nagar police station, Bengaluru. The FIR pertains to the complaint filed by the woman’s parents alleging that their daughter had been abducted. It was informed that the ‘B’ report was filed after the allegation was found to be false.  As regards to the other two FIRs – registered in Sadashivanagar and Cubbon Park police stations - the investigation is under progress, the AG said. During the hearing, the bench pointed out that the investigation reports shall be signed by the head of the SIT. The AG submitted that the report was signed by the investigating officer since senior IPS officer Soumendhu Mukherjee, Additional Commissioner of Police (Bengaluru city) and head of the SIT, is on medical leave. “As this court is monitoring the investigation, the reports of investigation shall be filed either by the head of the SIT or any other officer with the express approval of the officer in charge as head of the SIT,” the court said. Meanwhile, the bench said that the registrar (judicial) has received a letter purportedly written by the woman. The court has directed the registrar (judicial) to forward the copy of the letter to the concerned SIT official in a sealed envelope. The court directed the head of the SIT to ascertain whether the letter is written by the same person and then respond to the allegations made in the letter by the next date of hearing, June 18. Former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Monday, sought to file a statement of objections on the maintainability of the PILs on the issue. The counsel for Jarkiholi argued that the petitioners have no locus standi and he would submit a statement of objections in support of the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramesh-jarkiholi-cd-row-karnataka-hc-takes-note-of-womans-letter-asks-sit-to-respond-992226.html
31-05-2021||State||Ramesh Jarkiholi CD row: Dharwad HC bench disposes of habeas corpus plea||The Dharwad bench of the High Court, on Monday, disposed of a habeas corpus plea filed by the father of the victim featuring in the sleaze CD involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, within hours of its filing. Prakash Kancheri had filed the application, saying that his daughter was missing after deposing before the Special Investigating Team (SIT) and had pleaded in the application to direct the authorities concerned to trace her. The applicant said he had earlier filed a missing complaint at the APMC police station in Belagavi, but the police had not traced her. Admitting the plea, the division bench of High Court comprising Justices Krishna Dixit and Pradeep Singh Yarur directed the registrar of High Court, Bengaluru, to produce her through video conference before the court and adjourned the matter to post-lunch session. When the matter was taken up for hearing post-lunch, the woman was produced before the court through video conference. She told the judges that she was safe and there was no pressure on her by either the police or any influential person. She said she would keep away from her parents till the probe into the CD case was over and would join them after it was completed. The court recorded the woman’s statement and disposed of the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramesh-jarkiholi-cd-row-dharwad-hc-bench-disposes-of-habeas-corpus-plea-992228.html
31-05-2021||State||Vaccinate our families, give us counselling access, nurses tell Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||The government must vaccinate the families of nurses at the earliest as they risk being infected by Covid-19, Waheeda, a nurse from Wenlock Hospital demanded of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday.  She and several other nurses like her from different hospitals of the state participated in a video conference with Yediyurappa. The CM lauded them for their selfless service during the pandemic. The nurses have been working in spite of personal tragedies in several cases. They have also had to distance themselves from families during this time, he said.  At present, there are 21,574 nurses working in Karnataka. The government has given an additional special allowance of Rs 8,000 to these nurses. For the families of nurses who have succumbed to Covid-19, the government is giving Rs 50 lakh under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Bima Yojane. So far, six such applications have been received. Of this, thee applications have been processed and the families have received money. The rest are pending and will be processed soon, he said.  Speaking to the CM, Santhosh, a nurse from Bidar, urged the government to extend risk allowance for the staff coming under the purview of the medical education department. Another professional from Raichur Medical College, Rachoti Varada, asked the government to extend Jyothi Sanjeevini scheme to those under medical education department as well.   Harihar government hospital staffer Shwetha drew the attention of the CM towards mental health of nurses. Since they continuously work in night shifts and they would have seen suffering of patients from close quarters, they need access to personal counselling, she said. Another professional, Sandhya from Chikkamagaluru district hospital, spoke to the CM about the shortage of staff in hospitals and urged the government to hire them at the earliest.    In villages, people were still not completely aware of the complications arising out of the Covid infection. Many neglect getting treated as soon as they are infected and this is leading to deaths, Chamarajanagar district hospital representative Pradeep Kumar said.  Yediyurappa told reporters later that he spent close to an hour with nurses. “They’ve made suggestions and have shared their problems. We will try to address them,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vaccinate-our-families-give-us-counselling-access-nurses-tell-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-992232.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccination drive gains steam in Karnataka||Vaccinations in Karnataka have picked up steam over the last 10 days, with the health minister stating that the programme is on track with more than 24 lakh doses administered in Bengaluru alone. As per official data, the daily number of new vaccinations began to rise from May 21, after the definition of frontline workers was expanded to include 22 new professions, including street vendors, prisoners, auto drivers, government transport personnel and others. May 21 saw the state set a new record in the number of inoculations given on a single day: 2.92 lakh doses. The numbers have since largely averaged 1.88 lakh doses per day over the last 10 days. However, the number of people in Karnataka who have had both doses of vaccines is still relatively small at 2.72 lakh people as of Sunday — which constitutes only 4.1% of the statewide population, estimated to be 6.5 crore. On Sunday, only 10,051 people received a second dose.  Although the state said it is receiving supplies (on Saturday, officials said they received 80,000 additional doses of Covaxin and 2,17,310 doses of Covishield), shortages are acute. Many frontline workers are being vaccinated out of a kitty of  6.5 lakh Covishield doses procured directly from the manufacturer. In addition, the health minister said tech-savvy Bengalureans were filling up vaccination slots in other districts, edging out locals. “It is a problem we are aware of and trying to sort out,” he said.  In Bengaluru, vaccination drives across 958 apartment federations alone, where there are an estimated 10,98,000 people, which is expected to boost inoculation numbers in the coming days.  Minister Sudhakar said the focus is on the expanded list of frontline workers and vulnerable groups. “The focus now is on institutionalised groups, as it is easier for us to gather all of them at one single place. While our resources are stretched to the maximum, we are also collaborating with NGOs to help us on the logistics front,” he said. Just how many people in these special categories have been vaccinated is unclear. The state is not yet releasing specific vaccination numbers of people vaccinated at apartment complexes or of people in the expanded frontline worker and vulnerable people category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccination-drive-gains-steam-in-karnataka-991932.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on Covid-19 lockdown's future should be on scientific basis, says K Sudhakar||The state is currently under lockdown till May June 7. "Till late last night they (TAC) have held discussions, they may submit me the report today, I will discuss it with the Chief Minister today itself. Most probably the Chief Minister may discuss it with the cabinet and take a final decision," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters, he said lockdown or unlock is linked to the medical aspect and its consequences on human life during the pandemic has to be understood and decisions have to be made carefully. "...I'm of the opinion, talking about the future of lockdown without understanding it technically or not considering experts opinion is irrelevant...this decision has to be taken on a scientific basis, as it is to save lives. If we are not cautious, we have seen what may happen," he added. According to reports, TAC has recommended to the government to extend the lockdown at least for one more week. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday had said that the government will decide on the future of the lockdown, just ahead of the current one coming to an end, based on the situation and expert opinion. He had earlier said that the question of extending the lockdown may not arise while making it clear that public cooperation and decline in Covid-19 cases will be the factors that would determine the government's decision in this regard. To a question on several Ministers expressing divergent views regarding the future of lockdown, with some in favour and some against it, Sudhakar said as a Health Minister it is his duty to bring factual position to their notice as they may not be aware of the TAC recommendation. Some statements might have come because of emotions, after having seen the difficulty faced by the people very closely, he said. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the Covid cases continued to spike. Citing lockdown yielding results and experts' advice, it was further extended till June 7. Meanwhile, responding to a question on speculation about leadership change in the state, Sudhakar said in his opinion, speaking about politics during the Covid situation is irrelevant. "Yediyurappa is in the Chief Minister's chair, when the position is not vacant, talking about it is also irrelevant," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-covid-19-lockdowns-future-should-be-on-scientific-basis-says-k-sudhakar-992058.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt mulls lifting lockdown curbs in a phased manner: Revenue Minister R Ashoka||"I have given my opinion to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about unlocking the lockdown in a phased manner by opening one sector after another," Ashoka told reporters in Chikkaballapura. Replying to a query on lifting the restrictions on June 7 when the current lockdown which is in effect since May 10 comes to an end, Ashoka said there is a request from some sectors to lift curbs stage by stage. He, however, warned that the lockdown will continue if the number of infections do not come down. "The restrictions will be eased only when the infections reduce. For example, in Delhi the cases are about 1,000 a day. In Bengaluru, the number should come below 1,000 a day and in Karnataka it should be limited to just 2,000 to 3,000. Then only the government will consider easing the lockdown," the Minister said. According to him, the lockdown has helped to control the infections and deaths due to Covid-19. Ashoka said the government has not yet received any report from the TAC. Things will be clear only on June 6 when the Chief Minister will hold a meeting with ministers, officials and the TAC members. "We will decide whatever is in the interest of people," he added. "There is a discussion going on at the government level to unlock the lockdown stage by stage. The coronavirus cases would be under control only if the restrictions are eased in a phased manner. Even we (officials) are also recommending the same," Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told reporters here. His statement came just a week before the current lockdown comes to an end on June 7. The daily Covid infections and fatalities in Karnataka had crossed 50,000 and over 600 respectively in the last week of April. It reduced to 20,378 infections and 382 deaths on Sunday. There are 3.42 lakh active cases in the state as of Sunday. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-mulls-lifting-lockdown-curbs-in-a-phased-manner-revenue-minister-r-ashoka-992095.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to purchase vaccines directly from manufacturing firms: Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan||The Karnataka government has decided to purchase vaccines directly from manufacturing companies as the two firms which had submitted bids in response to global tender have not submitted the requisite documents, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Monday. "In response to the short-term global tender floated on May 15, two distribution companies, one, the city-based (Bengaluru) and another Mumbai based, had submitted applications. But these had not annexed the required technical and supply ensuring documents. Also, there was no representation from these companies for the virtual meetings held," Narayan said. The process of communication has already begun directly with vaccine manufacturing companies, as the government is not in a position to wait, amid threats of possible third Covid-19 wave, the Deputy CM, who is also the head of the state's State Covid task force, said.  In response to a global tender floated by Karnataka to procure two crore Covid-19 vaccines, two suppliers had come forward to supply Russia's Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines. Bulk MRO Industrial Supply Pvt Ltd from Mumbai had offered to supply Sputnik V vaccine, while Bengaluru-based Thulasi Systems said it could also provide the single-dose Sputnik Light, in response to a tender that closed on May 24. The government however has decided to reject bids made by two companies to supply Russia's Sputnik vaccines. Noting that the future of the lockdown in the state will be decided based on experts' opinions and facts and figures, Narayan said, however, certain activities need some relaxation to balance life and livelihood. The state is currently under lockdown till June 7. The Deputy CM today inaugurated the vaccination programme for artistes of the Kannada film industry, his office said in a release. All the 15,000 artistes belonging to the Kannada film industry, who are above 18 years, will be inoculated, Narayan said, adding that he would discuss with the Chief Minister about providing ration kits to those in need among them. He also said applications for providing subsidised homes under the Chief Minister's Housing Scheme will be called shortly and artistes who are financially weak should make use of the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-purchase-vaccines-directly-from-manufacturing-firms-deputy-cm-ashwath-narayan-992162.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to vaccinate overseas students, working professionals for Covid-19 from June 1||Expanding the list of preferential groups for Covid-19 vaccination, the Karnataka government on Monday declared that students and working professionals travelling overseas for employment will be provided with vaccine from June 1. Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan, who is also the head of the state covid Task Force, said that the vaccination for these groups will begin from tomorrow at Bengaluru City University campus (Central College). Similar arrangements will also be made for these groups at districts as well. Speaking to media persons, the Deputy Chief Minister said, "During this pandemic times, those who fly abroad has to be mandatorily vaccinated and must have a vaccination certificate. Hence, there was a demand from the students, employees working overseas to provide them with the vaccine. The government has considered their demand and they will all be provided with Covishield vaccine."    The vaccination programme will be launched on Tuesday at 3:00 pm on the premises of Bengaluru City University. "Those who want to get vaccinated under this quota must compulsorily produce Aadhaar Card, Passport details and valid documents pertaining to education or work in overseas universities and companies," the DCM clarified. All the vaccinated students and professionals will be issued a certificate at the time of getting a second dose.  Covishield gap reduced for overseas group The state government had recently increased the time gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine by 12 weeks. However, keeping in mind the requirements of students, working professionals planning to travel overseas, the state government has reduced the time gap to one month. "The reduction in the time gap between two doses of Covishield is applicable only for those travelling abroad. The others will be inoculated after 12 weeks of administering the first dose," Dr Ashwath Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-vaccinate-overseas-students-working-professionals-for-covid-19-from-june-1-992192.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Covid-19 cases continue to decline; state logs 16,604 new cases||Recording a steady decline, Karnataka logged less than 20,000 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, and 411 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 26.04 lakh and the toll to 29,090. The day also saw 44,473 recoveries, continuing to outnumber fresh cases, which stood at 16,604. Out of this, 3,992 cases and 242 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. Cumulatively, 26,04,431 cases have so far been reported in the state, which includes 22,61,590 recoveries. The total number of active cases is now 3,13,730. While the positivity rate stood at 13.57%, the case fatality rate was 2.47%. Belagavi reported 15 deaths, Mysuru and Shivamogga (13 each), Hassan (12), Bengaluru Rural, Dharwad and Uttara Kannada (10). Mysuru reported 1,171 cases, Hassan 1,162, Belagavi 910, and Tumakuru 806. A total of over 2,97,36,960 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,22,329 were done on Monday alone. Till 9.15 pm on Monday, 1,36,77,704 vaccine doses were administered in the state, out of which 2,34,436 doses were administered on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-covid-19-cases-continue-to-decline-state-logs-16604-new-cases-992193.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NEP to be implemented from this academic year, says Karnataka Deputy CM Narayan||The new National Education Policy will be implemented from this academic year, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Monday. "The NEP will be implemented from this year despite Covid-19. It offers an answer to all the problems faced by the students, parents and teachers on the prevailing education system," Ashwath Narayan said during an international level virtual conference on 'Education and Industries'. According to him, the NEP would take the society forward because it creates a talent pool required for industries. The DCM said preparations were almost complete to implement it but due to Covid-19 the process was delayed. Narayan also said the industry has come forward to offer one-year internships to the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nep-to-be-implemented-from-this-academic-year-says-karnataka-deputy-cm-narayan-992201.html
31-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 lockdown in Karnataka should continue till cases drop: R Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Monday said Karnataka should remain under a lockdown until daily cases drop to 2,000-3,000 and under 500 in Bengaluru.  “In Delhi, cases came down to under 1,000 after they imposed a lockdown. In Bengaluru, it is still around 5,000 and in Karnataka, it is around 20,000. Cases have to come down,” Ashoka told reporters, favouring the extension of the lockdown beyond June 7.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, however, said, “After June 4-5, I will discuss with experts. Based on how the situation is, we will make a decision,” he said.   Like Ashoka, Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraja (Byrathi) also favoured extending the lockdown. However, all ministers are not of this view.  Congress joins chorus Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday said the lockdown should continue till the positivity rate dropped to 5% from 13.57% at present.  “The government should take cautious steps until the positivity rate comes below 5%,” he said. The Congress leader urged the government to act on experts’ advice.  He also asked the government to buck up on the vaccination front. “Preparation should start on vaccinating children above 12 years of age. By December, this process should be completed,” he said. “Karnataka will need nine crore vaccine doses whereas the country will require 216 crore doses. At the current rate, it will take 3-4 years to vaccinate everyone,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-lockdown-in-karnataka-should-continue-till-cases-drop-r-ashoka-992230.html
31-05-2021||West||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 curbs till June 15||The Maharashtra government on Sunday extended the lockdown-like curbs till June 15 and also announced that relaxations will be granted depending upon the Covid-19 positivity rate and availability of oxygen beds. In municipal corporations or regions of districts with less than 10 per cent Covid-19 positivity rate and where the availability of occupied oxygen beds will be less than 40 per cent, all the establishments/shops engaged in essential commodities and services that are presently opened from 7 am to 11 am can now remain open from 7 am to 2 pm, the government said in an order. For districts and corporations having more than a 20 per cent positivity rate and where over 75 per cent of oxygen beds are occupied, the borders of such districts will be closed and no person will be allowed to enter or exit in such districts.  The exceptions will be death from a family, medical reason and emergency services or services related to such situations.  Instead of implementing the 'Break the chain' order uniformly in the state, the restrictions will now be relaxed or made more stringent till 7 am of June 15 by taking into account the positivity rate in the municipality jurisdiction and areas of districts, and the availability of oxygen beds at various places, the government said. As per the census of 2011, the municipal corporations that are having a population of more than 10 lakh will be considered as the independent administrative unit for curbing the spread of Covid-19. Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali, Vasai Virar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik corporations will be treated as the administrative units. Barring the jurisdiction of these corporations, the rest of the part of the district will be counted as a separate administrative unit, it said.  The decision for keeping open all the shops and establishments that do not fall in the essential category will be taken by the local disaster management authority (LDMA) but their timings will be at uniformity with those shops and establishment falling in the essential group, as per the order. Similarly, the shops will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays. In such regions, along with the essential commodities, the non-essential goods and services can also be distributed through the e-commerce system. However after 3 pm, except for medical services and medical-related emergency, there will be restrictions on commuting and traffic, it said. Besides the offices that are working for the pandemic-related services, all other government offices can function with the attendance of 25 per cent of employees.  If the chief of any of these departments needs the attendance of more than 25 per cent, they can take permission from the disaster management authority, the order said. All the agricultural work and equipment-related shops will be open on the working days till 2 pm. Considering the monsoon and sowing period, the local disaster management authority can give the permission to increase the timings of such agriculture-related goods and service providers or can also give a nod to remain open on Saturdays and Sundays, the order said. Addressing the people of the state through social media, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the daily coronavirus case count in the state is on the decline, but these numbers are close to the last year's peak levels. Thackeray announced that the lockdown-like restrictions currently in force in the state since mid-April, have been extended by a fortnight till June 15. He said he was taking a district-wise review of the coronavirus situation and curbs will be made stricter where the numbers are on the rise, while some relaxations will be given where the case count is on the decline. As of Sunday, Maharashtra's tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 57,31,815 and the overall death toll is 94,844. The state has 2,71,801 active cases, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-june-15-991947.html
31-05-2021||West||Goa seafarers say gap between vaccine doses may hamper job prospects||Goan Seamen's Association of India (GSIA) spokesman Dixon Vaz told PTI on Sunday that they would meet Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and demand that the time gap between two doses of the vaccine be reduced. Sawant on Sunday said couples with children below the age of two, people with co-morbidities, rickshaw/taxi drivers, seafarers and differently-abled persons would be given priority in vaccination. Vaz said they welcome the decision of the government, but the seafarers will have to wait for three months to get the second dose, only after which they will be able to sail. "Shipping companies will not wait for so long for their crew to join. We fear they may replace the staff in case of delay," he said. "I know it is not the prerogative of the state government to reduce the gap between vaccine doses, but the state can certainly suggest the Centre to do so," he added. Vaz also expressed apprehensions over the Bharat Biotech's vaccine Covaxin for seafarers since they have to sail to various countries. Bharat Biotech last week said it expects approval for its vaccine from the World Health Organisation (WHO) for emergency use authorisation during July-September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-seafarers-say-gap-between-vaccine-doses-may-hamper-job-prospects-992008.html
31-05-2021||West||Railway employee sets up oxygen bank in tribal areas||As India reels under shortage of medical oxygen, a Nagpur-based railway employee has set up a small Oxygen Bank to cater to the needs of tribal and forest areas of Vidarbha districts like Amravati and Yavatmal. Khushroo Poacha, the Office Superintendent of Commercial Department of Central Railway (CR) is deploying oxygen concentrators to these areas from Nagpur, the nerve centre of Vidarbha region. “We have been looking at news reports of how hospitals are facing a shortage of oxygen. In cities the situation was acute…we can imagine the situation in tribal and forest areas,” Pocha told DH over the phone from Nagpur. “We now have a small bank of oxygen concentrators…these are the sturdy ones and can be moved at ease from one place to another. We have received them as donations…we send them to places where there is a need and we do not charge a single paisa,” he said, adding that he was in touch with people on the ground to move these concentrators. A few of them are at disposal of Dr Ashish Satav, the founder of Mahan Trust, who is working extensively in Melghat in Amravati and Yavatmal-based farmers’ leader Kishore Tiwari, the founder of Vidarbha Jan Andolan Samiti, the Chairman of Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission, a post that has the status of a Minister of State. A 17-year-old boy and 3 engineering students were among the first to donate 1 oxygen concentrator each. Zoroastrians (Parsis) based in Abu Dhabi crowd-funded 40 top-class Turkish oxygen concentrators and sent them to Nagpur.  “I am expecting more and it would be deployed in far-flung areas,” he said, adding that there has been a demand for oxygen concentrators from Wardha, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli. In fact, last year when a lockdown was imposed after the outbreak of Covid-19, Poacha, who is associated with Seva Kitchen, donated food to lakhs of needy persons. It caught the attention of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who personally spoke to him over the phone and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal also tweeted about his work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railway-employee-sets-up-oxygen-bank-in-tribal-areas-992016.html
31-05-2021||West||82-year-old Khaira Babaji has fed over 30 lakh during Covid-19||For close to 15 months, octogenarian Baba Karnail Singh Khaira is working 24x7 and his selfless social work is sure to inspire many. Popularly known as Khaira Babaji, he has fed over 30 lakh people in ‘Guru-ka-Langar’, near the Karanji village off the National Highway No 7 in the Yavatmal district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. “I am just serving….whatever is happening is the wishes of Waheguruji,” the 82-year-old Khaira Babaji told DH over the phone from Yavatmal district. After the outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020, the lockdown was announced and everything came to a standstill. Khaira Baba came out and decided to start a community kitchen and help out lakhs of migrants who walked on foot, by road in buses, trucks and even container transporters. “It was the only place in a stretch of over 400-plus km which had a functional eatery, functioning round the clock,” he said. “It worked both ways…when people came to know about the community kitchen, people started coming in large numbers to have a meal and continue their journey and so did donations,'' he said, adding that by the grace of God, the seva never stopped. “In the initial days, on some occasions, we were worried as there was no ration left but immediately truckloads came and even from anonymous people,” he said. “A vegetable biryani, mostly with potatoes and brinjal or cauliflower, comprised the main menu along with dal and chapatis,” he said, adding that it kept the needy people going. “People from nearby villages too used to come and also from tribal forest areas,” he said. Khaira Babaji initially had 11 people to help out but the group is now as big as 25. “Right from cleaning utensils to chopping vegetables to cooking,  they take care of everything,” he said. Khaira Babaji’s story is inspiring. He left his house aged 11 to serve people and humanity. “I travelled to many places in India, went to the Middle East, Germany and other European countries…all I did was ‘seva’ with the blessings of Guru,” he said. Initially in Maharashtra, he stayed in Nanded and now in Yavatmal. "I speak fluent English, Hindi, Punjabi, Arabic, Dutch and German, besides of course, Marathi….I do not have formal education…social media and WhatsApp are difficult for me," Khaira Babaji said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/82-year-old-khaira-babaji-has-fed-over-30-lakh-during-covid-19-992019.html
31-05-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray’s aide Anil Parab in trouble again||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide Anil Parab seems to be in trouble again. Parab, a Shiv Sena MLC is minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and holds the two important portfolios of Parliamentary Affairs and Transport. He had played an instrumental role in the formation of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress mega-alliance government that prevented the BJP from coming to power. A Regional Transport Office (RTO), Nashik official Gajendra Patil has written to the Nashik police claiming massive corruption in the Transport department and the alleged involvement of Parab. Nashik’s Commissioner of Police Deepak Pandey has ordered a preliminary enquiry where statements of all those named in the letter and also a detailed statement of the complainant will be recorded. An official of the rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police is heading the probe team. Patil has alleged corruption in transfers and postings of officials and at border checkposts; settlement of cases and illegal registration of BS-4 vehicles.   “The allegations are baseless,” said Parab. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that they are closely watching the developments. “A probe has been ordered (by Nashik police)…we are closely watching the developments…we will intervene at an appropriate point of time,” he said. This is the second time Parab is facing charges of corruption. It may be recalled,  dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze in an application made to NIA court has made the allegations. In July-August, 2020, Vaze claimed Parab had called him to his official bungalow and looked into a complaint concerning the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT), bringing the SBUT trustees to him for negotiations on the enquiry. “He also insisted to initiate primary talks to get Rs.50 crore from the SBUT in order to close the said enquiry. I had expressed my inability to do any such things as I do not know anyone from the SBUT and also I did not have any control over the inquiry,” Vaze contended in the written statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-s-aide-anil-parab-in-trouble-again-992042.html
31-05-2021||West||Maharashtra: Video of woman beating 7-month-old son goes viral; cops counsel parents||Police have counselled the parents of a seven-month-old boy after a video showing the infant being mercilessly beaten up by his mother here went viral on social media, an official said on Monday. The incident took place in Pandharabodi area of Maharashtra's Nagpur district on May 24, Ambazari police station inspector Narendra Hiwre said. The police have also asked the child welfare department to look into the matter, he said. In the video, apparently shot by a relative, the woman was purportedly seen thrashing the child during an argument with her mother-in-law. After the clip went viral on social media platforms, some residents of Pandharabodi alerted the Ambazari police. On Sunday, Hiwre along with his team went to the boy's house and brought him and his parents to the police station. The police fed the child and counselled his parents. They asked the parents not to hit the child and later allowed them to go, an official said. The child's father used to work as a drummer, but is currently jobless due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions, he said. The child's grandmother works as a domestic help and earns Rs 2,000 per month, which she spends to sustain the livelihood of the family, he said. A neighbour told the police that the child's mother and grandmother used to have frequent quarrels over their financial woes, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-video-of-woman-beating-7-month-old-son-goes-viral-cops-counsel-parents-992056.html
31-05-2021||West||Man held for distasteful comments on Gujarat MP Vasava's health||Police have arrested a man for allegedly making unsavoury remarks on Facebook over the health of Gujarat BJP MP Mansukh Vasava, who was hospitalised recently for Covid-19 treatment, an official said on Monday. The accused, identified as Sahil Pathan, was arrested on Friday on the basis of an FIR lodged by BJP president of Netrang town in Bharuch, Netrang police station's sub-inspector Naresh Panchani said. Vasava, the six-term MP from Bharuch, was recently hospitalised in Ahmedabad for the treatment of coronavirus. The accused made objectionable comments on the health of Vasava in a post on May 20 on the Facebook page of a Netrang-based BJP worker who had wished the parliamentarian a speedy recovery, the police official said. A case was registered against the accused under IPC Sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505 (making statement containing rumour or alarming news with intent to create or promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill will), he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-distasteful-comments-on-gujarat-mp-vasavas-health-992099.html
31-05-2021||West||Mumbai's civic-run zoo to expand by 10 acres for new animals||The civic-run Byculla Zoo in Mumbai is set to expand by 10 acres to house new enclosures for several exotic species of animals that will be brought to the facility in the next few years, officials said on Monday. One of the city's most patronised venues, officially called the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, it is currently spread over 53 acres and the extra 10 acres have already been procured for a third phase of expansion, they added. Zoo director Dr Sanjay Tripathi told PTI that a tender had been floated for the expansion work that will see the construction of 15 enclosures to house animals like the giraffe, white lion, black jaguar, chimpanzee, ostrich, ringtail lemur and cheetah etc. He said the Union government approved the expansion work in 2019. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials said work in the first two phases is expected to cost Rs 175 crore and tenders for its have already been floated. Under these phases, a space for exhibiting African savanna will be built along with an aviary for exotic birds, as well as a hippopotamus enclosure, apart from landscaping, installation of CCTV cameras, public amenities etc. Byculla Zoo has over 330 animals, birds and reptiles, including monkeys, deer, elephants, penguins, crocodiles, hippopotamus, penguins etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-civic-run-zoo-to-expand-by-10-acres-for-new-animals-992114.html
31-05-2021||West||Gujarat: Covid-19 survivor ends life over fear of mucormycosis||An 80-year-old man from Ahmedabad who had recovered from coronavirus allegedly died by suicide out of fear of contracting the mucormycosis infection, police said on Monday. Mucormycosis, also known as the black fungus, is a serious infection that has been found in several Covid-19 patients in various states. According to police, the victim used to live with his wife at the Aman Apartments in Paldi area of the city. He allegedly consumed a pesticide on the terrace of his apartment on Thursday and died at a private hospital on Saturday, Paldi police station's inspector J M Solanki said. The man contracted Covid-19 some time back and had recovered. He was not diagnosed with mucorycosis, but he developed a fear for it after he got mouth sores, he said. The victim also left behind a suicide note in which he mentioned the reason behind his extreme step and expressed fear that he may suffer due to mucormycosis as he had just recovered from Covid-19 and also had diabetes. "The man was scared as he learnt that the black fungus mostly targets those who had contracted coronavirus and people having diabetes. He also mentioned (in the suicide note) that the treatment may not yield any result and he would suffer due to that infection in future," Solanki said, based on the suicide note and statements of his family members. The victim was from a well-off family and his fear was more psychological than about his financial condition and the ability to pay for the treatment, the official said. "Since he had developed some mouth sores, he was under the notion that he had contracted mucormycosis and may not recover from it. He went to the terrace of his apartment on Thursday and consumed a pesticide to end his life," he said. The police have registered an accidental death report and are conducting further probe into the incident, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-survivor-ends-life-over-fear-of-mucormycosis-992117.html
31-05-2021||West||RTI shows 11,439 Indians died abroad in 2020||A shocking total of 11,439 Indians died in foreign countries in 2020, according to replies sought under Right to Information Act. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) gave this information in a reply to an RTI application by Mumbai-based activist Jatin Desai. In its reply, MEA’s Director (CPV) and CPO said that 11,439 Indians died last year in foreign countries, of which the highest deaths were from Saudi Arabia. 3,753 Indians died in Saudi Arabia last year. Meanwhile, 12 Indians died in the prisons of foreign countries. The MEA also informed Desai that 2,454 Indians died in the United Arab Emirates, 280 in the USA, 1,279 in Kuwait, 216 in Italy, 41 in the United Kingdom, 12 in Switzerland, 40 in Sudan, 166 in Singapore and 385 in Qatar among others. One each died in Bangladesh, Bhutan and Myanmar. Two Indian prisoners died in Italy while one each died in Bhutan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Mali, Myanmar, Slovak Republic, Thailand and United Kingdom. Two prisoners also died in Malaysia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rti-shows-11439-indians-died-abroad-in-2020-992126.html
31-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Raigad damage assessment report ready, say officials||The assessment of damage caused by cyclone Tauktae, which brought heavy rains to coastal Maharashtra in mid-May, has been completed in Raigad district, officials said on Monday. The report compiled by the Zilla Parishad here stated that four persons died, eight were injured, 18 houses were completely damaged and 13,575 partially damaged, while 326 cattle sheds need repairs. A total of 7,864 farmers were affected, 12 fishing boats destroyed, 55 primary health centres and 12 animal clinics damaged, it added. The rains and gusty winds also affected 59 gram panchayat offices, 255 cremation grounds, 148 public toilets, 492 primary schools, as well as over 1,000 electricity poles. "The report will be submitted to the state government for compensation," said senior district official Padmashree Bainade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-raigad-damage-assessment-report-ready-say-officials-992129.html
31-05-2021||West||Two Solapur villages earn CM’s praise for becoming 'corona-free'||Two 21-year-old Sarpanchs from Solapur district earned praises from Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for making their villages Covid-19 free. Thackeray referred to their work on Sunday night when he announced the mission of ‘Corona-mukt gaon’ to get rid of the viral pandemic. The two Sarpanchs are Rituraj Deshmukh of Ghatane village in Mohol and Komal Karpe and Antroli in South Solapur. “Let us make villages free of Covid-19…while Popatrao Pawar of Hiware Bazar in Ahmednagar district has made his village free of Coronavirus, we also have come to know of the good work done by two 21-year-old Sarpanchs Ruturaj Deshmukh and Komal Karpe…we must replicate such work in other places,” Thackeray said. The two villages took pride in their achievement after CM's address. “I am very glad that the CM saheb praised the efforts of our village in making it Covid-19 free,” said an elated Deshmukh, adding that the village is now preparing for the third wave. Ghatane, which has a population of around 5,000, did not have a single case during the first wave. “However, during the second wave, the first case was reported in March and suddenly we had 100-odd cases and things changed,” he said, adding that there was a sense of fear among the public. Deshmukh, a science graduate, started a mission — “be positive and keep the village Covid negative”. “We carried out Rapid Antigen Tests to detect cases, did whatever necessary as per protocol and facilitated vaccination drive for the 45+ age group,” he said.  “Our Gram Panchayat workers and volunteers went to each house to check oxygen levels and body temperature. Each family was given a Covid safety kit with a sanitiser, face masks, vitamin capsules and soaps,” added Deshukh, a Chemistry graduate.   Antroli village, which has a population of around 2,220, took up proactive testing. Karpe, a Botany graduate, focused on testing, tracking and treatment. More than 300 persons in the village have been vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-solapur-villages-earn-cm-s-praise-for-becoming-corona-free-992136.html
31-05-2021||West||India’s oldest train Punjab Mail turns 110||India's oldest running train, Punjab Mail, which made her maiden run out of Ballard Pier Mole station in 1912, turned 110 on Tuesday. The origins of the train are rather unclear but it is known to have journeyed from Bombay and Peshawar in its early years. Over 16 years older than the glamorous Frontier Mail, the Punjab Mail or Punjab Limited as she was then called, first steamed out on June 1, 1912. The Ballard Pier Mole, from where it started its journey, was a hub for British-era Great Indian Peninsula Railway (GPIR) services. The Officers of the British Raj, along with their wives, on their first posting in Colonial India, had travelled in the train as part of their Southampton to Bombay 13-day-long steamer voyage. As the British officials held combined tickets both for the voyage, as well as their inland journey by train to their place of posting, they would, after disembarking, board one of the trains bound for either Madras, Calcutta or Delhi. The train used to run on fixed mail days from Bombay's Ballard station to Peshawar, via the GIP route, covering a distance of 2,496 km in about 47 hours. Comprising six cars — three for passengers, and three for postal goods and mail — back in the days, the Punjab Mail had a capacity of only 96 passengers. During the pre-partition period, it was the fastest train in British India and ran over the GIP track for a large part, and passed through Itarsi, Agra, Delhi and Lahore, before terminating at Peshawar Cantonment. The electrically hauled train that started originating and terminating at Bombay VT (now Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai) in 1914, takes 34 hours and 15 minutes to cover the 1,930 km distance between Mumbai and Firozpur Cantonment.  As of today, Punjab Mail Special has one AC First Class cum AC2 Tier, Two AC2 Tier, Six AC3 Tier, 6 Sleeper Class, one pantry car, 5 general second class coaches and one generator van. As train services were suspended during the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, Punjab Mail special has been journeying with LHB coaches since December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-s-oldest-train-punjab-mail-turns-110-992199.html
31-05-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav flags off Mumbai Metro trial runs||In a significant boost to infrastructure development, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday flagged off trial runs of two Metro lines in Mumbai. After a gap of nearly seven years, Mumbai is getting two operational Metro lines. As of now, Mumbai only has the single East-West 11.40 kilometres Mumbai Metro One line from Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar, which was inaugurated in June, 2014. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) will begin testing on the Yellow Line 2A and Red Line 7 wherein oscillation trials of a prototype 6-car train will be run at various speeds. The commissioning of both the lines is planned in two phases, the first phase of around 20 kilometres from Charkop Depot to Dahanukarwadi to Aarey by September 2021 and balance of the line by January 2022. Even as the programme was flagged off there were protests near the venue by BJP workers led by MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar. A galaxy of Maha Vikas Aghadi functionaries including Deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat of Congress, Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde and Industries Minister Subhash Desai, both of Shiv Sena, Minority Affairs Minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik, Ports Minister Aslam Shakh, Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray and Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-flags-off-mumbai-metro-trial-runs-992209.html
31-05-2021||West||Mumbai's Dawoodi Bohra community turns mosque into Covid-19 vaccination centre||In Mumbai's famous Mohammed Ali Road, the Mohammedi Masjid complex that belongs to the Dawoodi Bohra community has been turned into a vaccination centre. With a capacity to accommodate over 300 people, the vaccination centre will cater to people above 45 years of age by online appointment only. The Bohra community has launched a global #RiseToVaccinate campaign to sensitise and encourage people to come forward and get vaccinated.  The vaccination centre has been set up by Anjuman Shiate Ali, the organisation that manages the Bohra community's affairs in Mumbai, under the umbrella of the community’s global philanthropic initiative, Project Rise. “Our Dawoodi Bohra volunteers in Mumbai and other parts of the world continue to support and expand the government’s vaccination efforts while also educating locals on queries related to their health and vaccine hesitancy,” said Ammar Tyebkhan, a member of Bohra’s global Project Rise initiative. The vaccination centre was inaugurated by Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant of Shiv Sena, NCP MP from Baramati Supriya Sule and Mumbai Congress President Bhai Jagtap. Board Members of Anjuman Shiate Ali, Saifuddin Fakhrudin and Taher Husamuddin, also graced the occasion along with the head of Mohammedi Masjid, Amil Saheb Mustafa Indorewala.  Earlier, the Dawoodi Bohra community in Mumbai had set up a Covid-19 war room to assist patients and their families with oxygen cylinders, oximeters and beds along with consultation from a panel of multi-speciality doctors on a real-time basis. Fakhruddin Palanpurwala, who is in charge of managing the centre said, “We are grateful for the support of BMC and local authorities in setting this up. The entire Masjid complex is divided into different zones to ensure proper social distancing and efficient flow management during the process.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-dawoodi-bohra-community-turns-mosque-into-covid-19-vaccination-centre-992212.html
31-05-2021||West||To stem quick divorces, pre-marriage counselling to be made mandatory before weddings in Goa: Minister||Couples keen to tie the knot in Goa may soon have to undergo a compulsory pre-marriage counselling course, Law Minister Nilesh Cabral said on Monday. Cabral said that the policy was necessitated to counter the trend of quick divorces, sometimes within six months to one year of marriage, he said. Addressing a press conference at the state Secretariat, Cabral also said that religious institutions would also be allowed to conduct pre-marriage counselling courses, a format for which would be prepared by the state government. "The number of cases (divorce) have increased a lot. So much so that there are many divorces in six months to one year. It is so fast. As a policy, the state registrars and other registrars, we thought that pre counselling should be made compulsory before marriage to make them aware..." Cabral told media persons.  He however conceded that he was not in a position to say how many divorces applications were received by the state on a monthly basis. "We are starting the course with the help of GIPARD. It is not that we alone will do it (pre-marriage counselling), religious institutions are also welcome. They can also be trained to do this course," the Law Minister said. Cabral said that the quick divorce trend was a new one and was not a serious problem in the past. "I dont have the exact number of divorce cases of divorse per month. Earlier there were not many cases. The number has increased now. Olden days, 10 years down the line, 14 years down the line, there weren't so many cases. But now cases are increasing. This is a collective decision taken by us," Cabral said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/to-stem-quick-divorces-pre-marriage-counselling-to-be-made-mandatory-before-weddings-in-goa-minister-992249.html
