01-12-2021||Senior Journalist||Digital future of money needs more clarity||An entrepreneur friend has observed that cryptocurrency is not an urgent challenge of the Indian economy and there are other pressing issues like getting the economy going so that small businessmen like him would be able to breathe easy. Though what he says makes a lot of sense, the Union government’s compulsive inclination to try out new things indicates that cryptocurrencies are very much on the mind of policy-makers led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself. Speaking at the Sydney Dialogue last month, he talked of the danger of cryptocurrencies falling into the wrong hands. And Modi’s vision of India’s future is rooted in the digital universe. So, cryptocurrencies are of great interest to this government, though most developed countries and advanced economies are yet to take note of it. That is why the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill 2021, with the teasing sobriquet of Crypto Bill, is on the anvil in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament.A clearer indication of the government’s view on cryptocurrencies is to be found in the recommendations of the Subhash Chandra Garg Committee on the subject, and its recommendation that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should issue digital currency, and that private cryptocurrencies should be banned. So, India’s policy-makers and decision-makers are willing to take the plunge into digital currency. Even when the decision on demonetisation was taken, the PM was toying with the idea of doing away with cash transactions. The secondary argument for demonetisation was that cash has become cumbersome and it has become costly as well, following American economist Ken Rogoff’s arguments. Of course, Rogoff’s position on cash was not acknowledged by the government. It was soon realised that cash could not be dispensed with in a jiffy. The decision on demonetisation was then modified to that of less cash and more of digital payments.At a seminar in New Delhi a few years ago, former RBI Deputy Governor Usha Thorat had explained the ideological underpinnings of bitcoin. “Bitcoin was started by those who did not believe in any authority. They wanted to do it by mutual consent to create liquidity.” In more ways than one, it is an anarchist movement in the world of money, where the central bank is the sole authority in issuing legal currency and in managing it, and the cryptocurrency creators are keen to set up a parallel money universe. The Indian government wants to grab the opportunity and create a digital currency.Paper money has gained stability because it has been tethered to the gold standard. But in times of economic crisis as during the Great Depression of 1929 and again in early 1970s, money had to get off the gold standard. But the money currencies floated and found their value against the strongest currency, which turned out to be the American dollar. Cryptocurrencies may not follow the trajectory of paper money, gold standard and strong currency among the currencies. Cryptocurrencies would not be divided in terms of national currency. They will be transnational currencies much like the transnational corporations. For the cryptocurrency to gain currency, it will have to command the trust of its users, and this in turn will be based on its economic viability. Venezuela, in 2018, experimented with a cryptocurrency version called ‘petro’, where a barrel of oil was used as the unit of value. This was done to beat the United States’economic sanctions against the country. Russia and Turkey too were tempted to experiment with cryptocurrency as well.Former RBI Governor D Subba Rao and member of RBI’s Money Policy Committee (MPC) Ashima Goyal have favoured recognising cryptocurrencies as an asset which can be traded but not as a currency. Thorat has asserted that private cryptocurrencies must be banned. But it seems that the government would want to create a form of digital currency, partly to outwit cryptocurrencies and partly to take/replace money as we know it. This is going to be neither an easy nor a quick transition. PM Modi would want his government to be in the frontline of this aspect of the digital revolution.It is possible to argue that when paper money came into existence, the same apprehensions were expressed as now being expressed at the prospect of cryptocurrency. And that if many of the things in society are going to turn digital, including governance, then it would be difficult to resist the emergence of digital currency. The initial move towards cryptocurrencies was to move away from the authority of the State and the control of the central bank, but the authoritarian State would want to conquer the no-man digital space from the currency anarchists and establish its own authority. But as there is black money, there is going to be black digital currency as well, where the blockchain technology could be used to mimic the central bank’s certified digital currency. The central banks then will have to create their own digital defence to ward off the raids from the freebooters, as it were.As the Internet envelops the world and human activities, and Mark Zuckerberg’s Metaverse will spread its territory, many of us would have to consider whether there would be an option for individuals and communities, if not nations, to opt out of the corporatised systems under construction in the digital world. The State will be one of the many competitors in this technology universe, though it would want to assert its total authority as a sovereign power. There is a need for a debate on whether the opening of the Internet world increases our choices or restricts them. If it offers greater choices than before, then those of us who want to skirt the systems of the State and the corporations should have the freedom to keep the behemoths at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/digital-future-of-money-needs-more-clarity-344881
01-12-2021||Author and Former Academic||Gender disparities in health ignored for long||The Union Health Ministry recently released the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), conducted in 2019-21. The understanding of the health issues revealed in the report suggests that when it comes to equality between men and women, India continues to struggle.However, some positive features have also emerged. India’s sex ratio of females as compared to males has always been extremely unfavourable. It is the first time that this ratio has shown an upturn: from 991 females to 1,000 males in 2015-16 (NFHS-4) to 1,020 females in 2019-21.The increase in the sex ratio of women is also considered to be due to the increased life expectancy of women and an improvement in the sex ratio at birth, although demography experts say that these figures do not give an accurate picture of India’s sex ratio.The improved sex ratio brings the health aspect of women in India to the forefront. The health of women differs from that of men in many ways. Women’s health is defined by the World Health Organisation as “a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.” Often treated as simply women’s reproductive health, many groups argue for a broader definition pertaining to the overall health of women, better expressed as ‘the health of women’.The data in NFHS-5 shows an increase in the prevalence of anaemia across age-groups, particularly among children and women. The highest spike in anaemia was reported among children aged 6-59 months, i.e. 67.1 per cent (NFHS-5) from 58.6 per cent (NFHS-4, 2015-16) and also among young females aged 15-19 years, i.e. 59.1 per cent (NFHS-5), which is up from 54.1 per cent (NFHS-4). In this group, too, the number was higher in the rural areas (58.7 per cent) as compared to urban India (54.1 per cent).The data also shows a significantly lower prevalence of anaemia among men: 25 per cent in the age-group of 15-49 and 31.1 per cent in the age- group of 15-16.Among pregnant women aged 15-49 years, 52.2 per cent were found to be anaemic compared to the 50.4 per cent in the previous survey. But in this group, there is a stark difference between urban areas (45.7 per cent) and rural India (54.3 per cent). The higher level of education among the urban women may be responsible for this.The survey also measured the proportion of women (15-24 years) who are using hygienic methods of protection during their menstrual period. This has increased across almost all states. The largest increase was seen in Bihar and West Bengal (28 per cent). However, it still remains low in Bihar (59 per cent), Assam and Gujarat (66 per cent). It is well known that lack of hygienic protection during menstruation leads to many diseases among women.Another major contributing factor to the physical ailments of women is known to be violence. A very high number of married women experience spousal violence, leaving them vulnerable to many infections. The proportion of married women (18-49 years of age) who face spousal violence has increased in five states. In Karnataka, it has doubled: from 21 per cent to 44 per cent. More than a third of the married women face spousal violence in Karnataka (44 per cent), Bihar (40 per cent), Manipur (40 per cent), and Telangana (37 per cent).It is true that women need healthcare and access to the medical system more than men do due to their reproductive and sexual health needs. However, the burden of disease has changed significantly over the past decades.Currently, the greatest burden of death and disability among women is attributable to non-communicable diseases (NCDs), most notably cardiovascular diseases, cancers, respiratory diseases, diabetes, dementia, depression and musculoskeletal disorders.Hence, to improve the health of women most efficiently, adequate resources need to be allocated to the prevention, management and treatment of NCDs in women. Such an approach could reduce the burden of NCDs among women and would also have the potential to improve women’s sexual and reproductive health, which commonly shares similar behavioural, biological, social and cultural risk factors.Sex differences and gender disparities in health and disease have long been ignored. Evidence for clinically meaningful differences between men and women across all areas of health and disease is now being universally recognised and addressed. A systematic evaluation of such differences would improve the understanding of diseases as well as inform health practitioners and policymakers in optimising preventive strategies to reduce the burden of disease more efficiently in both men and women. A systematic approach to the sex-disaggregated collection, analyses and dissemination of healthcare data as well as sex-disaggregated implementation are needed. A strategy to ensure that women (and men) receive the best available healthcare needs to be developed, evaluated and implemented.The main objectives of each round of the NFHS have been to provide reliable data on health and family welfare, examine the progress that the health sector has made over time and provide evidence for the effectiveness of the ongoing programmes. It has certainly succeeded in achieving these objectives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/gender-disparities-in-health-ignored-for-long-344885
01-12-2021||Science Commentator||New variant at the door||THE world has gone into a tizzy ever since the discovery of a new variant of the coronavirus last week. The first case of B.1.1.529 was confirmed from a sample collected on November 9 in South Africa at a time when the country was already grappling with a peak caused by the Delta variant. The new variant was reported to the WHO on November 24. The world body convened the ‘Technical Advisory Group on SARS-CoV-2 Virus Evolution’ on November 26. It is an independent group of experts tasked with monitoring the evolution of the virus and assessing its specific mutations and combination of mutations. Based on available evidence and data, such as the presence of a large number of mutations and detection of cases from almost all provinces of South Africa, the group categorised the new variant as a ‘variant of concern’, calling it Omicron. The quick decision of the group triggered global panic, turmoil in stock exchanges and a spate of travel bans and advisories.Uncertainties connected with Omicron pose a serious challenge for countries, health systems and the public. The speed with which health agencies reported the detection of a new variant and the WHO committee assessed data and evidence shows the robustness of the system. The new variant came to notice using the commonly used PCR diagnostics test when several labs indicated that they found one of the three target genes missing in the positive samples. It was then confirmed with genome sequencing which revealed mutations on its spike protein. The scientific data was assessed by the WHO expert group which incidentally is chaired by an Indian scientist, Professor Anurag Agrawal, who is director of the New Delhi-based CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. Though the group considered the overall risk related to Omicron ‘very high’ because of potential of ‘immune escape and higher transmissibility’, it cautioned that its assessment contained ‘considerable uncertainty’.The uncertainties are many. The first is about transmissibility. Its genetic structure indicates that it can be more transmissible than Delta, but there is no certainty because the number of cases is still very low. The genomic data also suggests that Omicron can potentially escape the immune system, meaning it can infect already vaccinated persons. Here again, there is uncertainty because different vaccines provide immunity in different ways. Some scientists have opined that vaccines based on the inactivated virus may still provide immunity because they trigger a wider immune response than that afforded by mRNA vaccines. These are still intelligent guesses, in the absence of evidence. Studies will have to be conducted with Omicron.South Africa has detected Omicron first, but it does not mean that it is not already circulating in other countries where it may have remained undetected. The biggest uncertainty is about the disease Omicron can cause. Will it cause milder symptoms that may not warrant hospitalisation and oxygen support? Can Omicron change the course of the pandemic itself? We know a lot about Omicron but there is a lot more that we don’t know about its epidemiology, severity, immune response, antibody neutralisation and so on.That is why uncertainties connected with Omicron pose a serious challenge for countries, national health systems and the public. The WHO has advised countries to be vigilant and focus on surveillance and genome sequencing to get a better handle of circulating variants, and share the data with the scientific community. They also have to look for clusters of cases, take up studies and field investigations and so on. The agency has not suggested any travel restriction or other such measures as yet, but many countries are already restricting travel to countries from where initial few cases have been reported. The vigil has been hiked at entry points for international travellers, ironically at a time when many countries are opening to such travel. Such restrictions can have a spiralling effect on the economy, specifically sectors like aviation, hospitality and tourism which have been hit hard in the past two years. Because the Delta variant caught India by surprise, we need to be vigilant about any new variant. All steps need to be taken to ensure that the health system is prepared for any potential surge in cases and to see that all essential health services are also maintained. Any harsh measures such as lockdowns and travel bans should be guided by evidence and not taken under panic.At the individual level, the best way to deal with the uncertainty is to focus on measures that reduce or minimise the risk of Covid-19, like wearing masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing. Other steps like improving the ventilation of indoor spaces and avoiding crowded spaces can also reduce the risk. In the past few months, complacency had set in and people are either not wearing masks or wearing them incorrectly. Large social, religious and political gatherings are being held everywhere with no social distancing. With the upcoming elections in some states, it will be challenging for the election authorities to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour.Omicron has also exposed gaps in vaccination, despite the availability of a suite of vaccines. Many countries in Africa are yet to vaccinate their populations, while booster shots are being administered in some rich countries. The virus will continue to circulate, and mutate in the process, in areas with inadequate vaccine coverage. The world is not going to be safe till everyone is protected. Therefore, vaccination in countries and regions with very low coverage should be a global priority. It is the responsibility of the international community to ensure equitable distribution of vaccine doses. Developed countries, in Europe, where anti-vaccine movements are active, should also take proactive measures to counter such opposition. In India, the effort should be to reach the unvaccinated and to fully vaccinate those who have had only the first shot. Omicron is one more reminder that the pandemic is not yet over and has not even taken a pause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/new-variant-at-the-door-344887
