02-12-2021||---||Jadhav’s fate hangs in balance as justice denied||The recent passage of the International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill by a joint sitting of the two Houses of the Pakistan Parliament prima facie seeks to comply with the emphatic requirements of the ICJ judgment of July 17, 2019. It shows the majesty of international law to nudge the behaviour of a state, though it took two years first to issue an ordinance and now to adopt a Bill in November. It has been rejected by India. It has essentially sought an approval of the Presidential Ordinance (VI) originally published in the Pakistan Gazette on May 29, 2020.The ICJ in a 15-to-1 verdict had affixed Pakistan’s “internationally wrongful acts of a continuing character” for a breach of its obligations under Article 36 paragraphs 1 (a), (b) and (c) of the Vienna Convention, (i) by not informing Jadhav of his rights (ii) by not informing India, without delay, of the arrest and detention of Jadhav; and (iii) by denying access to Jadhav by consular officers of India. Calling it ‘egregious violations’, the court required Pakistan for an ‘effective review and reconsideration’ of Jadhav’s conviction and sentences.India’s recourse to the ICJ on May 8, 2017, was an unprecedented legal step when the bilateral ties had reached the nadir. Ironically, for Pakistan, the playing of the Jadhav card has proved a costly gamble as the court found jurisdiction under Article 1 of the Optional Protocol to the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR).Arraigning a state for a compulsory dispute settlement before the ICJ still remains a rarity. India took the astute route of a special treaty-based right instead of Article 36 of the ICJ Statute.The contents of the 2021 Bill are not Jadhav-specific as they enable any of the Pakistan’s high courts ‘to review and reconsider’ an order issued by the ICJ in the matter of any foreign national. However, the objects and reasons of the Bill reveal the real purpose “in the matter of detention and trial of an Indian national, Commander Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav”, who had been sentenced to death in April 2017 by the Pakistani Military Court.It seems, in a panic reaction to possible Indian recourse to the ICJ for giving effect to its 2019 order, the drafters of the Bill have unwittingly coloured it with subjectivity since it states that Jadhav “was a RAW operative, who facilitated numerous acts of terrorism in Pakistan, which resulted in the killings of countless innocent citizens of Pakistan.” Here, the legislation that purportedly sought to provide an ‘effective’ remedy for ‘review and reconsideration’ itself imputes motives to the accused and pre-judges the issues by charging him with espionage, acts of terror and killings of people.Thus, the legislative route chosen by Pakistan itself has inherently vitiated the basic purpose to provide an “effective” review and reconsideration. Can a high court ignore the explicit accusations contained in the objects and purpose of the Bill? In the face of such explosive claims, how can a high court review and reconsider the death sentence already imposed by the Pakistan military court?As a corollary, the criteria of ‘respect for the principles of fair trial’ as essential for the review and reconsideration to be ‘effective’ as well as “potential prejudice and implications for evidence and the rights of defence of the accused” stand flagrantly violated.Thus, in letter and spirit, the 2021 Bill negates the very remedy, relief and trust reposed by the ICJ in the matter. There has been a consistent denial of unimpeded consular access to Jadhav, as was borne out by the Indian officials’ walkout from a meeting with Jadhav on July 16, 2020, in a breach of all Pakistani assurances.In the hearings, when the Pakistan counsel made vociferous contentions on the charge of espionage, the court observed that Article 36 of the Vienna Convention does not contain any such caveat to deny consular access. The ICJ had clearly held that the Vienna Convention was applicable in the Jadhav case instead of the 2008 India-Pakistan Agreement on Consular Access. It was registered by Pakistan only on May 17, 2017 after India filed the case. The ICJ took the view that “there is nothing in the language of the 2008 Agreement which would suggest that India or Pakistan ever intended to derogate from Article 36 of the Vienna Convention.”Ironically, the Indian side merely sought consular access as, ostensibly, the case was premised on egregious violations of Article 36 of the 1963 Vienna Convention. In international legal parlance, once the primary contention was proved and Pakistan held responsible for treaty violations, the logical remedy ought to have been the annulment of Jadhav’s conviction and his immediate release and safe passage to India. The ICJ was expected to uphold the right of a sovereign state to provide consular access to a citizen, irrespective of the charges. In turn, as a form of reparation, Pakistan should have been asked to restore status quo ante by an unconditional release of Jadhav.Notwithstanding the court’s jurisdiction based on Article I of the Optional Protocol to the Vienna Convention, it ought to have tapped its inherent powers under the Statute to ensure justice by upholding fundamental human rights of the accused. The court did reaffirm a rule laid down in a 1928 case that “it is a principle of international law… that any breach of an engagement involves an obligation to make reparation” and that “reparation must, as far as possible, wipe out all the consequences of the illegal act.”Due to ‘egregious violations’, the denial of effective local remedy, such as a fair trial, and apparent systemic bias, the ICJ needed to depart from the Avena case (Mexican national) to consider the conviction of Jadhav by a military court as sufficient to order the release and repatriation of Jadhav. Any remedy or appropriate reparation offered need to be construed in the totality of the circumstances that remain hostile to the accused and his state of nationality (India) and, hence, are futile.In fact, the ICJ’s construct of the ‘choice of means’, including enacting an ‘appropriate legislation’ so as to “take all measures to provide for effective review and reconsideration”, has remained on paper after 28 months. It has accrued no fair treatment to Jadhav, as mandated by the ICJ. His fate hangs in the balance due to the inordinate delay and a grave denial of justice.In view of the above, India has been left with no option but to move the ICJ to seek relief on the ground of continuation of ‘egregious violations’ of consular access, denial of basic human rights of the accused and lack of any possibility of fair treatment.The court can take proprio motu notice of this and order Jadhav’s release forthwith. Any lesser view would be a travesty of justice, undermine the trust in the majesty of the court and render international law ineffective. Jadhav’s case is a litmus test of an opportunity for Pakistan to thaw bilateral relations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/jadhavs-fate-hangs-in-balance-as-justice-denied-345266
02-12-2021||---||Feed the children, raise income security||The national family health survey gives a rounded picture of the state of the nation’s health. The fifth and the latest one, recently released, captures the details as they prevailed during 2019-21. Importantly, the field work for the survey has been conducted in two phases — June 2019 to January 2020 and then from January 2020 to April 2021.This means that the critical changes that took place in the health of the nation as a result of the Covid pandemic have been only partly captured in the second phase. Plus, there are always data issues in such large surveys, covering over eight lakh people from over six lakh households, many of whose responses have been accessed even as the pandemic has been on. Keeping these caveats in mind, the survey results can be examined for the insights they contain.From the insights, various policy issues will emerge which call for action. As different aspects of health influence one another, the policy imperatives that appear on the radar can likely be combined into an overall policy stance. This can help us answer the question: what should be the contours of health and economic policies so as to keep strengthening the nation’s health?The foremost finding is that for the first time, the national fertility rate (the number of children that a woman can bear in her lifetime) has gone down to 2.0, which is below the replacement rate of 2.1 at which a headcount plateaus. This is unlikely to be a flash in the pan as the rate has been steadily falling along almost a straight line from 5.6 in 1970. As at the current rate, the national headcount will actually be falling, the whole idea of having a family planning programme whose aim is to bring down the rate of growth of population and which India has pursued for over half a century needs to be re-examined.Over time, India could well emerge in the company of countries like Japan, South Korea, and most recently, China which have to reckon with the consequences of a dwindling, and therefore, aging population. If that be so, then what happens to the demographic dividend which emerges when a young nation’s working age population keeps growing, as opposed to the dependents, like the very young and the aged, and enabling a more rapid rise in income? So, is India’s good fortune of foreseeing a demographic dividend coming its way disappearing even before it fully arrives?But before we jettison the family planning programme, we have to remember that the national figure is an aggregate, containing states whose fertility rates are above as well as below the national average. So, India cannot have a uniform policy, which a smaller and more homogeneous country can live by. Bihar (3) and UP (2.4) with high fertility rates will definitely need to continue with the family planning programme as opposed to West Bengal (1.6) and Kerala (1.8) which may have to ponder over whether they need to take steps to give a push to the total number of babies that arrive in a year.And if these states also have large numbers of skilled and unskilled workers migrating out, then what are the implications of becoming a remittance economy? When something like a pandemic hits, the workers may have to return home and the remittances can dry up, causing a more debilitating economic impact than would otherwise have been the case.This apart, the national picture that emerges from the latest survey is positive in many ways. The sex ratio has improved from 991 (females per 1,000 males) in 2015-16 (the previous survey) to 1,020 in the latest (2019-21), indicating that the social attitudes of preferring boys may be changing. The infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births) has improved, that is, it has gone down from 40.7 to 35.2; more people are practising family planning (from 53.5 per cent to 66.7 per cent); and institutional births indicating access to proper healthcare have risen from 52.1 per cent to 61.9 per cent.When it comes to children, the picture is almost dismal. The proportion of anaemic children has gone up (from 58.6 per cent to 67.1 per cent). This is not surprising as only an abysmally low 11.3 per cent get an adequate diet. So, public policies to deliver nutritional aid to children have not just to continue but also expand.The status of women presents a mixed picture. The proportion of women who have their own bank accounts which they themselves operate has gone up sharply from 53 per cent to 78.6 per cent, and it is likely the impact of the Jan Dhan Yojana. There is also good news, though not as dramatic as with bank accounts, on the proportion of women with mobile phones which they themselves use going up from 45.9 per cent to 54 per cent.But the proportion of women who worked in the last 12 months and were paid in cash has gone up just marginally from 24.6 per cent to 25.4 per cent. Since this figure is from the second phase of the survey which overlaps with the lockdown that rendered a lot of poor people jobless, the employment guarantee programme should have been able to make a larger impact and have delivered cash wages to more poor women who were without work.Even as India’s poor struggle, a small section shows signs of adequate income, giving rise to an unhealthy lifestyle. The proportion of men and women who are obese has gone up from around 20 per cent to 24 per cent.The overall policy prescription that emerges from this data is that public expenditure on healthcare and generating employment among the poor should increase even as family planning should continue to be promoted selectively. As incomes rise and the poor feel more secure, they will on their own decide to have fewer children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/feed-the-children-raise-income-security-345264
02-12-2021||---||Eternal city, new ambitions||I recently returned to Varanasi after several years to spend a weekend at a festival celebrating the incredible legacy of one of India’s greatest poets, philosophers and humanists, Sant Kabir Das. Through folk and classical music, recitations and lectures, the festival revived the enduring message of love that transcends the confines of human relationships and speaks of a common humanity, celebrating it in all forms, colours and flavours. Kabir has stringent, even searing, verses that deflate pomp and ceremony associated with wealth and power, reminding us that it is dust that we came from and to dust we shall return. There is sharp sarcasm in some of his verses mocking the delusions that permeate our lives. There is also a deep sense of piety and devotion which draws from a sense of wonder at the very fact that we exist, that we think and that we love. For Kabir, the miracle of life validates faith in God, whatever be His name.Varanasi is a city where one is never very far from the lived symbols of the ancient Hindu faith, yet we rarely come across ugly assertions of its narrowest of narrow identities.Perhaps it is not coincidental that Kabir lived his entire life in a city that was already ancient in his time, on the banks of a river hallowed by the faith and devotion of countless generations and whose narrow lanes, temples and masjids, ruins of palaces and gaudy dwellings of its newly rich, all became woven into its rich tapestry. He wrote in the language of the city, a lyrical medley of Bhojpuri, Awadhi and Poorvi, which continues to charm the visitor. Reliving Kabir’s legacy took me very far away from the deeply contested and often fierce communal politics which dominates the discourse in our capital. Strange that Varanasi is a city where one is never very far from the lived symbols of the ancient Hindu faith, yet we rarely come across the ugly assertions of its narrowest of narrow identities. But the poison is beginning to seep in and that is worrying.In the 1960s, I spent a couple of months living in Benares as it was then known, with a widower uncle who after retirement was doing his Kashi bas, or living out the remaining years of his life in the holy city. He had a daily morning routine of a walk to the sacred Dashashwamedh Ghat to take a dip in the holy river. This would be followed by a walk through the city’s narrow lanes to the Vishwanath temple, to make an offering, say a prayer and do a pradakshina or a walk round the temple before heading to the celebrated Kachoriwali Gali or the lane full of halwai or sweetmeat shops where one could enjoy a delicious breakfast of freshly made puris, a vegetable curry, topped by syrupy jalebis and rabri. This became my daily routine, too, gently persuaded as I was by my uncle. The breakfast was the part that I waited for even while going through the daily ritual of bathing in the river and praying at the temple. People still take a dip in the Ganga, but it is now heavily polluted despite the ministrations of the Namami Gange river-cleaning project. All those memories came flooding back as I walked the streets of a city more congested, more densely populated and more over-built than it was 50 years ago. And yet it retains that hard-to-describe air of serenity that sits as a layer over the chaos below.Perhaps the generations of pious pilgrims and devotees that come to the city and those who dwell in its sanctified lanes have created an ambience of congealed piety that permeates the city. It is the same feeling one gets while doing the parikrama of Mount Kailash, retracing the steps of millions of pilgrims that have for countless generations traversed the ancient route for an encounter with the divine. Mount Kailash already has a place in the ancient Hindu scriptures, the Puranas. A spiritually receptive pilgrim soon connects with the devotional charge left behind by his predecessors. Varanasi, too, has that charge.That sense of connecting with something transcendental evaporated on my visit to the Kashi Vishwanath temple. The place has become a huge construction site. Instead of the maze of narrow lanes radiating from the temple, there is now a huge temple courtyard, lined with newly built covered corridors on its four sides. A massive arched gate is being built with a wide flight of steps leading into the courtyard. It will open out on a wide boulevard rising from one of the ghats and leading to it in a straight line. Lord Shiva has now been ‘imprisoned’ in monumental stone just as Lord Rama has been in Ayodhya. Perhaps many of my fellow citizens may see this redevelopment as befitting our ancient faith, of breaking out of the confines that they believe have been imposed by the so-called Abrahamic faiths. I see this as diminishing the very wellsprings of faith which have made Varanasi the special city that it is. One should be gentle with history. One should be respectful of legacy left behind by generations past. And though discouraged by what I witnessed around the Vishwanath temple, my encounter with a new generation of young musicians, poets and story-tellers who celebrated the message of Kabir and conveyed a message of common humanity that we so desperately need today, left me hopeful. We need faith in the many ways we imagine God, but recall what Kabir said: “Quit looking for Me here and there, I am always next to you.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/eternal-city-new-ambitions-345262
