03-12-2021||---||Untraced PoWs remain a tale of neglect, apathy||When you go homeTell them of us, and sayFor your tomorrow,We gave our today.— Patrick O’DonnellIndia’s 54 missing Prisoners of War (PoWs) from the 1965 and 1971 wars with Pakistan depict a pathetic story of poignant family travails and national shame. Our stand on 54 bravehearts being left stranded in various Pakistani jails has been stonewalled by that country diplomatically over time. MEA records show that during a meeting of the Foreign Secretaries at Murree in May 1984, Pakistan did admit that it had some “security prisoners” (euphemism for PoWs), with names akin to those of our missing soldiers.Prisoners of War are governed by the Geneva Convention of 1949. It is possible that around 18 Pak PoWs were in Indian custody after the wars. Should that be true, it is not clear if they were part of the 93,000 PoWs captured after the 1971 war and since repatriated to Pakistan after the Simla Agreement of 1972. Suffice to say that there was a clear bilateral snafu in dealing with some unfortunate PoWs on both sides. Indian government rules stipulate seven years as the time span beyond which a missing PoW is deemed killed and his family compensated monetarily. Repeatedly, our government has maintained that nothing beyond meaningless bilateral parleys can be tried in this regard, perhaps for fear of third party intervention on the vexed Kashmir issue, more so after the 1971 war.The Shimla Agreement cemented bilateralism as the means of dispute resolution. Also, our worthy diplomatic community, groomed in a culture of punching the adversary at the slightest provocation, was chary about being seen to be giving any quarter to Pakistan. The matter thus rested in limbo, while the families concerned bore the brunt of the uncertain fate of their loved ones.First, we had the well-known story of Major AK Suri, the Quarter Master of 5 Assam Regiment, whose parents had reasons to believe their son was alive in Pakistan, thanks to inputs from some of his friends and his battered trunk somehow finding its way back to the Suri household.Then there is the case of Flight Lieutenant Tambe, whose wife Damayanti (a national badminton champion) got several inputs about her husband being alive across the border, including from a Bangladeshi (erstwhile Pakistani) Naval Officer who claimed to have met him at a PoW camp. Damayanti refused to take compensation from the government even after seven years elapsed. She was one of those who, under a Musharraf era arrangement, travelled to Kot Lakhpat near Lahore to look for her husband. When I went to Islamabad as the Indian Air Adviser in December 2000, I sensed that there was a sincere feeling amongst all concerned to get a closure on the vexed issue. The same was also conveyed by Sushma Swaraj, our external affairs minister at that time, on her visit to the Mission.I had been following the PoW issue since long. Two pilots, Flying Officers Muralidharan of 20 Squadron and Sudhir Tyagi of 27 Hunter Squadron (Flaming Arrows), were part of the PoW list and Suri’s folks had likewise got inputs regarding him being alive in a Pakistani jail.British writer Victoria Schofield, in her book Bhutto: Trial and Execution, had mentioned about Bhutto complaining to her about the Kot Lakhpat Jail authorities (near Lahore) torturing him mentally through some eerily inhuman cries coming from beyond a wall outside his cell window. She found on investigation that these were indeed those of some mentally deranged Indian PoWs from the 1971 war. I wrote to Schofield to ascertain her version, but sadly got no reply.Wishing to get some authentic inputs on the matter, I then visited Group Captain Cecil Choudhary (retd), a PAF 1971 war hero, at Lahore. He was then the president of the Christian Association and running a school, whilst being active in the country’s Human Rights Forum. Cecil was well-known to several of my IAF colleagues from their deputational tenures at Tikrit in Iraq. Cecil didn’t believe that the PAF had any use for Indian PoWs of that vintage, as their intelligence value was limited. I realised that he must have been suitably briefed by the ISI before meeting me and though he was courteous during the meeting, clearly he had his limitations as a minority citizen of an Islamist nation.My association with the PoW issue did not end there. In 2011, I got a call from a young movie producer from the erstwhile Cochin royal family, named Rama. We met at Kochi and I told her what I knew of the PoW story. Her interest was in my namesake, Flying Officer Muralidharan of 20 Squadron, whose family had approached her to take up a case for national recognition for the officer.The story of the missing PoWs leaves a bitter taste in the mouth for a veteran like me. We need to take a leaf out of the culture of Air Forces such as the USAF, which does not believe in “leaving anyone behind”.In 2016, after 76 long years of them going missing on the ‘Hump’ from China to India in a B-24, two American airmen’s remains were retrieved from the jungles of Arunachal Pradesh and taken to Hawaii for DNA testing, to be given burial with full state honours back in their homeland later. The Indian government has been utterly indifferent and lax in its attempts to get their bravehearts back from enemy jails. Not only is the PoW story a poor indicator of our spirit of nationalism, it smacks of crass neglect of the human rights of the officers concerned and their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/untraced-pows-remain-a-tale-of-neglect-apathy-345712
03-12-2021||---||TMC’s high-risk strategy may benefit the BJP||For the past few months, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is on a recruitment drive, inducting former MPs and MLAs from different political parties, especially the Congress. This involves poaching of legislators from the Congress in small states such as Goa, Tripura and Meghalaya and recruiting small players in the big states. This might have initially come as a surprise since the West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was until recently a strong proponent of Opposition unity to strengthen the fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the 2024 Lok Sabha election. In January 2019, she had assembled leaders of 23 Opposition parties in Kolkata, where they pledged to defeat the BJP. But after her spectacular victory in the assembly elections earlier this year, she is eager to further her own claims as the potential leader of the Opposition coalition and not necessarily furthering the cause of Opposition unity. She is keen on dislodging the Congress from its perch as the leader of the Opposition.To achieve this goal, the TMC has launched a strident campaign to discredit the Congress which it now regards as its principal adversary. Its leaders have been loudly contending that the Congress is a poor challenger to the BJP and it is ready to tackle the BJP more aggressively than the Congress. Rahul Gandhi has been dubbed as a failure in the fight against the BJP since he lost his seat in Amethi. But irrespective of the declining fortunes of the Congress, the BJP continues to train its guns on the Congress and Rahul Gandhi. It relentlessly attacks the Congress, which it sees as the principal danger, and not regional parties or the TMC. It has not deviated from the goal of Congress-mukt Bharat since 2013 when Narendra Modi was anointed as the party’s prime ministerial candidate and announced the explicit objective of a ‘Congress-free India’. The TMC is continuing the task that the BJP set out to do after 2014 — eliminating the Congress.The TMC’s expansion plans beyond West Bengal is perfectly legitimate as the party has every right to contest in every state but the strategy it has adopted for this is competitive politics in the Opposition. The expansion spree is not based on the natural growth of the party but on defections of disgruntled leaders from other parties. The issue is not the right to contest elections but the defection-driven model of party-building outside West Bengal. There is a political pushback against this model of expansion after the drubbing the TMC suffered at the hands of the BJP in the recently concluded Tripura civic body despite serious doubts about the fairness of these polls.This frantic expansion activity benefits the BJP because the TMC is entering states where it is directly challenging the Congress first rather than taking on the BJP. Right now, it is keener on splitting the anti-BJP vote rather than unifying the Opposition which would give an advantage to the BJP in states in which the main contest is between the BJP and Congress. Also it is worth noting that the TMC has been trying to make inroads outside Bengal for several years but without much success.This will be more difficult now as Opposition parties have to confront the changing dynamics of inter-party competition with different implications and greater need for the Opposition’s cohesion. The TMC’s effort to establish its primacy in the Opposition has thrown a spanner in the gruelling process of building a united opposition front. Opposition unity to fight the BJP seems to have become harder. The TMC skipped the meeting of Opposition parties called by the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge ahead of the Parliament’s winter session in the backdrop of the party’s ambitions to become the principal opposition force nationally. But keeping away from the Opposition meetings or the decision not to sign the joint statement issued by Opposition parties, to protest the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, two of whom belonged to the TMC, will not give the TMC a bigger voice. Actually, its arbitrary actions are a self-negating proposition — a sign that the party is not quite up to the task of leading the Opposition.Even as Mamata Banerjee aims to occupy the Congress space, it will not be easy for her party to become electorally viable in states where it has no social base or party organisation. Barring a few leaders, none of the new entrants carry much political weight in their respective states; most of them lack local ground support and will be unable to help in the expansion of the TMC in Haryana, Bihar or Uttar Pradesh. Its seat share will not increase significantly in 2024 unless it can win seats in these and other Hindi speaking states or the non-Hindi speaking states of southern and western India where it will find itself pitted against regional parties. Even if the TMC wins a larger number of Lok Sabha seats in 2024, its claim to be recognised as the principal Opposition party will not have the desired credibility for the simple reason that the Congress has a much larger national footprint and vote share, and the party is not about to disappear despite the expectations of the media.Opposition parties face the challenge of competing on an electoral playing field that is structurally skewed in favour of the BJP. It is an established fact that authoritarian and autocratic leaders employ a range of tactics aimed at reducing the Opposition’s visibility, raising costs of electoral contestation, and restricting the access to necessary resources, quite apart from an all-out effort to discourage and deter unity. The question in these circumstances is how Opposition parties will be able to take on the ruling party. The ability of Opposition parties to cooperate and form coalitions is a key determinant of their success. In India, things are going in the opposite direction presently. Eventually, Opposition parties will have to join hands as a divided Opposition will benefit the ruling party, making it easier for it to return to power in 2024.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tmcs-high-risk-strategy-may-benefit-the-bjp-345711
03-12-2021||A few days before Parliament was to convene||Another hurried Ordinance||Empowered by the last-minute Ordinance, the Central government did what it wanted to do — give Mishra, the IRS officer occupying the exalted chair of ED Director — a year’s extension in service, beyond the two he had already availed of.Political bosses, armed with the power of appointments and transfers, can play havoc with the careers of senior officers who do not toe their line.The two-year limit had been mandated by the Supreme Court in its Prakash Singh judgment, based on the recommendations of the National Police Commission. The purport of the recommendation was to prescribe a fixed tenure for high office when changes cannot be made by the appointing authority, thus enabling the incumbent to do his professional duty without fear or favour. The Director did not have to look over his shoulder at his political boss, which most officers today do out of compulsion.The political bosses, armed with the power of appointments and transfers, can play havoc with the careers of senior officers who do not toe their political line. If then, the Director was assured of a fixed tenure, he or she could successfully disregard illegal or irregular requests emanating from politicians otherwise capable of removing the officer from that position.There is no problem in prescribing a five-year, instead of a two-year tenure, to incumbents of high office, if it is applicable to all appointees from the inception of their tenures. Of course, it would close the door for other deserving, albeit junior, candidates in the service who are eagerly awaiting their turn in the sun! That would not be fair to them. But that is quite a different principle involved and a different consideration altogether. Leaving it to the political class to decide further extensions on a yearly basis, till five years end, is a negation of the very principle on which the two-year tenure was proposed by the National Police Commission and upheld by the Supreme Court.Take the case of Subodh Jaiswal, the present CBI Director. As an honoured member of the IPS cadre of Maharashtra, his reputation for justice and fair play is known to his colleagues, and also those from among the public who have dealt with him officially. He is known as a man who cannot be purchased. I do not expect such a person to succumb to the temptation of continuing in high office by selling his soul. I would be surprised and very disappointed if that happened. But not all officers are made in the same mould. Human frailties can be exploited by unscrupulous operators. There are myriad ways in which this can be manoeuvred. Those who resist are Trojans, true warriors.SE Joshi, a batch senior to me in service, rose to be the RAW chief. On completing 58 years (the prescribed retirement age in those days), he was requested by the government of the day to continue. He declined. The reason he gave was that it was unfair to his junior colleagues who were awaiting their turn to step into his shoes. I knew Joshi personally. He belonged to a different breed of officials who kept the good of the service and its interests above their own. They do not make too many such officers anymore, and that is a pity.A bigger pity is that the system, as it works today, encourages the wrong type of buccaneering officers who worm their way into the open arms of waiting politicians and then indulge in the ungainly sight of men scratching each other’s backs! A prime example of this buccaneering is what is happening in Maharashtra, with a former Police Commissioner wanted in several cases of extortion disappearing from view till he was declared an ‘absconder’ by the courts and a threat to the confiscation of his sizeable properties loomed.It appeared incongruous to me that a party which came to power on the plank of fighting corruption, and, of course, the accompanying promise of development, should so blatantly circumvent the stated intent of the highest court of law in India to ward off political involvement in the dispensation of justice. You may be an active supporter of the party in power, but that does not give you the freedom to contravene the law. The opposite premise is also valid. You cannot become a law-breaker merely by opposing or criticising the party in power. In any event, the truth is not negotiable. No one should interfere in the investigation of crimes, except the departmental supervisors, and, later, the courts of law which adjudicate.The Ordinance introducing the new powers given to the government to have its own way in the investigation of sensitive cases with a political flavour has already been challenged in the court.The government says it will introduce an Act in Parliament to see it through. It will attempt to propel the legislation through both Houses without discussion, as it has done in the case of the three now-repealed farm laws.This will be a travesty of justice and fair play. For how much longer will such tactics succeed? It will shift debates from Parliament to the streets. And this will not be a happy ending to parliamentary democracy as we know it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/another-hurried-ordinance-345710
