04-12-2021||---||Regional stability makes Japan review self-defence||At his first troop review on November 28, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said the security situation around Japan had rapidly changed with North Korea test-firing missiles with advanced capabilities and China pursuing a military build-up and increasingly assertive activity in the region. He vowed to create a stronger Self- Defence Force (SDF) and consider all options, including acquisition of “enemy base strike capability”. Japanese Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi has spoken recently on the need for a US-Japanese plan in case of a Chinese aggression against Taiwan.These statements mark a considerable shift in Japan’s stance considering that the former Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga, after his meeting with President Biden in April 2021, had stated categorically “there was no possibility of the Japanese forces being committed to any military contingency surrounding Taiwan.”There are several reasons for this dramatic change in Japan’s position. First, the escalation of missile race in its neighbourhood with South Korea testing its first submarine-launched ballistic missile, North Korea testing advanced long and short-range missiles and most importantly, China testing a nuclear capable hypersonic missile (which can’t be intercepted by the present anti-ballistic missile shield).Second, there has been sharp expansion in joint military activities by China and Russia near the Japanese waters and air space. Recently, two Chinese H-6 and two Russian Tu-95 bombers flew from the Sea of Japan to the East China Sea, triggering the Japanese SDF to scramble its fighter jets. Similarly, a joint task force comprising five Chinese destroyers, frigates and five Russian destroyers and missile tracking ships passed through the Tsugaru Strait, separating the Japanese island of Honshu from Hokkaido.The Chinese coast guard boats made 333 incursions in the Japanese territorial waters off the Senkaku islands in East China Sea in 2020. China has now authorised its naval vessels to fire on the foreign vessels to deter them in the disputed territories.Third, US President Biden recently asked Japanese PM Kishida to increase its defence expenditure. Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi has stated that the “US was no longer in a position to underwrite the Pacific security in the way it had done since World War II” and Japan had to assert itself militarily to fill the void due to America’s decline.Even before his election, PM Kishida had underscored the challenge that China posed to Japan’s security and said that he would support doubling the share of Japan’s military spending (which was less than 1% of GDP) to increase its offensive capabilities. On November 26, he announced an additional defence spending of $6.7 billion, expanding the total defence budget for 2021 to $53 billion. Additional sums would be used to buy advanced Patriot missile defence system, surface-to-air missiles, maritime patrol aircraft, mines, torpedoes and multi-role helicopters.Japan aims to scale up its capabilities in the outer space, electronic warfare, cyberspace and other emerging technologies to counter China’s military modernisation.Recognising that its security imperatives are now twined with regional stability, Japan is playing an active role in building the defence capabilities of countries in South East Asia and India. It has signed defence cooperation and technology transfer agreements with Vietnam, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, India and Australia. Strengthening Japan’s domestic military industry and diversifying its defence partners are also on the government’s agenda.In its 2021 Annual White Paper on Defence, Japan has described “Taiwan as important for Japan’s security and stability of the international community” and cross strait tensions as requiring a “sense of crisis”. China’s control of Taiwan would augment its economic, technological and military prowess and bring its forces within 100 km of the Japanese territory and threaten key maritime trade routes, which supply Japan with oil and other goods. Former Japanese PM Shinzo Abe, who still has considerable influence within the ruling party, recently stated that Japan and the US could not stand by if China attacked Taiwan and Beijing needs to understand this.While Japan’s official and legal policies toward Taiwan have not changed, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party launched party-to-party talks with Taiwan’s Democratic Progressive Party in August, 2021. The hardening of Japan’s position on China and its support of Taiwanis is causing deep resentment in Beijing; the latter is accusing Japan of using the Taiwan issue to break its pacifist Constitution and assisting her in manufacturing stealth submarines. The Chinese officials have said that they would not allow Japan to earn huge profits from its market and threaten its national security and sovereignty at the same time, a contention they are observing only in breach with respect to India and other neighbouring countries.The hardening of Japan’s attitude towards China is evident in the perceptions of the Japanese people too. The recent opinion polls by a Japanese think tank, Genron NPO, Nikkei and TV Tokyo reveal that a large majority of respondents had negative impression of China and favoured active Japanese engagement “towards stability in the Taiwan Strait”. With the Japanese public getting increasingly sceptical of China in view of its accelerating military provocations, the hardline stance is likely to grow in influence.Former PM Shinzo Abe had expanded the definition of Article 9 of Japan’s Constitution to include “collective self-defence of partners”; this could provide justification for Japan’s military actions to defend partner countries if public opinion and strategists supported such a move.Together with hardening of anti-China sentiments in the UK, Australia, India and Germany, Japan’s moves could be of great support to Washington as it supports the biggest US military base with about 50,000 military personnel. These countries could add decisive new capabilities to counter China’s rapid build-up of naval ships, submarines, strategic bombers, missiles, space, electronic warfare and emerging technologies. If China knows that the strategic balance is clearly in favour of the USA and its allies, it would not attempt a military capture of Taiwan or other disputed territories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/regional-stability-makes-japan-review-self-defence-346056
04-12-2021||---||Battle of Sehjra that secured Harike Barrage||In the 1971 war, India’s main effort was in the east, to inflict a crushing defeat on the Pakistan army in East Pakistan. In the west, the Indian military adopted a stance of aggressive defence — maintain the integrity of Indian territory and seize tactically important areas to improve our defence position.The primary mission of our 48 Infantry Brigade was to defend the politically sensitive border town of Khem Karan in Punjab and deny Pakistan any ingress into our sector. Our secondary mission was to capture Pakistan’s Sehjra Enclave to remove the threat to the vital Harike Barrage, barely 20 miles to the east.In November, sarpanches of Khem Karan block lamented that in every conflict, they had faced death and destruction of their homes and hearth. We assured them that we would not allow the Pakistanis to grab an inch of our territory.Commander, 48 Infantry Brigade, Brig MCS Menon was a brave and battle-hardened Commander and had three highly motivated and well-trained battalions under command: 5 Dogra, 6 Mahar (Borders) and 1/5 Gorkha Rifles (Frontier Force), as well as B Squadron 3 Cavalry (Centurions) and the requisite artillery support.Pakistan’s Sehjra Enclave, encompassing an area of about 53 square kilometre, abutted Khem Karan to its south-east. Through the Enclave, Pakistan could outflank the brigade’s defences and launch an attack against the vital Harike Barrage. To remove this threat, we planned to capture Sehjra Enclave while maintaining the security of Khem Karan.Sehjra, a large village of about 1,000 houses and a population of around 8,000, sat on top of an escarpment with a dominant view all around, intertwined with crevices, bristling with bunkers and machine guns and approaches covered with minefields. The village was held by a battalion group comprising of one company each of 25 Baloch and Satluj Rangers and two Mujahid companies (Reservists), anti-tank guns, 3-inch mortars and a large number of machine guns. This group was called Romeo Force, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Jilani.The Pakistan Air Force launched the war on December 3, 1971, by attacking Indian Air Force bases. The Pakistanis shelled our positions and attacked our border outposts (BOPs). The Brigade Commander had issued a no withdrawal diktat to all posts who defended their positions resolutely and repulsed all Pakistani attacks.On December 4, we received orders to capture Sehjra Enclave. Our plan: 1/5 Gorkha Rifles, the main assault force under Lieutenant Colonel SC Gupta, would capture Sehjra complex; one company of 6 Mahar under Major Daljit Sra would establish a block south of Sehjra to prevent Pakistani reinforcements; and coinciding with the Gorkhas attack on Sehjra, one company of 9 Sikh LI would eliminate Pakistani Rangers’ posts Nagar Aminpur, Mabbuke and Doone Mabbuke. 5 Dogra under Lt Col NK Oberoi would continue to firmly hold Khem Karan area and deny enemy any ingress in their area of responsibility. Our operation would have strong artillery, tanks and air support.D-Day was December 5 and the H Hour 2355 hours. Brigadier Menon’s forward command post bunker was at Rattoke, barely 700 yards from the Pakistanis anti-tank and machine gun bunkers.On the evening of December 5, before leaving for the command post, Brigadier Menon gripped my hand as I wished him Godspeed.On the night of December 5, Col Gupta’s 1/5 GR executed a flawless infiltration by stealth march and reached south of the enemy’s Sehjra position by midnight. 6 Mahar’s Major Daljit Sra’s Block Force was also in position and so was 9 Sikh LI’s Major Chhetri with his boys.Fifteen minutes before H Hour, our artillery barrage and tank fire (from Rattoke) descended on Sehjra complex, leading the enemy to believe that our attack was being launched from the north. However, Col Gupta stunned the enemy by launching his assault from the south, taking the most important and dominating objective, the Twin Bumps, in Phase 1.This was a great beginning. Fighting through the village all night, Gupta’s gallant officers and men completed the mission by dawn. By 6 am on December 6, the entire Sehjra complex had been captured by the Gorkhas. By all accounts, this was a brilliant victory, a rare instance of one battalion capturing a strong bastion held by one enemy battalion. Colonel Jilani’s uniform and maps were recovered from one of the bunkers. He escaped in his pyjamas and thus, Pakistan’s Romeo Force ceased to existAt Mahiwala Block position, Daljit Sra’s Mahars captured many Pakistani troops withdrawing from Sehjra; those trying to evade were shot. Major Chhetri had also captured the three Pakistani posts.The fall of Sehjra Salient caused great humiliation to the Pakistanis and in revenge, they attacked the Khem Karan barrier post on the night of December 8/9. The first attack was repulsed. As the second enemy attack was building up, Radio Pakistan falsely claimed that their troops had captured Khem Karan. A heavy barrage by our artillery broke up the second enemy attack who ran back towards Kasur. On December 9, our Division Commander Major General FL Freemantle and Brig Menon visited Khem Karan town and the railway station and found that both assets were intact. Radio Pakistan’s lie was exposed.Our capture of Sehjra Salient caused jitters to the Pakistanis. On the night of December 12/13, an enemy company attacked and pushed back 6 Mahar Protective Patrol at 12r. On December 14, Col Gupta led a composite force of infantry, tanks, artillery and air and eliminated the enemy’s Delta Company 41 Baloch from 12r. At least 15 Balochis were killed and many wounded, including their company commander.In a last-gasp attempt, on the night of December 15/16, the Pakistanis moved a squadron of tanks and tried to make a run for Khem Karan defences held by 5 Dogra. Colonel Oberoi’s Dogras held firm; employing their recoilless guns and supported by the medium and heavy artillery, they foiled all enemy attempts to gain a foothold in Khem Karan area.In the 1971 war, 48 Infantry Brigade gave a bloody nose to the Pakistanis in every battle, removed the threat to Harike Barrage and established supremacy over Pakistani troops. Pakistan’s casualties were at least 70 killed, around 300 wounded and 74 prisoners of war. Large quantities of arms and ammunition were captured.The national and international media hailed 48 Brigade’s brilliant performance in the war. Peter Hazlehurst of London’s The Sunday Times praised the gallantry of our soldiers, especially lauding the Gorkhas’ ‘copybook attack by infiltration’.Brig MCS Menon earned a richly merited Ati Vishisht Seva Medal for his exemplary leadership throughout the war. There were also six Vir Chakras, six Sena Medals and 12 Mentioned-in-Despatches for the brigade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/battle-of-sehjra-that-secured-harike-barrage-346053
04-12-2021||The term reform has become a euphemism for unpopular||Reforms aren't sell-offs||What we need are reforms that would put an end to the wrong-side-driving governance of our publicly-funded institutions, not another bid to siphon off public wealth.Another equally controversial piece of legislation is slotted for Parliament’s winter session: the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, regarding the privatisation of two public sector banks. If farm reforms were only feared to be an opportunity for the backdoor entry of crony capitalists into a sector assured of profits, the stated purpose of the new banking Bill is privatisation of two banks. First of all, it is interesting to examine what amounts to public sector assets. These are people-owned assets governed by the people through their representatives with a bureaucracy of the most competent officials who have got in through the toughest of examinations.As someone who has only worked in the private sector and with tremendous faith in a system of reward and punishment, it has to be admitted a priori that the public sector often has serious deficiencies in terms of competence and integrity. Sure, there are a lot of PSU companies that are terrible service-providers and a huge drain on the taxpayer’s money. All those need to be closed down or given away free to those who want to try their hand at turning them around. So, the decision to sell off Air India to the Tatas was in the best interest of the airline, its customers and the taxpayers. After all, Air India was born of JRD’s vision and it has gone back to the best possible management that can honestly revive it.Unfortunately, handing over public sector banks to private players would be like selling Vistara to the department of Civil Aviation. Unlike other sectors, financial enterprises, be they banks or insurance companies, do not need investment — they need integrity. Banks and insurance companies are places where thrifty, mostly salaried people park their hard-earned money. All they ask for are predictable returns and if they opt for public sector banks, it is only because of the fear of the vagaries of the private operator and the hope that the government is the guarantor for their money.In a competitive banking environment where private sector banks lure customers with various offers, if a person still opts for a PSU bank, then it definitely is not in anticipation of her bank getting privatised. In this context, the government’s decision to sell off two PSU banks amounts to cheating customers who chose them. Punish bankers for lack of competence or integrity by removing them, but do not punish customers for their faith in the government. Many public sector banks are burdened with cooked books of the private banks they were forced to take over. Every private bank failure is a threat to a public sector bank as the latter has to bear the cost of the loot of the private bank promoters. After having witnessed a stream of private bank promoters and executives like Rana Kapoor getting arraigned for malfeasance and walking into jail, it is difficult to understand the logic of privatising public sector banks.In many cases, banks and insurance companies were nationalised in the first place because promoters were siphoning off the investors’ wealth. The best example is that of Ramkrishna Dalmia, who spent time in Tihar Jail for committing fraud in the Bharat Insurance Company, Bharat Bank and Punjab National Bank. Does the government have the voters’ mandate to create more Dalmias? Can the government assure the customers of these two banks that the new owners would manage them better? No, obviously.Handing over of the people’s wealth to a chosen private operator cannot be termed reform. Real reforms ought to be owner-agnostic. This government believes in lateral entry even in its bureaucracy, so what stops it from getting the best bankers in the world to turn around these two banks if they are distressed? Efficiency is not determined by ownership; it is a function of management. If the government is serious about reforms it should reform itself, starting with all offices providing services.The going rate to get a piece of property registered in Noida in the ‘double-engine growth’ state of Uttar Pradesh is nearly a lakh of rupees under the table. That is, without this amount of money some officials in certain registrar’s offices will not do what they are paid and hired to do. While the Enforcement Directorate and state vigilance bureaus hunt politicians of certain hues, men and women in government deform the already bent system completely out of shape. The property sector is one of the biggest cash cows because of its high-value transactions, but other offices are no different. When the transport department of Delhi started asking questions on driving, licence applicants who did not want to answer them were offered easier options in neighbouring states. This is not just about Uttar Pradesh; according to the Himachal Pradesh police, 43 per cent of those involved in two-wheeler accidents did not have valid licences. We now know why most drivers cruise in the overtaking lane and many in Gurgaon do the infamous ‘wrong side driving.’What India needs now are reforms that would put an end to the wrong-side-driving governance of our publicly-funded institutions, not another attempt to siphon off public wealth. The government is not mandated to hand over people’s money to any individual; rather, it was elected on the promise of chowkidari — the gate-keeping of their assets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforms-arent-sell-offs-346051
