05-12-2021||TIME was more slippery than usual in 2021. It slowed down in its moments but also galloped so fast through the months that I’m not sure where whole chunks like August||Advance notice for new year- be exceptional, strange, scary||I feel like if I don’t start paying attention to the fast-approaching threshold of the new year, I will get distracted and find myself unprepared for the crossover. It is time to begin the prep now.The turning of the year must be honoured. Not with false promises and gigantic resolutions, but with a conversation between fellow travellers. With a conversation with the self.I spent a few days on the expressways of Uttar Pradesh last week and the interlude of being between places and therefore being nowhere for sometime felt like a gift. As our car sped along on wide open roads, surrounded by rice and mustard fields on both sides, we were cocooned by the music that our daughters were curating from the backseat. They switched between Adele, Taylor Swift and Coke Studio songs. We often requested Rekha Bharadwaj, AR Rahman and Kishore Kumar.There was heartbreak, self-assertion, surrender and celebration in the themes of the songs. Something about the combination of being on the road and emotive music opens a portal to memories and connections that are otherwise dormant. I picked up my phone and began to type this column into the Notes app.Be exceptional, strange and scary. Be in touch with sadness and loss. Be broken. Be magical.I give myself permission to take time off from being practical and useful to others all the time. Having just spent two weeks with extended family, I am reminded that I do not need to water myself down to fit in. It is my role in the family to be comfortable in my skin. To show others that it is okay to care for your own needs with honesty. Accept your quirks without shame.There are some things that will not get easier for me next year. Making phone calls is one of them. I will continue to communicate via text with those who I can and through telepathy with those who I cannot text. This is very inefficient when I need to call doctors, dentists and people who I need to interview for a film I am making or an article I have committed to writing. In the minutiae of the moment, I feel dysfunctional, but from a distance, I laugh at myself. I laugh with myself.In the new year, I may break one or more pairs of spectacles. I try to be mindful towards these essential accessories, but my consciousness has its own set of priorities that I cannot predict. I apologise in advance to things I will accidentally lose or sit on. Please bear with me. Some losses are more easily repaired than others. We will learn to live with both.Don’t try to be less distracted in 2022. Follow your distractions. Except those that involve doom scrolling on your smartphone. Find that one thing that makes you forget where your phone is lying. Follow the trail. Trust your inner wisdom, even if you are unconvinced that it exists. Trust me, it does.Continue to do the one thing that is the hardest for you to do. You may not crack the code in 2022, but you will look back one day and find that things changed when you weren’t trying so hard to make them work. For me, this involves writing. It feels easy after it is done. It feels impossible before I start. I remain committed to it.Neglect other strategies you have learnt to stay in control and be gentle and patient with those who are nearest to you. This includes yourself. Give yourself the space to be inefficient. Make room for being grumpy and dissatisfied. Let others feel their feelings too. Don’t take their bad moods personally. Do not take responsibility to fix things that need more time to explore their dark phase.As I continued to type these words on the highway, my husband requested a new song on the car stereo. Our daughters searched for “Koi to Hai Jo Nizam-e-Hasti Chala Raha Hai” by Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan on YouTube and found an old television studio recording.“There must be someone who is in charge of the administration of this universe,” the father translates for the little women, as they ask him the meaning of ‘nizam-e-hasti’. “That person is God.”“Jo Khana-e-Lashaoor Mein Jagmaga Raha Hai, Wohi Khuda Hai, Wohi Khuda Hai.” The light that shines within your subconscious, that is God.2022 will not be a version of the last two years of the pandemic. It will not come with the promise of normalcy either. We are all changed by the loss, grief and other events of our recent past. As we start this last month of the year, may the inner light in each one of us shine bright to show us the way forward.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/advance-notice-for-new-year-%E2%80%94-be-exceptional-strange-scary-346371
05-12-2021||“Long years ago||The baby batch's tryst with destiny||— Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, August 15, 1947NOVEMBER 14, 1971. As war clouds loomed over both our eastern and western borders, young cadets, dressed in their formal blues, assembled at the hallowed Chetwode Hall of the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. And at the stroke of the midnight hour, proud mothers, fathers, sisters and brothers reached out to their beloved sons and siblings and uncovered one gleaming star on each shoulder: 394 freshly pipped Second Lieutenants from the 48th Regular/32nd Technical Course were now ready for the battlefield. I was one amongst them. Our tryst with destiny had begun.By November 24, after a brief 10 days’ leave with their parents, these young officers started reporting for duty to their battalions and units, where feverish preparations were already underway for a war which would prove to be of historic dimensions.On December 3, Pakistan launched air attacks on 11 of our airbases. A two-front war opened up for the nation, one in the East to stop genocide by a ruthless military and liberate 75 million oppressed and tortured people, and the other on the West to destroy and degrade the Pakistani war machine and capture vital enemy territory.It was on these two fronts that this baby batch of the Army got baptised in battle. Young boys, some in their teens, others barely out of them, but full of energy, enthusiasm and spirit were launched into combat. Many of them were involved in some of the heaviest fighting of the war, in hand-to-hand combat with the enemy. Some came back wrapped in the Tricolour.2/Lt Baldev Pathania, who joined 3 Grenadiers under the leadership of Maj Hoshiar Singh, who was later awarded the Param Vir Chakra, was in the midst of the fierce Battle of Jarpal across the Basantar river in Shakargarh sector, beating back one counter-attack after another without wilting. 2/Lt Lali Gill from the 2nd Parachute Battalion was not allowed to jump into battle as he had not done any para training. He, however, repeatedly pleaded with his Commanding Officer, finally wearing him down. Lali thus probably became the first officer in the history of warfare to have made a combat jump without any training when he parachuted down at Tangail in East Pakistan.2/Lt Radha Mohan Naresh of 9 Jat, while deployed at Munnawar Tawi in the critical Chhamb-Akhnoor sector, beat back three determined assaults on his position before succumbing to his injuries. 2/Lt MPS Chowdhary of 10 Bihar died a terrible death, being inhumanely tortured by the Pakistani troops during operations in East Pakistan. Several others were injured, with two officers having their legs amputated.It was a campaign like no other. The Pakistani army was brought to its knees, 93,000 of its soldiers laying down their arms in abject defeat. It was the largest military surrender after World War II, a humiliation that still rankles in the psyche of the Pakistan army. The war lasted for just 13 days and a new nation, Bangladesh, was born. And we were part of this history.November 14, 2021. Fifty years later, the same teenagers were all now veterans in their seventies. Many of them had departed for their hallowed Hunting Grounds. Those who were left, took out their ribbons and medals, polished them and affixed them on the left breast of their coats. The Guard of Honour at the War Memorials slowly reversed their weapons. The air resonated with the haunting notes of the six buglers playing “The Last Post” and then “Rouse”. The youngest warriors of the 1971 War stood up, raised their hands and saluted their fallen comrades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-baby-batchs-tryst-with-destiny-346367
05-12-2021||IN the 1940s||Bishop Cotton's 42 who left||As Partition’s bitter wind swirled through the monsoon mists, murders and rioting within normally-peaceful Shimla led to the justified fear that some of this carnage could spill over to the school. An indication of this came when The Grotto — where a police office now stands —was vandalised and a chowkidar found a body raised up on the foot of a tree. One Sunday, three men waving kirpans rushed into the school chapel, but were driven off.Children from the prep school that lay some distance away, and was on the site of the present-day Central School for Tibetans in Chotta Shimla, were shifted to the main school for safety. One of these boys who made the move was Syed Zummurd Hasan Gardezi and recalled that he, his brother and some others were told that by nightfall they should be dressed in their pyjamas and go quietly with the staff members to the senior school on the adjoining spur. In pitch darkness and with softly whispered instructions, they walked silently along the forested path till they reached the main school. Their belongings had already been moved to the dormitories.To safeguard the Muslim boys in school, under the charge of members of the staff, boys who were armed as members of the Simla Rifles began patrolling the dormitories.The Muslim boys who were to go to Pakistan could not leave due to the dangers of the journey. On October 13, 1947, the Governor-General, Lord Mountbatten, came to the school to give away prizes; he was to have been the Chief Guest at Speech Day held on September 6, but the turmoil in Punjab made him return to New Delhi. Mountbatten had lunch seated at the High Table and the School Captain, Hassan Agha, asked for his help in sending them across a border that had now come into being. (While this is the story that has come down the decades, a variation is that various parents had approached the Acting Governor of the North West Frontier Province, who arranged to bring the boys from Shimla).A few days later, information came that all the Muslim boys were to leave the following morning. In box-rooms and godowns, packing and repacking began as trunks were filled and closed; the school dhobi began passing bundle after bundle of clothes and the staff worked through the night making food packets. In that flurry of activity, few would have realised the finality of those moments.In the presence of the school and staff, the Headmaster, Rev Drake, addressed the departing boys in the main hall which was named in honour of the Viceroy, Lord Irwin. When he had finished speaking, the middle doors of the hall, through which, by tradition, only Viceroys entered and School Captains left, were thrown open by two Prefects and Hassan Agha and the departing boys walked out, not amidst the customary cheers, but in deep and sombre silence.The following day, a detail of Army trucks and a heavy escort of Gurkha soldiers arrived at ‘Green Garages’, the name passed on by a row of garages painted bottle-green. The large trucks could not negotiate the narrow road and tight bends up to the school gates. Escorted by the staff and boys, many of whom were armed, the departing boys and some staff that were leaving with them walked the distance of about a kilometre. The convoy then drove down to Ambala, which had the airfield closest to Shimla. The boys spent the night in the barracks of the cantonment. The following day, a Dakota plane carried them to Lahore and then, flew on to Karachi.Humayun Khan was one of the young boys who had joined Bishop Cotton as a nine-year-old in 1941. Khan and six others were to go to Peshawar. While waiting for arrangements to be made for their onward journey by train, they stayed with the Commissioner for Refugees, Mr Leghari, at his residence in Lahore. Two girls from the Leghari family, who were also studying in Shimla, at the Auckland House School, had come by road and described the horrors they had seen. By the time Humayun Khan reached Peshawar, much of the rioting had subsided. In 1955, Humayun Khan joined Pakistan’s Central Superior Services (CSS). A decade-and-a-half later, when the Service was reorganised, he moved to the Foreign Services Office and in 1984, was posted to India as Pakistan’s High Commissioner.Meanwhile, trapped in a tide that subsumed morality and with which that history still tries to grapple, once the boys and the convoy had moved away from Shimla in 1947, the double-doors through which Hassan Agha, Humayun Khan and the others had departed from Irwin Hall, were nailed shut on the premise that no one should go through them the way the 42 had to. As the years went on, the purpose of sealing them was lost. At some point, in the closing years of the last millennium, these sealed doors in the centre were dismantled to create space for a film projector which rolled out swashbucklers every Saturday. Clamped between pots of hydrangea and agapanthus, an unseemly projection swallowed the door and a portion of the landing outside.In 2009, the Bishop Cotton School celebrated its sesquicentennial year, and six of the 42 boys who had left for Pakistan returned to their old school in Shimla. Apart from Humayun Khan who had visited the school in 1986 during his India tenure, the other five — General Imranullah, Ali Afridi, Hashim Khan, Tariq Khan and Iftikar Malik — were returning after 62 years.Before the celebrations were to begin in school, the extension that housed the projector was removed from the Hall. Three new doors, reminiscent of the three old ones — including the locked one — were put into position. The now-aging old-boys from Pakistan walked up the stairs to Irwin Hall. A pair of scissors was handed to Humayun Khan. He cut a red ribbon and the doors which had been sealed six decades before were reopened.— The writer is an acclaimed author and historian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bishop-cottons-42-who-left-346363
