06-12-2021||---||NCB should meet international obligations||Maharashtra minister Nawab Mallik’s main complaint against the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) was that the local police were doing much more work by detecting drug cases than the NCB, which, according to him, was indulging in theatrics by raiding soft targets with high visibility such as Bollywood stars and foisting petty cases.A question answered in Parliament by Minister of State Nityanand Rai on July 20 had confirmed that NCB, through its 13 zonal offices, could detect only 385 cases in 2019 under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, whereas our police forces had registered 72,779 cases during that year. The question is, why then do we need the NCB?The first reason is the Central government’s responsibility under Article 47 of the Constitution to improve public health by prohibiting consumption of drugs injurious to health. The second is our international obligations towards the 1961 UN “Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs”, UN 1972 Protocol and the 1988 convention by detecting illicit transnational movement of drugs and implementing the provisions within our territory.The NCB was created in 1986 as a coordinating agency to monitor enforcement, the powers of which were scattered in the 1860 Indian Penal Code, 1940 Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1962 Customs Act and the NDPS Act and enforced by a plethora of agencies like the police, Customs, BSF, Coast Guard and Sashastra Seema Bal.This being so, was the NCB able to meet its international obligations by closely coordinating with domestic agencies and enforcing the law themselves with better skill, as is expected of it, to meet the dynamic pattern of global illicit drug trade?International drug supply to Bollywood was alleged when Sushant Singh Rajput committed suicide in 2020 after which they arrested Rhea Chakraborty for procuring drugs. During NCB Director Rakesh Asthana’s well-noticed visit to Mumbai, a national daily published a report on October 23, 2020, that Bollywood had obtained illicit drugs through international cartels.A similar plea was advanced by the NCB to the court on October 13, 2021, that the “drug rave” party on board the luxury liner Cordelia Empress on October 2, 2021, “might have used international linkages” for illicit drug procurement. This was ignored by the Bombay High Court on November 20, 2021, while confirming bail to Aryan Khan, son of “Bollywood” superstar Shah Rukh Khan.Meanwhile, the international dimensions of illicit drug supply assumed menacing proportions. Even in 1998, a United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) paper had estimated the volume of illicit international drug trade as $500-1000 billion, nearly 8% of international trade, “approximately the same size as the international trade in textiles (7.5 per cent), oil and gas (8.6 per cent)”. The global turnover of all pharmaceutical companies was only $233 billion in 1993. The world’s largest single consumer of illicit drugs was the US “with some 12.8 million current drug abusers out of a total population of 260 million in 1995”.In 1993, the ‘free on board’ price of heroin in Pakistan was $3.3 per gram. When it reached Western Europe after refinement in Pakistan/India, it became $130 with 40% purity. Joint India-Pakistan crime syndicates used to ship heroin and Mandrax concealed in rice bags through Indian and Pakistani ports to West Africa, then to South Africa from where it used to find its way to Western Europe and North America. The gargantuan profits in drug trade had spurred an international network of crime syndicates, political corruption and human rights abuses.The UNODC’s ‘Global Overview’ for 2021 indicates a changed pattern by using more synthetic drugs and non-medical use of pharmaceutical narcotics along with plant-based substances resulting in 494,000 global deaths and 30.9 million years of “healthy life lost” (2019). Increased digital connectivity has brought about innovations in global supply chains by way of “mailbox”, “dead drops” or small courier services. "Research chemicals” or “customised synthesis” are delivered using crypto currencies and “dark web”.The NCB should have been worried when US President Donald Trump “determined” on September 17, 2020 under the Foreign Relations Authorisation Act, 2003 identifying India among 20 countries as “major drug transit or illicit drug producing countries”. The US State Department’s (Bureau of International Narcotics & Law Enforcement) report in March 2021 confirms adverse remarks about India. Drug overdose deaths in America rose from 72,000 in 2019 to 81,000 in 2020, with more than half attributed to non-prescription synthetic opioids.The report said that “billions of tablets of trafficked pharmaceutical opioids originating in India have been seized worldwide” sent through online pharmacies, “dark websites” or call centres. Drug trade dealers had shifted to India as a new source for precursor chemicals. Multi-tonne shipments of precursor materials from India were shipped to Africa and Mexico. “Commercial business-to-business websites registered in India include numerous vendors advertising a range of drugs, including fentanyl and fentanyl analogues”.While it is true that the NCB had earned UNODC’s appreciation at the regional office for South Asia (ROSA) for its initiatives, much more needs to be done to meet international expectations from India.First, the US report observes that despite commitment, Indian investigators are hamstrung by “inadequate training, insufficient equipment, staffing gaps and interagency coordination challenges” to “conduct complex investigations of criminal drug manufacturing and trafficking”.Second, the 2016 UN special session had called on countries “to support alternatives to incarceration and proportionate sentencing, especially for drug dependent, non-violent offenders”. Other countries are declaring drug addicts as victims and not as criminals.On December 1, 2021, The New York Times reported that New York City had opened two ‘supervised injection sites’ of street drugs injections which had, without medical supervision, resulted in a death every four hours in 2020, according to Dr Dave Choksi, the city’s health commissioner.This needs special emphasis since the NCB is accused of chasing cases with 2-gm possession on high visibility raids on ‘soft targets’, reminding us of the 1960-1970 ‘prohibition’ days. If we implement the UN special session resolution on alternative remedies, it will go a long way in reducing the load on our courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ncb-should-meet-international-obligations-346725
06-12-2021||---||New nation high point for Indian statecraft||NEW DELHI is among the few capitals in the world where anniversaries of its diplomatic relations with countries is constantly celebrated. Platinum jubilee, diamond jubilee, golden jubilee, tricennial, quadranscentennial and so on. It points to India’s diplomatic heft that its formal relations through embassies and high commissions are among the largest in the world and that anniversaries of their opening are occasions of joy.Amidst the abundance of such celebrations, some anniversaries stand out and are commemorated as watershed moments in history. Today is one such. Fifty years ago, on December 6, 1971, India recognised Bangladesh as a new, sovereign state, burying many misassumptions in the process. The most important of these in a South Asian context was the infallibility of the two-nation theory, which led to partitioning of the subcontinent.Today’s anniversary ought to be a moment of pride for all Indians. Not merely because Indira Gandhi’s strategic moves on the subcontinent’s chessboard were crowned with victory half a century ago. Equally because the toddler nation, whom she carried as a cause to world capitals and the multilateral stage seeking recognition for Bangladesh, is now an adult in whose achievements all of South Asia can take pride.It is to the credit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he nurtures the relationship with Bangladesh: motormouths in his party would like the history of India-Bangladesh relations to be rewritten in a script which ideologically suits them. They want to erase from history the rock-solid alliance between Indira Gandhi and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, which made East Pakistan to break away from its western flank.When religious extremists attacked Hindus in Bangladesh during the recent Durga Puja festivities, Modi did not utter a word about the incidents, which found echoes within sections of the Sangh Parivar. Any statement by the Prime Minister would have played into the hands of Islamists across the eastern border.Today’s anniversary is an occasion to look at how growing prosperity in Bangladesh is changing the lives of ordinary Indians from Bangalore to Bagdogra: this is an aspect of cross-border relations, which does not get the attention it deserves. After Modi came to power, restrictions on Bangladeshis visiting Sikkim were lifted. It defied logic that even 45 years after the break-up of Pakistan, Bangladeshis were classified by North Block, the seat of the Union Home Ministry, as ‘East Pakistanis’ for visa purposes if they wanted to go to Sikkim.The change this brought to Sikkim was instantaneous. Bangladeshis now had another not-too-distant tourist destination in India where they could feel like home, in addition to Calcutta. Sikkim needed tourists because the state is still not at the top of India’s domestic tourist map, despite the Shangri La’s many attractions. Bangladesh became the main source of tourist inflow into Sikkim until coronavirus paused the state’s thriving expansion in tours and ancillary businesses.Similarly, until India suspended regular international air passenger services in March last year during the lockdown, there were direct flights between Dhaka and Chennai. These flights were mainly ferrying medical tourists from Bangladesh to hospitals in Tamil Nadu. Such was the demand for treatment at South Indian healthcare facilities that medical tourism spread from Chennai to Bangalore and Hyderabad. Rich Bangladeshis go to Singapore and Australia to get good medical care. In recent years, South India became the most popular destination for ordinary medical tourists from beyond the eastern border. This is a thriving business which will resume once India reopens scheduled international flights.Until Covid-19 halted travel, the Indian High Commission in Dhaka and the Assistant High Commissions in Chittagong, Sylhet, Khulna and Rajshahi were together issuing on an average 15 lakh visas a year. The amount of money that accrues to the Indian economy from such a huge inflow of legal, temporary visitors is not to be taken for granted. In addition, there are collateral benefits from Bangladeshi students studying in Indian universities and from deals and contracts concluded by visiting businessmen.As the Kolkata Book Fair returns to the city’s Salt Lake Central Park on January 31, 2022, Bangladesh will be the theme of its 45th edition. The theme, chosen in honour of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s birth centenary, aims to revive the traditional and historic literary and cultural interactions between Bengali-speaking peoples on both sides of the border that were paused by the pandemic. For decades, thousands of Bangladeshis — publishers, authors and book lovers — have made the journey to Calcutta to ritualistically attend the Book Fair, which has a special place among Bengali litterateurs.Notwithstanding Indira Gandhi’s special interest in Bangladesh, most of the world, including India, had written off the new country as a basket case. The late President Pranab Mukherjee’s role in changing such a perception is memorable on today’s anniversary. Based on his years-long experience in South Block, the fountainhead of Indian diplomacy, when PV Narasimha Rao was Prime Minister, he advised Mukherjee, his External Affairs Minister, not to waste any time on Bangladesh. This writer recalls many conversations, during which Mukherjee refused to give up on Dhaka.Mukherjee was like a guardian to Sheikh Hasina, now Prime Minister, during her most difficult days after the assassination of her father, Sheikh Mujib. Indira Gandhi had entrusted to Mukherjee the care and comfort of Sheikh Hasina when she lived in India. Eventually,those efforts paid off in concert with like-minded leaders in Japan and Singapore. Bangladesh is now among the fastest-growing economies in South Asia and has overtaken India with its performance in many social indices.One hears frequent gripes in private from Indians about Bangladesh, born out of a mixture of jealousy and surprise that the country has done very well in recent years. Sadly, these gripes often come from people in authority, those who ought to know better. Fortunately, Modi is not one among them and he recognises the all-round importance of Dhaka for New Delhi. The Prime Minister is guided in such an endeavour by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, who was one of the most successful high commissioners in the neighbouring country. Such is Shringla’s understanding of Bangladesh and his persuasiveness in Dhaka that three years after giving up that post, he is still rushed there before any spark develops into a fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/new-nation-high-point-for-indian-statecraft-346724
06-12-2021||---||The injustice of justice||ON the morning of July 13, 1983, three police constables out on patrol at the Sukhna Lake discovered in the lake the body of Joginder Singh Anand, Deputy Inspector General of Police. Anand was the younger brother of the father of Maneka Gandhi, the widow of Sanjay Gandhi. This led to a case of murder to be registered.The burden of anxiety lay upon the appellants for 38 years. Indu was 38 when it all began. She is now 76. Her son and nephew were in their teens; they are in mid-50s now. The question then arose regarding the cause of death. To determine it, the body was subjected to two post-mortem examinations, one on the same day and another the next day. This is not all. After about a month, a board of doctors was constituted by the CBI to look into the two post-mortem reports. The first post-mortem gave the cause of death to be by drowning. The second opined it to be by asphyxia, while according to the board it was asphyxia of drowning due to the presence of miliary tuberculosis of the lungs. It also spoke of vasovagal shock. It will be seen that there were conflicting opinions regarding the cause of death. The opinion of the board was held by the high court to be merely academic and not based on any evidence because the doctors were not a party to the two post-mortems.During investigation, Darshan Lal, Anand’s orderly, made a confessional statement which later led him to be an approver. It was on his statement that Indu Anand (Anand’s wife), their son, Sumanjit Singh Anand, and nephew Sandeep Singh were named as accused. They were tried and convicted by the Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, under Section 304 Part II of the IPC and sentenced to two-year imprisonment and a fine of Rs 2,000 was imposed on them. The convictions were based upon the testimony of Darshan Lal.On appeal, the court found that the story narrated by Darshan Lal, as per the prosecution case, to be ‘out-and-out a false story’.The court further observed: ‘It is impossible to believe that appellant No. 1 Indu Anand, a young woman having a young son of 17 years, daughter of 14 years and nephew of 17 years would even think of getting her dear husband eliminated without thinking about her small children.’The court then went on to acquit all the appellants with the remarks: ‘To sum up, this court finds that the appellants were unnecessarily prosecuted by the CBI, despite the evidence clearly indicating, as discussed above, that the deceased JS Anand had committed suicide. The appellants were tormented and had to suffer excruciating pain and the ordeal for several years. It was a parody of justice. It cannot be forgotten that “in life values lost can never come back”. Hence they must be honourably acquitted.’The striking feature of this case is the extraordinary delay in its trial and the years it took for the appeal against the judgment of the trial court to be heard by the high court. It will be recalled that the case was registered as far back as July 1983, but the trial by the Sessions Judge, Amar Dutt (later judge of the high court), was not completed till February 23, 1996, i.e after 13 years. The appeal against this judgment took even longer — 21 years. It was only on March 23, 2017, that it was eventually heard and decided and that too after some judges had declined to hear it. Finally, it was a judge who had come on transfer from the High Court of Bombay, Justice AB Chaudhari, who took up the appeal.The matter did not end here. The CBI filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court to challenge the acquittal of the accused by the high court. It took another four years for the final closure, when the Supreme Court dismissed the special leave petition. It will thus be seen that the burden of anxiety lay upon the appellants for as long as 38 years. This is almost a lifetime. Indu was 38 years old when it all began. She is 76 years old now. Her son and nephew were in their teens; today, they are in their mid-50s.With the appellants being looked upon as being responsible for Anand’s death, how society looked upon them for all these years can well be visualised. The stress they were under could not but have an effect upon their health, too. It virtually destroyed their lives.This is not all. The appellants also had to face serious financial problems, with Indu getting no family pension. Not a penny has been paid so far. After her acquittal, she has, in fact, been constrained to move the high court to try and get the family pension due to her. As for her son and nephew, to have a conviction on their record shut many doors of gainful employment.Having regard to all that the appellants have gone through for 38 years, it behoves the State to consider providing them compensation.All this brings out so vividly the burden of responsibility that rests upon the judges to do right and realise what ordeal can be caused if they falter. To quote Plato, ‘To do injustice is more disgraceful than to suffer it.’ No wonder it is said justice weeps when it causes an innocent to suffer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-injustice-of-justice-346723
