07-12-2021||Political Scientist||The enduring legacy of farmers' movement||Barely two years ago, public spaces in India were empty, silent and forlorn, stripped of the noise, vibrancy, and practices of civil society activism: soapbox-oratory, intense discussions, agitations and processions. This was a matter of some concern because the concept of civil society is integral to democracy. Civil society inspires and enables citizens to hold the government responsible for acts of omission and commission, to challenge laws that are seen as palpably unjust and to suggest policies that secure the wellbeing of people. It provides us with the space for public/participative discussions on what a good society is, and how it can be realised.Though representation is indispensable for a democracy, it is participation that transforms citizens into agents who possess the political competence to evaluate policies, suggest alternatives and defend the rights of citizens. That is why civil society is universally hailed as central to democracy.Oddly, in India, civil society, which happens to be the binary opposite of violence, is seen by security experts as yet another zone of war. No wonder our public spaces, that once upon a time resounded with the din of democracy, were rendered stark and bare. Or, so we feared.And then the political miracle happened. In December 2019, many of us watched with some wonder hundreds of young people marching peacefully throughout the capital city. They inspired similar demonstrations in the rest of the country. Demonstrators held aloft copies of the Constitution, occupied public spaces, read out the Preamble to the Constitution, sang songs of peace, flashed banners memorialising Bhagat Singh, Gandhi and Ambedkar, and expressed solidarity with the minorities, whose status as citizens was threatened by the Citizenship Amendment Act.The movement was cut short by communal riots in North-East Delhi, and the lockdown that followed the eruption of the pandemic in March 2020. Nevertheless, mass protests sent a powerful message to the holders of power. Democratic politics can neither be denied nor repressed. They break boundaries and re-populate the public sphere of civil society.This message was reiterated and re-enacted by the farmers’ movement. Towards the end of 2020, thousands of farmers assembled on the borders of Delhi to demand the withdrawal of laws that threatened to harm agriculturalists. Related demands that the government should protect livelihoods through other means were laid on the high table of politics. The visual and political impact of the spectacle was extraordinary.So was the scale of the movement, led initially by farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Within a short period of time, agriculturists from other states joined in. A mass movement for the wellbeing, state protection, the right of people to participate in and be consulted in decision-making and the right to protest if they were not consulted rocked the confidence of a government that had rushed these laws through Parliament without discussion. Women and men left their homes and their workplaces to demonstrate against government policies for months on end. This, in itself, represented a politically significant moment.Equally significant was the way public spaces were transformed into sites of struggle. For long, scholars had privileged history over geography and space to analyse societies. In the second half of the twentieth century, a number of theorists began to look at space as a construct and not as a given. Space, wrote French philosopher Michel Foucault in his theory of power/knowledge, ‘was treated as the dead, the fixed, the undialectical, the immobile…They didn’t understand that (space) meant the throwing into relief of processes, needless to say of power.’Space, in other words, is the product of human activity because it is shaped in and through contestation. Whereas power-holders etch their own versions of power onto space, citizens sculpt resistance to power on this gigantic canvas. The police erected barbed-wire barricades on one side of the borders of Delhi. And farmers began to plant flowers and fruits on the other side. One side of space epitomised the brutal power of barbed wires, the other embodied the aesthetics of alternative forms of politics.Resistance took many forms. Thousands of farmers exercised their right to freedom of assembly. Many demonstrators were not agriculturalists. But they were ready to defy the power of a government that is not precisely known for tolerating dissent. Numerous individuals and groups set up langars, provided tents, health facilities and small shopping areas for everyday needs. They sang songs of protest, they played music that touched souls, they were silent together, they listened to and gave speeches. And in the process, they invented a virtue that has become rare in the India of our times — solidarity.Protesters braved epithets and slogans that denigrated them as also allegations that they were nothing but instruments of separatism and terrorism. They saw their comrades brutally run over and killed by SUVs allegedly driven by functionaries of the ruling party at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. They mourned. They withstood the blazing heat of the Delhi summers, the crippling cold of winters and torrential rains that reduced occupied public spaces to slush. They persisted.Social movements do not fail completely. They do not win absolutely. But each social movement leaves an imprint on time and space. The scale and intensity of the farmer’s movement stirred imaginations. It taught us that we can forge alternative politics in times of authoritarianism. This is the legacy of this movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-enduring-legacy-of-farmers-movement-347255
07-12-2021||Former Ambassador to African Union ||India has key role to play in Africa's Covid battle||The emergence of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in South Africa has set the cat among the pigeons. There is a large amount of fly-swatting going on, to try and nip it in the bud. The use of mixed messaging is creating a dichotomy which African countries could well do without. South Africa should be lauded for its alertness and information. However, it has faced ostracisation by some countries. Along with it, many of its neighbouring countries in Southern African Development Community (SADC) have also been named as countries from where travellers would be monitored.Countries which were recovering from the pandemic and the challenges of vaccination are apprehensive that new variants could challenge their progress towards dealing with Corona. While Omicron so far has not led to major hospitalisations, its structure is causing anxiety. The efficacy of the existing vaccines and testing programmes could be challenged if Omicron turns destructive.A scientific and rational view is required rather than a blanket ban on dealings with Southern African countries. It will be preferable if countries collaborated, and supported countries like South Africa, which reported the variant. Any sense of punishment for such reporting will be detrimental to others reporting such measures in the future.A challenge of dealing with the pandemic is the expansion of vaccination programmes. With increased vaccine production, better distribution is necessary. According to the Africa Centre for Disease Control (ACDC), as of December 3, Africa had 8.6 million cases of Covid-19 and more than 2.23 lakh deaths. An estimated 8.1 million people recovered and 82.5 million tests were carried out. The ACDC reports that Africa has administered 56.4% of its allotted doses; 10.6% of the people are partially, and merely 7% fully, vaccinated.As many as 417.5 million vaccines were received in Africa, of which 235.8 million are administered. Twelve different vaccines are provided to Africa under the COVAX; 21% of these are AstraZeneca. Nineteen vaccines are provided under bilateral arrangements of which Sinopharm has a 26.5% share. Under the Africa Vaccine Acquisition Task Team (AVATT), four vaccines were obtained of which Johnson and Johnson has a 66% share.Nevertheless, Africa still faces a shortfall of about 470 million vaccines. The target is to vaccinate at least 60% of the population by 2022.Africa is the focus of support from its friends globally. India has expressed solidarity with Africa and is offering support by providing Indian vaccines. So far, India has supplied 25 million doses to 41 African countries. This includes 1 million grant doses to 16 countries and 16 million doses under COVAX to 33 countries.In a quick reaction to the Omicron scare, India cleared all requests emanating from COVAX for supply of Covishield vaccines. These include supplies to Malawi, Ethiopia, Zambia, Mozambique, Guinea and Lesotho in Africa. The request by Botswana for Covaxin is also cleared.India conveyed to the African countries that further requirements will be cleared expeditiously. India is ready to provide essential life-saving drugs, testing kits, gloves, PPE kits and medical equipment like ventilators to African countries.Indian institutions dealing with genomic surveillance are prepared to cooperate with African research teams for virus characterisation. e-ITEC training programme on management of vaccines and cold chains is scheduled this month. Another programme on the rollout of vaccine programmes was held in May.At the China-Africa ministerial meeting on November 29, China announced a surge of vaccine support to Africa. It promised 1 billion vaccines in 2022. Six hundred million doses are expected as grants; 400 million would be through joint production in African countries. Other countries that produce the vaccine like the United States and Germany have also supported Africa. It is Africa’s ambition not to be left stranded as they were during the Delta variant crisis.The goal of the African Union now is that by 2040, Africa should produce 60% of the vaccines they require from the current level of 1%. This is ambitious indeed. This would require a new public health order to be established in Africa to meet these ambitions along with vaccines, expanded manufacturing of diagnostics and therapeutics, training of a public health workforce and action-oriented partnerships.Four ideas are presented to alter this trend. Predictable and reliable supply to reduce transaction costs; distribution to be left to ACDC without earmarked donations; adequate shelf life of ten weeks at least for donations; a month’s advance notice helps local planning and in reducing wastage of vaccines. The cold chain capacities in certain countries cannot cope with the sudden rush of donations. Indian vaccines are preferred because they do not require special cold chain capacities.Most donations of vaccines do not include associated supplies such as syringes, needles and related chemicals, nor do they cover freight costs. Donations need all essentials to ensure rapid absorption. This is where the Indian and Chinese models differ. India is looking at a demand-driven supply situation and has moved away from the donation model because of the kind of issues associated with it. Thus, when countries place orders which are now expeditiously cleared, they have the necessary wherewithal to utilise these vaccines effectively. The Chinese offer of 600 million doses is a generous one, but needs to factor in all the above issues of predictability, assuredness, providing associated delivery instruments and phased planning so that the recipient countries’ systems are not overstretched.The US donated 17 million doses of vaccine to Africa. It is ready to boost vaccine production. They work with Aspen Pharmacare for J&J and Biovac Institute in Cape Town to finish the Pfizer vaccines in South Africa just as they are working in Hyderabad for the Quad vaccine initiative. Senegal and Egypt are also creating production capacities.India can effectively assist Africa by creating a production facility. Germany has pledged euro 250 million for such an activity. Like the Quad initiative, India should join with Germany and the US to create a vaccine production base in Eastern Africa which has no immediate access to local production. India can offer soft loans and its experience to achieve this. This will be meaningful India-Africa trilateral cooperation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-has-key-role-to-play-in-africas-covid-battle-347254
07-12-2021||Distinguished Fellow||US ceases to inspire||Later this week, President Joe Biden of the US will host a virtual ‘Summit of Democracies’ for leaders from government, civil society and private sector to focus on the challenges and opportunities facing democracies. This is to project the administration’s worldview that democracies alone can meet the challenges of the future, whether it is climate change or the growth of authoritarian regimes like China and Russia.The erosion has echoes in countries like India where abstract concepts like ‘the nation’ are being used to abrogate rights and civil society is being seen as a threat. That there is politics behind the list of 100-plus invitees is evident. Some are strong liberal democracies of Europe, others are weak semi-democracies like India and Israel, and others outright autocracies like Pakistan and the Democratic Republic of Congo. There are questions, too, about invitees like Kenya, Serbia, Iraq, Zambia, Ukraine and the Philippines.Actually, the biggest question mark is before the host country, the US itself. In the past year, we have seen a presidential election where the losing candidate has made false claims that his election was stolen and there was even a coup attempt to prevent the succession. The NGO Freedom House’s annual assessment records a systematic erosion of US democratic practices. In the past decade, the US score has fallen from 94 to 83 out of 100, the steepest fall among countries.A lot of the ills of American democracy arise from the free rein given to ‘gerrymandering’, or delimiting constituencies to exclude this or that class of voters to make seats safe for the ruling party. In the US, except California, Washington and Arizona, this exercise is in the hands of the political parties that, not surprisingly, try to maximise their own party’s gain. A more pernicious aspect of this is that the constituency lines are drawn to exclude or divide concentrations of minorities like African Americans.As a result of this, and the huge amounts of money needed to fight an election, US legislators become virtually undefeatable. With some gerrymandering and the fact that it is easier for incumbents to raise the large amounts of money, 90-95 per cent of the legislators are being re-elected repeatedly. As a Wall Street Journal article recently noted, ‘it’s a practice in which politicians pick their voters, rather than the other way around.’There was a time when after a hard-fought election, the two sides got together to push legislation that would benefit the country. Today, they have become fiercely partisan to the point where it becomes difficult to pass legislation, like raising the debt ceiling to prevent a government shutdown, or to carry out much-needed repairs to the US infrastructure. Built-in checks have been created to subvert the process of legislation. In the US Senate now, you almost always require a majority of 60 (out of 100) to get anything done, especially in relation to the federal budget and taxation.The recent Infrastructure Development Act was passed in the House of Representatives almost entirely on Democratic votes. Indeed, there were calls for punishing the 13 Republicans who voted for this ‘once in a generation’ legislation. There are many constituencies in the US where safe drinking water is a problem, bridges and grids are collapsing and highways crumbling. But that did not stop most Republicans from voting against the Bill. Today, even the issue of whether or not to take the Covid vaccine has become an issue of political partisanship.Equally pernicious are the efforts to suppress voters. Encouraged by the US Supreme Court’s conservative majority, legislation like the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that ensured that African Americans were able to vote, has been undermined. Some states and local governments have stepped up measures to make it hard for the African Americans to vote. Trump’s loss in 2020 has only made them redouble their efforts.Democracy is not just about the right to vote and elections. It is also about the quality of life of citizens and their individual rights. By that measure, too, the US fails. Racist discrimination against African Americans remains a blot on American life. But there is another community that is often ignored—women. Recent moves to deny abortion rights to women is a case in point. Another manifestation of this is the routine denial of paid maternity leave for women. Studies show that this impacts most severely on the poor and the minorities. The US is the only industrialised country that does not offer such leave.In many ways, the plight of US democracy is probably summed up by the looming shadow of Donald Trump as the unquestioned supremo of the party of Abraham Lincoln. A man who had a reputation for molesting women, dodgy business practices, and shady associates is today the Republican Party’s conscience, with his views setting its tone and his endorsements crucial for election victory.The plight of democracy in the US has implications around the world. Since the 1960s, the US, despite its flaws, provided leadership through its political and civil society institutions to those who believed in democracy and the rights of the individual. It also championed the belief that the democratic system, with all its faults, offered the best system of governance to promote human advance.Today, the gap between what the US professes abroad and what it practises at home is growing, and in this information age, it is also showing. Not surprisingly, this erosion has echoes in other countries like India where abstract concepts like ‘the nation’ are being used to abrogate individual rights and the civil society is being seen as a threat to the system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-ceases-to-inspire-347256
