08-12-2021||---||Job-intensive sectors need a helping hand||NOBEL Prize-winning economist Abhijit Banerjee has said this is a time of “extreme pain” for this country as the economy remains well below what it was in 2019.His comments come just days after the latest GDP data shows the economy has grown by 8.4 per cent in the second quarter of the current fiscal, with many indicators showing performance better than in the pre-pandemic period of 2019-20. Yet, Banerjee’s views have resonance in the current environment. The problem is, the revival remains uneven and not rapid enough to remove the pain of those at the bottom of the pyramid.Just as the economist talks of personal experiences during visits to rural West Bengal, many readers would know about income losses facing those around them. For me, one clear example is of a domestic help’s family where four out of five adults were earning salaries at the time of the lockdown in March. In one stroke, three of them lost their jobs, leaving only one to continue doing online work. Thus, the combined income collapsed to one-fourth of the original amount. After 20 months, the five-star hotel where the eldest family member worked has yet to re-employ him. The other two had to find new jobs, leading to reduced wages. From a relatively comfortable living, the family is now struggling to buy rations, pay for medical expenses and education.This is not an isolated instance. Similar stories abound across both urban and rural areas. The reality of lost jobs is brought out by surveys of the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy (CMIE). The latest data shows the unemployment rate was 7.2 per cent on December 5, with the urban rate higher at 8.6 per cent and the rural rate at 6.6 per cent. This is better than the 9.06 per cent recorded in December last year. But it remains way higher than the pre-pandemic months of December 2019 and January 2020, when the unemployment rate was 5.7 and 1.6 per cent, respectively.One striking element of the jobs scenario ever since the lockdown of March 2020 has been the impact on those employed in contact-intensive sectors. These are the services segments that are still struggling to get back on track. In my example, two of the family members were employed in hotels and restaurants. Numerous such establishments are in the informal sector and the extent of employment is not accurately measurable. As the economy revives, many have re-opened, but not to full capacity, in some part due to social distancing norms. Even those that have resumed operations fully are not in a position to pay salaries at the pre-pandemic levels.The reality is, as Banerjee has succinctly put it, that some parts of the country are still in extreme pain.What is interesting also is the lower unemployment rate for rural areas compared to urban areas. This has been broadly consistent for the past year. One factor is seasonal, linked to the sowing and harvesting of rabi and kharif crops. But the other is the increased reliance on the MGNREGA schemes that provide an assured, though limited, income in rural areas. Despite the concern that adequate funds are not being made available for the rural jobs scheme, it has been the mainstay for many who returned to villages after urban jobs shut down.Though no definitive survey is available on this issue, several short-term media reports have shown that many migrants now prefer to stay put in their homes even at reduced wages. The alternative of relocating to cities and enduring back-breaking labour on construction sites, for instance, is proving to be less attractive, with some form of employment available near their homes.Workers are, thus, no longer easily available at cheap rates, especially skilled artisans. The latter are becoming increasingly difficult to find for real estate projects, which have now restarted in a big way. Costs are clearly likely to escalate for the upcoming projects, given that labour costs will no longer be as cheap as earlier. This is, ultimately, a positive outcome as better remuneration and working conditions for the construction workers has been long overdue.In the urban areas, however, the services sector is continuing to lag behind, judging by all parameters. Even the latest GDP data shows that employment-intensive sectors are not in sync with the revival in the rest of the economy. Manufacturing value added has not done much better: it grew by only 5.5 per cent as compared to 1.5 per cent contraction in the previous year. The contact-intensive sectors like construction and trade as well as hotels, transport and communications recorded a value added rise of 7.5 and 8.2 per cent, respectively, on the low base of negative growth rates of 7.2 and 16 per cent in the second quarter last year. This is a positive growth, but not enough to bring the sector back to the pre-pandemic robustness.With the data showing the uneven nature of the revival even in the second quarter, it is time for greater support to be extended to this segment of the economy. By taking an approach that the economy is virtually back to normal, policymakers are failing to consider more policy changes that are urgently needed to provide supportive infrastructure for both the services and MSME sectors.The situation has now been complicated with the discovery of the new Covid variant, Omicron. Despite several statements by epidemiologists regarding the mild nature of symptoms resulting from the variant, demands are growing for even this country to impose border controls in a knee-jerk reaction. Any harsh action to impose movement curbs yet again is likely to hit the employment-intensive sectors hardest. It would not be in the public interest for the authorities to give in to such pleas, unless there is a genuine crisis on the horizon.It would also be wise of the government to listen carefully to comments by eminent economists about the suffering being endured by the weakest sections of society. It would be unfair to dismiss these as unfounded criticism. There is no doubt that many indicators are showing an upswing in economic growth. There is, equally, no doubt that large swathes of the population, which have been pushed into poverty by the pandemic, still need a helping hand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/job-intensive-sectors-need-a-helping-hand-347664
08-12-2021||---||Killing of civilians by Army was avoidable||THE killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland last week could have been avoided by exercising extreme caution. According to Army sources, a counter-insurgency operation was launched between Oting and Tiru villages in Mon district on the basis of “credible intelligence of the likely movement of insurgents”. While most news reports state that the ambush by the special forces of the Army was laid late in the evening or night, some have reported that the incident took place around 5 pm. They were lying in wait for insurgents of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang-Yung Aung) — the NSCN (K-YA).In this part of the country, the sun sets early and the region is soon enveloped in a blanket of darkness. When the truck carrying the coal mine workers from Tiru was returning to Oting, the Army commandos mistook them to be insurgents and fired at them when they did not stop on being challenged. It being dark, they may have not been able to clearly see and identify the occupants of the truck and, hence, resorted to firing when they drove on.Any security professional will opine that mere “credible” information does not give the licence to kill without ascertaining whether those trapped in their ambush are insurgents for sure. With night vision devices available these days for carrying out operations in the dark, they could have identified the occupants of the vehicle from a distance and made sure that they were insurgents before firing at them.Going by the reports, the Army personnel bungled there, leading to the tragic incident. To say that there has been an intelligence failure would be too premature. The possibility of the insurgents having approached the area subsequently and then taken a detour after getting to know of the incident cannot be ruled out.During the years when terrorism had engulfed Punjab, the Central Reserve Police Force, along with the Punjab Police, carried out “night domination” operations across the state to curb the movement of terrorists at night by laying ambushes on their probable routes. It was with the extensive use of night vision devices that the terrorists were identified from a distance and challenged on nearing the ambush points.The faction of the NSCN (K-YA), led by its leader Yung Aung, has been active in the area and is known to kidnap villagers for ransom and release them later. After the death of Shangwang Shangyung Khaplang in June 2017, Khango Konyak took over the reins of the NSCN (K) faction. Khango Konyak was, until a few years back, considered a powerful leader not just of the NSCN (K) after Khaplang’s death but also of the United National Liberation Front of Western South East Asia — a conglomerate of 11 militant outfits of the north-eastern region, which included the United Liberation Front of Assam (Independent) of Paresh Barua and the United National Liberation Front of Manipur. Khango Konyak has since joined the peace process.Yung Aung, a nephew of Khaplang, ousted Khango Konyak by “impeachment” and donned the mantle of the leadership of the NSCN (K-YA). When differences between him and Niki Sumi of the Sema tribe from Zunebhoto cropped up, the latter formed his own outfit, known as the NSCN (K-Niki) faction. The faction led by Niki Sumi entered into a ceasefire agreement last year and nearly 200 of its members surrendered. Niki Sumi was the mastermind behind the ambush of Army personnel in June 2015 in Chandel and carried a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head.The Yung Aung faction is the only Naga outfit that is not a signatory to the peace talks with the government. Among its cadres of about 350, just 60 are Konyaks and Wanchos while the rest have their roots in Myanmar. He is gradually losing hold in the area of Mon, which has been supporting him. The day may not be far when he, too, would call for ceasefire. To hasten his surrender, the pressure will have to be mounted on his faction.What, however, is intriguing is the inordinate delay in the Naga peace talks which have been hanging fire for over six years after the Framework Agreement was signed between the NSCN (Isaac-Muivah) outfit and the government. With much fanfare, the Framework Agreement was announced in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Naga leaders in August 2015.The bitterness that cropped up between the then interlocutor and the present Governor of Tamil Nadu, N Ravi, has stalled the peace process. The NSCN (IM) has not taken kindly to his choosing to hold talks with the Naga national political groups comprising seven Naga outfits separately.Some of the views that he expressed openly as the Governor of Nagaland led to his alienation from the denizens of Nagaland. The present interlocutor, AK Mishra, a retired Special Director of the Intelligence Bureau, has a tough task ahead.While the NSCN(IM) has rescinded from its earlier demand for a Greater Nagalim, encompassing parts of Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh, it has stuck to its guns for a separate constitution and a flag under its special status accorded by Article 371 (A) of the Indian Constitution.What makes the Centre’s task difficult is the fact that it cannot easily accede to this demand after divesting Jammu and Kashmir of its special status by the abrogation of Article 370.After the Mon incident, there is a renewed clamour for the repeal of the draconian Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), which has been in force in the state since 1958. Large-scale protests and even a 16-year-long hunger strike by Irom Chanu Sharmila in Manipur for the repeal of the law have not moved the governments over the past several decades.Notwithstanding the fact that terror-related deaths of civilians have risen to 20 till November 15 this year as compared to two last year and the martyrdom of eight security personnel this year as compared to five last year, it can be safely surmised that the situation in the North-East has shown a vast improvement in recent years, what with the series of surrender by various insurgent groups in recent years.Revoking the AFSPA now will assuage the tempers in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/killing-of-civilians-by-army-was-avoidable-347663
08-12-2021||---||Killing in God’s name||PRIYANTHA KUMARA DIYAWADANA, a Sri Lankan engineer working as general manager, Industrial Engineering, at Rajco Industries in Sialkot, Pakistan, for the past eight years, was brutally killed by a group of workers and others on December 3. It is not clear what triggered the attack, but it seems that some Muslim workers were able to project that one of his actions was blasphemous. Media reports suggest that Priyantha was a disciplinarian and that had made him unpopular with a section of the staff.In all this lies a lesson on the dangers to societies in which the state allows religious sentiments to be sharpened and the paths of moderation abandoned.Reports of blasphemous conduct stoke popular passions in Pakistan and in no time angry mobs baying for blood get mobilised. Obviously, that is what happened in this case, too. While Priyantha went to the factory’s roof to escape, enraged workers chased him and took him out of the premises on to the road. He was beaten, tortured, killed and his body burnt. Some of the workers who took the lead in Priyantha’s killing took selfies. An FIR filed against all 900 workers in the factory by the SHO of the local police station, according to media reports, states that the incident took place in his presence but he was unable to intervene because of shortage of personnel. The police have arrested over a hundred persons.The Pakistani civilian and military leadership has been deeply embarrassed by this killing. Blasphemy rumours have in the past enraged groups to riot and kill, and this is not the first time a foreign national has been killed for blasphemy; but never was a senior technocrat working in a factory targeted and done to death so suddenly and so fiendishly. PM Imran Khan announced that the killing had shamed Pakistan and that he would personally oversee the investigation. He also spoke to Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, assuring him that justice will be done. In a short statement, the Inter Services Press Relations noted that the murder was ‘condemnable and shameful’. Significantly, it added ‘COAS [i.e. army chief Qamar Bajwa] directs all-out support to civil administration to arrest perpetrators of this heinous crime and bring them to justice’. That in itself is indicative of the true nature of Pakistan’s polity.The Pakistani and Sri Lankan governments are trying to contain the fallout of Priyantha’s killing on bilateral ties. Sri Lankan parliament has condemned the murder and has demanded the safety of the country’s workers in Pakistan. Foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said bilateral ties with Sri Lanka will not be impacted because ‘it was the work of a group of people and the nation or the country cannot be blamed for it’. As propaganda, such a comment is on expected lines, but it also reveals Pakistan’s political class and its army’s soft attitude towards the forces of extremism in society. Social attitudes are now such that popular passions are easily aroused to lead to such killings.Muslims everywhere have the greatest reverence for the Prophet and the Quran and do not countenance blasphemy, but in Pakistan its current blasphemy laws are used often to settle personal scores or for political dividends. The Tehreek-e-Labbaik-e-Pakistan (TLP), which represents Barelvi opinion, is in the forefront in aggressively exploiting popular sentiment against blasphemy. There are media reports that pro-TLP slogans were raised during the killing. The Pakistan state has always been soft on groups such as the TLP. The state succumbed to TLP demands and negotiated peace with it in October to prevent its cadres from marching to Islamabad. The details of the government-TLP agreement have not been disclosed but the former revoked the ban on the group, thereby allowing its open participation in public, including political, life. In return, the group gave up its march and demand for the expulsion of the French ambassador in retaliation for France allowing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad as part of its commitment to freedom of expression. What was overlooked by the Pakistan state in the negotiating process was the killing of some police personnel by TLP cadres. Pakistani officials justified this on the ground of national interest. Clearly, the prevailing view in Pakistan is that the state should take a lax attitude towards vigilante violence in cases of blasphemy, real or perceived.Except for a brief period in the 1950s, the Pakistan state has always given way for ideological or political reasons to the injection of ever greater extremist thinking in society. This process was greatly augmented by president Zia-ul-Haq in the 1980s, when he deliberately turned state and society towards Islamism. Earlier military rulers stressed Pakistani nationalism even while emphasising the two-nation theory as the ideological foundation of the Pakistani state. Zia also made capital punishment mandatory for blasphemy. The Pakistan political class and the army now cannot even contemplate changing this law. Socially, too, the law is considered appropriate for blasphemy. The focus, if at all, is on its proper application.Ten years ago, Mumtaz Qadri, the killer of Punjab governor Salman Taseer, was popularly hailed by large sections of the people as a hero. He was executed for murder in 2016. He is now deemed to be a martyr in the cause of Islam. His grave, close to Islamabad, has become a shrine and worshippers go to it as they go to Sufi shrines. No Pakistani political leader has the courage to take a stand against Qadri or in his grave’s conversion into a shrine. Indeed, attempts may be made by some Pakistani Islamic groups to treat Priyantha’s killers as heroes for acting against blasphemy and upholding the honour of Islam. In all this lies an object lesson on the dangers to societies in which the state machinery allows religious sentiments to be deliberately sharpened and the paths of moderation abandoned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/killing-in-gods-name-347662
