09-12-2021||---||Omicron is about lessons learnt from past waves||THE arrival of a new variant of coronavirus, named Omicron by the World Health Organisation (WHO), has sent shockwaves across the globe. The WHO declared it as ‘variant of concern’ on November 26, and warned about its high rate of infectivity. The variant is being reported from more and more countries on a daily basis and the tally of nations reporting it has reached nearly 50 in a matter of just two weeks.India reported its first couple of cases on December 2 in Karnataka, of which one person was a South African, aged 66, who had arrived in Bengaluru on November 20 and left the country on November 27, while the other person, aged 46, was from Karnataka. Within a week, the number of cases has risen to more than 21 as more states in India, including Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Delhi, are reporting Omicron cases. The numbers are likely to increase in the days and weeks to come, probably leading to the third wave.Experts, including Prof Manindra Agrawal from IIT Kanpur — known for his SUTRA (Susceptible, Undetected, Tested positive and Removed Approach) model for pandemics — have also projected that Omicron will bring a mild third wave in India which will peak in February 2022, with daily cases in the range of 1-1.5 lakh, depending upon different scenarios. He also projects that case severity will be mild due to wide vaccination coverage and therefore the hospitalisation load will also be lower. The third wave can be manageable by mild lockdown and restrictions.It appears that although the Omicron strain has shown high infectivity, as being warned by doctors as well as the WHO, it may not cause severe disease as was observed during the second wave cause by Delta. The symptoms of the persons infected with Omicron are mild: minor headache and dizziness, low fever, body ache, weakness and dry cough. Many of the patients are asymptomatic, which reveals the mild nature of the virus.However, more caution is needed to make people aware of the situation and nudge them to follow the preventive and Covid-appropriate behaviour, including avoiding crowded places, distancing, wearing mask properly, hand hygiene and getting fully vaccinated as soon as possible. The government is screening international travellers at airports for the possibility of infections, but the reports of some travellers escaping or providing wrong contact addresses and phone numbers are worrisome.The country has witnessed the resumption of economic activities, besides the reopening of schools, colleges, offices and other workplaces after the second wave. The daily cases have also reduced consistently, below 10,000 per day, and the caseload has come down below 1 lakh and is receding. Despite these good indicators, and a projection of mild disease, constant vigilance and monitoring are required. The guard should not be lowered till we have defeated the virus and reduced it to the status of a mere seasonal flu, which is a likely scenario down the line.Virologists agree that mutations in the viral gene that lead to new variants can make them potent and a virulent strain and enhance their infectivity and sensitivity. But mutations in their genes at some other places can also decrease their virulence and infectivity.Another factor is the status of herd immunity in the population. If a significant percentage of the population has been exposed to the viral antigen either through natural infection or vaccination, it can acquire protection from subsequent infections.Going by the results of the serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), more than 75% people in India have shown seropositivity, indicating possible herd immunity. On the vaccination front, more than 58% population (aged 18 years and above) has received at least one dose of the vaccine and nearly 35% adult population is fully vaccinated which means that nearly 90 per cent of the adult population is vaccinated fully or partially. Recently, Himachal Pradesh reported that it has fully vaccinated 100 per cent of its adults and eligible population. It means that they have the antibodies against the virus in the body which will protect these people and therefore even if infection occurs, the severity is expected to be mild which may not require hospitalisation.In some cases, especially those who are co-morbid or those who have taken the last shot of the vaccine six months or before may be vulnerable to develop some complexity. In such cases, the government can roll out the plan for preferentially injecting the third shot or booster doses to protect them and decrease the overall caseload at the peak. Also, if feasible, the vaccination of children aged 18 or below can be rolled out at the earliest. It should not be forgotten that more than 44 crore children aged 18 or less are still not vaccinated and therefore are prone to contract the infection if it spreads.It is likely that due to frequent mutations and also because people have developed antibodies against the coronavirus either through infection or vaccination, the virus will slowly weaken and fade out or even if present, it will be in the form of seasonal flu which can be tackled through seasonal and voluntary flu vaccines like other regular flu vaccines available and taken annually.In the beginning of 2020, when the virus entered the human health landscape, we did not know this enemy enough and had little knowledge how to protect ourselves except cleaning our hands frequently, keeping distance between people and wearing a mask. But two years down the line and two deadly waves later, we know much about it. We have in our arsenal now several vaccines (globally, nearly eight), including those for even children, available to us in addition to a few effective treatment strategies to tackle it.The history of pandemics, for example that of the Spanish flu of the 20th century, suggests that the third wave is expected to be less intense, and subsequently it may evanesce away from the mainstream. It is time not to fear the virus or spread a pandemic of misinformation, but it’s time to be vigilant and take all the precautions we have been taking for the past nearly two years and see this pandemic declared over soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/omicron-is-about-lessons-learnt-from-past-waves-348086
09-12-2021||---||Railways’ role in moving troops, supplies||WHILE much has been written about the Indian armed forces’ stellar victory in 1971, the contribution of the Railways to enable the Army to fight effectively has not been highlighted. The Indian Railways (IR) forms a part of the armed forces’ logistics set-up. And as students of military history know, keeping the armies supplied is an essential ingredient to tilting the balance in favour of the fighting force. American General Omar Bradley famously put it as: “Amateurs talk strategy, professionals talk logistics.”The IR helps move troops, heavy equipment like tanks and guns, and supplies during peace and war. It does all this through the Mil Rail, an organisation based in the Sena Bhavan and headed by a joint secretary-level officer of the Railways. While the IR moves troops and equipment up to the border, the Indian Railways Engineering Territorial Army (TA) battalions keep troops in the front line supplied.Ninety per cent of the TA battalion comprises railwaymen who have been trained to be soldiers and don the Army uniform. The rest are personnel of the regular Indian Army. In 1971, these TA battalions played a stellar role in keeping the troops supplied even under fire.The story of 1033 Railway Engineering TA battalion is inspiring. The rapid advance of the Indian Army in the Barmer sector created a logistical nightmare. The supply lines got longer and supplies, including water and ammunition, started running out by the hour. There being no road in the desert for moving trucks, supply by train become an imperative.The Railway TA battalion 1033, based in Ajmer, was activated and tasked with relinking the Indian and Pakistani railway systems, which had been uprooted in the 1965 conflict, and operate a train in the desert over 40 km into the Pakistan territory. The battalion restored the missing link in one day and the first train carrying water and other supplies steamed into Khokhrapar the next day.And the task did not end there as the supplies had to be moved further 30 km to where the fighting was raging. This was no easy task as the retreating Pakistan army had damaged the culverts and the railway line at parts. The battalion, under the guidance of the corps of engineers, rebuilt the culverts and restored the damaged lines and brought supplies to the troops.The Pakistan Air Force constantly bombed and strafed and set on fire an ammunition dump. The battalion, realising that the planes were not likely to return before dawn, moved a train in complete darkness deep into the Pakistan territory and stopped at a station just behind the front line. It so happened that by the time the train was unloaded, dawn broke and with it came the planes strafing and bombing the train.Durga Shankar, the train driver, did not abandon the train even though his hands were burnt by a napalm bomb. Using his elbows, he pushed the train to Khokhrapar, saving it from being destroyed. For this act of bravery, he was awarded the Vir Chakra —the first and perhaps the only person till date of a TA unit to be so decorated. The battalion continued to function even though it was constantly bombed and strafed.In addition, the Commanding Officer, Lt Col ML Khanna, and Captain Janardan were awarded the Vishisht Seva Medals (VSMs) — Lt Col Khanna for his leadership of a very successful campaign and Captain Janardan for restoring the line between Munabao, the last station on the Indian side, and Parche-ji-Veri, 32 km in Pakistan, while being regularly strafed by Pakistani planes. Captain Janardan’s staff — Lt NM Bhatnagar and Sub Tandon — were Mentioned in Dispatches (MID). Lt NC Sinha was MID for his role in separating wagons loaded with ammunition from the burning wagons by uncoupling them at great personal risk.They were all railwaymen who were also excellent soldiers.This is just the story of one Railway TA battalion. Other TA battalions on the Eastern sector also did a marvellous job of not only keeping the troops supplied but also moving PoWs.It would be appropriate to mention something about the contribution of the IR in the troop build-up leading to the war and the kind of challenges it faced. This is the story of how engineers of the NE and the NF Railways built a 666-metre-long pile bridge in one and half months so that the troop build-up could continue.In the monsoons, the Ganga in Bihar rises and the north bank becomes an ocean of sorts as it is a floodplain. Near Mansi, in Bihar, the river had breached both the railway and road embankments, effectively cutting off communication to the NE. It was impossible to rebuild the embankment without the waters receding. There was, thus, no alternative but to build a wooden pile bridge. Two bridge companies working from opposite ends started driving the piles and completed the 666-m bridge in the record time of one and a half months, working 24x7 in the rain.The team was ably led by Divisional Engineer RK Singh, who rose to the rank of Chairman, Railway Board. For this, the Railways was highly commended by the Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/railways-role-in-moving-troops-supplies-348085
09-12-2021||---||Little support for MSP||IN the light of the farmers’ demand for according a legal sanctity to Minimum Support Price (MSP), a question that is being repeatedly asked is whether any such move will violate the World Trade Organisation (WTO) provisions.If India needs ‘Peace Clause’ to build food and nutritional security, a guaranteed MSP is the price shield that Indian farmers need to protect their livelihoods.This assumes importance, given the continuous tirade by some of the rich developed countries, led by the US, the EU and Canada, blaming India for breaching the subsidy limits. While India maintains that its MSP operations and the public stockholding for food and livelihood security is WTO compliant, this hasn’t deprived some member countries from raking up this contentious issue time and again. With developed countries eyeing a significant proportion of the huge market that is available, given an estimated 80-million plus nutritionally-deficit population in India, which is covered under the National Food Security Act, the issue of restricting public stockholding so as to allow for subsidised imports has always been on the agenda.Even though the 12th Ministerial Conference, which was scheduled to be held at Geneva from November 30 to December 3, has been postponed after Switzerland imposed travel restriction following the outbreak of Omicron, the new virus variant, the issue was hotly debated in the run-up, leading to the preparation of the final draft for the negotiations. Although it didn’t find place in the final draft, some countries had even gone to the extent of vaguely proposing that procurement of ‘traditional staple food crops’ be restricted to 15 per cent of the total production. If this had found approval, and given India’s dismal ranking at 101 among 116 countries on the Global Hunger Index 2021, the severe implications any such move would have on ensuring food and nutritional security were certainly worrisome.It was at the Bali WTO Ministerial Conference in 2013 that developing countries had managed to wrest an interim ‘Peace Clause’ protection that acted as a safeguard for countries like India. While developing countries were expected to cap the subsidy support through administered prices at 10 per cent of the product-specific value, called de minimis support, for the rich countries, the permissible limit (de minimis) allowed is 5 per cent. Since the US, the EU and other members of the Cairns Group (a group of exporting countries) had been continuously raising the issue of India exceeding the outer limits in case of wheat and rice, calling it as trade distorting, the G-33 Group (a group of 47 developing countries) are asking for a permanent solution for the challenge they collectively face on meeting the food, livelihood and nutritional security of the small holders as well as the nutritionally poor.In 2018-19, taking resort to the clause that protects developing countries from breaching the permissible limit, India had informed the WTO that it had crossed the de minimis ceiling in case of rice. The clause protects developing countries from being drawn into any dispute, even if it exceeds the subsidy ceiling. This is what infuriates developed countries, including the Cairns Group, which is keen that the clause protection is taken away. The other objection by the developed countries is the upheaval subsidised grains cause to the global trade. With the G-33 agreeing not to export any quantity from the procured food stocks, at least the issue of procurements causing trade distortions has been put to rest.While in 2018, India and China had put up a joint proposal before the WTO, asking for eliminating the $160 billion worth of trade distorting subsidies the rich countries provide using the Aggregate Measure of Support (AMS) provisions, more recently, a fresh submission by India, in September 2021, calls for reducing distortions in global agricultural trade. Pointing to how asymmetrical trade rules have tilted the balance against the developing countries, India categorically states: ‘Seven members — the EU, Japan, the US, Russian Federation, Switzerland, Canada and Norway — have more than 96 per cent of the Final Bound Aggregate Measure of Support (FBAMS) global entitlement, while the remaining member countries have less than 4 per cent.’ Simply put, it means the big players are the biggest violators of the farm subsidy regime, but spare no effort in pointing to the developing countries.In the US and Canada, the dairy sector alone received more than 50 per cent of the product-specific support over the period. Very cleverly, the product-specific support is now being disbursed among non-product specific support to show how questionable subsidies are being brought down in some important commercial trading activities. For instance, dairy and sugar together had a share of 91 per cent in product-specific support in the US in 1995. It declined to 37 per cent in 2001, and further dipped to 18 per cent in 2014. But while the share of dairy and sugar declined progressively, the share of cotton and corn increased from 2 per cent in 1995 to 28 per cent in 2001, and then to 40 per cent in 2014. Similarly in the EU, the share of butter, skimmed milk powder and wheat has increased from 17 per cent in 1995 to 78 per cent in 2010.While the developed countries accuse India of breaching the subsidy limit on rice, wheat, sugar and cotton, a look at their own subsidy support tells you how unfair the trade regime has been. While India’s subsidy support for rice now exceeds the permissible limit of 10 per cent, the US gives 82 per cent product-specific support on rice, and the EU provides 66 per cent, a flagrant violation of the WTO norms. Similarly, while the US subsidy support for sugar is 66 per cent, the EU is giving twice as much — 120 per cent. A careful look at the entire range of trade distorting subsidies the rich countries provide shows how massive subsidies in commercially important commodities (and also processed foods) results in lowering the international prices. It’s not competitiveness but subsidies that determine the international prices.If ‘Peace Clause’ is a protection that India needs to build food and nutritional security, a guaranteed MSP is the price shield that Indian farmers need to protect their livelihoods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/little-support-for-msp-348084
