10-12-2021||The Modi-Shah dispensation||Tale of an adventure||The poll scene in Punjab is confusing. Even a seasoned political pundit will hesitate to make a prediction. This time, the farmers are holding their cards close to their chest. I have known Sarbdeep from the first day he and Parvinder Singh Pasricha reported for duty in the IGP’s office in Mumbai. They were the only two probationers allotted to Maharashtra that year, and it so happened that they both hailed from Punjab and both were Sikhs.Parvinder went on to specialise in traffic management. He spent most of his working life in Mumbai and more than half of that time he was involved in the smooth flow of traffic through the city’s three main arterial roads. He did it so well that people ‘promoted’ him to ‘Commissioner Traffic’, three steps up from the Deputy Commissioner (equivalent to SP in the district) rank he then held. Whenever he was shifted out of the city to learn grassroots policing, successive governments would bring him back to his first and only love.Sarbdeep, on the other hand, established himself as a good leader of men. In Pune, where he was posted as a DCP, he made quite a difference! Our paths crossed many years later in Punjab, when I headed the Punjab Police for two years in 1986. He was SP, Amritsar, easily the most important district in the state, when I took over the reins of the force in Chandigarh.Since I knew him from his years in Maharashtra, it was but natural that his briefings about the terrorist problem were valued by me. A cautionary note was struck by the CM, Surjit Singh Barnala, who told me that he was a distant relative, but all that he conveyed to me needed to be cross-checked. Though the CM was a politician, there was an innate goodness in him that one could discern. I always felt that the goodness emanated from his strong religious beliefs.I cannot say who will gain from the marriage of convenience between my young friend (he was comparatively young when I last met him at a hospital in Mumbai where he was undergoing a major surgery) and the most powerful party that now straddles the political stage in India. The BJP works to a plan. The induction of Sarbdeep and other Sikhs into the party is part of the plan. Will both gain or just one of the two, and, in that case, which one?The electoral scene in Punjab is presently very confusing. The Congress, which had an edge a few months ago, is struggling because of the antics of its own party president, who insists on blowing hot and cold and keeping his party’s CM on perpetual edge. Sarbdeep used to be helped by the Congress whenever he was in need of a push, like when he wanted a deputation to Punjab, or later to the CRPF so that he could stay on in Punjab, or when he thought he should be honoured with Padma Shri, or when he needed to be repatriated to his parent cadre of Maharashtra to avoid the wrath of the Akali Dal and its CM, Parkash Singh Badal.That last mentioned time was close! The state he had shunned for greener pastures received him with open arms because of the then PM Manmohan Singh’s intervention. He even got a shot at the state police’s top job before he retired. I would have thought that out of pure gratitude he would have gravitated to the Congress, if a political career was what he craved. Obviously, he had calculated differently. The BJP could install him as Lt Governor, just like it did Kiran Bedi, after she lost the Delhi elections.My friend Sarbdeep is an ambitious man. And he usually succeeds in getting what he wants! My own philosophy is tangentially different from his. I believe that if you do not want to be stung you must abjure ambition. Then nothing can sting you. Nothing can make you morose and unhappy!Sarbdeep’s progress in his new avatar of a political leader will depend now on the whims of the electorate. Who will the people favour? At present one cannot tell. The farmer’s vote is eagerly anticipated. Which way will it go? To the Congress? To the AAP which has made solid inroads into the state in the past few years? To the new party of Capt Amarinder Singh who does not appear to have got off the block as yet? Only if the Captain starts running will he be able to judge whether he can make up ground. He is probably waiting for the disgruntled who have not been favoured with tickets. That, in my unschooled view, would be too late. He should start fishing now, like the BJP has been doing and Mamata is now doing in Tripura and Goa. If he delays, any future Punjab Lok Congress-BJP government will assign to him a junior role, like the Shiv-Sena was assigned in Maharashtra after it won fewer seats than the BJP.I would have thought that the Akali Dal would start climbing out of the pit in which it had fallen after the stink over drug proliferation started evaporating. Or does the charge still linger in people’s mind? Farmers who constituted its support base seem to have abandoned the party, even though the Akalis have exited the NDA. The farmers are yet to decide their electoral preference, but it looks as if the Akali Dal may not be the preferred choice.The scenario is confusing. Even a seasoned political pundit will hesitate to make a prediction. The farmers are holding their cards close to their chest. Till they decide, all the adventurous souls, like my friend Sarbdeep, will have to keep their fingers crossed. Sarbdeep has many contacts amongst the farmers also, but this time individual farmers may not venture to puncture the unity they as a body have achieved as a result of their year-long agitation. BJP bigwigs had hurled unkind, in fact, false invectives against them during the standoff. It may be too soon to forget. Worse, it may not be possible for the BJP’s propaganda machine to deny that their leader had even uttered such falsehoods!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tale-of-an-adventure-348374
10-12-2021||Former Deputy Chief||Scourge of Pak tanks in the Battle of Chhamb||In the 1965 Indo-Pak war, the Pakistan Army had deployed American Cobra anti-tank guided missiles (ATGM) effectively against the Indian tanks as India did not possess any ATGMs to counter them. After the war, it was decided to raise two ATGM battalions. In February 1968, 12 Guards was raised as the first battalion. The battalion was fully motorised with about 75 Willys Jeeps and 40 assorted vehicles. It was equipped with ENTAC-58 anti-tank guided missiles. These missiles could destroy a tank at a distance of 2,000 metres and outranged the existing Pakistani tanks. The ENTAC-58 missiles were small and could be fired from a specially fitted firing platform on the jeep. The battalion had also attained the capability to carry the missiles on the man-pack basis for extended distances and then firing the missile by anchoring it on the ground. This innovation was to prove a blessing during the war.The battalion had three ATGM companies. During the war, Charlie Company 12 Guards was deployed in Chhamb and the other two far separated in the Jammu and Punjab sectors. Charlie Company in Chhamb was commanded by Major RC Bhatia. It had three platoons each having three sections carrying 30 missiles combined. Each platoon when deployed could cover a frontage of 2 km if wide open ground was available.The Chhamb sector was divided by the Munnawar Tawi river running from north to south. In winter, the river is generally fordable. It has two good crossing places — Chhamb and Dhar. 191 Infantry Brigade, a part of 10 Infantry Division, was deployed facing Pakistan on the Indo-Pak boundary west of the river. The rest of the division was located east of river in areas of Pallanwala, Jaurian and Akhnoor. An offensive into Pakistan by own 10 Infantry Division from Chhamb was expected. Pakistan has always been vulnerable to an offensive from the Chhamb sector since it leads to cutting off lines of communication from Kharian cantonment, Gujranwala and Lahore.After a reconnaissance of Chhamb, Major Bhatia realised that the sector had restricted fields of fire due to broken ground and sarkanda (cane) growth and, as such, an ATGM platoon could not be deployed with its three sections in a classical fashion covering a frontage of 2 km each. Reaching an out-of-the-box solution, he ordered the platoons to deploy each section independently to cover the restricted arc of fire. They were to be manoeuvred by the platoon commander via radio communications. Number 7 & 8 ATGM platoons were deployed at Munnawar and Bhurejal, respectively, in the areas defended by 5 Assam and 4/11 Gorkha Rifles. Number 9 platoon was deployed at the Dhar crossing. As per intelligence information from R&AW, no major deployment of the Pakistan Army had been seen opposite Chhamb and no Pakistan offensive was to be expected. Many gaps had been left in own minefields laid on the border to enable own offensive of the 10 Infantry Division into Pakistan.On December 3, about 10 tanks were spotted under camouflage nets across Bhurejal close to the border. Major General Jaswant Singh, GOC, 10 Infantry Division, directed Major Bhatia to destroy these tanks on December 4 morning by ATGMs if these did not move back from close to the border. The 7 platoon, commanded by Capt KK Puri, was tasked to destroy these tanks the next morning. However, Pakistani aircraft carried out pre-emptive attacks on a number of Indian airfields at about 1800 hours on December 3 itself. Heavy shelling commenced at 2100 hours in the sector. A pre-emptive Pakistani offensive had been in the offing. The intelligence had again failed us.On December 4, the enemy started closing in on 5 Assam Battalion at Bhurejal with infantry and tanks under heavy shelling on the battalion positions. Lt Bikram Singh, platoon commander of 8 ATGM Commander, ordered Lance Naik Nar Bahadur Chhetri to fire the missile. In quick succession, the Lance Naik fired two missiles and destroyed two tanks.This caused caution among the Pakistan armour (tank) commanders and their tanks quickly disengaged. The attack of Pakistani infantry, now denied of its tank support, was beaten back by the valiant action of 5 Assam. For his action of destroying two Pakistani tanks and three more subsequently, Chhetri would be awarded the MVC.Simultaneously, the 7 ATGM platoon commanded by Capt KK Puri destroyed a Pakistani observation tower and a jeep mounted with recoilless gun. The tower was being used by the enemy to direct fire into defences of 4/1 Gorkha Rifles.Simultaneously, threat, along with enemy tanks, was also building up on 5 Sikh location in the north on December 4. Major Bhatia ordered 9 Platoon, commanded by Lt Ravi Batra at Dhar Crossing, to cross the river and move to the 5 Sikh location. Lt Batra, under heavy shelling, raced to the location with his missile mounted jeeps. On reaching the battalion, it was found that due to the broken nature of ground and the minefield in front the missile, the jeeps could not close in on the enemy tanks. He immediately got four missiles ready in the man-pack mode and was guided by Lt Multani of 5 Sikh through a 3-ft-wide infantry safe lane through the minefield, with the ATGM platoon carrying four 30-kg missiles on a man-pack basis. After crossing the minefield, two missiles were fired by Hav Pilot Khazan Singh and two tanks were destroyed.Once again, the enemy tanks pulled back and their infantry was devoid of the tank support. The attack was beaten back by 5 Sikh despite the superiority of the enemy manifold in numbers. Hav Pilot Khazan Singh would get the Vir Chakra for destroying two tanks under heavy enemy fire and two more later.On December 5, Lt Bikram Singh of the 8 ATGM platoon at Bhurejal was wounded due to heavy shelling and replaced by 2/Lt PK Gupta. The platoon under 2/Lt Gupta was to create history by destroying nine more tanks during the next five days and he was to be conferred with Sena Medal.On the morning of December 10, about seven tanks appeared out of the sarkanda growth at the Dhar crossing and charged towards B Company of 9 Jat to maul it and enlarge the bridgehead. Lt Ravi Batra’s 9 ATGM Platoon unleashed its missiles and destroyed four tanks. Thereafter, the enemy lost the will to enlarge the bridgehead. Lt Ravi Batra was wounded in the battle and evacuated. The enemy bridgehead was successfully counter-attacked on the night of December 10-11, with Lt Gen Sartaj Singh, GOC, 15 Corps, overseeing the counter-attack. The bridgehead was destroyed.During the battle of Chhamb, Charlie Company 12 Guards became the scourge of Pakistan tank commanders and destroyed 17 tanks and one jeep mounted with a recoil-less gun. The Company was awarded one Maha Vir Chakra, a Vir Chakra, a Sena Medal, one Mentioned in Despatches and Theatre Honour Chhamb. In the annals of warfare, it is a rare achievement for a small company-level force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/scourge-of-pak-tanks-in-the-battle-of-chhamb-348370
10-12-2021||Ex-Commander||General Rawat's rich legacy will live on||Gen Bipin Rawat passed into the annals of history on December 8. As the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and a former Army Chief, he epitomised the change in thinking and structuring of the armed forces which he was spearheading. The deeply saddening demise of the nation’s first CDS is a great tragedy, but it shall not stall the process of modernisation and jointness of the three services which he set in motion. Having known the man both personally and professionally, I would like to reflect on his many stellar qualities and the legacy he leaves behind.Gen Rawat, son of Lt Gen Laxman Singh Rawat, a former Deputy Chief of Army Staff, carved out a brilliant career in uniform, starting out with the Sword of Honour, given to the best all round Gentleman Cadet at the time of commissioning from the Indian Military Academy. Having distinguished himself in all the important courses of training and acquiring educational qualifications up to the doctoral level, Bipin Rawat exhibited his leadership and military mettle while commanding Army formations in some of the most difficult and operationally challenging areas. He also commanded an Indian brigade group in Congo as part of the UN forces, under trying conditions. What made him stand out during these tenures was his uncanny ability to grasp any situation and get on top of it, a remarkable attribute for any leader of men.Talking about his generalship at higher levels, he was a man who could take the call when required and back his decisions to the hilt. Having commanded a formation directly under him, one can vouch for his unqualified support and decisive commitment, once he was convinced of the correctness of the chosen path. A remarkable attribute was the focused attention with which he would hear any proposal or presentation before giving out his mind in double quick time. Having soldiered in all the tough terrains on our borders, his heart was always with the troops and field commanders in the remotest areas.Gen Rawat came to the Army HQ as the Vice Chief of the Army in September 2016 and one saw an immediate change in the way that important office functioned. His accessibility for all subordinates and his passionate approach to resolving all nettlesome issues made a huge difference. I was heading the Directorate General of Perspective Planning and distinctly recall his positive interventions with a futuristic vision while finalising perspective plans. While he had tremendous patience and mostly an affable demeanour, one could not put issues past him without a very well-informed scrutiny.The defining moment after he took over the mantle of the Army Chief was the customary media interaction at the Manekshaw Auditorium in January 2017. It was a very candid interaction but more than that it became amply clear that here was an Army Chief who was firm in his convictions, would not pull his punches when required and would definitely not shy away from speaking his mind in a forthright and erudite manner. His visionary qualities were always at the fore as he shaped and guided the restructuring and modernisation of the Army.Here was also a Chief who would not hesitate to call a spade a spade and back the reforms needed for eradicating any wrong practices that unscrupulous individuals may indulge in. While a high sense of probity is expected in any person holding that exalted office, what became starkly clear to all was his zero tolerance of any form of moral or financial turpitude. This went a long way in enhancing the correct character traits expected in the forces. This may even have made him unpopular with disgruntled elements, both serving and retired, and who would use the anonymity of social media platforms to vent their misplaced ire. However, Rawat was not the man to be affected by such propaganda.Under Gen Rawat’s watch, I was assigned to command the Sikkim-based 33 Corps while the Doklam crisis was festering. True to his style, he was crisp and lucid in telling me: “You will have to mount a running horse.” His unspoken words, conveyed through his body language, were: “You have my confidence.” These were the defining traits which made Gen Rawat not only a soldier’s General but also a commander’s General! It was here that I saw what he was capable of while giving unambiguous directions to field formation commanders and then backing them to the hilt.The General could browbeat any person with a tirade of searching and pointed questions while discussing important military matters, whether operational or administrative. Once convinced, his decisions would be crystal clear with the organisational interests being at the forefront.Destiny had more in store for him as he assumed the high office of India’s first CDS. Given his career graph and qualities of head and heart, no one would have been better suited to hold this onerous appointment. Here again, Gen Rawat got to grips with the challenges and tasks ahead of him. His missionary zeal in structuring the theaterisation model for the armed forces, was the need of the hour and in the past two years of his helmsmanship of the services, much ground has been covered in this direction. It’s a matter of short time now before the unified tri-services commands of the Army, Navy and the Air Force will be a reality and the legacy of Gen Rawat will live on through them.India has lost a great soldier and its senior-most military commander, but his story will continue to remain a source of motivation and his vision will manifest itself in a modernised structure of the armed forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/general-rawats-rich-legacy-will-live-on-348372
