11-12-2021||---||China, Pak want to keep J-K border relevant||The world covets the beauty of demography and geography. Understandably, the beauty of a landlocked Kashmir was coveted and conquered by Akbar in 1586 and Ranjit Singh in 1819. Nevertheless, as the latter’s death triggered a nasty succession war in 1839, leading to a greedy and opportunistic intervention by the British East India Company and the beauty of Kashmir’s geography and its beautiful demography, inexorably succumbed to a bi-weekly change of hands.By March 9, 1846, the Treaty of Lahore between the British government and Lahore State (founded in 1799 by Ranjit Singh), ceded to London “all hilly or mountainous country, situated eastwards of the river Indus and westward of the river Ravee, including Chamba and excluding Lahaul.” In effect, this was the subjugated Kashmir under the erstwhile Punjabi kingdom.However, Kashmir again changed hands on March 16, 1846 with the Treaty of Amritsar when the British government transferred and made over “forever in independent possession, to Maharaja Golab Singh”, thereby creating a spacious “buffer zone” between the competing and expanding empires of Moscow, Beijing and London with the sole aim of coveting the beauty of geography to turn into a practising field of gunnery.Thus, from March 1846 to June 1947, Kashmir stood as semi-independent, autonomous vassal state with suzerainty, under sovereign white Christian traders till 1858, and thereafter, their legislators masterminding ops from more than 8,000 kilometres away.An unexpected windfall, however, led to the independence of Kashmir on June 3, 1947 without asking as British paramountcy over 560 plus princely states of India (including Kashmir) lapsed, thereby ending the 101 year semi-subservient, suzerain shelf life of Kashmir.Subsequent events moved so fast that the Maharaja of Kashmir Hari Singh was in a quandary as his independence was compellingly terminated, after being faced with the “compulsory” option to join either of the two new independent states of India and Pakistan. The Maharaja’s dithering nevertheless exposed the nasty side of Jinnah’s unethical and unbridled greed for the “beautiful geography” of Kashmir and his naked war crime-like invasion of independent Kashmir. Consequently, Kashmir joined India through the legal route.In one peaceful stroke, the map of Kashmir became the map of India. Being integrated, it was now an integral and inviolable part of Indian sovereignty, territory and geography, effective October 26-27, 1947. It must nevertheless be remembered that Kashmir’s merger with India was not only based on the British professed policy of “Lapse of paramountcy”, but supplemented by the (September 7, 1939) Constitution of Kashmir, section 5 of which empowered the Maharaja to do what he did while merging with India.A whole new issue began in Indian boundary. The boundary or border of India became the target of the two neighbours, Pakistan and China. For the purpose of this essay, however, let’s confine ourselves to China only, because Pakistan already is too familiar an aggressor, and war crime culprit in Kashmir, being in illegal possession of what Islamabad’s cunningly crafted euphemism refers to it as “Azad Kashmir”.The encouraging news for India, however, was that an independent Kashmir joined with a defined and definite boundary as is wont for any independent country. Instantly thus, all past claims and counter-claims on the Kashmir boundary/border on October 26/27, 1947 became void ab initio. What emerged valid and legal was the document of “Instrument of accession” to India wherein it was categorically and unequivocally scripted: “I Shriman Indar Mahandar Rajrajeshwar Maharajadhiraj Shri Hari Singhji Jammu Kashmir Naresh tatha Tibbet adi Deshadhipathi, ruler of Jammu and Kashmir State, in exercise of my sovereignty in and over my said State, do hereby execute this my Instrument of Accession...”Clearly, a part of Tibbet/Tibet was part of the independent state of Jammu and Kashmir in 1947, thereby making it an Indian territory. Which part was that? Will the Communist Party of China (CPC) which was nowhere near the vicinity, being more than 3,000 kilometres away from the terrain/border or boundary of India in October 1947, explain as to which human or Han communist has ever succeeded in unscrambling a scrambled egg.The reality is, successive Han dictators of the CPC have always shown their ignorance and lamentable lack of knowledge of geography, border, boundary and norms of international law, diplomatic etiquette and sophistication owing to theirs being the Middle Kingdom originating from heaven. Understandably, no heaven-born ruler can accept or follow the law, norms and convention created by non-heaven born lesser mortals. The hatred for foreign and foreigners thus runs deep in the DNA of the Dragon and its non-conformist ideology of expansion, suppression and defiance of law, logic and rationalism.Just consider. Every sovereign country’s border/boundary needs to be respected and not rebuffed or repulsed. A sovereign East Germany merged with an independent West Germany. North Vietnam joined South Vietnam. The two Yemen became one geography, and each one of them had a boundary. By the same logic, independent Kashmir too had a shared boundary with independent Tibet which now is India’s boundary.Ironically, today’s Indian boundary is being disputed and aggressed by the CPC after violating all canons of international law, decency and diplomacy, by crushing the sovereignty of Tibet through the brute force of CPC-controlled People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Hence, the recurring cacophonic claim of CPC dictator Xi that “not an inch of territory would be ceded” sounds extraordinarily hollow, and hallucinatory. Did the Chinese rulers ever try to create a bona fide, stable boundary in accordance with mutuality? Isn’t it a fact that the first 20th century China maps were painstakingly drawn in 1907 by the centenary celebrating Protestant missionary effort in China to publish a new atlas of the Chinese empire?In fact, an attitude like this on the part of the Chinese empire (which includes the present CPC empire), is understandable. Because, an empire with stable and peaceful boundary denotes weakness as it restricts future land grabbing mission. The present Xi-ruled territory too is no exception. The boundary with India can neither be recognised nor resolved. The pot must be kept at the minimum boiling point, short of full-fledged conflagratory kinetics, like that of Pakistani army General and dictator Zia-ul-Haq’s Afghan policy from 1979 to 1988. The Indian boundary must be kept relevant as political punching bag; to be used or abused in accordance with the weather vane for milking Delhi to create a wealthy Dragon, to keep Delhi at bay from development economics and put its international profile in the dock. It’s got to be Dragon having its way and Delhi drugged into remote highway.Seen thus, one can understand as to how and why the settled and well demarcated boundary of India’s Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh can’t be resolved or respected by the Dragon’s CPC dictators. India with a peaceful, stable and well defined boundary? No way! Not acceptable to the twin musketeers of the Islamabad Army-ISI and Beijing’s CPC-PLA unholy alliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-pak-want-to-keep-j-k-border-relevant-348849
11-12-2021||---||Inquiry may pinpoint reasons for Mi-17 crash||The unfortunate Mi-17 V5 chopper crash over Coonoor brings an all too familiar sense of déjà vu for a military aviator like me with decades of aviation experience under his belt. Whilst this particular accident would grab international eyeballs for other reasons, every IAF accident leaves a mark of its own poignancy, personal travails and sorrow. But then as a fighting service, the soldiers learn to bash on regardless and the professionalism reinforces human emotions.The fact that most personalities involved, including from the host service and even the officer deputed to undertake the Court of Inquiry are very much known to this author makes it even more difficult to look at the happenstance in a balanced manner. As I picked up strands of the initial reportage in my super active National Defence Academy coursemates’ WhatsApp group, the coincidence of the 109 Helicopter Unit at Sulur (from which the particular aircraft came) heading for a golden anniversary celebration soon and some of my friends wishing to attend it, was not lost on me.It is indeed ironic that the first human reaction that follows an air accident in the IAF — very sadly though — is to hope that one did not personally know the victims. But then, that is just the natural human angle bit and does not in any way reduce the gravity of the tragedy.This accident immediately brought to mind another IAF accident at the very same location. I was undergoing the Defence Services Staff College course at Wellington around 1987-88 (where indeed General Rawat and his entourage were headed) and heard the horrific clap of an IAF Jaguar crash right across our residential area in Gorkha Hills and abutting the Wellington Gymkhana. It was a holiday and the pilot who tragically succumbed was a known and respected colleague. He was of course indulging in what the flyboys traditionally call “beating up” (as some of my course- mates were perhaps buddies of his), and apparently made a wrong call whilst pulling out of a dive, crashing perhaps onto the same hill where the General’s chopper came to grief. But then, life in the Air Force teaches you to face such tragic incidents stoically, especially when one happens to be in a position of authority and responsibility, like the Commanding Officer of the squadron or unit and the morale of the other youngsters in your flying unit is involved.The standard recourse in the IAF is to meet over a drink in the evening and get airborne as early as possible to reinforce confidence levels amongst the aviators. This, of course, was a tradition in the Air Force and when the accident is in the civil domain, the sorrow doesn’t diminish one bit but the systemic throwback appears kind of muted unlike what happens in a fighting unit. As an old fogey who managed to reach the ubiquitous “old and bold” category in military aviation, one then tends to recall air accidents one has had occasion to witness or hear about, up close with work colleagues. The reasons for such serious accidents vary from technical defects to human error, environmental and aeromedical aspects, or in rare cases, remaining “unresolved”. Flying indiscipline (such as the one mentioned above ) or CFIT (Controlled Flight Into Terrain) are other possible, rare causes of air accidents in the military or civilian domains.The service itself has a very proper and systemic method of inquiries, overseen by a Directorate of Flight Safety and its agencies at Air Command and Flying Station levels. After all, assets and human lives are involved and the IAF owes it to the nation to do a professional job of it, this coming from one’s own experience in conduct of such Courts of Inquiry into some fatal and other accidents over a three-decade service tenure.The main difference between the civil and defence catastrophic air accidents is mostly in the number of casualties, mainly on account of the number of crew and passengers involved and the likely collateral damage on the ground. And of course, the peculiar nature of defence tasks and operations constitutes a risk and demand professional acumen of an even higher order. Though individual prowess cannot be discounted, especially whilst the recovery of a stricken bird, such as the by now famous landing here in the Hudson of a flamed out airliner that lost engine power post a critical seagull ingestion right after take-off from New York’s La Guardia airport. Around 155 lives were saved by this heroic act. The Court of Inquiry itself is a highly involved and time consuming process (as the well made Hollywood movie Miracle on the Hudson into Captain Sully’s fantastic feat shows), the main intent being to ensure that similar accidents do not recur.Modern aircraft have state-of-the art equipment that aid in the reconstruction of flight paths just prior to the incident or accident, such as cockpit voice recorders and “black boxes” that capture an entire slew of flying parameters, including engine settings, flight parameters such as height, speed and course and with crew conversations superimposed on them.Thus inquiries, especially these days, whether done by the Accident Investigation Board in the USA’s FAA, NTSB or any other professional flying agency, tend to be a highly introspective affair involving the operators, manufacturers and even witnesses and bystanders. In fact, even as the inquiry is in progress and certain aspects emerge, the authorities pass on maintenance and operating instructions to the field simultaneously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/inquiry-may-pinpoint-reasons-for-mi-17-crash-348851
11-12-2021||---||As unequal as 70 years ago||When India got rid of the Raj, 74 years ago, we were known as the land of maharajas and beggars; a few super-rich with fabulous wealth on one side, and millions of extremely poor people on the other. Sovereign India set out to change that. But, seven decades later, it is clear that we have failed at this task. Estimates by the World Inequality Lab show that not only has India failed to provide a decent living to its poor, but also has failed to reduce the extreme inequality that existed when we became free. If anything, we are a more unequal nation today than ever before.It is only the top 10 per cent of Indians who have gained significantly from the three-pronged economic policies of liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation. The World Inequality Database tells us that in 1951, the share of national income of the top 1 per cent of Indians was the same as that of the bottom 40 per cent. Today, the richest 1 per cent earn as much as the bottom 67 per cent. In terms of share of total national wealth, in 1961 (the earliest year for which estimates are available), the richest 1 per cent owned as much as the poorest 50 per cent. Today, they have the same total wealth as the bottom 90 per cent of Indians.Of course, it is possible for everyone to get reasonably affluent while a few people get extremely rich. This would show up as increased inequality, even when the average income of a majority of people rises. And there can be no doubt that India’s poor have a much better standard of living today than what they had 70 years ago. But is that sufficient?One way to compare that is to see where we are in relation to the poorest 50 per cent of Americans, the world’s richest country. To do that, we need income data that adjusts not just for inflation across time, but for inflation across countries. Fortunately, the World Inequality Database gives us the required data. It shows that on an average, the poorest 50 per cent of Indians earn the same as what the poorest 50 per cent of Americans earned in 1932, right after the Great Depression devastated the US economy. So, in 70 years we have managed to raise our poor to the level to which America’s poor had crashed in the early 1930s.Perhaps, this is because, enamoured with the supposed successes of central planning in the Soviet Union, we dabbled with ‘socialism’ for far too long. India began with ‘Nehruvian socialism’ and turned even more left in the 1970s under Indira Gandhi. It was only when she returned to power in 1980 that she began to liberalise India’s economy under ‘Operation Forward’. This was the first time that the state actively looked to bring in ‘market reforms’ and provide easier access to consumer goods to a growing middle class. Rajiv Gandhi accelerated the pace of privatisation and India formally broke with socialism with the Rao-Manmohan reforms of 1991.During India’s ‘socialist’ phase, between 1951 and 1981, the economy grew at less than 4 per cent. The average real income of the poorest 50 per cent increased at just 2.2 per cent per year, while the top 1 per cent saw a marginal fall in their real income. Understandably, that meant the rich-poor gap reduced. By 1981, the top 1 per cent’s share of national income had dropped to the same as the bottom 28 per cent, compared to 40 per cent in 1951. But this was at the cost of a very slow real income growth. This changed during the reform period that has lasted for the past 40 years. India’s average GDP growth has jumped to nearly 6 per cent, and per adult GDP growth rate has doubled from 1.8 per cent per year in the socialist phase to 3.6 per cent in the ‘market reforms’ phase.But what happened to the poor? In the socialist period, the average real income of the poorest 30 per cent grew at 2.3 per cent per year. Since then, it has dropped to 2.2 per cent. That means the poorest of India’s poor lost out because of market reforms. Take the bottom 50 per cent; their real income grew at 2.2 per cent per year between 1951 and 1981, and the growth rate remained exactly the same over the past 40 years. In other words, the poorest 50 per cent of Indians gained nothing from the huge growth in India’s GDP.Those between the 60th and 90th percentile saw very marginal gains. In the socialist period, their average real income grew at 2.1 per cent per year, which increased to 2.3 per cent in the reforms period. It is only the top 10 per cent of Indians who have gained significantly from the three-pronged economic policies of liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation. And that too on a progressive scale. Those between the 90th and 99.5th percentile have seen a real income growth of between 2.7 and 5.6 per cent per year, while the richest 0.5 per cent achieved a real income growth of 6.7 per cent per year. Only the top 6 per cent of Indians have beaten the average per adult income growth rate of 3.6 per cent per year.There could be no greater indictment of India’s tryst with market reforms. Privatisation and liberalisation have not only not benefited 90 per cent of Indians, but also have led to a massive increase in inequality. Today, the richest 10 per cent own 67 per cent of India’s wealth, and they control most of our productive assets. This inequality is not only economic, but also affects the entire edifice of the Indian nation state. The top 1 per cent, and their ‘aides’ in the next 9 per cent, control all institutions, guide public policy and dominate public discourse. They own and run media houses, deciding what people should know. They influence voter-behaviour by manufacturing consent.Some would ask, if this were true, why don’t the remaining 90 per cent resist? The truth is that resistance is never automatic. Those who are at the receiving end of inequality often internalise the ideologies of the rich and perceive them to be the natural condition of things. That is the biggest victory of neoliberal pro-market economics, which is the ruling ideology of India’s ruling classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/as-unequal-as-70-years-ago-348853
