12-12-2021||AS I sit down to write this piece||When end comes||How does one explain the strange ways of destiny to grieving relatives? When so many old and terminally-ill people pray for an early release, why does death choose those who had so much to live for and contribute? The answer is contained in an old Jataka tale and still remains a mantra one repeats when faced with such a situation. An old woman, who had lost her only son, went weeping and distraught with grief to the Buddha and begged him to bring back her son to life. He looked at her with compassion and said, ‘Bring me a handful of grain from a house where there has been no death and I will do so.’ His message was clear: no one escapes death; some die early and some linger to a painful end but, in the end, go we all must.Our rituals and rites often appear meaningless as the mourning family goes through the 13-day cycle (for Hindus) or 40 days (for Muslims) of unending prayer and ceremonies. Yet, they are also a means of giving the grieving human heart the necessary pause that it needs to accept the finality of a loss. When you go to a holy place to immerse the ashes of a loved one, you see others whose loss may be even greater. An aged father who comes with the remains of his young son, or a young lad with the ashes of his parent — whose grief is greater, you ask yourself and the answer is exactly what the Buddha gave that weeping mother centuries ago.Perhaps, it is a blessing that no one knows when the end will come. This is why the wise exhort to live your life as if tomorrow is your last day on earth and leave with no regrets. All this is told to us by saints and seers but it is only as you cross a certain age that it strikes one as a good rule, and something that one must try to follow. Having said all that, I have to confess that there are many things that I promise myself every night I will do and promptly forget the next day. Among them is writing down the passwords of all our devices for each other. Also, ATM passwords and getting down to writing a will. I have tried to start giving away those clothes and stuff that I do not need to hoard any more, but why I have not taken stock of my own relationships and responsibilities is a question I do not like to answer. Somewhere, I feel, we all think that doing so is inviting doom. Let’s face it, we are all in denial about our own mortality. That is a fact no one can deny.Few couples I know have been fortunate to go together — Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife were a rare exception. Most of us will outlive our partners and although I often threaten my family about how they will miss me, I shudder to think what they will do when I am no longer there. On a lighter note, my husband will sleep on till noon without my pounding on his bedroom to wake up and have tea. The kitchen will become a mess and all my pots and pans will be filthy and never cleaned the way I like them. The domestic staff will become lazy and take days off without notice… the list is long and frightening. But then, I tell myself, if I’m not there, how does it matter to me? If the family is happy to sleep in unmade beds, drink endless cups of chai and coffee and eat unhealthy food, let them deal with the consequences.But what will they do to my precious pashmina shawls and Kanjeevaram silks? Or to those beautiful bedsheets and table linen that I bought like a magpie from abroad and squirrelled away to use on a special day, but never did? Hai, hai, as they say in Punjab, what a dreadful thought that they may never handwash these precious items but give them to the dhobi to ruin? I am sure that all old women think exactly like this and even now, whenever I break a house rule that my mum or mum-in-law had laid down, I look over my shoulder to see if they are around and watching.The truth is that our parents and habits never go away, they live eternally in us and then in our children and grandchildren. With this solace, I shall forget to write a will this week and postpone all such pesky lists for another day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-end-comes-349287
12-12-2021||THE supremo of the Nationalist Congress Party||Making a case for top civilian honours for entrepreneurs||Cyrus’ father was a horse breeder, a business that the son inherited. Vaccines are integral to horse breeding, so he set up the SII. Sensing an opportunity, in a remarkably short time, he made it the largest vaccine producer in the world. Forbes magazine has listed him as the fifth richest Indian, with a net worth of $19 billion (about Rs1,43,000 crore). With the emergence of the pandemic, the SII tied up with Astra Zeneca for the manufacture of Covishield vaccine. It was a masterstroke. Till date, 870 million doses of the vaccine have been administered, most of them in India. Millions more are in the pipeline. It has been a life-saver, and both Cyrus and his son, Adar, who is the CEO of SII, have been widely acclaimed. But somehow, not in India. Doesn’t Cyrus Poonawala merit the highest honour of the country, the Bharat Ratna? I certainly think so. Apart from bringing immense wealth to the nation, he has brought stature and respect in a field — healthcare — that India is not particularly renowned for.I was in Dubai recently and happened to meet an unusual, and hugely successful, entrepreneur, Pallikkara Abdulla Ibrahim Haji. A Keralite from Kasargod, he has got a diploma in automobile engineering. In 1966, he moved to Dubai to further his prospects and went into textiles. After making sufficient money, he decided that he wanted to give back to society, and set up an engineering college in Mangalore. By then, education had become his main passion. Realising that more Indians were coming to the Gulf for work, and that they wanted their children to go to English-medium schools with CBSE affiliation, in 2002 he set up the Gulf Asian English School in Sharjah (it currently has 6,000 students). Since then, he and his sons have established six more schools in the UAE, all with state-of-the-art infrastructure like smart classes. They all come under the PACE name. Yet, despite his far-sighted vision and enterprise, the Indian government has not thought it fit to even give a Padma Shri to Abdulla Haji.If Abdulla Haji is big in the educational field, Sunny Varkey, also a Keralite (he is a Syrian Christian), is only bigger. His parents first founded Our Own English High School in Dubai in 1968. After a stint as a banker and opening a trading company, Varkey joined his parents in helping run their school. From that modest start, he saw immense opportunities ahead. As local schools were only for native Arabs, there was a great need for the growing number of expatriates in the Gulf to have schools where they could send their children. So, he opened Indian, Pakistani and British schools, offering education under different curricula. In 2002, he established the Global Educational Management Systems (GEMS) company, and went global. GEMS now has schools in Britain, the USA, Kenya, Uganda, Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Singapore, Switzerland, and India, of course. Varkey is considered as the largest operator of schools, going from kindergarten to Class XII, in the world. In Dubai, it is said, only half-jokingly, that even the Sheikh has to seek an appointment with him well in advance. Yet, unbelievably, Sunny Varkey has been honoured with only a Padma Shri.Curious, I began to look a little more closely at Padma awards. Though the Modi government has brought a common touch to the awards by honouring unsung heroes on public recommendation, the awards are dominated by politicians and bureaucrats. There are a few businessmen and entrepreneurs, but there should be more of them. In the Kerala list of awards, to my amazement, there was VK Krishna Menon, the former Union Defence Minister. He is best remembered as the man who degraded the Indian armed forces, and who was largely responsible for our humiliating debacle against the Chinese in the 1962 Himalayan conflict. He got a Padma Vibhushan.Then, there is the strangest award of all, the Bharat Ratna, the top award, to Sachin Tendulkar. True, he is much loved and was arguably the best of his generation (admirers of West Indian Brian Lara might disagree). But cricket is played seriously by just a dozen countries. It cannot be described as an international sport. How about sports played by many more nations and more people? In badminton, for instance, Prakash Padukone and Pullela Gopichand won the All England Championships, widely considered the premier tournament in the world. They were genuine number ones in the world in a sport that is played in a great many countries. They both got a Padma Bhushan. Olympic gold medallist shooter Abhinav Bindra also got a Padma Bhushan. The two-time World Billiards champion, Wilson Jones, only got a Padma Shri. Something is not right in how the Padma awards are given.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/making-a-case-for-top-civilian-honours-for-entrepreneurs-349272
12-12-2021||THERE was an outpouring of emotions during our pilgrimage to ‘Battle Ground Zero’||Journey back to 1971 battleground||A hearty welcome on our arrival at Srinagar airport guided us straight into the overwhelming spirit of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations. Our comrades-in-arms were flying in from various places to join the commemoration; the adrenalin shot up to see familiar faces emerge from the rush of passengers. Heads turned towards our cheery greetings, loud back-slapping, a never-ending embrace; it was manna for the soul.Departing the airport, we reached the first planned halt: the War Memorial at Baramulla, where we bowed our heads. It is dedicated to the braves of 1 Sikh, led by Lt Col Dewan Ranjit Rai, the first recipient of the Maha Vir Chakra (posthumously) of free India who fell fighting among the many in 1947-48. They were rightfully called the ‘Saviours of the Valley’.At Naugam, the chill was pronounced but we were all warmed up for the touching homecoming. At dawn, amidst ceremony and solemnity, we paid tributes at the Main War Memorial. Memories of Naugam flooded the mind: the sports ground nearby reminded me of lighter moments. Our unit wrestlers had a pet lamb, anointed ‘Gora’, who, as a ritual, was always present to attend the morning PT. Gora floated around disinterested till he heard the call of ‘officers on parade’, when he would suddenly get charged up, trotting with the pronounced jingling of the bell around his neck to join the parade along with the officers!The following day was October 27, Infantry Day. We were privileged to stand on ‘Battle Ground Zero’. Five decades back, in 1971, our journey on foot over the rugged terrain with the omnipresent enemy threat took hours, but today we had the pleasure to be driving all the way. It was unbelievable.We reached the famous Tutmari Gali (Pass) from where our offensive was launched. The vastness of the panorama was breathtaking; one wondered at the super-human effort that enabled us to achieve what we did. The road passed by the staggering heights we had captured. And finally, we stood in front of the special monument of the gallant men of 9 Sikh. Their names flowed — Kehar, Balwant, Balbir, Kanwaljit, Chand, Sucha, Sewa and Amar, each name carrying a special meaning. They were true to salt, their souls were definitely still around.I saluted and prayed, ‘We have joined in celebration and laid wreaths, but silently wept for our fallen comrades; you were also sons, brothers, fathers who fought valiantly and unhesitatingly laid down your life. Deep within, we will always cherish you for defending our land, each one our pride!’It was time to head homewards, but nostalgia held ground and our hearts felt heavy, though overwhelmed with the honour bestowed in every way by our hosts, the ‘Striking Seventeen’. Our vehicles moved out, suddenly blocked by a herd of lambs. Their bleats were loud, and one wondered if this were, perhaps, the progeny of our Gora, who was gifted to a local shepherd before the war, recognising a file of old troops passing by. Or maybe this indicated a call from our comrades for whom the Last Post had sounded here, conveying to us the words of Captain Morton Home, ‘If fate and the Gods are kind to me (us), they’ll send me (us) a Sikh half company to fire three volleys over my (our) head to sweeten my (our) sleep where we lay!’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/journey-back-to-1971-battleground-349262
12-12-2021||AT the time of Partition||Forced migration a blessing||There was uncertainty whether Gurdaspur district would come to India or Pakistan. Therefore, although mass migration of Hindus and Sikhs from Pakistan and Muslims from India had started, we stayed put in our village. Radcliffe gave his award in June, under which Shakargarh tehsil went to Pakistan and the rest of Gurdaspur district came to India. Newspapers did not reach the village; we remained glued to All India Radio in the only house in the village which had a radio. Even after it became known that the tehsil had been awarded to Pakistan, the Hindus still stayed back, hoping that violence would subside and we may be able to stay in our village, although under Pakistan’s rule.In September, we heard a rumour that a big Muslim mob helped by the Baloch army was going to attack the village. All Hindu men, women and children took whatever luggage they could carry on their heads and started walking towards the J&K border, which was about 20 km from the village. Most thought that they were only moving temporarily and would soon return. Punjab had seen many invaders in the past; people would run away and then return after the conditions stabilised. There was no known instance of the entire population having permanently left their homes. So, many buried their valuables and money beneath the mud floors for subsequently retrieving these. We did not because we did not have any.Fortunately, no mob attacked on the way. My parents, along with their aged parents and five children that included me, my three sisters and a five-year-old younger brother, entered J&K by the evening and halted in the border town of Samba. We had no money or food with us. We partook of the langar organised by local Hindus and spent the night under the open sky. In the morning, we again started on foot towards India (J&K had not yet acceded to India). On the way, we came across convoys of Muslims going from India to Pakistan. Fortunately, there was no violent encounter between the convoys.We reached the banks of Ravi near Madhopur by the evening. There was only a narrow footbridge on the river at that time, which could not be crossed at night. So we slept on the river bank. The pebbles did not allow us to have much sleep. But father said, “Thank God the Muslims did not allow us to stay in the village. We might have stayed as second-rate citizens of Pakistan. Now we will be free citizens of India.”In the morning, the whole crowd moved in a queue over the bridge and crossed over to India. We all rushed to Pathankot, which was the nearest city. The refugees were free to occupy any house that the Muslims had vacated. There were, however, not enough houses left by the Muslims in Pathankot. We got into a small house. There we saw hair of the previous Muslim occupants who had apparently been killed. We were not inclined to stay in it. Then we learnt that a number of houses were vacant in a small town, Sujanpur, about 5 km away. We rushed there and found a house which was reasonably spacious (on about 300 square yards), although it was a kutcha house with mud flooring, roofs made of old wooden logs which leaked profusely during rains and no bathroom or toilet. We occupied it. Subsequently, the house was allotted to us in lieu of our property left in Pakistan when the records were received from Pakistan.In order to make ends meet, father started running a small shop in one of the khokhas (wooden structures) built on railway land along the railway line. I took the special matriculation examination conducted by Panjab University for students who had migrated from Pakistan and could not take the exam there. Father wanted me to study in a college in Delhi. We went to Amritsar by travelling in a truck (no buses were at that time plying in the state). We went to the railway station daily for a number of days but no train would run for Delhi. At long last, we heard that one train was leaving for Delhi. It was fully packed and we travelled on its roof with hundreds of other passengers. (Rooftop travel was quite common at that time).At Jalandhar, the train stopped. We were told that it would not proceed further. The government was not permitting people from Punjab to go to Delhi for fear of angry Punjabi refugees aggravating the killing of Muslims in the capital. We got down and I joined college at Jalandhar.We were lucky that none of our family members died in the violence and we only lost whatever little property we had. Millions of Hindus and Sikhs in areas which became part of Pakistan were killed, as also Muslims who lived in the part which remained in India. My wife Urmilla, who was living with her parents in Amritsar, narrates a harrowing incident. One day women from the neighbourhood went to the railway station with cooked food to feed the refugees coming by train from Pakistan. There were only bodies of passengers in the train. Next day, in retaliation, all the Muslims travelling by train to Pakistan were killed and their bodies sent to Pakistan. Newspapers were full of stories of such barbaric killings and of mass rapes, arson and looting which occurred on a large scale on both sides of the border. There was naturally strong bitterness against Muslims among the Hindus and Sikhs, who after large-scale migration of population between the two countries constituted 86 per cent of the population in India, as per the 1951 census. It is to the immense credit of the political leadership at that time that they still adopted a secular Constitution that conferred equal rights on all people, irrespective of their religion.Post script: After graduation, due to the need for providing financial support to the family, I had to take up the job of a clerk in the Audit Department. I prepared outside office hours without any coaching (which I could not afford) and appeared as a private candidate in MA (Economics) from Panjab University, where I topped. I took up a lecturer’s job in a college, appeared in the civil services examination, got selected for the IAS, and after serving on various senior administrative posts in the state and at the Centre, retired as Secretary to Government of India. The forced migration to India, with all its hardships, eventually proved to be a blessing!— The writer retired as the Union Food Secretary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/forced-migration-a-blessing-349231
