13-12-2021||---||Wielding power should entail more responsibility||Here is a routine police news that appeared in the newspapers on December 8, presumably reassuring the readers about there being an even-handed police set-up rather than alarming them about the uneven authority-accountability police matrix: “The Bengaluru city police have suspended a sub-inspector for allegedly assaulting a 23-year-old Muslim youth in a police station and forcing him to drink urine. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) said that an interim report was submitted on Monday, based on which Harish was suspended for dereliction of duty, not reporting to the police station, and for not registering the case. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered to probe the allegations made by the victim’s family.” Is this a matter of individual misuse of authority promptly set right by the prescribed mechanism of accountability?The message from Mon, Nagaland, is loud and clear: In a hurtful law and order set-up, the unbridled use of executive authority cannot be offset by a sham of penal accountability. On the evening of December 4, six innocent citizens were killed in the Army’s intelligence-based ambush of a vehicle mistaken to be transporting ultras. The Army promptly announced an inquiry and the local police, sensing the public sentiment, registered suo motu a case of intentional murder. The Union Home Minister regretted in Parliament the tragic loss of civilian lives, promising justice to the families, and directed various agencies to prevent such occurrences in future. The Opposition too expressed solidarity with the victims and denounced the callous operation in one voice.However, the issue that is begging to be addressed is not to be limited to the accountability of the operating armed personnel per se, but the sustainability of the authority-accountability matrix in any complex law and order situation. The chief ministers of Nagaland and Meghalaya have straightaway demanded the repeal of AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act), the immunity Act, long resented as a harbinger of recklessness on the part of the armed forces. The Northeast Students’ Organisation (NESO), the biggest student body in the region, has since joined the widespread protests against the continuation of AFSPA.What is missed in a typically stand-alone matrix of authority-accountability is the element of the citizen’s accessibility to legal and constitutional remedies. The matrix is insulated from the citizen, warranting an intervention from the civil society. The law and order set-up in India, heavily favouring the element of authority, was created to support a colonial polity. Post-Independence, in spite of a democratic framework of governance, if it has carried on as an essentially feudal set-up encasing the abundance of authority in a veneer of weak accountability, there must be practical rewards too. Obviously, it is a constitutional mismatch but administratively as well as politically, an acceptable proposition for the stakeholders.Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and NSA Ajit Doval have shown enthusiasm in striking a Naga peace accord via the 2015 framework agreement with the NSCN (IM), the main Naga insurgent outfit. Unfortunately, the deadline of October 2019 has passed but no accord could be signed owing to the non-resolution of issues like Greater Nagalim beyond the boundaries of Nagaland and a separate Constitution for the state. The Mon tragedy is bound to further harden the sentiments of the (Naga) civil society. Addressing IPS officers passing out of the National Police Academy, Hyderabad, Doval had said last month that the civil society “can be subverted, suborned, can be divided to hurt the interest of a nation.” But which segments of governance or public life cannot be?The ruling dispensation is not known to encourage any inclusive aid-in-governance role for the civil society. Even the government’s recent historic retreat in the face of the farmers’ agitation was announced and not negotiated. On the conclusion of the 56th DGPs/IGPs conference at the Uttar Pradesh Police headquarters in Lucknow, Modi tweeted the essentials of his policy on November 21: “One of the things I emphasised on was the setting up of a High-Power Police Technology Mission to look at the usage of latest technology to make policing more effective and citizen-friendly.”Fittingly, during the conference, the PM was apprised of the achievements of the UP Police since 2017, including an unprecedented number of extra-judicial killings in police encounters of criminals and confiscation of their property. Predictably, there are possible dividends to be earned in an election milieu in Uttar Pradesh. There is indeed an influential section among the electorate which compliments the methods of the Yogi Adityanath government.There are consequences too. In pursuing its avowed agenda of neutralising the mafia, the state government has turned the police force into specialised mafia units and the administration has often been caught trying to muffle the voice of the civil society. A recently released joint fact-finding report by three prominent human rights organisations into 17 UP encounter episodes in which an inquiry was ordered by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in May 2018, pointed out gross violations of law in investigating these killings. It noted, “Independent bodies such as the NHRC and oversight mechanism such as magisterial inquiries have failed to identify these violations of law and have ignored factual contradictions in the police version of events. Instead, they have routinely condoned the unconstitutional procedures followed by the police during these investigations.”Arguments like no one wants to kill civilians and swift punishment to criminals in a justice-starved society are at times made from a valid position. However, one should be careful not to extend undue glamour to a system of governance that intends to eclipse civil society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/wielding-power-should-entail-more-responsibility-349621
13-12-2021||---||Congress fails to script story of Oppn unity||As the year 2021 inches closer to an end, the story of the Congress and Opposition unity remains a non-starter. December 2021 is remarkably different from December 2017, when the Congress had put up a spirited fight in the Gujarat Assembly polls, or December 2018, when it had humbled the mighty BJP in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh.Even in December 2019, despite the near total annihilation in the Lok Sabha polls, followed by Rahul Gandhi’s resignation, there was hope that the leadership issue of the grand old party would finally get settled.Nothing of that sort happened. Instead, Sonia Gandhi, 75, is continuing as the ‘interim’ AICC chief, while the list of in-house dissenters is growing. The latest to join is veteran warhorse Ghulam Nabi Azad, who has been a part of the group of dissenters, aka G23. He has been holding parallel political meetings in Jammu and Kashmir. The former J&K Chief Minister has had the tags of a ‘rootless wonder’ and a Nehru-Gandhi family loyalist. But at the age of 72, Azad is trying to prove his detractors wrong and, perhaps, chalk out a course that was adopted by Sharad Pawar, Mamata Banerjee, Jagan Mohan Reddy and many others.Rahul Gandhi, instead of sensing the drift and sense of despondency, is still looking at the elusive electoral success to stage a comeback. The goalposts of the Kerala or Assam Assembly polls have been shifted to Punjab and Uttarakhand, two poll-bound states. By early March 2022, Rahul’s managers are hoping that the Congress story would start looking brighter.If the non-Congress Opposition, namely, the Samajwadi Party and its allies, succeed in edging out the Yogi Adityanath regime in Uttar Pradesh, the Opposition will get ready to go for the kill.At one level, the story of the Opposition unity, rather disunity, is highly exaggerated and part of a hidden, politically motivated subtext that is being dished out: that the Narendra Modi government may have its weaknesses, but the Opposition is not capable of governance or that it cannot be trusted in serious matters, such as national security and economy.The Opposition, instead of countering it, is not helping its cause. The discord among the Opposition ranks — such as Trinamool versus Congress, Trinamool versus Aam Aadmi Party, Congress versus Rashtriya Janata Dal and Priyanka Gandhi versus Akhilesh Yadav — was on full display during the recently held byelections as also in the run-up to the upcoming polls in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh.In the winter session of Parliament, too, the division among the Opposition parties was so visible that the non-BJP-NDA parties could not hold even a single meeting of like-minded parties which would have highlighted the Modi government’s abject flip-flop on the farm laws.The Lok Sabha polls are due in May 2024. Therefore, the Opposition is guided by its immediate goals, which are opportunism, one-upmanship and quest for success, even in a tiny state like Goa where the Trinamool, AAP and the Congress are jostling for supremacy in a 40-member state Assembly against the BJP.From Tripura to Goa to Haryana, the victor of the Bengal Assembly polls, Mamata Banerjee, is on the prowl. The Trinamool leader is on a poaching spree and even willing to accept the number two status (as was the case in the Tripura civic polls) as long as non-BJP players like the Congress or AAP (Goa) can be relegated to the third and fourth spots.This bizarre approach may be unsettling for the grand old party, but it has brought glee in the BJP and ruling NDA ranks. For 2024, Mamata appears to be an effective insurance policy even though she remains stoutly anti-BJP.The Congress has to share the blame. After more than a year of Ahmed Patel’s death, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi have not propped up an effective political manager to reach out to the Opposition, hold backroom parleys and keep the façade of Opposition unity.If Mamata can be accused of grandstanding and getting ambitious, the Congress also has to discard any notion of greatness. After all, Bengal has become the third state after Delhi (2015 and 2020) and Andhra Pradesh (2019) where the party has scored a zero in the state Assembly polls.Had ‘Mamata for UPA’ got a nod from Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi could have focused more on Parliament and organisational matters while Priyanka Gandhi could have concentrated on her role as a campaigner in the company of Sachin Pilot, Bhupesh Baghel etc.The Congress, rather the Gandhis, have been ignoring the non-NDA parties’ bid to revive the UPA, which has been dormant since 2014. Chandrashekhar Rao of the TRS, the Shiv Sena, NCP and Trinamool have been consistently raising the issue of a federal front, but 10, Janpath has remained silent. Perhaps, in Sonia’s scheme of things, the idea of an umbrella of Opposition parties is best suited when Rahul Gandhi is politically in a position to influence it.Rahul is not a contender for the top job in 2024, but the Gandhis would want him to have a say in who should head any alternative government during the 18th Lok Sabha and play a Sonia-like role of 2004-14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/congress-fails-to-script-story-of-oppn-unity-349620
13-12-2021||---||A reinvigorated alliance||Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India took place on the eve of his videoconference with his US counterpart Joe Biden which turned out to be a fateful event in post-Cold War geopolitics. But in the Indian context, the deal over the Russian S-400 missile defence system became the leitmotif of the visit. Washington has been coaxing Delhi to abandon the deal, since it violated US law. The Indian diplomacy tactfully sidestepped the hump.The timing of Putin’s visit underscores that India can’t be hustled into a military alliance or lured into jettisoning its strategic autonomy.The US must be feeling frustrated that the deployment of the S-400 system will effectively close the Indian market for its pricey F-35 stealth aircraft, erode significantly the potential for ‘interoperability’, cement India’s strategic engagement with Russia in the military sphere for the foreseeable future and strengthen Russia’s defence industry. Looking ahead, settlement of payments in local currencies in bilateral transactions will help create a firewall against the weaponisation of the dollar by the US for coercive diplomacy.In reality, although India-China border remains tense, peace prevailed through the past one-year period, and that also seems to be a common desire, the adversarial posturing notwithstanding. In strategic terms, the navigation of the S-400 deal ultimately becomes a litmus test of the inherent strength and resilience of India’s strategic autonomy, apart from throwing light on the alchemy of the India-US ties beneath the confusing rhetoric of lobbyists.The single biggest message coming out of Putin’s visit is that the Russia-India partnership — if the 1971 Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation and the 2000 Declaration on Strategic Partnership are to be taken as the historical landmarks — remains dynamic, mutually beneficial and is constantly ‘upgraded’ in terms of the evolving international environment. Its timing underscores that India cannot be hustled into a military alliance or lured into jettisoning its strategic autonomy despite the consensus opinion within India favouring a productive partnership with America being vital for development.Delhi hosted the first meeting of the foreign and defence ministers in a ‘2+2’ format with Russia at a highly sensitive juncture in international politics, with Russia-US tensions at an all-time high. This symbolically rejects the US’ demonisation of Russia and constitutes a compelling signpost on India’s non-aligned foreign policies.The joint statement highlights the Russia-India perspective on emerging regional security architecture in Asia-Pacific — that it ‘should be free, open, transparent and inclusive, based on universally recognised principles of international law and aimed at maintaining international peace and security, developing friendly relations and mutually beneficial cooperation in the region’ — and states the common resolve ‘to strengthen joint efforts to build an architecture of equal and indivisible regional security.’In every single foreign policy speech recently by Putin, he made it a point to highlight the Russia-India partnership. The steady enrichment of India’s relations with Russia should be counted as a singular achievement of PM Modi’s diplomatic agenda. The warm personal equations between Modi and Putin continue to be the bedrock of bilateral cooperation. The strategic communication is being elevated to its highest possible level with the institutional arrangements to hold meetings in the ‘2+2’ format and between the two national security advisers and National Security Councils.The trajectory is looking up for bilateral cooperation in energy and space. Civil nuclear energy is potentially a key template of cooperation. The military and military-technical cooperation continues to be the pillar of the Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership. Around 60-70% of weapons used by the Indian armed forces are of Russian origin. Putin’s visit underscores that a reorientation of defence cooperation is seriously underway to cater to India’s quest for self-sufficiency. The accent is on joint research and development, co-development and joint production of advanced defence technology and systems.Moscow sees no reason to get paranoid about India’s close ties with the US. That said, the geopolitical backdrop has become noticeably complicated as a result of a number of other issues. The confrontation between the US on one side and Russia and China on the other has resulted in the US attempting to separate India from Russia and to exploit to its advantage the Sino-India tensions, which are at their worst in half a century, to create gravitas for Washington’s Indo-Pacific strategy. But the known unknown is also that the frontiers of Sino-India relations are far from explored. The point is, beneath the radar, China’s trade with India is set to cross the $100-billion mark for the first time in 2021 and the figures with India are among the fastest-growing among China’s major trading partners.In the context of the hostile mode of its ties with the US and the imbalance in the Sino-Russia partnership, Russia too has a requirement to refine its engagement with India and inject greater transparency to their mutual discourses. Russia’s latest National Security Strategy identifies the ties with both Delhi and Beijing as priorities. These positive trends get obfuscated in the US-driven narratives regarding Indo-Pacific, which are both China-centric and also subtly laden with Russophobia.The Sino-Russia relationship stands at its highest level in history, but Moscow’s preference is, nonetheless, to remain neutral vis-a-vis China’s rising tensions with Washington. Ideally, Russia would have preferred to be a ‘balancer’. It is against such a complex backdrop that Putin’s recent reference to India as a ‘great power’ needs to be understood. The Russian diplomatic idiom has unique connotations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-reinvigorated-alliance-349619
