14-12-2021||---||Century-old SAD has stuck to secular values||As the Shiromani Akali Dal completes 100 proud years of its existence, my thoughts go back to the Panthic stalwarts, Jathedar Sarmukh Singh Chabhal, Baba Kharak Singh, Master Tara Singh, Sant Baba Fateh Singh, Sant Harchand Singh Longowal, Jathedar Gurcharan Singh Tohra and the apostle of peace and communal harmony, Sardar Parkash Singh Badal.Fortunate to lead the party in its 100th year, I reflect on the journey covered by the party, the people it represents, the values it symbolises and the challenges that it has successfully faced over the past 100 years. It is one of the oldest political parties in the country, founded by the citizens of India, unlike the Congress which began primarily as an outfit started by some well-meaning British people. The SAD is also the only regional party that has consistently balanced regional and national interests and been the most forceful voice of the rights of minorities and of more powers to the states.The party had started primarily to safeguard the Panthic values threatened by a combination of the rulers on the one hand and some self-styled religious figureheads on the other, who had usurped control of the Sikh shrines and made them the centres of their corrupt, unethical and irreligious activities.The religious war cry of the Akalis then was the same as it is now: the ‘seva sambhal’ of the Sikh shrines must be in the hands of the Sikh community through its legitimately elected religious representatives. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, widely recognised as the religious parliament of the Sikhs, symbolises the triumph of the Sikh sangat over government-sponsored conspiracies of the ‘masands.’Unfortunately, even today, the Sikh community has to fight the same old conspiracies to sabotage this religious parliament through overt and covert means, which include the abuse of government and money power and massive and vicious propaganda against the SGPC to confuse the Sikh masses. In the past 100 years, the Sikh sangat has consistently defeated these conspiracies and placed its trust in the Shiromani Akali Dal every single time to safeguard the institution and the principles on which it is based.The century-old history of the SAD is, in fact, the history of Punjab and of the most difficult, and often, the most painful challenges and hardships.Our greatest strength is that we are a party of the sons of the soil of Punjab. Our decisions are not taken by outsiders. We are the only regional party rooted in Punjab’s soil. All our contenders are outsiders — the Congress, AAP, BJP etc, who have no passion for making Punjab the best. The Punjab leaders of these parties are not free to even appoint their own district and tehsil-level office-bearers or their personal staff. What can Punjabis expect from them?In all the sacrifices made for freedom in the form of imprisonment, divestment of property or being sent to the dreaded Kala Paani and even in laying down one’s life for the country, 85 to 90 per cent of the heroes and martyrs emerged from Punjab. A vast majority of them are Sikhs, whom the SAD led as a religio-political force.Sadly, right from the start, Punjab was made the target of political, religious and economic discrimination.In the 1950s, the Punjabis had to wage the longest struggle to get a linguistic Punjabi state (suba). Over 1,00,000 Punjabis had to suffer in jail. Even when the demand was finally conceded, vast Punjabi-speaking areas, including its capital Chandigarh, were kept out of it. Only in Punjab has the riparian principle been violated to rob the Punjabis of their river waters. The Punjabi language has had to fight for respect in states where it was the second major language of the people. Haryana had Telugu, and not Punjabi, as its second language!The most painful aspect of this injustice was the full-scaled armed attack on our most sacred centre of spiritual power, Shri Harmandar Sahib. The wounds of the planned massacre of Sikhs the same year still cry aloud for justice, forget the healing touch. But though being a champion of the Sikh way of life, the SAD has never swerved from the path of secular, democratic values, summed up for us in Sarbat da Bhala.As the state prepares to go into the next elections, we have already witnessed a resort by the ‘powers-that-be’ to old and vicious conspiracies through a sponsored vilification campaign against us. Rival outfits are engineered to confuse and divide the Sikhs. Punjabis have always rejected these sponsored ‘clubs’ and none of them has ever won a single Vidhan Sabha seat. It will be the same this election.In its hundredth year, the SAD goes back to the people along with its partner BSP, with its commitment to the federal structure at the national level and to resume the unprecedented pace of progress which was interrupted in 2017 when the Congress won on the basis of false oaths taken on sacred scriptures.A look at all major development projects and people-friendly policies would be enough to convince even our biggest opponents that only under the Akali governments has Punjab progressed. In the reorganised Punjab since 1966, every single hydel project or dam, every thermal plant, every major university, every airport, every large-scale industrial project, such as the Sri Guru Gobind Singh Refinery (Bathinda), every major hospital, like AIIMS, is the contribution of the Akali governments.Likewise, the link road network and the advanced agri-marketing infrastructure (Focal Point Scheme) were built by Sardar Parkash Singh Badal. Almost all social welfare schemes in the state, including free power to farmers, free domestic units to the economically and socially disadvantaged sections, old-age pension scheme, atta-daal scheme, free cycles to girl students and waiving of the registration fee on tractors have been introduced by the Akali governments, most of these under Sardar Badal.We go to the people on the strength of our legacy of always delivering on our promises. I like to dream big for the people, and even my biggest critic cannot point out a single dream that I promised but did not fulfill. We promised free power to farmers, and gave it in the first Cabinet meeting in 1997. The last time, when I said I will give world-class four-lane and six-lane road infrastructure to link all major cities and towns in the state, my critics called it a ‘hollow boast’. In four years, we delivered on it. When the Punjabis were facing 10- to 12-hour daily power cuts, I promised a power-surplus Punjab. They again shouted in chorus: ‘Hollow boast’. We made the state power-surplus. The same thing happened with the International Airport, Mohali, and other major projects and policies that I had promised.In the modern world, you cannot survive if you do not dream big. Ideas generate money. Punjabis deserve the best in this world. And any party or government that cannot promise and deliver this or settles for the second best does not truly represent the enterprising spirit of Punjab and Punjabis.As a leader, I am passionate in my belief that Punjab can be made the best place on earth as we have the best human resource. We will make it happen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/century-old-sad-has-stuck-to-secular-values-350038
14-12-2021||---||Brandt’s little-known role after the war||German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s era is over and the Social Democrats are back. During the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, the name of Chancellor and Social Democrat Willy Brandt must be recalled for the stellar role he played in its aftermath. Little is known about his part in the erstwhile Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), India, Bangladesh, and for that matter, Pakistan.On a visit to the Willy Brandt Archives in Bonn in 2014, I chanced upon a treasure trove of letters exchanged between Brandt and Gen Yahya Khan, President ZA Bhutto, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Prime Minister Sheikh Mujibur Rahman from 1971 to 1974. Many of the Brandt letters were in German and had to be translated into English with the help of a young German historian, Peter Beule, who also helped in putting into the European context the contents of the exchanges between Brandt and these leaders.I made a presentation of my research in December 2016 to the Berlin Centre for Cold War Studies. No one till then had studied Brandt’s role in facilitating the post-conflict resolution and accountability following the 1971 war, backed by monetary and humanitarian aid. The rapport between Brandt and Gandhi contributed to political and diplomatic stability in the subcontinent. Pakistan signed its first Bilateral Investment Treaty with the FRG in 1959.For India, the main concerns were the genocide unleashed after the military crackdown (Op Searchlight, March 26), the secret trial in Pakistan of Mujibur Rahman and the return of 10 million refugees that had fled to India. Garry J Bass in his book Blood Telegram: Nixon, Kissinger and a Forgotten Genocide called the upheaval the biggest humanitarian crisis involving 10 million refugees ranking in the slaughter league of Bosnia and Rwanda. Stanley Wolpert, in his book Zulfi Bhutto of Pakistan says: “If only Bhutto had abided by election results, there would have been no Bangladesh and no reason for Indian intervention.”The 13-day lightning campaign which thwarted the Pakistan-proposed ceasefire, thanks to six vetoes exercised by the USSR (following the Indo-USSR Treaty of Peace and Friendship of August 1971) that bought time, led to the abject surrender of all Pakistan forces. It was preceded by a 21-day diplomatic blitz by Gandhi. India’s deft use of hard and soft power in its biggest ever humanitarian intervention became the first R2P (Right to Protect) against genocide.The FRG, as a country not completely recovered from the ravages of World War II, not a member of the UN and still embedded in the Cold War, was mending relations with the East. It was a traditional ally of the US, which had good relations with Pakistan, which was helping Washington to open up to Beijing.In the most poignant revelation from the Brandt letters are handwritten notes for his meeting at Bonn in November 1971 with Gandhi, where he candidly admits that Bonn had limited influence and was not a leading player in the international arena. Even so, his part in persuading Dhaka to do away with the trial of 195 Pakistani PoWs implicated in war crimes became the open sesame to other intractable issues bedevilling relations between India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. Although relations with India were based on the charter of peace and democracy, the FRG’s foreign policy doctrine noted that “good relations could be negatively influenced if India, under pressure from USSR, were to develop diplomatic relations with German Democratic Republic.” For Bonn, it was critical that it be the first country to establish relations with the GDR. India’s compliance with Brandt’s desire to regulate its relations with the GDR became the cornerstone of the Indo-German relations.According to an article in Der Spiegel in December 1979, the price the FRG paid for making India delay establishing diplomatic relations with the GDR was its early recognition of Bangladesh on February 4, 1972, becoming one of the first European countries to do so as others followed suit, much to the annoyance of the US. This, in turn, led to very cordial relations between the FRG and Bangladesh and Brandt and Mujibur Rahman. Brandt and his emissaries acted as negotiators between Pakistan and Bangladesh over the sensitive questions of the release of Sheikh Mujib; repatriation of 93,000 PoWs and the trickiest of all, clemency by Bangladesh of the 195 Pakistani PoWs accused of genocide. Brandt’s foreign minister Walter Scheel was involved in protracted discussions with Rehman and his special envoy MR Siddiqui to forego the trials (on the assurance they would be tried in Pakistan, which never happened), citing German experience after the war and the Nuremburg trials. Scheel pointed out that war crime trials would stir new emotions in Pakistan and cited Germany’s own experience and how it had to make compromises. Brandt provided generous aid, which was badly needed by the newly born Bangladesh.On April 9, 1974, a tripartite agreement was signed by India, Pakistan and Bangladesh after which Dacca agreed to not try the PoWs, which, in turn, led to Pakistan and Bangladesh recognising each other as Bhutto had made recognition of Bangladesh contingent upon the release of the PoWs. On April 12, the simultaneous repatriation of 93,000 PoWs, including the 195 Pakistanis held for war crimes, Indian PoWs and 3,00,000 Bengalis, had started. The back channel work done by Brandt and his team has, surprisingly, remained obscured.On the 50th anniversary of the Liberation War, the FRG and Brandt’s contribution to the post-war stabilisation of the subcontinent through its early recognition of Bangladesh and persuasion of Dhaka to forego war trials must be recognised. The India-Bangladesh Maitri Divas will be incomplete without acknowledging Germany’s role in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/brandts-little-known-role-after-the-war-350037
14-12-2021||---||Mythologising the spectacle||How fascinating is it to know about celebrities — their love and romance! Yes, the celebrity culture takes us to a mythical world filled with spectacles, glamour, wealth and magical stories about friendship and break-up. And we — the unknown/faceless crowd — are seduced to consume this fairy tale, and derive some sort of pleasure in gossiping about these glossy stories. Hence, these days we are continually talking about the ‘magical’ couple, Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal, and their spectacular wedding at Six Senses Fort at Barwara in Rajasthan. And innumerable media houses fulfil this irresistible desire to know almost everything about the grandness of this show.Consumer culture wants us to live with a sense of ‘lagging behind’ because it needs our inner emptiness to sell its fairy tales.Hence, with absolute wonder, we are seeing the ‘exclusive first picture’ of the newlyweds ‘walking hand-in-hand around the corridors’; Katrina’s engagement ring, we are told, looks similar to Princess Diana’s iconic sapphire ring; we are also informed of how 50 people were working day and night to give a final touch to the couple’s ‘Juhu love nest’; Katrina’s red bridal lehenga, or the five-tier cake that was brought on the sangeet night, or even the tales of 20 kg of organic mehendi — yes, the spectacle looks like a Karan Johar blockbuster. Who can afford to miss this ‘hyper-real’ show?Why is it that the celebrity culture fascinates us? Is it a kind of escape, or some sort of temporal relief from the harsh reality that envelops our everyday existence? A clerk in a government office continually humiliated by his boss; a cashier in an over-crowded bank without breathing space; a housewife terribly tired of the endless cycle of routinised work — washing, sweeping, cooking; a young girl in a middle-class locality continually visiting beauty parlours to look ‘beautiful’ in order to get married; a young man struggling and somehow surviving without any meaningful engagement or vocation — yes, for most of us, our everyday world seems to have lost its meaning, or become what Albert Camus would have regarded as ‘absurd’.Possibly, the celebrity culture is like a glossy film with all sorts of stimulations and bodily and psychic sensations that enables us to escape from the monotony of existence. Or is it like some sort of wish fulfilment? Is it that a college girl from a lower middle class neighbourhood in Mumbai too is dreaming of Katrina’s lehenga? Is it that while travelling in the noisy/crowded local train in Kolkata, we too are dreaming of romancing with our partners on the beach in Maldives? Is it that we too love to post the images of our ‘happy’ moments on Facebook— the way Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli appear to be ‘eternally happy and blessed’?We live amid a media-simulated consumer culture. It stimulates us to consume everything as a ‘brand’— be it a dating app, a honeymoon package in a hill station, or a diamond ring for Valentine’s Day. It is not easy to be free from this seductive logic of consumerism. And it is important to acknowledge that the consumer culture needs to construct and disseminate the images of celebrities to endorse, sell and glamourise diverse ‘brands’. No wonder, celebrities —cricket stars, sports icons, Bollywood heroes, beauty queens — too need to continually keep the ‘mystery’ surrounding them alive; they too need to see that their ‘brand’ images are continually in the process of circulation. Is it, therefore, surprising that there is a speculation that Katrina and Vicky have sold their ceremony’s telecast rights to Amazon Prime for Rs 80 crore? In other words, techno-capitalists, hidden persuaders and management gurus promoting the culture industry have to keep the celebrity syndrome alive. And glossy magazines, Instagram/Twitter messages, fashion shows, beauty contests, or spectacular wedding ceremonies must reproduce this cultural politics. This is good business!However, the moot question is whether it would ever be possible for us to free ourselves from this pathological obsession with celebrity culture. Possibly, the answer is a kind of deep insight that enables us to demythologise the spectacle. It is like realising that life — even for these celebrities — is not like a picture postcard. For instance, the eternity of impermanence cannot be escaped; today’s beauty queen is tomorrow’s skeleton; or today’s ‘happy marriage’ is tomorrow’s ‘divorce petition’; or the dramatic rise of ‘stardom’ is inseparable from the pain of finding oneself suddenly irrelevant and invisible! Life is what it is — moments of joy and laughter, intense moments of inexplicable accidents and tragedies, anxiety and ecstasy, psychiatric drugs and sleeping tablets, fame and invisibility. Yet, it is important for us — I mean unknown people like us — to realise that there is extraordinariness even in the ‘ordinary’; and there is love even amid struggle.Love does not require a diamond ring; nor does it demand the ceaseless circulation of Facebook images of togetherness. Love is not the monopoly of the rich and the powerful. Instead, quite often, the burden of inflated egos of the rich obstructs the flow of love. And at the same time, it is not impossible to see the ecstasy of love in what appears to be ‘ordinary’— say, in the cancer ward of a hospital when a man nurses his wife, and cleans her frail body; or, as O. Henry depicted in a path-breaking story The Gift of the Magi, in the rhythmic relationship between Della and Jim. In fact, there is no mythical paradise, no magic land. It is only here and now that we can find a meaning, or an experience of beauty and love. But then, the consumer culture wants us to live with a sense of ‘lagging behind’ because it needs our inner emptiness to sell its fairy tales.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/mythologising-the-spectacle-350036
