15-12-2021||---||Productivity more about boosting efficiency||Chalta hai! Or rather, unproductive and incompetent! These were the words that came to mind on knowing about the embarrassment that visited the high-powered India Mobile Congress 2021 recently. Those present included Mukesh Ambani, Sunil Bharti Mittal and Kumar Mangalam Birla, the ones on whose shoulders rests the burden of providing India with mobile and data connectivity.The Prime Minister’s pre-recorded speech was delayed by 30 minutes. The speech of the Union Telecommunications Secretary was abruptly cut off after a few minutes. Matters did not end here. The speech of the Junior Telecom Minister was relayed without any introduction. Fortunately, the rebuke that Ashwini Vaishnaw, the Union Minister, contributed to the Indian Mobile Congress 2021, got carried in full. Ironically, the theme of the conclave was ‘Connectivity for the next decade’.Come to think of it, inefficiency and low quality characterise a very large number of sectors in India today. Workers, peasants and everyone else whilst working in India are identified with extremely low productivity. Chalta hai is a phrase which effectively summarises our attitude to everything.Till date, India progressed mostly by default, not by design. Even the liberation of the economy that happened in the 1990s merely allowed the economic slack to be taken up. We got so impressed with the sudden jump that we started to use the word ‘reform’ for the mere removal of the death grip of the state.From this follows the misconception so dear to India’s economists and policy-makers, that for the economy to move forward, more of the regulatory structure needs to be dismantled and the reforms need to go further. That is neither here nor there because going by the experience of the telecommunications conclave or India’s persistent inability to deal with air pollution, the problem is not so much in regulations, but in their absence. The problem is compounded by the creation of regulations that are created without any application of the mind. The fact is that no modern economy can function without adequate regulatory controls.Much like the good Taliban and the bad Taliban, there are goodregulations and bad regulations; you may not want them, you may not love them, but you just haveto adjust to them. The need for India is to shun bad regulations and adopt good regulations.However, the embarrassing experience of the mobility conclave has one more lesson for us. And that is about creating quality products and providing services that have some value. Valueless services are much like the housework that a housewife does. It happens. It cannot be avoided. Someone of very low worth does it. Once in a while, it is appreciated, but by and large, the users remain indifferent to services provided; the service provider remains indifferent to the outcomes.Indians must get used to providing and demanding a high quality of service. India’s wealth insofar as the wealth is visible today, isn’t the consequence of creating more value but merely picking up the slack which had existed in the economy for many decades. Even the current upswing in tax revenue that we are seeing is the result of the businesses that had hitherto remained out of the net being integrated with the formal economy. It is not a result of significant increases in output.To create a country which draws respect in the world, what we really need are massive increases in productivity in every sector. That, however, is a thing which is almost entirely missing in India, in almost every endeavour in which Indians are involved.In India, we have great difficulty even in understanding what productivity is. A common mistake is to confuse jugaad and a mere increase in production with productivity. Chalta hai remains a common enough phrase in every area of life. Far from being associated with ‘simple living and high thinking’, Chalta hai merely ensures that we are forced to make greater adjustment to low-quality living with low-quality services. Such low-quality living is not likely to foster any high thinking.Productivity implies that given the same resources, there is an increase in the value of the outputs produced. Productivity is as much a state of mind as it is of having resources and the knowledge to improve one’s efficiencies. For example, when a table is being prepared in Microsoft Word, the simple command to repeat the header row means that the users of the table do not have to wrack their brains on what the rows below mean. Yet, time after time, one notices the absence of this small productivity enhancing trick.You don’t need to undergo a course in Harvard or in an IIM or even be trained in an IIT to do well, and more efficiently, whatever work has been assigned to you. The look of grievous hurt that one sees on the face of the electrician who is reminded that he forgot to set up the earth connection is at odds with the ‘bookish’ knowledge that every electrical equipment needs to be made safe with proper earthing. Those ubiquitous open covers of switch boxes which adorn almost every street in every town of India, exposing dangerous electrical connections to the elements and enabling them to kill people, are part of the problem. Unfortunately, whatever be the sector, Chalta hai is taken for granted.No great capital resources are needed to bring about the necessary changes. What is needed is a sense that outcomes matter, that a job, irrespective of what it is, needs to be done well. Our indifference to the consequences of our actions or inactions needs to end.Outcomes matter in everything we do. Increasing productivity is about improving outcomes. It is about creating value. Without a mindset change, investing more capital would achieve little. Sab kuchh nahin chalta hai!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/productivity-more-about-boosting-efficiency-350489
15-12-2021||---||Trade ties with China need a counterpoise||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s recently expressed concern about the growth in India’s trade with a hostile expansionist China wittingly or unwittingly reflects a fact of realpolitik: The tone of political relationships does not determine the strength or weakness of trade ties between countries. This reality is creating an awkward situation/conundrum for India. China is the biggest security threat to India, but in the first nine months of this year, India’s trade with China touched $90 billion, an increase of 49% over last year. By the end of the year, Sino-Indian bilateral trade could rise to a record $100 billion — or more.Simultaneously, India’s trade deficit with China increased to $47 billion in the first nine months of this year. Shringla says that this is the largest trade deficit India has with any country and has continuously been widening.A mere 1.2% of China’s imports come from India. China sells 2.6% of its exports to India. India sends 7% of its exports to China and buys 16% of its imports from China — which is the largest source of its imports. As many as 7.3% of India’s imports come from the US, less than 3% from good friends such as France, Germany, Japan, South Korea and Australia.According to the Ministry of External Affairs, India exports mostly primary commodities to China and faces market impediments to most agricultural products and the sectors where it is a strong competitor, such as pharmaceuticals and telecom. China also exports machinery, power equipment, organic chemicals and fertilisers.Can India balance trade with China by increasing trade with friendly countries? Possibly! US-India trade is also set to exceed $100 billion. That is why it is good news that at their talks in the last week of November, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal revived the Indo-US Trade Policy Forum — after a gap of four years.After all, India and the US are strategic partners but their economic relationship is hobbled by many stumbling blocks which it is hoped their renewed Trade Policy Forum will remove.India also raised its interest in the restoration of its beneficiary status under the General System of Preferences, the US programme that provides some tariff-free access for imports from developing countries which was removed by the Trump administration. But the USCongress would have to reauthorise the programme.India can find ways of reducing trade with China and increasing trade with democratic friends like the US, EU, Japan and South Korea if it does not dismiss their demands for greater transparency and predictable rules out of hand, and if it seriously wants to attract investment and develop value chains.Additionally, it should dispel the concerns of these countries that “Make in India” is not about import substitution and will not hamper India’s global economic integration. Generally, India’s domestic policy objectives and that of trade agreements should combine to improve India’s position in trade negotiations.India could play an important role in developing secure supply chains in sectors including healthcare and technology, 5G, 6G and telecommunications technology. Tai and Goyal welcomed the participation and collaboration of the private sector in both countries in building stronger linkages in these critical sectorsOn hi-tech, there is already some convergence of Indo-US interests. Since China’s incursion into Ladakh last year, India has barred Chinese telecommunication companies, including Huawei and ZTE, from its 5G trials, on the grounds that their inclusion would be disadvantageous to the innovation and development of related Indian industries.China is an important trading partner of both India and the US. But the political divide between each of them and China will endure. The main reason for this is China’s propensity for expansion, reflected in its claims to territories belonging to many of its neighbours in South and Southeast Asia, including India, by invoking its version of “history”.That is why defence has emerged as a major pillar of the Indo-US relationship. India has increased its arms purchase from the US; more military drills take place between their armed forces, cooperation on strategic issues has increased. In 2016, the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement gave each country access to the other’s military facilities for fuelling and logistic support.More generally, America wants to deepen economic, political and military cooperation with India as an essential counter to Beijing’s aggrandising tendencies.India cannot reduce its strong trade and investment ties with China post-haste. But China’s moves to redraw existing international frontiers with India and other Asian countries by military force underline that the insecurity stirred by its imperialism could outweigh the benefits of economic collaboration with Beijing.There is a clear link between economic policy, trade, investment and geopolitical weight. That is why the domestic issues of infrastructure, taxation, governance, capacity building, education and skill development are key issues in India’s foreign policy. They decide how much India can offer its friendly neighbours, the US, Japan, Australia and West European countries. These democracies wish to increase trade and investment ties with India to diminish reliance on China-dominated global supply chains. Expansion of trade and investment with some of the democracies having the world’s highest rankings on the Human Development Index would make for India’s economic advance and buoy up its world standing.So, it is high time New Delhi showed that it has the vision and competence to craft a liberal strategy to put India, still recovering from the Covid pandemic, on the track to progress, military power and success in global competition against China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trade-ties-with-china-need-a-counterpoise-350488
15-12-2021||---||Coping with democratic slide||The US President, Joe Biden, hosted a Summit for Democracy last week in the virtual mode. The summit will kick off a whole year of action for the promotion of democracy worldwide with a follow-up summit — in person this time — to be convened in Washington with Biden again playing the host. There is no doubt that democracy has been in decline across the world since the beginning of the current century, both in well-established democratic states as well as among latecomers and aspiring ones. It will take more than a couple of summits to address the underlying causes but the initiative is still a laudable one. It may help shift the global political narrative in support of liberal democracy.Democracies do not always work together to promote democracy in other countries.Democracies do not always work together to promote democracy in other countries. When the interests of any two states converge, shared democratic values may reinforce relations between them. But shared democratic values do not over-ride the pursuit of divergent interests. During the Cold War, being democratic nations did not prevent India and the US from being on opposite sides of the geopolitical fence. Shared interests may lead democracies to work even as allies of non-democratic states. In order to contain the then Soviet Union, the US was more than willing to ally itself with Communist China even when the latter was in the throes of the ultra-radical Cultural Revolution in the 1970s. India and the Soviet Union maintained a strong strategic partnership over three decades (1960-1990) despite being on opposite sides of the ideological divide. One should be mindful of the fact that for Biden, the Summit for Democracy serves as an instrument to put its main geopolitical rivals, Russia and China, on the defensive, but this is of limited utility.The geopolitical dimension came to the fore in the inevitable controversy over which countries were to be invited and which were to be shunned. Judged by their democratic credentials, it is difficult to justify the exclusion of Bangladesh and Bhutan while Pakistan was invited. Pakistan’s geopolitical utility, particularly in managing the turbulence next door in Afghanistan, may have weighed in. But it must have been embarrassing to have Pakistan decline the invitation. Earning brownie points from long time benefactor China was more important for Islamabad than the once much valued certification from the American superpower.The objectives of the summit were three-fold: Counter authoritarianism; addressing and fighting corruption; promoting respect for human rights.From reports received so far, the only tangible result is the Export Controls and Human Rights Initiative, launched by the US, Australia, Denmark and Norway, which seeks to prevent authoritarian governments from misusing dual-use technologies to survey and hack into communications of political opponents, journalists, activists and minority communities. I would have expected India to be in this group, particularly after Prime Minister Modi drew the attention of the summit to the need for global norms for the use of digital technologies for social media or for cryptocurrencies which had the potential to undermine democracies. While he did not spell this out, it is a fact that digital technologies can strengthen democracy by enabling the wide diffusion of information, increasing transparency and accountability.PM Modi said India’s message to the world was that “democracy can deliver, has delivered and will continue to deliver.” This was an uplifting message, but the fact is that over the past decade and more, democracies have been perceived as less successful than authoritarian states, communist or otherwise, in delivering the most basic services that ordinary citizens expect of the state, namely, public security, education and health. One cannot deny that across the world, the Chinese experiment under an authoritarian regime has been acknowledged as a spectacular success, lifting hundreds of millions out of poverty, creating the world’s most modern, state-of-the-art infrastructure and delivering improved standard of living to its people. That this has been achieved at the cost of pervasive violation of human rights and the degradation of its ecology is not always apparent. There is what one may term as ‘dictator envy’ or the yearning for a strong and powerful leader who could cut through all human and material barriers to deliver peace and prosperity. Like it or not, there is pessimism about democracy within democracies and this is a greater challenge to democracy rather than the machinations of authoritarian states and their leaders.The survival of democracies needs introspection among its champions. Why have the people turned their faces away from what once seemed, self-evidently, as the best and most evolved political dispensation in human history? To my mind, at the end of the Cold War, liberals lost their way. They acquiesced in the calculated bid to equate liberal democracy with free markets, selling the dubious proposition that free markets inevitably led to democracy. The role of public policy in ensuring equity in access to basic services and to opportunities for advancement was progressively diminished while market orthodoxy increasingly took hold. A smaller and smaller cluster of winners cornered the growing cake, while the ranks of the losers expanded relentlessly. These inequalities are not the consequence of globalisation or the nature of technological change. They are the result of the failure of public policy. The democratic state has abdicated its responsibility to ensure the fair distribution of the fruits of globalisation and technological advancement. We have ended up with levels of inequality in income and wealth which are simply not compatible with democracy. Populism is rooted in this frustration with growing inequality and polarisation is inherent in such a situation. Democracies must find a way to address this growing inequality, otherwise they are unlikely to survive. Or they may morph into what are now described as electoral autocracies.PM Modi spoke about India’s policy of inclusion. This is indeed an important feature of democracy and needs to be expanded. Only an empowered citizen can be a stakeholder in democracy.India is the world’s largest democracy and in many ways a unique experiment in celebrating plurality within a democratic polity. Its success as a democracy may well determine the fate of democracy itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/coping-with-democratic-slide-350487
15-12-2021||BRITAIN’S Lewis Hamilton||Hamilton scores where Sachin, Kohli, Saina fail||Hamilton said that ‘religions can change, rules can change’. Saying such things in Jeddah, of all places, is likely to excite anger. Hamilton is prepared for that — to provoke conversations, even if such conversations are controversial. “Spark the conversation. Creating that uncomfortable discussion that is needed in those places,” the Briton said.“If anyone wants to take time to read what the law is for the LGBT+ community, it is pretty terrifying,” Hamilton added. “I believe everyone should have equal rights, freedom of speech, freedom of movement. And there are places where that’s not allowed. Places such as here where the LGBT+ community... There’s prison time, the death penalty and restrictions for people being themselves.”Hamilton, a multimillionaire sportsperson tourist in Saudi Arabia, has the immunity that global fame provides. He knows that his utterances, which scoff at the religion-based law of the land, will not cause him trouble. Yet, speaking out for the rights of the LGBTQ community of Saudi Arabia, which is under the threat of the death penalty, is something he did not need to do. He could have, like other celebrities who visit the kingdom, quelled his conscience, censored his own words, and got back to Europe without causing a public relations incident.Hamilton, however, could not quell his conscience. Being a victim of bullying and racism all his childhood, and during part of his life after success as a driver too, he’s painfully aware of what it feels like to be treated like a criminal without committing a crime.Hamilton, if he visits India, might see injustices which we have become blind and desensitised to — if he speaks out against them, we must welcome the conversation.Speaking for changeThe lesson of the story is that the word of a sportsperson — a role model admired by millions of people — carries great strength. It can be used to bring about a positive change. This power must be used by sportspersons, for they owe it to their fans and society.Hamilton’s outspokenness is a reminder of the quietude of our sports stars over communal or social issues that have been roiling India.When American pop star Rihanna tweeted in support of the farmers’ protest in February, several of India’s best-known sportspersons, in unison as if moved by an invisible string, wrote posts on social media that had one message: ‘Do not talk about this.’Using the hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether, Sachin Tendulkar wrote on Twitter: “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let’s remain united as a nation.” Sovereignty under threat? Either Tendulkar was unaware of the meaning of the word, or he crawled when asked to bow.Others such as Ravi Shastri, Virat Kohli, Ajinkya Rahane, Rohit Sharma, Anil Kumble, Saina Nehwal, etc, used the same hashtags to tweet in favour of the government’s stance and against the peaceful protesters.Also in February, men such as Tendulkar and Kohli and Shastri kept off Twitter on an issue and a man they knew closely: Wasim Jaffer, the former India opener who is now a respected coach, was accused by an official of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand of favouring Muslim players over Hindus. The manager of the team supported this official. Before that, Jaffer had resigned his position as coach, accusing officials and the secretary of the association of “pushing non-deserving players”. Tendulkar has played for Mumbai and India with Jaffer — yet he remained mum. As did Jaffer’s former India captains Rahul Dravid and Sourav Ganguly. At a press conference, Rahane said he had “no idea” about the issue. To Kumble’s eternal credit, he was one big player to support Jaffer — the minor ones who did so included Manoj Tiwary, Dodda Ganesh and Chandrakant Pandit.Jaffer’s was a test case for his teammates — by keeping mum, they failed him and their fans.There was no test case for Hamilton in Saudi Arabia — he did not need to speak at all for LGBTQ rights in that country. But by doing so, he has gained in stature as a man who wants equal rights for all.He has shown that sportspersons have a duty to use their influence as a force for the general good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hamilton-scores-where-sachin-kohli-saina-fail-346372
