16-12-2021||---||Myanmar in for heightened phases of uncertainty||On March 30, 2012, there was a beeline of people visiting the picturesque residence of National League for Democracy (NLD) leader Aung San Suu Kyi as she gave a press conference to mark the entry of her party into the electoral fold after a hiatus marked by imprisonment and long period of house arrest after the 1990 elections.Among the attendees were diplomats, including Major Gen Anup Kumar, Bangladesh’s Ambassador to Myanmar of Chakma origin and other ASEAN countries. While the diplomats were in the listening mode, Suu Kyi replied with her uncanny wit and charm to the varied questions of the media.The next nine years’ journey — from 2012 to February 1, 2021 — was an eventful one for Suu Kyi and her party. The party contested and won the byelections held on April 1, 2012, and then two consecutive general elections in 2015 and 2020. On February 1, 2021, a military coup reversed the democratic progress in Myanmar which contravened the prevailing analysis among international observers that reforms in the country were irreversible.After a gap of nearly two years of military trial that was de facto initiated to keep her away, Suu Kyi has been found guilty of inciting public unrest and breaching Covid-19 restrictions. She was initially given a four-year term and her sentence was reportedly reduced after a partial pardon from coup leader and army chief Min Aung Hlaing.At least 1,000 people have been killed in the protests against the military coup across the country. A series of domestic and international factors have converged that indicate Myanmar may experience continued instability and heightened phases of uncertainty.First, Suu Kyi’s arrest and the fact that she is 76 indicate that her fire power and ability to lead the country to a long period of democratic struggle has a limited shelf life now. Her health was in progressive decline even when she was in power. For over three decades, internationally, Myanmar’s democratic struggle was synonymous with Suu Kyi and there was little even on her part to groom the next generation of leaders.Second, during Suu Kyi’s tenure, there was no aim to tackle the racial animosity and Burmese majoritarianism that is quite embedded in the country’s body politic. There are deep-seated ethnic prejudices within the army about the minority ethnic groups and even a cursory informal discussion with senior army officers will validate that. This is not just with respect to Rohingyas who were driven out of Rakhine in large numbers by the military. One of the prejudices prevalent among the Burmese-dominated Myanmar military with regard to Rakhine Buddhists is that they are incapable of defending themselves.Third, China has remained consistently wary of Myanmar’s reforms. While it played along in the initial years of reforms, little noticed outside Myanmar was China’s repeated displeasure over the western diplomatic hyperactivity in border areas like Kachin in the north that was repeatedly relayed to Myanmar interlocutors.For China, Myanmar is an important file and each event in the country is tracked with a microscopic lens. Even before China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) made international headlines, the China-Myanmar oil and natural gas pipelines became operational. By July 2019, China imported more than 19 million tonnes of crude oil and more than 20 billion cubic metres of natural gas through the pipelines.On the BRI alone, several rounds of discussions have taken place between Myanmar and China. Even Suu Kyi participated in the two rounds of the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in Beijing. And, with China as one of the main destination points for its natural resources, the ability of smart sanctions by the western countries to impact the interests of the current Myanmar military leadership is considerably blunted.Moreover, Myanmar’s army as an institution has internalised the lesson of capitalising on the geopolitical rivalry between great powers to advance its goals and objectives. The biggest geopolitical rivalry of the US is with China, particularly in the Indo-Pacific region, and China is unlikely to cede an inch in its neighbourhood.Obviously, all is not lost. Myanmar witnessed a surfeit of international activity as many notable non-profit organisations functioned in the country from 2010 to 2021. In a country marked by poverty, real estate value in Yangon was soaring as expatriates competed to get proper housing at astronomical rents. While some of the programmes may have been marked by design flaws, the exposure to the outside world has made Generation Z particularly anxious about its future in a military-controlled country.Like ASEAN, being a neighbour and with ethnic overlaps, India has a vast corpus of institutional knowledge of the country’s complexity and challenges. It should continue to effectively use its channels with various levels of military leadership to sensitise them on issues of international concern.The current developments seem to be more of a consequence of ambitions of the present military chief, Min Aung Hlaing, to hold on to the reins of power even after retirement. It is yet not clear whether the middle-level officers, exposed to the decade-long reform process, are fully on board with the idiosyncrasies of the chief.Suu Kyi was convicted by a court in August 2009 for violating the terms of her house arrest. She has earlier intermittently served house arrest since the 1991 election and has survived an assassination attempt in 2003.The military’s attitude towards her dramatically changed as President Thein Sein, a former military general, took a series of noteworthy steps after 2010. In phases, he released hundreds of political prisoners, including Suu Kyi, in November 2010.He invited her to his office in August 2011. He even gave a personal touch to the meeting by taking her to his nearby residence to meet his wife. The NLD gained formal recognition as a political party and was registered by the Election Commission. Keeping in mind the recent history of Myanmar, one can say that even the military control of the country is quite reversible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/myanmar-in-for-heightened-phases-of-uncertainty-350871
16-12-2021||---||Talent migration has now come full circle||A few decades ago, PV Indiresan, former director of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, had commented that ‘when a student enrols at an IIT, his spirit is said to ascend to America. After graduation, his body follows.’ He was only repeating an oft-quoted joke that referred to the trend in the 1970s and the 1980s of a large number of IIT graduates migrating to the US for higher studies and staying on there for jobs in the corporate sector or academia. The phenomenon was dubbed ‘brain drain’ in the 1960s. The recent appointment of Parag Agrawal, a graduate of IIT Bombay, as the Chief Executive Officer of Twitter, has revived the debate on ‘brain drain’ and about how elite institutions are still exporting their talent to America. It is also being argued that the achievements of those who stay back need to be celebrated and not of those who migrate. Such debate on the so-called ‘brain drain’ is fallacious and parochial, ignoring both the historical perspective and the 21st century dynamics of a globalised knowledge economy.The America-attraction of Indian techies is not new. It goes back to the late 19th century when the then newly-established Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) began attracting attention among nationalist leaders as well as industrialists in India. While a large number of Indians went to Britain for higher education and technical training, the nationalists saw MIT as an alternative model for industry-oriented tech education. The newspapers edited by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, while arguing for technical education and industrialisation in India, projected MIT as the Model Institute of Technology. No wonder, early Indians to go to MIT were from Poona, Bombay, Bhavnagar and other cities in western India, resulting in the founding of engineering industries in the region, as documented by the historian of technology Ross Bassett. MIT was formally proposed as a model for higher technical education in India in the report of the Nalini Ranjan Sarkar Committee in March 1946.Though the blueprint of Sarkar committee became the basis for setting up IITs, MIT was still not directly involved in establishing IITs at Kharagpur, Bombay and Madras in the 1950s. All of them, however, had international faculty in their formative years. It was the IIT at Kanpur that had the direct participation of MIT-led consortium of American institutions. Dozens of American professors taught at Kanpur, large equipment like mainframe computers and small planes were brought from America and students had access to American scientific journals, as part of the 10-year Kanpur India America Project (KIAP). Since post-graduation and doctoral studies in engineering were still unavailable in IITs, a number of their graduates migrated to American universities whose professors had taught them in India. It was also the time when the American government changed its immigration rules. Graduates from IITs were found overqualified or ill-suited for absorption in family-run industrial houses in India. All these factors resulted in the first wave of migration and ‘brain drain’.Migration of Indian talent is made to sound as if it is a dead-end and one-way street. It is not so. Even as ‘brain drain’ was becoming a concern among the Indian scientific establishment and policy-makers, bright Indians had started returning and catalysing new ventures in India. It was MIT graduate Lalit Kanodia, who along with Nitin Patel and Ashok Malhotra (also from MIT), in 1966 wrote the project report for a computer centre for the Tatas which eventually took the shape of the Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). Another IITian with engineering and management degrees from the MIT, Narendra Patni, saw a business opportunity in farming data conversion business to India — giving birth to the idea of outsourcing. IIT Kanpur graduate, Prabhu Goel, set up a branch of his chip designing firm in Noida in mid-1980s. The Noida unit became a part of Cadence when Goel’s firm got acquired in America. This was the beginning of silicon design business in India. In the same way, Texas Instrument’s decision to come to India was influenced by the hard work and talent of Indians who were working in the firm in America. The early success of Cadence and TI attracted almost every major chip developer to set shop in India.By the time India liberalised in 1991, many of those who had migrated in the 1970s and the 1980s had either reached top management positions in American technology firms or had turned entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. They became India’s brand ambassadors and drove investments from their parent companies or invested themselves. This happened not just in information technology sector, but also in biotechnology, healthcare and so on. GE saw the opportunity and made India a part of its global R&D system. Three decades later, every Fortune 500 company does R&D in India. The software, IT and engineering services industry is worth nearly 200 billion dollars.The trend has continued in several areas including academia and scientific research. We are seeing greater collaborative research between the Indians working in foreign universities and here. Indian scientists are in top positions in mega science projects like Large Hadron Collider (LHC) in which Indian institutions are participating in a big way. All such collaboration helps in the exchange of knowledge, capacity development and also leads to new businesses and industrial activity. The new start-ups in the aerospace sector are a prime example of such cross-country linkages.As eminent scientist RA Mashelkar often says, what we are seeing is not ‘brain drain’ but ‘brain gain’ and ‘brain circulation’. Every Indian appointed as CEO of a global tech company speaks volumes about India’s higher education system. It is also a reflection of the system in which talent and merit are recognised, irrespective of one’s race, religion or country of origin. If we are able to create similar opportunities in our universities, businesses and start-up ecosystem, we should not only be able to retain top brains — which we are doing to a great extent — but also attract talent from other parts of the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/talent-migration-has-now-come-full-circle-350868
16-12-2021||---||Poor and unequal||India fares very poorly in the just released World Inequal ity Report 2022. The immediate response that this can generate is: removing poverty matters, but not inequality in itself, that being an ideological goal. The report has a clear answer to this. It states that the rise of the modern welfare state in the 20th century, which was associated with tremendous progress in health, education and opportunities for all, was linked to the rise of steep progressive taxation rates. This played a critical role in ensuring social and political acceptability of increased taxation and socialisation of wealth.Unless public expenditure on health, education and skill development increases drastically, the quality of workforce will not improve, and GDP growth can’t take off.The report goes on to add that a similar effort is necessary in order to address the challenges of the 21st century. It calculates the revenue gains that will follow from a modest progressive wealth tax on global multimillionaires. According to one scenario created in the report, an effective wealth tax rate of 1 per cent on the 62 million adults who have individual wealth exceeding $1 million can generate total revenues equal to 1.6 per cent of global income which can be reinvested in education, health and ecological transition.The world is already moving in this direction by committing itself to economic and social transformation so that global warming can be restricted to 1.5 degrees C above pre-industrial levels in order to prevent the extreme weather conditions that have been recently witnessed.To enable this, all countries will have to invest in creating a new economy which will enable zero net carbon emissions. And to help the poor countries do their bit, the rich have promised a substantial wealth transfer — $100 billion per year — a pledge not fulfilled till now, but will hopefully be better kept in the future.This is needed because poor countries will have to pursue high growth to fight poverty, thus increasing per capita emissions. So the rich countries have accepted the moral responsibility of helping out as the current global stock of emissions has been substantially created historically by the rich as they raised their income and emission levels.Where will the rich countries get the $100 billion per year? A couple of months ago, 136 countries agreed to subject MNCs to a minimum tax of 15 per cent by 2023. This is because such businesses have till now managed to pay very little tax by registering their legal entities in tax havens where they have to pay very little or no taxes at all, whereas they do their business and earn their profits elsewhere. Particularly culpable are new-age MNCs like Amazon, Microsoft and Alphabet (Google).There is now a global consensus among countries to transfer resources from the rich — countries and companies — to the poor countries to meet an agreed goal, mitigating climate change. This is based on the same principle as progressive taxation which the world inequality report recommends to reduce inequality and fund socially desirable goals.Now let us come to individual countries. Governments can fund socially desirable expenditure either by raising revenue or printing money. As the latter route will be inflationary, the only choice before governments is to raise more tax revenue so as to make the necessary investment. The contention of the report is that there is significant scope for this by taxing just the few who are rich a little more because of high levels of inequality that exists in both income (what you earn) and wealth (what you have saved up from past incomes).Where does India stand in all this? According to the report, India is a very poor and very unequal country with an affluent elite. The top 10 per cent of its population has a 57 per cent share of pre-tax national income, whereas the bottom 50 per cent has a share of only 13 per cent. Against this, China fares better with the top 10 per cent accounting for 42 per cent of its pre-tax national income. However, its bottom 50 per cent has a similar share of national income as India at 14 per cent.As for the elite, according to Forbes, the top 10 Indian billionaires, led by Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani, have between themselves $332 billion in wealth.Apart from the historical legacy, 2020, the year of Covid, has been a bad one for the entire global economy and India has played a role in this. There has been a drop in global income in the year, with half the drop in rich countries and half the drop in low income and emerging countries. The latter is primarily due to the impact of South and Southeast Asia, particularly India. If India is removed from the analysis, the income share of the bottom 50 per cent actually slightly increased in 2020.Is India doing something to fight inequality and how does it compare in this respect with the rest of the world? The report has an index which measures a country’s efforts to fight inequality. Right at the top are Norway (1), Germany (3) and France (7). China is somewhat in the middle (57), much further down is Bangladesh (113), and near the bottom is India (129).As if this was not bad enough, over the last three years, the report finds that the quality of inequality data released by the government has seriously deteriorated, making it difficult to measure recent changes in inequality. The report measures the availability and quality of data on income and wealth released by different countries through an inequality transparency index which has a range of 0-20. Eight countries score the highest — 13-16.5 (no country is absolutely perfect, so there are none in the 17-20 range). They are Denmark, Italy, Sweden, Uruguay, France, the US, the UK and Norway. Even China, a totalitarian country whose data has traditionally enjoyed little credibility, at 6.5 scores better than India at 4. Pakistan, if that is any consolation, scores even less at 1.Unless India’s public expenditure on health, education and skill development increases drastically, along with efficient use of the money, the quality of workforce will not improve, and without that GDP growth cannot be expected to take off in the manner in which it has done in China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/poor-and-unequal-350867
