17-12-2021||---||Legal education in schools needs a holistic push||THE transformative impact that the expansion of legal education has caused, especially after the advent of national law universities, is perhaps the most amazing development in the higher education system in India. Legal education and profession have become so coveted that aspirants now prefer law, in many cases, over engineering, management and medicine because of job prospects. Till now, the study of law has remained the preserve of higher education. But the idea that basic legal education must be introduced at the level of secondary education is now gaining ground.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had announced in 2013 that legal education would be offered as an elective subject for students of Classes XI and XII. Unfortunately, this approach is yet to yield the desired results. More than 70,000 candidates sat for the CLAT examination, hoping to secure a seat in the national law universities. Breaking away from past when law was considered as a ‘last resort’ profession, it is today attracting the brightest of minds. As things stand today, these students are acquiring education related to law from coaching institutes rather than schools. The interest of students in the field of law should be kindled in the school itself. By the time the students appear for their law school entrance examinations, they must be clear about why they want to join these institutions.The idea of introducing legal education as a subject in schools has not witnessed requisite planning and execution. Several issues need be addressed to ensure the success of such an endeavour. First, there is a need to revise the pedagogical approach to legal education in schools. The textbooks released by the CBSE span immensely vast subject areas such as property, contracts, criminal law, alternative dispute resolution, human rights and legal services, among others. Rather than being a primer for legal education, these topics have been dealt with in a manner similar to what students in law universities would be expected to know at the end of their course. The need, however, is to prime the students for higher legal education.There is a need to shift the pedantic focus from the black-letter law to a more fundamental discourse surrounding the impact of laws on those governed by them. The students must be educated not just about the existence of laws or what the law says, but to also enlighten them as regards the rights, obligations and duties of the State as well as the citizens. Linking the lives of students with the laws governing them would allow them to better understand the intrinsic connection between the two. Besides, there is scope for the use of technology and software to create animation, graphics and narration to make the teaching of law effective.Secondly, legal education must be given the same importance as other subjects such as biology, chemistry, physics, maths, accounts and economics. The pedagogical approach to these subjects prepares and primes the students for the rigours of higher education while ensuring sound foundational knowledge. The subject of law too must be tailored in such a manner. Legal education must be treated on a par with other subjects and the resources of the State should be used adequately towards ensuring the same.Thirdly, keeping legal studies as an optional or elective subject is bound to blunt the efficacy of the initiative. It is pertinent, therefore, that all students must be required to undertake the course, given that the laws would have a significant impact on their personal and professional lives, irrespective of whether they become scientists, accountants, engineers or entrepreneurs. As citizens of the country, they should be made aware of their legal rights as well as their obligations and duties — both towards the State and each other. Moreover, the National Education Policy also requires a choice-based option of subjects for the students, irrespective of their core discipline.Fourthly, there is a dearth of trained educators who are both well versed with the scope of the laws as well as the ability to simplify them. There is a need to create a class of educators who can impart legal education effectively while appealing to the imagination of the students. Involving young law graduates as instructors to support the core faculty in the schools can produce better results.As evidenced by the mushrooming of law universities, much investment has been made by the State as well as private bodies into the nurturing of law as a professional course. These higher education institutions can play a vital role in the realisation of the requirements laid out above. Law schools can help design the pedagogy as well as course structures tailored to such needs and requirements. Law schools can also undertake the responsibility of upgrading the skills of existing personnel as well as training new educators. The possibility of the engagement of established law schools and legal academics must be explored by the Ministry of Education, as also the Boards of Secondary Education.We need to move beyond the printing of the Preamble and the fundamental duties on the front and back pages of the prescribed books — hoping that the students would read and imbibe them without any further guidance. The introduction of law as a subject in schools will go a long way in the creation of a citizenry which is legally educated and aware of its rights, duties and obligations in a holistic sense. While there are issues, all such obstacles can certainly be overcome. To carry out a well-monitored pilot of this exercise, law universities can be assigned a role in helping schools undertake this task. This is too important to be ignored and too urgent to be delayed.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/legal-education-in-schools-needs-a-holistic-push-351116
17-12-2021||Many of my former colleagues from the IPS||Not a licence to kill||The Army is not trained to deal with the country’s own citizens turned rogue. It has been trained to deal with hostile enemies. It has been trained to kill.My close friend Chaman Lal of the Madhya Pradesh cadre, whose path I first crossed when I headed the Punjab Police at the height of the Khalistan movement, was the DGP Nagaland in the 1990s. The Chaman I know has always been conscious of people’s sensibilities in each place he served. Service to the people has always guided every action and decision he took.After reading Patricia Mukhim’s (editor, Shillong Times) op-ed piece in a leading English daily, I spoke to Chaman before sitting down to write. He remembered an almost identical incident in Nagaland in 1994-95 involving a Rashtriya Rifles (RR) unit and innocent civilians. As DGP, he had taken a very strong stand against the excessive force used in that operation and supported the locals in their demand for a high-level independent probe.The Army is not trained to deal with the country’s own citizens turned rogue. It has been trained to deal with hostile enemies. It has been trained to kill. To expect the Army not to use their weapons in some circumstances is basically unjust. I have always felt that the use of the Army within the country when fighting internal battles is a path to be seriously avoided. The RR was raised to get over this hurdle. Unfortunately, to this day it carries all the trappings of an Army formation. The jawans are ex-Army soldiers who had completed their enlisted service and their officers likewise are serving Commissioned Officers who are at the fag end of service. The propensity to use their lethal weapons is embedded in their psyche.The ideal solution, therefore, is to expand the state police and use the homegrown units of the constabulary, armed and trained for combat of the kind experienced in insurgency situations. Good leadership would be a sine qua non to ensure loyalty and obedience to orders. But the red rag that Patricia Mukhim speaks about, the distinct feeling now exhibited by our troops and the paramilitary that the hill tribes are not one of us and are ‘aliens’ or the ‘other’, will not arise when the combatants are both tribesmen fighting on opposite sides.I am reminded of my days in Punjab. Khalistani terrorists and the Punjab Police were both sons of the soil. Yet, they fought one another like all good soldiers do, with all their heart and soul. Cases of crossing over to the opposite side were rare. The whole pillar rested on the quality of leadership. And fortuitously, ‘lobbying’ for positions of leadership quietly disappears during times of mortal combat.Chaman is of the firm view that AFSPA should be withdrawn from Nagaland, and by extension, from the Northeast. It has outlived its utility if the epithet of utility could be applied to it at any time. The Act was introduced in Disturbed Areas of the country where armed insurgents or Maoists or armed terrorists were operating against the State. The Army, whenever and wherever it was inducted, made it a mandatory condition for its entry into civilian terrain. The Army’s logic for insisting on this legal protection against possible entanglement with the law was unexceptionable. It argued, and rightly so, that its officers and men were not schooled in legal niceties, like the police were. They were being pitched into combat with men armed like them with deadly weapons. If they made a genuine mistake, like they say is the case in Mon, they need to be saved from the hassle of a murder trial, an event that is not catered for during times of war.This logic is difficult to demolish. Another celebrated IPS officer, Prakash Singh of the UP cadre, who served as DGP Assam, advocates due caution when judging the entire episode. But Chaman, who has experienced life in Nagaland, counters the argument. He contends that such a licence to kill can never be open-ended. In the AFSPA itself safeguards are listed to prevent abuse. These are conveniently overlooked by operational Commanders, smug in their understanding that the law and their own superiors will not only forgive any transgressions, but also raise them on pedestals.In the Mon case, for instance, why was the ‘pinpoint’ intelligence not verified, he asks. If there was no time for that, why was the vehicle not surrounded and the passengers told to get down with arms raised to verify their credentials? This should have been the sensible drill in these circumstances, but instead, it appeared that there was a deeply harboured motive of revenge for the ambush and brutal murder of an Assam Rifles Commandant, his wife and young son that informed their actions.A much-decorated unit of the Army’s Third Corps was involved in this botched operation. I am truly sorry for the Major who led the operation and his men who followed his orders. They certainly did not intend to kill innocent civilians. And those killed were certainly not involved in insurgency. They did not deserve to die.The government is in a Catch-22 situation. It may have to capitulate to the demand for repeal of AFSPA in Nagaland and other NE areas. If it does not, it risks losing the support of the Naga, Mizo and Meghalaya political parties now aligned to the BJP. Worse, there is an even bigger danger of the fragile peace of the past two decades being disturbed. That would be disastrous.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/not-a-licence-to-kill-351115
17-12-2021||---||Our finest example of inter-service synergy||December 2021 marks the golden jubilee of India’s military victory in East Pakistan, what is now Bangladesh. India’s triumph was achieved for a variety of reasons: one, the Pakistan army was ill-equipped and ill-prepared — with three overstretched divisions against India’s three Army corps — to face the blitzkrieg of the Indian Army across the riverine terrain in East Pakistan. Two, equal credit for the Army’s success in India’s operations must be attributed to the IAF’s air domination over East Pakistan and the blockade of its coastline by the Indian Navy. Three, the Pakistan army was a victim of wrong strategic calculations by the Generals in Rawalpindi, who felt that Pakistan would bring to bear overwhelming military force on India’s western front, thus an Indian military response in the east would be limited or negligible, as was the case in 1965. Thus, Pakistan had only enough troop levels — which were also increased in March 1971 — not to fight a war, but to inflict a genocide on the Bengali population in the east. Those calculations were their undoing. Finally, the support of the Mukti Bahini guerrillas was most useful for the advance to Dacca.The genocide unleashed by the Pakistan army in East Pakistan, to subdue the locals with fear, had burdened India — by the end of May 1971 — with 10 million Bengali refugees. Its estimated cost of about $700 million in a full year — was then roughly half of India’s defence budget in 1970 — and so, Indira Gandhi, then Prime Minister, first chose to seek global humanitarian assistance; and when there was little response, she wanted a quick military intervention into East Pakistan, to liberate parts of it and to push the refugees back at the first instance. The capture of Dacca was then, not her aim. It was to liberate parts of East Pakistan to give safe areas for the refugees to go back, and to announce a free Bangladesh. But even for that, India’s military commanders suggested a more calibrated approach. General (SHFJ) Sam Manekshaw, the Indian Army chief, having conferred with his two counterparts, the naval chief, Admiral SM Nanda and Air Chief Marshal PC Lal, and after much deliberation at the Military Operations (MO) Directorate, cautioned against haste. They all wanted time to prepare for a war, make up equipment shortages, and launch a post-monsoon war in the winter.The rise in rebel forces was the outcome of Pakistan army’s severe clampdown on the Bengali population — as part of Op Searchlight — and their massacres across East Pakistan. It gave rise to a humanitarian and refugee crisis — that led to India’s involvement — followed by an Indian government decision to plan for a war. India thus assisted the Bengali guerillas to fight against the Pakistan army’s repression. They were eventually a great asset for the Indian Army — with their knowledge of the lay of the ground — when the war started. Indian military operations with attacks along the borders of East Pakistan, had in fact started in the last week of November 1971. The battles of Garibpur on November 20-21, and the pitched battles around Hilli (or Bogura), began on November 22. A few leading observers — R Sisson and LE Rose — had stated that while earlier on, “India’s forces did hit objectives in East Pakistan and then withdrew back into Indian territory — after the night of November 21, 1971, Indian tactics changed in a significant way.” Prior to that, the Mukti Bahini and other Bengali guerrilla groups trained by India, were carrying out hit-and-run operations, while the IAF had begun to carry out aerial reconnaissance missions in October and November 1971.And when the war officially started, after Pakistan’s air force bombed several Indian air bases in the north and west of India on the night of December 3-4, the Indian Navy responded with the bombing of Karachi harbour on December 4. It had a significant impact on Pakistan’s maritime capability. And even as Pakistan chose to launch its mechanised combat groups towards Jaisalmer, the legendary defence put up by India’s ground and air forces at Longewala (on December 4-5), created a graveyard of Pakistani tanks, which is still there to see. Thus, initially much of the attention was on India’s western front. The war in East Pakistan essentially gathered momentum after the Indian Army undertook bold operations to cross the mighty Meghna river and the first airborne operations (December 9-11) were launched. The fall of Dacca — the crowning moment of the war — had come about due to the remarkable synergy between India’s three services.And though everyone associates the fall of Dacca (as Dhaka was then known) with then Army chief, General Sam Manekshaw, who had no doubt a larger-than-life presence in South Block, a closer reading of one of the few accounts of how it all happened — since official records in Calcutta were shredded at Gen Aurora’s orders — shows that credit must also go to a few others such as Maj Gen (later Lt Gen) JFR Jacob, who was the chief of staff at HQ Eastern Command in Calcutta, and was involved in the planning and meticulous implementation of the operations in East Pakistan along with Major General Inder Gill, who was the Director of Military Operations (there was no DGMO then), and Lt Gen Sagat Singh, who led the race to Dacca with his IV Corps from Assam and Tripura, as also to Air Marshal HC Dewan and Vice Admiral N Krishnan (they are all standing behind in the signing ceremony in that famous photograph at the Dacca racecourse). That war was the finest example of inter-service cooperation, and much credit must also go to the naval chief, Admiral Nanda, who had the foresight to move India’s only aircraft carrier, INS Vikrant — despite resistance from the naval brass hats — to the Bay of Bengal, and Air Chief Marshal PC Lal, who had set up an advance HQ in Calcutta to coordinate the efforts of the two air commands in the eastern sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/our-finest-example-of-inter-service-synergy-351114
