18-12-2021||---||The ties that bind religion, popular culture||The bhajan had a very familiar tune but the words and the off-key singing made it difficult to recognise at first. Then it came like a flash — the tune was that of “Allah, yeh ada kaisi hai in haseenon mein, roothe pal men na mane mahinon men,” a song from the forgettable 1968 Dharmendra-Sharmila Tagore starrer, Mere Hamdam Mere Dost. The film and its songs, written by Majrooh Sultanpuri and composed by Laxmikant-Pyarelal, had been a huge hit.The bhajan was being sung in the temple which I pass during my morning and evening walk. At the time of my walks, the temple is usually empty except for the priests. And yet, I hear a lone voice singing bhajans set to film songs. The harmonium playing seems to be tolerable, but the singing is not anything to write home about. The singer, Pandit Vinod Tiwari is one of the priests in the temple. Apparently, he learnt to play the harmonium in Ayodhya where he got his religious education. He sings religiously in the morning and evening. When I asked him who he is singing for when there is no one around, his reply was quite matter of fact: “For Thakur ji (Krishna), of course!”Using tunes from film songs to render devotional songs is of course not new or novel. I recall in the 1970s, when the concept of all-night mata jaagrans (before these were replaced in the 2000s by mata chowkis which somewhat more conveniently ended at 10 pm) was still prevalent, the songs or bhents would invariably be set to tunes from popular Hindi film songs.My mother would be incensed — equally by the high volume music through the night as with the lack of originality. Moreover, she somehow felt that use of Hindi film music was a profanity in the devotional setting of a temple. But this might be because she was a Sikh and so had grown up listening to shabads sung by raagis in gurdwaras. The shabads were of course always based on classical ragas.Despite what purists might think about demeaning of the sacred, the use of film tunes in devotional songs serves an important purpose. The tunes get a connect with the audience since they are already very familiar with them. This then allows them to join in the singing without hesitation. This immediate identification with the music allows the members of the audience in the temple or at a jagrata/mata ki chowki to become part of a collective engaged in the devotional exercise. The only other tune which would be almost universally recognised among this audience would be that of the standard aarti, “Om Jai Jagdish Hare”. But then this ubiquitous tune doesn’t seem to have evolved at all!In the same temple where Pandit Vijay Tiwari is employed, about 50 middle-aged women from the neighbourhood congregate every Monday and Thursday evening. For about an hour, they sing bhajans, exchange gossip and household news etc. One of them who is proficient with the dholaki and also knows the lyrics of the bhajans is usually the lead singer. The bhajans being set to familiar film tunes allow the other women to join in the chorus and refrain without any hesitation. Interestingly, the songs used are mostly old, evergreen hits which would have played on Vividh Bharti for years after they were released. Even if they do not know the lyrics, the melody is instantly recognisable by most. In a way, these have become assimilated into the collective sub-conscious of the Hindi belt.The choice of songs is of course dependent on the audience. While middle-aged and older people prefer vintage Bollywood songs, this is not the case with the younger generation. Given the socio-political climate of the past few years, one sees that the young seem to be becoming more demonstrative of their religiosity. Although they may not be regular visitors to temples, their penchant for the festive and spectacular aspects of religion is evident in the huge numbers who take part in the annual jamboree — the Kanwad yatra during the monsoon. The kanwads would be on foot but there would usually be several vehicles accompanying them. Fitted with huge speakers, these heavily decorated vehicles blare devotional songs — except these are set to the tunes of contemporary Punjabi pop and rap.One would imagine that the Bollywood film industry would capitalise on this phenomenon. After all, if popular Hindi songs could be cannibalised for bhajans, why not come out with religious film songs which could be equally popular? Strangely, this doesn’t seem to have happened. Apart from the songs from the 1975 surprise blockbuster Jai Santoshi Ma, whose songs were phenomenally popular, there are no film bhajans which have had the staying power. These songs, sung by Usha Mangeshkar, were set to simple tunes by the talented but under-appreciated C. Arjun and written by Kavi Pradeep, were a craze for several years. Such was the craze for this film that at that time, most middle class women started keeping a fast on Friday for Santoshi Ma. But as with the fast, so with the songs, the popularity waned in a few years.In February 2021, the Ramjanmabhoomi Trust launched a door-to-door collection drive for building the temple at Ayodhya. Pandit Vijay Tiwari and his colleagues from the temple came to our locality for collecting funds for building the temple. The other day, Pandit Tiwari was singing the famous Amir Khusro composition, “Chaap Tilak Sab Cheeni” in the traditional tune. A bhajan set to the tune of “Allah, yeh ada” and a composition by a medieval Muslim poet being sung by the same person who feels that historical wrongs committed against the Hindus by the Muslims centuries ago need to be set right, is an interesting commentary on the complicated nature of our relationship with religion, popular culture and history. Maybe someday, a sociologist would explore the dialectics of immersive pop culture and hegemonic political discourse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-ties-that-bind-religion-popular-culture-351540
18-12-2021||At half time — two-and-a-half years after Narendra Modi was sworn in as Prime Minister for the second time — the focus||In search of an Opposition||Indians love those who renounce what is theirs, rightly or otherwise. It could be a gamechanger if Rahul declares that he will not be the PM candidate.The biggest imponderable was the needless splitting of Andhra Pradesh, ensuring that a leader of Rajasekhara Reddy’s calibre will never emerge from a big state. If Mamata Banerjee was only insulted and forced out of the party by Sitaram Kesri and Co., Jagan Mohan Reddy was kept in jail for 16 months by his father’s colleagues. The Congress party instituting a corruption case against the family of its own mighty satrap, who won about 35 seats out of the total 206 in 2009, is a mystery that needs to be unravelled before Congressmen seriously talk about reaching out to its old friends. It was the so-called old guard that threw Mamata out of the party and Jagan into jail, so they probably have the answers to the question why the Congress has got reduced to a small all-India party, incapable of splitting or rejuvenating itself to create something new and vibrant.Much of the Congress’s present-day troubles are legacy issues of a party that thrived on the insecurity of the minorities and on cynical manipulation of caste identities. This was swept aside by a grand narrative of hope and change in 2014, which has since regressed into a bigger plot to turn Hindus into a vote bank. Every Opposition attempt at mobilising the minorities or energising caste identities is met with a bigger counterattack from the BJP to turn Hindu masses into a vote block assimilating caste identities. When the Jats of western UP began asserting their separate peasant caste identity, identifying themselves with similar groups in Punjab and Haryana as a result of the mobilisation against the farm laws, the BJP government responded by repealing the farm laws and appealing to the Hindu sentiments in a grand show of over-the-top religiosity at Varanasi. The ploy might be too late to work in the BJP’s favour during the UP elections, but the party’s strategy of managing important caste groups with the aim of electoral gains stands out in sharp relief.While dealing with an election machine calibrating every move in caste and communal terms and the number of votes and seats that accrue as a result, what is required are satraps of the size of Jagan Mohan Reddy and Mamata Banerjee, who can assimilate caste and communal identities and create a political whole. They were forced to prove their mettle out on the streets all alone, seeking and getting endorsements from all communities. Why would they want to kowtow to a leadership that threw them out in the first place? So, Mamata is right when she says the UPA is dead and chooses not to join hands with the Congress in Parliament. And there is no point in trying to whisper conspiracy theories about Jagan’s relationship with the BJP or Naveen Patnaik’s attitude towards the Centre. In the current composition of the Lok Sabha, the Congress is only as big as Trinamool, YSR Congress and NCP put together; worse, except Maharashtra, the Congress does not have any hope of revival in any of the states that have at least 40 seats each in the Lok Sabha — UP, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu (+Puducherry) and Bihar. The Congress is in contention in only tier-II states that yield at least 20 seats each — Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha and Kerala — that too without any significant improvement in the last 10 years (Kerala offered 29% or 15 of all the 52 seats the Congress won in 2019).The road ahead could be the repeat of the 2004 model, but without a Congress prime ministerial candidate. In 2004, the Congress had the biggest tally amongst all the allies and hence could become the natural leader of the post-poll alliance. Yet, Sonia Gandhi, the party president and the leader of the alliance, relinquished her claim and offered the prime ministership to Dr Manmohan Singh. In the run-up to 2024, the Congress could do a repeat by offering the top post to one of the big satraps who emerge successful in the elections. Only prime ministerial ambition can bring the leaders of the Indian masses together. Indians love those who renounce what is theirs, rightly or otherwise. It could be a gamechanger if Rahul Gandhi declares that he will not be the PM candidate but a facilitator for a genuine alternative. That would immediately catapult him to the head of the high table as an honest arbiter amongst the toughest mass leaders of the country.Finally, the winner could be Naveen, Mamata, Jagan or someone else, but each one would be enthused to put in an honest attempt and make the fight a real one, in which each one has a huge stake. That is the kind of contest the Indian democracy deserves and the only way it can be done is for the Congress to become a facilitator. Rahul Gandhi has long been heard talking about transformational politics — there is no better way to practise it than to build a welcoming umbrella for a grand coalition of Opposition parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-search-of-an-opposition-351539
18-12-2021||---||Punjabi hero of Goa’s liberation struggle||The 60th anniversary of Goa’s liberation (December 19) is a fitting occasion to remember Shaheed Karnail Singh. On the Independence Day in 2015, his bronze bust was installed at Government Primary School — which bears his name — in Patradevi village of Goa’s Pernem taluka by the Goa Heritage Action Group (GHAG) and Goans for Education to mark 60 years of his martyrdom. An inscription below the bust reads: ‘Shaheed Karnail Singh Benipal (09/09/1930-15/08/1955). He sacrificed his life at the young age of 25 for Goa’s liberation from the Portuguese rule by braving bullets on his chest on August 15, 1955, at Patradevi, Pernem, in Goa.’According to the GHAG president, Prof Prajal Sakhardande, the bust was made and donated by sculptor Sachin Madge. Sakhardande is an associate professor in the history department of the Dhempe College of Arts and Science at Miramar in Panaji. He considers Karnail his god. “I have his picture at my residence, and the last thing I always do before leaving home is to pay obeisance to him. After all, he contributed to the liberation of Goa,” he told me recently.Back in 1955, I came to know about Karnail’s martyrdom from a relative, Mohan Lal Singhi, who was a member of the local unit of the Communist Party of India (CPI), which had organised a condolence meeting in Punjab’s Khanna town, and a larger one at nearby Issru, Karnail’s native village. I was then a student of Class V at AS High School in Khanna, my birthplace.Karnail was just seven years old when his father Sunder Singh died. He was brought up by his mother Harnam Kaur and an elder brother, who encouraged him to get educated. Issru village is located along the Malerkotla road, about 12 km from Khanna, and Karnail would walk daily to AS High School to attend classes.In his schooldays, Karnail learnt a lot about the ongoing freedom struggle in India, and was much inspired by Mahatma Gandhi and the freedom fighters from Punjab, namely Bhagat Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Sukhdev Thapar, Udham Singh and Lala Lajpat Rai, all of whom laid down their lives during the freedom movement. The folk song, “Punjab nu maan shaheedan te” (Punjab is so proud of its martyrs), was his favourite.After finishing high school, and considering the lack of financial resources of his family, Karnail completed the JBT course and became a teacher in a primary school. Around this time, he also joined the CPI as a member of the local unit at Khanna. In May 1955, he was married to Charanjeet Kaur.After Independence, the Portuguese continued to rule their colonies in India — Goa, Daman, Diu, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and the Anjediva island. The Portuguese were unwilling to negotiate and tried to suppress every Goan anti-colonial movement with a heavy hand. Dr Ram Manohar Lohia pioneered the Goa liberation movement, which was joined among others by Purushottam Kakodkar, a prominent social worker, who was deported to Portugal along with other leaders of this movement — Dr Tristao Bragança Cunha and Laxmikant Bhembre — and kept there in detention for a long time.The liberation struggle continued through peaceful means, but each time the anti-colonial activists entered the borders of Goa, they were pushed out mercilessly by the Portuguese forces, resulting in injuries to many and even deaths. An all-party committee, the Goa Vimochan Sahayak Samiti, was formed in Pune in 1954 to liberate Goa through civil disobedience and to provide financial and political assistance to the satyagrahis participating in it. The Praja Socialist Party assisted this committee in organising several such satyagrahas during 1954-55.In mid-1955, the CPI decided to send regular batches of satyagrahis to Goa’s borders and even inside it. Inspired by Kishori Lal (1912-1990), a freedom fighter and an associate of Bhagat Singh and Sukhdev, and Vishnu Dattatraya Chitale, a prominent leader of the CPI, Karnail Singh enlisted himself as a satyagrahi with the aim of entering Goa peacefully and hoisting the Tricolour, fully aware that there was a danger to life and limb when the Portuguese police would stop them with force.Karnail travelled from Punjab to Pune, and he and Chitale joined a large group of satyagrahis who travelled from Pune to Goa on August 14, 1955. After reaching the border of Goa on August 15, they walked in a procession, which was being led by a young widow from Madhya Pradesh, Sahodrabai Rai (1919-1981), a member of the Indian National Congress. As soon as this procession entered Patradevi village in northern Goa, the Portuguese forces fired at them, with one bullet hitting Rai in the arm. Karnail rushed to the front to help her, even as he shielded Chitale from another bullet. Karnail challenged the Portuguese troops, who then shot him in the chest, killing him instantaneously.In 1961, India proclaimed that Goa should join the country peacefully or it would be merged into India by force. After the failure of all diplomatic overtures with the Portuguese, the Indian armed forces conducted a military operation and captured Goa on December 19, 1961, with little resistance.In Karnail’s village Issru, there is his statue, a park, a stadium and a Senior Secondary School named after him. On August 15 every year, various political parties hold parallel congregations in the village, where their leaders pay floral tributes and deliver speeches, but, by and large, he remains unsung.Sakhardande laments that we have all but forgotten this great hero. He says there should be a chapter in the school textbooks in Goa on Karnail and his martyrdom for the cause of Goa’s liberation from Portuguese rule.All what stands in Karnail’s memory in Goa is the one-room, single-teacher government primary school at Patradevi, with an enrolment of less than 10 students. Mohinder Singh, a cousin of Karnail, who visited the school in 2015, had stated that its condition needed to be improved and it should be upgraded to the secondary school level.Right now, well-to-do parents of the Patradevi region hire private vehicles to transport their children to secondary schools in Pernem, 15 km away. Can’t the state government announce the upgradation of this school on December 19, 2021, the 60th anniversary of Goa’s liberation? Or, can’t the Punjab Government sponsor the upgrade to commemorate the memory of Karnail Singh, who sacrificed his life in the village where this school stands?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/punjabi-hero-of-goas-liberation-struggle-351538
