19-12-2021||The Indian Army’s successes on the eastern front for the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971 created a situation that the war spilling over to the western theatre was inevitable. Plans were put in place for offensive and defensive operations||50 years of 'The Gallant Infant'||Jassar, as known in Pakistan, or Dera Baba Nanak (DBN), as known to us, was a strategically important enclave east of the Ravi, belonging to Pakistan. This included the rail-road bridge over the river linking Passur-Narowal in Pakistan to the enclave. The Jassar or DBN Enclave gave an advantage to Pakistan for operations into the Indian territory towards the cities of Batala and Gurdaspur.Plans were accordingly made to capture the Dera Baba Nanak Enclave to deter any Pakistani designs. The task was given to 86 Infantry Brigade Group, for which 71 Armoured Regiment was placed under its command. The operation was code-named ‘Op Akal’.The 71 Armoured Regiment was raised in Ahmednagar in January 1971 and before it was a year old, it had the honour of being launched into battle for the capture of the strategic DBN Enclave. On the night of December 5-6, in an audacious move, 71 Regiment less a squadron was launched from the north-eastern flank of the enclave with the aim of getting behind the enemy defences. This took the enemy completely by surprise. The task of the infantry units of 86 Infantry Brigade also became easier as the enemy defences were not prepared to take on a simultaneous armour attack from the rear. A troop of the enemy’s Chafee tanks were in the enclave to support their infantry. However, on hearing the rumble of the T-55 tanks of the Regiment, they tried to make a hasty retreat towards the rail-road bridge and got bogged down in the Ravi. All this while, Charlie Squadron provided the fire support from the southern flank to own infantry and to cover the move of the rest of the Regiment from the north-east. By first light on December 6, the enclave had been captured and the Tricolour was seen fluttering on the eastern side of the bridge. While falling back, the retreating enemy blew up the home side of the bridge to prevent our advance across the river.In order to celebrate the golden jubilee of capture of the DBN Enclave, which also coincided with the golden jubilee year of the raising of 71 Armoured Regiment, the veterans and serving officers gathered at the DBN war memorial on December 5 to pay homage to the martyrs. The veterans who participated in the battle, some in their eighties, along with their families arrived from various parts of the country, as also from Canada and USA.Someone has very aptly written, “I know now why men who have been to war yearn to reunite; not to tell stories or look at old pictures, not to weep or laugh. Comrades gather because they long to be with the people who once acted their best; who once suffered and sacrificed…”We were fortunate to have Billoo Chimni, the wife of our first Commandant, the late Brig Brijinder Singh Chimni, amongst us. He was at the helm when the Regiment was launched during this operation. In a solemn occasion, the Guard of Honour was presented by the 7th Battalion of Rajputana Rifles. At Ground Zero, the veterans recounted their role during that battle, sending a chill down the spines of those listening to their heroics.The 71 Armoured Regiment displayed exemplary professionalism, raw courage and an indomitable will to win, earning the sobriquet ‘The Gallant Infant’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/50-years-of-the-gallant-infant-351927
19-12-2021||My father||Lahore, Simla & sabziwala||My mother (Amma), orphaned at the age of 10, was educated on scholarships at Sister Subbalakshmi’s school for child widows before taking her BA in Chemistry from Queen Mary’s, Madras University, a few years after Appa. She joined the Madras Education Service and after postings in Visakhapatnam and Nellore, she succeeded in raising a loan to go to England for a proper teaching degree. Adolf Hitler, however, had other ideas. When her ship docked at Suez, the passengers on the Italian liner learned that Britain had declared war on Germany. As Italy was aligned to Germany, rather than run the danger of being interned in an enemies’ camp for the duration of the war, Amma quit the vessel at Port Said and, after a series of misadventures, eventually landed back in Madras, robbed of all her possessions, stranded in the sari she was wearing, jobless and deep in debt.In despair, she got through to her sister, who had joined the Medical Service. She advised Amma to come to her in Delhi but to first get off at Agra and see the Taj Mahal. At Agra, she was met by a slim, short (5 feet, 2 inches) man to whom she was married a few months later. She never vouchsafed to me the inside story of her whirlwind romance.I was thus born in Lahore 80 years ago. My three siblings followed in short order. Amma was determined that at least one of her children should be born in Madras — so we travelled there in the summer of 1945, little realising that this was farewell to Lahore for us, although Appa stayed on. His extraordinarily lucrative income-tax practice frequently brought him to Simla (Shimla), where the Appellate Tribunal moved in summer. So, Amma set up home in Simla and Appa visited us when he came, as he frequently did, for his work.That is how, mid-August 1947 found Appa in Lahore, Pakistan, and Amma and the four children in Simla, India!Appa considered taking up Pakistani citizenship as his practice had largely been in that part of the country, which stretched from Lahore to Peshawar to Karachi. He was advised by his grocer (sabziwala) on Beedon Road to put a large padlock on the outer door of his flat at 44 Lakshmi Mansions and stay indoors. The grocer said he would knock on the rear door of the aangan (courtyard) in the early hours before dawn to supply Appa with his requirements for the day. The grocer further assured Appa that he would tell everyone, “Sankar sahib Hindustan chale gaye hain”, adding comfortingly, “Yeh janoon hai, sahib; kuchch din mein sab theek ho jayega.”But a few days later, after it had become clear that Radcliffe had awarded the city to Pakistan, the grocer pulled a knife on Appa. In retrospect, I think he did not plunge the dagger into my father’s heart because he was only showing whoever had spotted him delivering groceries in the dead of night that he had acted as instructed. Next day, Appa rang his clients and secured a truck that drove him across the border. It was a miraculous escape because those were the precise days when it was most dangerous to be on the road between Lahore and Wagah.As for us in Simla, what follows is so close to the climax of Bapsi Sidhwa’s ‘Ice Candy Man’ that I run the risk of being accused of plagiarism. A jatha of Sikhs banged on our door at Three Bridges on Jacko Hill about eight in the evening, demanding to know where the Muslims were. As the six-year-old boy in the Muslim family who lived on the ground floor was my favourite playmate, when Amma replied, “Pakistan chale gaye hain”, I opened my mouth to contradict her. But something in Amma’s eye stopped me in my tracks from saying anything. The jatha broke the kitchen that, as was the practice in those days, was built outside the main building and a body was later discovered brutally murdered on the hillside nearby. Seventy-five years later, the junoon has not ended. What beasts we are.— The writer served as a career diplomat andUnion Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lahore-simla-sabziwala-351923
19-12-2021||Bless MS Dhoni for taking politics out of Indian captaincy. Immediately before him||Good Kohli spoke, and why it should matter||Dhoni gave up captaincy quite freely — a little too freely, it must be said, in the Test format, resigning in the middle of a series in Australia. He made way for Virat Kohli as ODI captain when the time was right, giving the young dasher two-and-a-half years on the job before the 2019 World Cup.Now, as the post-Kohli era looms, we’re back in the times of intrigue over captaincy. These are post-truth times, when a lie is magnified on social media and accepted as truth on voice vote — lie, unfortunately, often has the loudest voice.Truth will out, goes the proverb. But does truth really matter?Asked about the Virat Kohli-Rohit Sharma equation, after reports that Kohli had sought rest during Sharma’s first series as India’s regular ODI captain, Sports Minister Anurag Thakur said: ‘No one is bigger than the sport.’Let’s examine this assertion, in the context of Thakur himself. He was a cricketer of modest abilities for Himachal Pradesh. When his father was the Chief Minister, he became president of the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) in 2000. A few months later, he selected himself into the state team — and became captain, no less. He led the state in his first First-Class match — a feat that has eluded even men such as Don Bradman, Garry Sobers and Sunil Gavaskar.So, then, can anyone, with a straight face, tell the Indian fan that ‘no one is bigger than the sport’?Yes, there are individuals bigger than the sport. They are the administrators. Most of them in India were princes, businessmen, politicians. They cared little for cricketers. Just read the biographies of men such as Gavaskar to get an idea about what players thought of the officials. Officials fight tooth and nail for posts in the BCCI and state associations. They get relatives, friends and personal employees on the list of voters. They create a fiefdom via sham democracy. In new India, those who get power create dynasties — as in old India.In his new book, journalist Pradeep Magazine relates a fascinating story of how votes were managed in a BCCI election in 1990 — the election was tight and the margins slim, and Madhavrao Scindia sought the help of the Prime Minister’s Office to get the Indian Railways to vote for him. The PMO acceded the request, ‘persuaded’ the Railways Minister to vote for Scindia, who won by one solitary vote.Such are the men who are bigger than the sport, who rule sports associations by winning elections through any means — or by the dint of being the brother, son or daughter of a powerful man. But they’ll always be smaller than the cricketers, who become skilful and rich after at least a decade of toil in the morning cold and the afternoon heat — and performing consistently at the top level for years.Truth, honestly, does not really matter. Should, then, have Virat Kohli given the lie to BCCI president Sourav Ganguly’s claim that he (Ganguly) had asked Kohli to reconsider his decision to give up captaincy of the T20I team?Ganguly said that it was only when Kohli refused to reconsider the decision that the BCCI sacked him as captain of the ODI team. “We had requested Virat not to step down as T20 captain but he didn’t want to continue as captain,” Ganguly said.Kohli flatly denied this. No one spoke to him, he said. And he was sacked with a curt one-liner on the phone by chief selector Chetan Sharma, said Kohli. The last time an active Indian cricketer spoke so bluntly against the powers-that-be was, perhaps, 1989, when Mohinder Amarnath called the selectors ‘a bunch of jokers’. Amarnath never played for India after that. We don’t know what Kohli’s fate will be, but if what he said is true, it’s good he spoke — even if it does not matter in the end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/good-kohli-spoke-and-why-it-should-matter-351924
19-12-2021||The year 2021 had started with the peak of the farmers’ protests on the borders of Delhi. Despite several setbacks||Resilience is braving it out despite feeling defeated||American feminist icon bell hooks (who styled her name in lower case letters to keep the attention on her ideas) died recently. Born Gloria Jean Watkins, the writer had assumed the pen name, bell hooks, to honour the legacy of her great-grandmother, who had suffered the worst oppression as a slave In the middle of 2021, the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India left no family untouched by disease, death and fatigue. The country’s health infrastructure collapsed and healthcare workers struggled to meet demands. Bodies floated down the Ganges as cremation grounds overflowed, yet the tragedy failed to shake the government into action that could alleviate the suffering of the people. The emotional devastation we experienced was not just because we witnessed a health crisis from so close, but also because the criminal lack of efficient governance and the failure of most mainstream media to inform and investigate left the people of India feeling helpless and abused.On December 15, students of Jamia Millia Islamia and other members of civil society gathered at the Delhi Press Club to commemorate two years since the weekend when Delhi Police had cracked down on the university — vandalising the library, and violently assaulting students in response to protests on the campus against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).“All the students of Jamia have been asked one question — where were you when this incident happened? What exactly happened? When we contemplate the answers, I wonder if I was in just one place or was I there with everyone who was facing atrocities that day,” said Anugya Jha, a student, evoking the idea of a visceral solidarity between the students who witnessed the pain of each other.“When I look back, I don’t have the memory of only my own experiences. I look back to find in me the collective memory of everyone who was beaten, who was told not to come inside their own university and who were made to put up their hands and walk like criminals. I remember all this and not just my own experiences. It’s impossible to forget.”Fawaz Shaheen, another alumnus of JMI University, recounted how the students came back to protest and used wall art to express their dissent. “The story of anti-CAA protests is the story of hope,” he said. “Students came out in defence of the Constitution of India.”I was still processing the powerful words of this new generation of Indians, when the news came that the American writer and feminist icon, bell hooks (who styled her name in lower case letters to keep the attention on her ideas), had died.I had chanced upon a book titled ‘Yearning: Race, Gender and Cultural Politics’ by hooks when I had been a post-graduate student of mass communication at Jamia. I read it for years afterwards, often carrying it with me when I travelled, and reading it wherever the page opened. Born Gloria Jean Watkins, the writer had assumed the pen name, bell hooks, to honour the legacy of her great-grandmother, who had suffered the worst oppression as a slave in America.“Dominator culture has tried to keep us all afraid, to make us choose safety instead of risk, sameness instead of diversity. Moving through that fear, finding out what connects us, revelling in our differences; this is the process that brings us closer, that gives us a world of shared values, of meaningful community,” wrote hooks in her book, ‘Teaching Community: A Pedagogy of Hope’.As her death became an excuse for her words to come alive again, I was surprised by the grace and beauty of the writing of hooks as she distilled complex structural inequalities into a universal expression of forms of resistance.In her essay, ‘Marginality as a Site of Resistance’, hooks has written, “Marginality (is) much more than a site of deprivation. In fact, I was saying just the opposite: that it is also the site of radical possibility, a space of resistance.”I was reminded of the farmers’ protest and the movement for equal citizenship all over again. There was so much resonance between the ideas in her writings and the speeches we had heard from the farmers and students in the last two years in India.The themes of this year have been loss, mourning and healing. Above all, we have witnessed resilience — as protest movements and oppressed groups have demonstrated the courage to continue to brave it out despite feeling defeated. They drew upon their inner reservoir of energy and wisdom to find it in themselves not only to survive, but to continue to challenge those who wield power recklessly. Power to the people is what I pray for as we cross into the year 2022.— The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/resilience-is-braving-it-out-despite-feeling-defeated-351928
