20-12-2021||---||Defence reforms stand at the crossroads||With the recent demise of India’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, in an air crash, certain important and critical questions loom large over the government. Three of these — higher defence organisation, theaterisation and indigenisation — would define the way India’s military reshapes and emerges for future battles, which could, anyway, be far removed from the kind of battles we have known so far.These three issues are part of the mandate of the CDS, who is also the Secretary, Department of Military Affairs. General Rawat has set a template for making the Indian military capable enough of pursuing the country’s national interests in the 21st century. Whosoever is made the next CDS, the pertinent question on the status of reforms initiated by the late General remains.In their nature and intent, the reforms kickstarted from the office of the CDS were radical. Not only did they aim to demolish the inter-services silos in terms of planning, operations, logistics and procurements, they also heralded the arrival of innovative fighting structures within the Indian subcontinent.The Integrated Theatre Commands (ITCs) — based on an Indian interpretation of jointness reforms undertaken by major militaries across the world, including the US, China and the UK — are a way of combining the strengths and optimising the potential of the three services: the Army, Navy and Air Force.Though land-centric, the joint combatant commands are focused on specific geographies and adversaries under a single commander and its attendant resources. Additionally, functional commands, such as the Logistics Command and the Joint Air Defence Command, are sought to be created to streamline the redundant acquisition processes and, thereby, reduce avoidable defence expenditures.In fact, General Rawat also spoke about a possible ‘Rocket Force’ — an allusion to combining the non-contact warfare capabilities of the three services and a nod to an increasing ascendancy of the idea of non-contact warfare in Indian warfighting.Similarly, indigenisation has been attempted at multiple levels. The promulgation of an import ban list by the Department of Military Affairs (euphemistically called the Positive Indigenisation List) was one of the first steps which saw a ‘burnt bridges’ strategy being applied to the import of certain critical items required by the armed forces. Two lists, with combined 209 defence items (101 in August 2020 and 108 in May 2021), have already been released with two aims: to wean off the armed forces from foreign-manufactured items; and to provide an impetus to the indigenous defence manufacturing ecosystem.A number of startups were given handholding assurances in terms of institutional and monetary support to come up with products required by the armed forces in the information age, especially in the fields of robotics, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and block-chain technology. Even in the field of cyber security, General Rawat acknowledged India’s shortcomings and was a vocal advocate of the creation of a national framework to thwart cyber attacks, as also the creation of offensive capabilities in the field, all using indigenous talent.A Transformation Division within the Headquarters of the Integrated Defence Staff — that is, under the CDS — was created to carry out these transitions.What makes General Rawat’s position hard to fill? And more importantly, what will happen to the reforms that he initiated? General Rawat was often labelled as the proverbial bull in the China shop. He had the heft of his vision and personality to carry through the reforms that he had visualised.Notwithstanding the critiques over the nature and future of reforms that he had kickstarted, India’s defence apparatus required a shake-up like this and the personality of a man like General Rawat. Unlike the 1986 Goldwater-Nichols Act, through which the unified combatant commands (UCCs) were created for the Americans, the act of integrating India’s three services was not legislated and only a person like General Rawat could have done it.This does not absolve the political setup of its responsibilities. But in the absence of a legislative Act of Parliament, only a resolute mind and personality could bring about the changes that have now germinated.The Indian Air Force has had major conceptual issues with the concept of joint theatre commands and a lot of unnecessary hysteria was created over the ‘division’ of air assets. It remains to be seen whether the Air Force will now strengthen its opposition or go ahead with the reforms. Similarly, a lot needs to be sorted out between the Air Force and the Army’s Air Defence arm over the impending joint air defence command.India now finds itself in a place where the transition towards joint structures has started but not reached a satisfactory culmination point. In view of the Chinese geographic creep and the operationalisation of its Land Boundary Law from January 1, 2022, it is essential that either the entire process of jointness and integration is taken through an Act of Parliament or we wait for an evolution of consensus within the services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/defence-reforms-stand-at-the-crossroads-352263
20-12-2021||---||Tightrope walk for BJP in caste-ridden UP||At a time when it was trying to placate a section of the farmers, the BJP now has the task of doing damage control over the actions of the man projected by the national leadership as the Brahmin face of the UP dispensation. Brahmins make up 10% of the state’s population and are considered ideologically inclined towards the BJP; but they are also said to be somewhat alienated by the Yogi regime that has been accused of promoting domination of the Thakurs, the other prominent high-caste community, to which the CM belongs.The BJP is looking at a caste chess board in Uttar Pradesh but some of the bishops and pawns are in danger of falling. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unilateral revoking of the farm laws in a television address on November 19 was certainly guided by the desire to cut the party’s losses in the state from where it has the maximum number of MPs. The PM would know that his 2014 conquest of Uttar Pradesh was facilitated by the Jat farming community of the western part of the state, who gave the campaign a certain momentum and acted as force multipliers for the BJP following the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013.That is one caste group that has certainly been vocal and up in arms against the farm laws and their revocation is designed to offset some of the anger and if possible, win back support in the community for the BJP. It’s a challenge as the farm agitation also worked to repair some of the Hindu-Muslim cleavages in west UP, but as the ruling party in the state and Centre, there is time for the BJP to attempt to create new narratives.That is why the SIT report about the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that took place on October 3, has turned out to be a spanner in the works. On that day, a convoy of vehicles hit and killed four farm protesters and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri district. One of the vehicles was linked to the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni, a Brahmin strongman of the region. An FIR was registered and the Yogi Adityanath government set up an SIT. But as the matter reached the courts, the Supreme Court started monitoring the SIT and appointed three IPS officers because Chief Justice NV Ramana said it is important after such an incident “to preserve the faith and trust of people in the criminal administration of the justice system.”Now, this SIT has described the deaths as resulting from a “pre-planned conspiracy” which potentially extends the dragnet to the minister himself and changes the charges of causing death by rash and negligent driving to murder and several more serious crimes under the IPC, including criminal conspiracy. The case is now a ticking time bomb — implying as it does in election season that a section of the BJP “conspired” to murder farmers— and the minister himself has exploded. He was captured on camera abusing and manhandling a journalist last week when asked about the SIT report. Indeed, days before the October 3 killings, he had threatened the farmers from a public platform. By any standards of propriety, Ajay Mishra should be removed from his charge. Besides, his threats to farmers then and journalists now clearly reveal that he is not fit for public office.At a time, therefore, when it was trying to placate a section of the farmers, the BJP now has the task of ridding itself or doing damage control over the actions of the man who was projected by the national leadership as the Brahmin face of the UP dispensation. Brahmins make up 10 per cent of the state’s population and are considered ideologically inclined towards the BJP; but they are also said to be somewhat alienated by the Yogi regime that has been accused of promoting what is referred to as ‘Thakurvaad’, or the domination of the Thakurs, the other prominent high-caste community in the state to which the chief minister belongs. The BJP is, therefore, struggling to ensure that bits and pieces do not disappear from its so far successful and gigantic social engineering project in UP.The party has an impressive vote share of 40 per cent and it is a task for any Opposition to defeat that. When Opposition votes are divided, it works well for the BJP in a multi-polar polity. But in this election so far, the BSP led by Mayawati appears to be taking a backseat while the SP led by Akhilesh Yadav is leading an energetic charge and has stitched up alliances with small one caste-based parties. The UP contest is beginning to look bi-polar which suggests that if the BJP drops some vote share of around 10 per cent and the SP picks up by that percentage (it had only 22 per cent in the 2017 state polls when Akhilesh Yadav as CM was unseated following), then it can be a very close call.With Parliament in session, the SIT report has given the Opposition a new issue to rally round. Rahul Gandhi has led the charge, while sister Priyanka has consistently been on the ground in Uttar Pradesh. Yet the direct benefits for the national party in Uttar Pradesh are limited in this election. Indeed, in some constituencies where Priyanka Gandhi has travelled and flagged a particular issue, the matter has acquired urgency, but the benefit is going to the SP-led front as a thumb rule of politics is that people do not want to waste their votes and look for winnable parties and candidates.The other noticeable element of the BJP campaign is that the PM appears to have decided to relegate the chief minister to a supporting act. It is worth noting that the mega spectacle organised in Varanasi for the opening of the Kashi corridor was in a sense a religious event. But although the chief minister is actually the leader of a religious order, he was pushed to the sidelines even as the event was choreographed with the PM at the centre of a new Hindu consciousness. If there is indeed some competition for who is the mightier ‘Hindu Hriday Samrat’, a phrase that the BJP itself uses, then at Kashi, the PM certainly came on top.The undercurrents within the BJP are also an element in the politics of this election. Even if the BJP wins, will the MLAs be loyal to the CM or New Delhi. Ticket distribution, therefore, is key to what will unfold within the BJP in the run-up to polling day. Will New Delhi decide tickets in a way that undermines Yogi or will he also be allowed a say and his choices? Ajay Mishra, incidentally, is not close to Yogi but has been patronised by Home Minister Amit Shah who had facilitated the Modi conquest of UP in 2014. History sheeter and strongman that Ajay Mishra is, he must be rather miffed that a BJP regime dared to file an FIR, establish an SIT, and land him in the current mess. Currently, there are wheels within wheels in Uttar Pradesh and many imponderables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tightrope-walk-for-bjp-in-caste-ridden-up-352264
20-12-2021||---||Xi’s new security satraps||Chinese President Xi Jinping has paid close attention to China’s powerful security apparatus over the past year. Its reach into every county and province to the far corners of China make it an indispensable and potent instrument for Xi as he makes his bid for a third term at China’s helm at the upcoming 20th Party Congress in 2022. A number of other factors have contributed to its importance for Xi. These include: the inordinate concentration of power in Xi’s hands and decision to bid for a third term in office, ignoring the discomfort among party cadres; unease and simmering dissatisfaction caused by inchoate reasons, including the palpably slowing economy, rising unemployment, widening urban and rural income disparities; and the ‘threat’ of efforts by the US to ‘topple’ the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). These make it imperative that the security apparatus stays unquestioningly loyal to Xi.With the intensive cleansing of China’s security apparatus now entering its final stage, Xi Jinping has turned his attention to ensuring its loyalty. With the intensive purge, or cleansing, of China’s security apparatus — called ‘the knife handle’ by party cadres — now entering its final stage, Xi has turned his attention to ensuring its loyalty. Guo Shengkun, chairman of the CCP’s apex Political and Legal Affairs Committee that supervises the entire security apparatus, in a lengthy article published by the CCP’s official newspaper People’s Daily on December 13, announced: ‘The education and rectification of the national political and legal teams has been carried out in a solid manner, a large number of stubborn diseases have been resolved, a number of black sheep have been eliminated, the political loyalty of the political and legal teams have been continuously strengthened, and the enthusiasm of executives and entrepreneurs has been effectively stimulated.’On November 19, the appointment of Wang Xiaohong, a long-time associate of Xi, as secretary of the Ministry of Public Security’s Party Committee, was announced, indicating that he will soon take over the Ministry of Public Security (MPS). The appointment is unusual as it is normally the minister who is concurrently secretary of the Party Committee of a ministry. The appointment also signals that the CCP Central Committee’s (CC) Sixth Plenum discussed personnel appointments.The choice of Wang Xiaohong to head the powerful MPS is undoubtedly deliberate. Hong Kong’s Sing Tao Daily said Wang Xiaohong made his political loyalties clear at the MPS Party Committee meeting on November 21, when he emphasised that ‘purging Sun Lijun and other people’s poisonous influence should be given more prominence, and for resolutely eliminating political hidden dangers.’ The months leading up to the 20th Party Congress scheduled for late next year are crucial for Xi, particularly as Chinese leaders have not continued in office for more than two terms after Mao.Wang Xiaohong has a long and close association with Xi and is counted among his closest friends. He began his career in Fujian and was Xi’s subordinate during the latter’s entire term in Fujian. Xi brought him to Beijing and promoted him as director of public security of Beijing in March 2015. Evidence of Xi’s trust was not only his appointment as police chief of Beijing — a job entrusted only to a person of the CCP CC general secretary’s confidence — but the concurrent appointments as deputy mayor of Beijing, party secretary of the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau, and director of the Public Security Bureau. He was appointed vice-minister of public security in May 2016. A source reportedly disclosed: ‘I have heard Wang served as a ban lang (the best man or head groomsman) at Xi Jinping’s private wedding with Peng Liyuan, attended by only close relatives. They are so close to each other.’Once appointed MPS minister, 64-year-old Wang Xiaohong, who is a member of the 19th CCP CC, can expect to be promoted to state councillor or politburo member. Given their exceptionally close ties, it is possible that after the 20th Party Congress, Xi promotes Wang Xiaohong to the politburo to head the all-powerful Central Political and Legal Affairs Committee. The secretary of the committee, who is also a member of the politburo, is at the apex of China’s security apparatus. The committee supervises the MPS, Ministry of State Security (MoSS), Ministry of Supervision, Judiciary and Procuratorate. With incumbent MPS minister Zhao Kezhi and secretary of the legal affairs committee Guo Shengkun scheduled to retire at the same time, Wang Xiaohong is well positioned for elevation as secretary of the committee.There are, however, two other strong contenders. Chen Yixin (62), long regarded a rapidly rising cadre, was brought to Beijing by Xi, and later in 2018, appointed secretary general of the committee. He initiated the ‘rectification’ of the entire security apparatus in April 2020, calling it ‘a self-restoration with the blade inward and bone scraping to cure the poison’. Chen Yixin is an alternate member of the 19th CCP CC and a year younger than Wang Xiaohong. With age on his side, Chen Yixin could wait till 2027 for elevation to the politburo.The third candidate for elevation as secretary of the committee is Chen Wenqing, a ‘Red Descendent’, member of the 19th CCP CC and younger than Wang Xiaohong and Chen Yixin. He was named deputy director of the Central State Security Office, part of the new Central State Security Commission set up by Xi to tighten party oversight of the security apparatus, in May 2018.All three close associates of Xi have a security background. Wang Xiaohong, though, seems to have an edge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xis-new-security-satraps-352262
