21-12-2021||---||Terror in the Valley||THAT there has been an uptick in violence in the Kashmir valley is clear. In October alone, 44 people were killed, including 13 civilians, 12 security personnel and 19 militants. In November, the government was compelled to send in an additional 5,000 security personnel into the Valley. Almost every day, we hear of security personnel being killed in some instances, and militants and civilians in other cases.The govt has so far done little to undo the maleficent effects of its August 2019 ‘masterstroke’.This is the most visible failure of the government’s August 2019 abrogation of Article 370 and demotion and division of Jammu & Kashmir into two Union Territories (UT) directly ruled by the Union government. But there are other indicators as well, notably the failure of grand development plans chalked out for the new UT.Though the government action was plainly a political move to fulfil a long-standing BJP pledge to remove the already hollow Article 370, its other punitive steps — the removal of a representative assembly, the massive security crackdown, the arrests and prolonged detention of even mainstream politicians of the NC and the PDP — were premised on its claim that it would finish militancy totally and bring in an era of development.In June, there were indications of a shift when Prime Minister Modi met the erstwhile incarcerated and reviled leaders of Kashmiri parties in New Delhi. There were signals that the democratic process in the UT could be revived. But little has happened since, except the uptick in militancy.On paper, there have been a lot of claims by the UT administration about the thousands of crores of investments that have been made after the August 2019 “masterstroke.” But the MHA informed Parliament last week that in the last two years, just seven plots of land had been purchased in the UT by outsiders, all of them in Jammu, and none in the Valley. This is a good indicator of the ground situation and its reasons obvious to anyone with an iota of common sense. According to the figures of the South Asia Terrorism Portal, a total of 35 civilians, 43 security personnel and 178 militants had been killed in Jammu & Kashmir in 2021 till December 17. At this level of violence, it would take a brave outsider to buy land and set up business in the Valley.The problem with J&K is that an already difficult situation has been complicated by myth-making mixed with ideology. One of the myths is that the muscular government will not only crush insurgency in the state but also recover the parts of the state that have been occupied by China and Pakistan.Further, it will restore the Kashmiri Pandits to their erstwhile position of influence in the Valley. But this is not happening. The main reason for this is the continuing sense of insecurity, but also because many Pandit refugees have not waited for the state to do something for them. They have moved on with their lives since they know that what has been wrecked is unlikely to be rebuilt.The Pandit discourse has been grossly distorted by activists who often describe the events of 1990 as being nothing less than a holocaust. A recent RTI reply gives the lie to this claim. It says that the number of Pandits killed in the last 30 years is 89. This number probably relates just to Srinagar. Looked at anyway, it most certainly does not amount to a “holocaust.”Certainly terrible things happened to the Pandits in 1990. I have detailed some of the murders, rapes and assaults in my book Lost Rebellion (2019). But to call it a genocide or holocaust is to distort the individual tragedies which hit all communities of the state, Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs. What has certainly happened is that the Pandit culture that gave rise to the composite Kashmiri culture has suffered a mortal blow. Any way out must deal with the deaths and displacement of civilians regardless of their religious denomination. If you look at one and ignore the other, you will only end up missing the wood for the trees.Efforts are now being made by Pakistan to step up its activities. This is evident from the actions of a new front for the Lashkar-e-Taiba, which has been responsible for the recent killing of Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit in Srinagar, along with two schoolteachers — a Hindu and a Sikh. These terrorist acts are aimed at striking fear in the minority communities.The government has so far done little to undo the maleficent effects of its August 2019 “masterstroke.” Political activity remains dormant, restrictions on politicians, journalists and civil society remain stifling. The Supreme Court is yet to hear the petitions questioning the derogation of Article 370, a somewhat strange approach to an issue of such importance.Since 2016 or so, a feature of the militancy has been the resumption of local recruitment. This is evident from 2021 government figures which show that of the 148 militants killed till the end of last month, only 21 were foreigners. The mortality of recruits is high, most do not survive a year, yet they keep on coming. This is the point that the policy needs to deal with by providing political channels to address grievances and a process of de-radicalisation of the youth. The Union Government needs to move from slogans and sloganeering towards a practical strategy of restoring normalcy in the Valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/terror-in-the-valley-352656
21-12-2021||---||Loss made Pakistan recalibrate its choices||The India-Pakistan relationship has gone through phases of intense hostility and tensions, and the two nuclear-armed neighbours have fought four conventional wars and dealt with the challenges of the threat of nuclear weapons (in their respective ways). While the bilateral relationship has been strained for most years, the terror attack on January 2, 2016, on the Pathankot Air Force Station led to the complete suspension of diplomatic dialogue. India’s decision to revoke Article 370 on August 5, 2019 came as a complete surprise for Pakistan, and since then, there have been a series of strong reactions/actions focusing on targeting India on the international front, attracting global attention and seeking mediation on Kashmir.Pakistan’s strategic posturing against India revolves around the use of sub-conventional war, build-up of its conventional and nuclear capability, maintaining a projection of low nuclear threshold and intensifying its anti-India narrative. There have been alterations in the tactics and intensity of posturing but the underlying objectives and position have been by and large consistent for the last 50 years. The study of Pakistan’s history suggests a significant shift in its thinking, actions and strategy (vis-à-vis India) after its humiliating defeat in the 1971 war. Not only was the Pakistani leadership and populace disgraced and disgruntled with the division of Pakistan, their leadership was convinced that it would not be possible to militarily defeat a conventionally superior India. After the 1971 war, two issues became critical for Pakistan: First, it was time to look for options to stay on a par with India, if not defeat it; and second, at no cost allow further disintegration. The existing insurgencies in Pakistan’s tribal belt in Balochistan and restlessness in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (then North-West Frontier Province or NWFP) did pose a constant challenge to the ruling elites.The loss of East Pakistan in 1971 not only altered the political and ethnic scenario in Pakistan but also the ideological dynamics of Pakistan. The division of Pakistan created a fear of further segmentation, and the ruling elites increasingly believed that religious ideology would be the best option to unite people in the name of religion. Also, in the early 1970s, the disturbances in Balochistan created tremendous unrest and kept the leadership in Pakistan engaged. The Balochistan insurgency provided the military an opportunity to project Afghanistan as an additional threat and to support the growing military expenditure and maintain Pakistan’s image as a garrison state.The 1970s and 1980s witnessed the re-emergence of Islam as a potent global force, starting with the spread of Saudi Wahabi ideology. The Iranian revolution drew attention towards the significant changes that were taking place in many Muslim countries across the globe in the 1970s.Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto turned towards Islam to counter his Islamic critics and also to strengthen ties with the oil-rich nations of the Gulf. Ironically, it was the same Islamic ideology that was used by General Zia-ul-Haq to overthrow Bhutto.Bhutto took forward the idea of Islamic Socialism and, thus, enforced Islam as a major factor in statecraft. Zia put the state at the services of Islam and took steps to inculcate Islamic practices within the state. In 1976, General Zia-ul-Haq was appointed as the new Army Chief and was allocated the responsibility to Islamise the Pakistan Army. In this period, the Army developed close links with various Islamist groups and religion was used deeply in its strategic thinking. The Tablighi Jamaat (an Islamic missionary society) was allowed to operate freely within the Army.Pakistan’s conviction for nuclear deterrence strengthened after the 1971 war and the leadership was convinced that the acquisition of nuclear weapons was needed to neutralise India’s conventional superiority. Starting 1970s, Pakistan’s nuclear programme was shaped by the increasing militarisation of state policies and its strategic alliances. Pakistan sought financial support from the Middle-East countries to assist in the building of the Islamic Bomb and eventually, consistent generous Chinese assistance contributed enormously to its nuclear and missile build-up. Pakistan acquired nuclear weapons capability in 1987 (even though the overt nuclearisation took place in 1998) and adopted an unofficial code based on Indo-centricity, credible minimum deterrence, strategic restraint and first use. Interestingly, and rather ironically, the code asserts the principles of a peaceful programme revolving more around maintaining a balance against the Indian force build-up, but it includes making the first strike in response to not only a conventional attack but also a posed threat from India. Pakistan’s efforts have been to project a low nuclear threshold for enhancing deterrence.After 1971, the evolution of Pakistan’s grand strategy was critical in shaping its strategic choices and alliances (that we see today). The grand strategy after the 1971 war incorporated two important objectives which decided the future course of action for its leadership: First, to expand territory eastward (take Kashmir). This implied a rise in covert activities in J&K and added emphasis on radical Islam in the name of jihad. Thus, terrorism was to be adopted as a foreign policy tool, nuclear weapons aimed at war prevention providing a shield to the strategy of sub-conventional war.Second, to expand control westward (to gain leverage in Kabul). This implied creating strategic depth in Afghanistan and also facilitating Pakistan-friendly governance. This has been the strategy Islamabad pursued for decades in Afghanistan and it sees the fall of the democratic regime and the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul in August 2021 as its strategic victory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/loss-made-pakistan-recalibrate-its-choices-352659
21-12-2021||---||Law seeks to give dam safety a new thrust||The first Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, proudly proclaimed the dams as the ‘temples of modern India’. Dams are critical infrastructure, constructed with large investments which provide multipurpose benefits such as irrigation, power generation, flood moderation and supply of water for drinking and industrial purposes. Other physical assets, such as hydropower plants, irrigation, drinking and industrial water networks besides municipal supplies are also linked with the dams. When the dams were constructed, they were located in remote locations, but over the years, a large population has come up in the vicinity and the downstream of these dams. Thus, it is a national responsibility to take necessary steps to ensure their safety.The safety of dams is very important for safeguarding the huge investment in critical physical infrastructure and the benefits derived from the projects. Further, unsafe dams constitute a hazard to human life, flora and fauna, ecology and private assets including crops, houses, buildings, canals and roads. Therefore, proper surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of dams is necessary to ensure their safety and prevent disaster related to dam failure. Dam safety is also relevant to a nation’s ability to comply with its international obligations. A failure to pay adequate attention to dam safety can lead to the violation of national obligations under the existing international treaties and conventions, such as those relating to trans-boundary water courses, wetlands, desertification, biological diversity, flora and fauna, world heritage and environment.India has over 5,300 fully built large dams and over 400 dams are under construction. However, 80% of the dams have become more than 25 years old and about 300 dams are over 100 years old and with dams getting old, dam safety is becoming a serious concern in the country. Many such dams, owing to the issues of deferred maintenance or because of the design and construction practices being of an earlier era, pose risk to the life and safety of a very vast population. Many of these dams have inter-state ramifications, in case of actual failures or perceived threat of failures, like perpetual dam-break threats related to Mullaperiyar or disaster at Morbi dam in Gujarat in which thousands of people died. There is no gainsaying that in the absence of statutory arrangements, safety of life and property and the interests of downstream states are difficult to safeguard.As per the Constitution, states can make laws on water including storage and power. However, Parliament may regulate and develop inter-state river valleys if it deems it necessary in public interest. Though there were earlier attempts to review the existing practices and evolve unified procedures for the safety of dams, a legal framework for institutional arrangements for dam safety eluded the country. Efforts have been on since 1982 to make a law on the subject, with many versions of the Dam Safety Bill being tried, but they never came to fruition.The questions by some states on the Union Government’s competence to legislate on the subject were set to rest when the legal opinion on the issue validated the constitutional right of the Union Government to pass the Dam Safety Bill by exercising the power conferred under Article 246, read with Entry 56 and Entry 97 of List I of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Accordingly, the Dam Safety Bill was prepared in 2018 for coverage across the whole of India, including dams built on both inter and intra-state rivers, incorporating recommendations of the earlier Parliamentary Standing Committees and the technological advancements in the field of dam engineering and safety. Taking it to the logical conclusion, the Central Government notified the Dam Safety Act on December 14 after it was passed by the Rajya Sabha on December 2, the Lok Sabha already having passed the Bill in 2019. This Act brings to fruition 34 years of efforts to bring a law on the subject. It also places India at the leadership position in the world in the field of dam engineering and safety.The Dam Safety Act, 2021 deals with engineering, construction, operations, surveillance, maintenance and safety of dams in the country. The essential elements of the Act are an overarching National Committee on Dam Safety to be headed by the Chairman, Central Water Commission, to evolve dam safety policies and recommend necessary regulations for the purpose; National Dam Safety Authority as the regulatory body to implement the policies, guidelines and standards evolved by the Committee; State Committee on Dam Safety to ensure proper surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of all dams in the state for their safe functioning; and State Dam Safety Organisation to carry out routine inspections, classify dams as per vulnerability and hazard classification and maintain records.Mindful that there are dams belonging to one state falling under the territories of other states, the National Authority shall perform the role of State Dam Safety Organisation in such cases, thereby eliminating potential causes for inter-state conflicts. There are also provisions for preparing annual reports by the National Dam Safety Authority and State Dam Safety Organisations and placing these in Parliament and state legislatures, respectively, and also in the public domain.The Act places great onus on the dam owners which inter-alia includes setting up a dam safety unit; carrying out pre-and-post monsoon inspections; conduct special inspections during and after floods, earthquakes and if any signs of distress or peculiar behaviours are noticed in the dam, appurtenance or the reservoir fringes. It also ordains the dam owners to put in place a minimum set of instrumentations necessary to adequately monitor the performance and safety of dams and the establishment of hydro-meteorological network and seismological station in the vicinity of the dam. The Act directs the dam owners to earmark sufficient funds for the maintenance and repair of dams as also staff the dams with sufficient technical personnel.The Act is probably the most futuristic and the best dam safety law in the world. It advises the dam owners to carry out risk assessment at regular intervals, prepare an Emergency Action Plan (EAP) to assess the level of disasters which may be unfolded by dam failures and steps needed to mitigate disasters and emergencies. The Act makes obstruction or refusal to comply with instructions to ensure dam safety a punishable offence, including actions by departments or officers of the government or companies prejudicing dam safety. Anyone obstructing in the discharge of functions or refusing to comply with directions may be imprisoned for a year and in cases leading to loss of life, face a higher imprisonment of two years.During drafting of this Bill, we had parleys with the leading dam professionals of the world, but one of them singles out. I am reminded of discussions with my friend and one of the foremost dam engineers in the world, Ignacio Escuder Bueno, who said that when we think of innovation, we tend to think of technologies, algorithms and things like that. But legislation is also innovation and modern legislation is a manifestation of innovation, integrating the efforts and creative force of the people. He suggested: go out to the world and get the best, but don’t renounce doing it our way. We did exactly the same, got the best practices in the world, did it our way and made the most modern dam safety law. I hope the nation seizes up this huge innovation and it ushers a new era in dam safety.(The writer contributed to the drafting of this law as Joint Secretary in the Union Water Resources Ministry)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/law-seeks-to-give-dam-safety-a-new-thrust-352657
