22-12-2021||---||Ken-Betwa project can ravage Bundelkhand||THE people of Bundelkhand certainly need better water access and management, as claimed in the media briefing note on the occasion of the Union Cabinet clearing the Ken Betwa Link Project (KBLP) on December 8. But the project is not for Bundelkhand, of Bundelkhand or by Bundelkhand! It will have an unbelievably adverse impact on Bundelkhand; it promises benefits that were promised decades ago, but never realised. Much better, cheaper, less impactful and faster options exist for Bundelkhand.The law of the land says that before taking up a project for implementation, it must have all the required clearances. In the case of KBLP, it does not have the final forest clearance. Fundamental questions have been raised about its wildlife clearance by the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) of the Supreme Court and the SC has yet to take a decision on it. Besides, a legal challenge to the environmental clearance is pending before the National Green Tribunal. If the law of the land is to prevail, the Cabinet should not have cleared the project. But a decision was taken apparently on the political consideration of gaining some electoral benefit in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections.In a path-breaking report submitted to the Supreme Court on the KBLP on August 30, 2019, the CEC raised fundamental questions not only on the appropriateness of the wildlife clearance given to the project, but also the viability, optimality and desirability of the project. It said the project will lead to “the loss of 10,500 hectares of wildlife habitat in PTR,” in addition to the submergence of 9,000 hectares of the Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR).The detailed project report of KBLP prepared by the project proponent National Water Development Agency (NWDA) says: “The main objective of the Ken Betwa Link Project is to make available water to water deficit areas of upper Betwa basin…” That upper Betwa region is outside Bundelkhand and has higher rainfall than Bundelkhand. Most areas of Bundelkhand that are now promised water from KBLP are either already getting water from the other existing projects or were made similar promises decades back. The promises remain unrealised. Both the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) and the CEC conclude that the NWDA has not examined the alternatives to the project.The then Panna Collector wrote 15 years ago that the district, one of the least irrigated areas of Madhya Pradesh, will suffer the maximum destruction, while getting very little benefit. The downstream district of Banda in UP will suffer such huge impact that at one stage, the Principal Secretary to the Uttar Pradesh government wrote in an affidavit before the Supreme Court that the project will bring social unrest in the state.The project is based on the premise that Ken, the smaller of the two rivers, has surplus water that can be transferred to the bigger Betwa river. But the hydrological data that is claimed to support that premise is not in the public domain and has never been put to scrutiny by any independent, credible agency. Ground realities and available facts show that the hydrological basis of the project is a secret exercise in manipulation.The CEC report raises questions about the current and future water needs of the Upper Ken basin, which has clearly been ignored. The project is likely to keep this mostly tribal area permanently backward. Ken basin and Bundelkhand are asked to pay that price for the past blunders of irrigation engineers in Betwa basin, as the CEC report says: “This faulty planning in the development of irrigation facilities in the lower Betwa basin at the cost of upper Betwa basin is proposed to be now rectified by the substitution of water from Ken basin.”The FAC said: “It is suggested that a team of independent experts on surface water hydrology, drawn from leading scientific institutions, should have been requested to examine the hydrological aspects of the Ken Betwa river link.” Why is the government afraid of such an independent scrutiny of hydrological foundation of KBLP?The recommendation of environmental clearance for the project by the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the MoEF in December 2016 itself was a huge exercise in manipulation.The Stage I forest clearance accorded to the project on May 27, 2017, is based on a number of conditions that will require fundamental restructuring of the project. The changes required statutorily will affect the project costs, benefits and impacts, and hence, will require fresh appraisal. Such conditions include the stipulation that the proposed 78-MW power house shall not be constructed in the forest area; no building material is to be taken from the forest area; implementation of the CEC recommendations, among others.The minutes of the final FAC meeting held on March 30, 2017, note: “The construction of dam within the Panna Tiger Reserve is not the best possible option for development of water resources in the drought-prone area of Bundelkhand keeping in view the pristine forests of the PTR and its rich biodiversity… the total project cost has not included the cost of ecosystem services lost due to the diversion of forest… If the cost of ecosystem services lost is considered, then the benefit/cost ratio will be very less, making the project economically unviable.”The FAC concludes: “In an ideal situation, it would have been better to avoid KBLP in such wilderness areas such as PTR, specifically when it runs the risk of providing justification or unhealthy precedence for more such developmental projects within the protected areas. Certainly, it will not be in the interest of wildlife and the overall well-being of society in the long term.” What were the compulsions for the government to clear a disastrous project like that, as noted by the FAC, no less?Let’s end with what the then Secretary in the Union Water Resources Ministry told me in a meeting at Jal Shakti Ministry. When asked why the government was pushing a project that would bring so much destruction to Bundelkhand rather than solving its problems, his answer was, to paraphrase, considering the current costs, “it’s a Rs 45,000-crore proposition.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ken-betwa-project-can-ravage-bundelkhand-353116
22-12-2021||---||A bagful of promises||BY now, a playbook template is in place before every political party in UP, fighting to keep its place under the sun. The prototype is a distillation of the clichés emerging from the pre-poll stockpile of strategies and tactics which served the players well in the past: on top of the charts are promises that balloon with every election. Promises, of which a few are realised or partially redeemed by an incumbent government, which hope that the unfulfilled promises will keep the electorate’s hopes alive. Just in case, the BJP returns to power and—eureka— every town will be blessed with metro rail connectivity and a medical college/hospital. Do people remember the numbers that perished for want of basic attention from a primary health centre during the pandemic? UP’s pervasive fatalism is a blessing for its politicians; almost involuntarily memory serves as a sheath to mask the unpleasant. Instead, it’s the promise of more All India Institute of Medical Sciences clones that lights up faces.It’s a pragmatic dilemma before BJP: privileging Hindutva over bread-and-butter issues or doing a balancing act. The BJP rolled out promises and projects like candies, although it needs to be seriously debated on how many of its mega schemes changed the quality of life of the less well-off. In 2019, CM Yogi Adityanath set up a five-member monitoring panel headed by the Chief Secretary to check on the implementation of 25 marquee projects before the elections. These included the gigantic expressways and their smaller offshoots, the defence corridor, metro rail in every city, AIIMS, a medical university named after Vajpayee (partly operational), a sports varsity and the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor.The litany of pledges served a major objective for the BJP. Given the huge investments made by PM Modi to ensure that UP does not slip from his grasp (80 Lok Sabha seats, including his own from Varanasi, are not to be trifled with), UP supposedly bolsters the party’s ‘double-engine’ story more than another state. A victory would be credited to Modi’s balance sheet; a defeat, and the buck stops on Adityanath’s door. The double-engine narrative did not work in Jharkhand, much less in West Bengal. But overfed as UP is on a diet of schemes and sops doled out in equal proportion by the Centre and the state, the Delhi dispensation is almost inseparable from Adityanath’s in popular imagination so that the BJP hoped to surmount the CM’s uneven standing (he is unpopular among large segments of Hindus) with Modi’s mass appeal. It’s really one engine which the BJP is banking upon to fuel a 2017 redux in UP.The Samajwadi Party, the BJP’s most visible opponent, employs the same prototype. Promises and more promises at which it is adept. Think 2012, when the SP’s then putative CM Akhilesh Yadav created a wave on the back of an assurance to offer an unemployment dole for jobless graduates and laptops to high school-plus students. While polling was on, a record number of youths made a beeline to local government offices to claim the unemployment handout. This time, knowing there’s no engine in Delhi to power extravagant promises, Akhilesh scaled down the degree of expectations: Rs 25 lakh compensation to the families of farmers who died during the protests (a fact that the BJP is unwilling to acknowledge, let alone atone for), conducting a caste census to identify the population of each Backward Caste (an exercise fraught with uncertainty because the Yadavs, who have ruled the roost in the post-Mandal phase, might be unsettled at the prospect of sharing the pie with the more and extremely backward castes), 10 lakh jobs and free electricity up to 300 units for the poor.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary supervising UP, has played by the rule book while making women the pivot of her agenda. Forty per cent tickets to women, Rs 10,000 honorarium to the unsung ASHA and anganwadi workers, smartphones for ‘inter-pass’ girls and an electric scooty for women graduates. Unlike the arcane debate initiated by Rahul Gandhi over ‘Hindutva versus Hinduism’, symbolised by the persona and politics of Mahatma Gandhi and Godse, Priyanka is more rooted and has understood what the electorate wants. Didn’t the Congress of yore for decades keep UP only on the opium of sops and promises?The tale has a twist. Switch back to 2017 and reflect on the BJP’s oration. It was predominantly about the ‘enforced’ ouster of Hindus from Muslim-dominated villages, ‘love jihad’, Romeos prowling outside girls’ schools and colleges to ensnare young women, a ban on animal slaughter and the Ram temple. Each one of these items on the Hindutva playlist was conceived to alienate the minorities and pursued vigorously. These issues stood out in relief on a larger canvas on which quotidian matters relating to welfare and well-being were relegated to the background.It’s a pragmatic dilemma before the BJP: privileging Hindutva over bread-and-butter issues or doing a balancing act. Modi’s inauguration of the Kashi corridor was as much of a spectacle, if not more ostentatious, than the launch of the Purvanchal Expressway, both in east UP. Hindutva is the sheet anchor of the BJP’s politics. While its opponents have lately been compelled to acknowledge, and even co-opt a more benign version of Hindutva in their political programmes, they can calibrate its use without sounding belligerent. Not the BJP. For the party, being pious means sounding bellicose and communal. Aurangzeb-Salar Masud versus Shivaji and Suheldev.There’s a wispy quality to the BJP’s promises on welfare and infrastructure, as though its heart is not really in giving the subsidised rations and paving the highways. Does this mean that the pledges the SP and the Congress make may carry more conviction? Not necessarily. It’s a template they have universally adopted. It’s about jumping on the bandwagon. Over to the voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-bagful-of-promises-353115
22-12-2021||---||When the Indian Navy earned its spurs||IN the Indo-Pak conflict of 1965, the Indian Navy was made to remain a mute spectator when it was asked to ‘lie low and remain passive’. Despite protests from the then Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral BS Soman, the fleet was directed to remain south of the Porbandar parallel and only act in self-defence against a markedly inferior force. Determined to prove its mettle, six years later, a transformed Indian Navy blasted the hell out of the Pakistan Navy.The Navy had swung into action as soon as the adversary hit our airfields in the West in 1971. While the Western Fleet — configured around the cruiser, Mysore —was already in the North Arabian Sea, a Special Task Group waited off the Saurashtra coast. At dusk on December 4, the Task Group comprising two Petya class corvettes and four missile boats (newly acquired from the USSR) headed towards Karachi, the former towing the boats. Operation Trident was under way. At the predetermined range for top speed, the boats were unleashed; they then headed at the maximum speed (34 knots or 63 kmph), launched their missiles from 20 nautical miles (38 km) at ships off Karachi; withdrew at the same speed and were outside the Pak Air Force range before dawn.This operation scored impressive hits: Pak naval ships Khyber, a destroyer, and Muhafiz, a minesweeper, received hits and sank. So was the fate of the MV Venus Challenger, a merchant vessel. More critically, one missile went over land and struck the Keamari Oil Terminal (which was also attacked by the IAF, the same day). This daring raid — the first of its kind in the region — took the Pakistanis by surprise. Never had they expected that Osa class boats could be towed beyond the designed range and quietly unleashed at the last mile.A similar operation, code-named Python, was undertaken on the night of December 8-9. The MV Gulf Star, a merchant vessel, was sunk, the Keamari oilfield again set ablaze, and the PNS Dacca (a Pak naval tanker and logistic backbone) and the MV Harmattan, a merchant vessel, were damaged. The devastation was so large that the Pakistan Navy withdrew ships inside the Karachi harbour and ordered a reduction of their ammunition outfit — both things unheard of among the militaries.Thus, maritime operations on the western front were effectively over within five days. The ‘bombing of Karachi’ owed itself to Admiral ‘Charles’ (as he was fondly nicknamed) Nanda. His strategy of destroying the war-fighting capability of the enemy played an important role in our victory. The spirited execution by the missile boat squadron went a long way in the successes. The political backing for this audacious plan must also be acknowledged.In the East, the Navy’s one-point agenda was to seek action; destroy the enemy in his ports; strangle his supply lines to Chittagong, Cox’s Bazar and the Chalna-Khulna Mongla riverine port complex. The lynchpin was the aircraft carrier, Vikrant. Unknown to the world, she was straggling on three (of only four) boilers, restricting her speed to about 16 knots — much below the threshold for safely launching her aircraft. Her Seahawk air-defence fighters and Alize anti-submarine aircraft were deployed in the ground attack, strafing and reconnaissance roles. For a light carrier to perform power-projection roles was a game-changing venture. Credit must be handsomely apportioned to Vikrant.On its part, Pakistan had planned (and we had rightly assessed their mind) that it should neutralise India’s Vikrant. It had deployed its submarine, Ghazi, off Visakhapatnam where the carrier had been temporarily based before the war. But the Indian Navy was no novice and clear that no ship was to be in harbour when hostilities were imminent. Long before the war, Vikrant, along with other ships of the Eastern Fleet, had been sailed out of Vizag and deployed off the Andaman Islands. So, when the Eastern Fleet charged from the Andaman Sea to unleash Vikrant on enemy ports, Ghazi had already been sunk, far away in her hiding place, off Vizag, thanks to uninterrupted and urgent attacks by the destroyer, Rajput, and a few other ships.While there was much to celebrate, a sad incident too happened: the loss of Indian frigate Khukri on December 9. On December 8, Khukri and Kirpan were tasked to hunt for an enemy submarine known to be hiding off the Diu Head. The submarine, a modern French-supplied boat with a weapon-sensor suite, obtained contact of Khukri and struck her with a salvo of three torpedoes. Khukri sank within minutes, taking down with her the Captain, 18 officers and 176 men. But two things stood out: Captain Mahendra Nath Mulla left the age-old tradition alive as he went down with his ship; the loss made way for investigations, resulting in improvements in anti-submarine warfare. Consequently, today, our Navy is a much better force.Lastly, about the USS Enterprise, around which so much debate has gone on. Pushed to the corner by early December, Pakistan had invoked a secret agreement with the US. The US ordered Naval Task Group 74, comprising carrier USS Enterprise, plus seven major combatants to sail from the Gulf of Tonkin towards the Bay of Bengal. The ultimate manoeuvre, however, was not to be. Though the Enterprise Task Group transited through the Malacca Strait on December 14, instead of heading towards East Pakistan, it shaped course towards Sri Lanka! To cover up, the next day, it was stated in Washington that after the ceasefire, the Task Group might help evacuate Pakistani troops from the East. That too was hyperbole — given that over 90,000 Pak troops were in the East and the Task Group had room for just two or three thousand extra people and, that too, for a short voyage. Unfortunately for them, nothing worked and the Pakistan forces in the East surrendered on December 16. The US Task Group was made to play a cat-and-mouse game by the Soviet flotilla stationed in the Indian Ocean. The two rivals engaged in manoeuvres, far away from the scene of action, even as the war ended bountifully in India’s favour.While it is acknowledged that 1971 was the Indian Navy’s finest hour, an important fact must be reflected upon. The Navy has for long been capable of ‘sea control’ and has, whenever called upon, subdued, if not fully neutralised, the adversary. Look at Operations Chutney/Vijay — the liberation of Goa; the 1971 war; or Operation Talwar during the Kargil conflict. However, in 1965, it was wasted like a fleet-in-being. That should never happen again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-the-indian-navy-earned-its-spurs-353114
