23-12-2021||---||Women deserve bigger say in politics, economy||AS 2021 draws to an end, some of the most enduring memories of this second pandemic-riven year have been of women in the news. The first and probably the biggest headline-maker is Falguni Nayar, founder of the beauty and fashion e-commerce platform Nykaa. Her digital company emerged as a unicorn at the beginning of the year and she went on to launch an IPO which was subscribed by over 82 times. It ended up with a market capitalisation of over Rs 1 lakh crore. Decried as hype by many critics, the former investment banker’s company earned a profit in the last fiscal, doing better than many other unicorns with men at the helm.The second person to grab the eyeballs has been Gita Gopinath, till recently Chief Economist at the International Monetary Fund and now newly anointed as its first Deputy Managing Director. Gopinath has been highly visible right through the Covid crisis, speaking with calm authority on its impact on both the global and Indian economy. It can be argued that she has done more than anyone to humanise the IMF, once seen as a Bretton Woods institution out to exploit developing economies. Her declared concern over trying to eliminate inequity, whether in terms of vaccines or developmental issues, has certainly given her resonance in this country.Yet another Indian-origin woman achieved laurels in the global corporate arena at the end of the year. Leena Nair, till recently lauded as the first Asian and first woman to be global Chief of Human Resources at Unilever, was appointed chief executive officer of the luxury fashion house, Chanel. Her career graph shows how her skills were initially honed by tough postings in factories in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu.The success of these women is bound to prove inspirational in the long run. But sadly, their stories do not represent the broad trends for working women in this country. In fact, they appear to be more like outliers in the context of data regarding women in the labour force. Successive studies have shown that female labour force participation has been declining in India. It had fallen to 20.1 per cent in 2019 compared to over 26 per cent in 2005. The periodic labour force survey for 2019-20 had shown that it had gone up to about 22.5 per cent but then fell to as low as 16 per cent during the July-September quarter in 2020. It may have increased since then but apparently it is harder for women to get back to their pre-pandemic jobs than for men, according to surveys by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).Female labour participation tends to be higher in rural areas than in urban areas. A worrying trend is that it remains largely within the ambit of agriculture and related areas. In other words, the quality of work remains at the level of farm labour. Though 3.6 crore women have been identified as cultivators, based on the 2011 Census, they have not been identified as “farmers”, thus denying them the benefits of institutional credit and subsidies, according to Oxfam. In fact, despite what is described as the feminisation of agriculture, women own only 12.8 per cent of the country’s land. The other goal of having educated women migrate to working in industry has also failed to take place and women remain confined to low wages and unskilled work in rural areas.Some studies have shown that women are bogged down with domestic work after getting married, thus leaving no leeway for work outside the home. That is, unless there is a crisis and the family has a dire need for resources. This seems to have been corroborated, researchers say, as times of rural distress coincided with a rise in female labour participation, largely by women with little or no education. Similarly, data on the extent of domestic work by women in this country has been documented by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in 2019. It found women here spent up to 352 minutes every day on domestic work compared to 52 minutes by men on household chores.The solution to many of these seemingly intractable gender issues is not merely societal but also political. Unless women are in positions of real power, it is not going to be possible to implement policies that will uplift the biggest minority in the country. The Trinamool Congress got it right both in the last Lok Sabha and assembly elections by putting up more women candidates than any other party. Pollsters are now saying that women prefer to vote for other women, putting faith in their ability to carry out constructive work with integrity. Another perennial winner in elections, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, also put a focus on women in the BJD with equally excellent results. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has not lost a beat and is now offering a monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 to women in Goa and Punjab if they win the elections.It is critical for the mainstream national parties, however, to try and give women a bigger say in running the economy. Neither the BJP nor the Congress has made any push to revive the 25-year-old Bill to provide 33 per cent reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies. With its massive majority, the ruling party could easily pass it but there is lack of political will in passing a law that could potentially dent the role of the men at the helm of affairs. The number of women fielded by both parties in the General Elections is also pathetically low. As a result, women MPs in the two parties comprise only 12 to 13 per cent of their total members.The situation for women is thus worsening in the country with mainstream parties reluctant to give a push to either political empowerment or economic participation. No wonder the country has already fallen 28 places in the 2021 Gender Gap Index to 140 out of 156 countries. The outlook remains bleak for the millions of women toiling in low wage unskilled jobs. So one can celebrate the achievements of a few, but the reality of life for most women in this country must not be forgotten.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/women-deserve-bigger-say-in-politics-economy-353357
23-12-2021||---||Don’t let exploitative market forces run riot||AT a time when wholesale price inflation has been the highest in three decades, there is distressing news on the farm front. Within a span of a week, three farmers have burnt their standing crops or the harvested produce at three different locations across the country. The crops are different, but the reason for putting it on fire is the same — failure to get a fair price that covers the actual cost farmers had incurred on its cultivation.On December 11, an angry Chakalu Venkateswarlu, hailing from Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh, put on fire the 25 bags of onions (each weighing 50 kg) that he had brought to the Kurnool Agricultural Market Yard, when he found the best price being offered to him was Rs 500 per quintal (Rs 5 per kg). Realising that such a low price did not even cover his cost of production, transportation and the mandi fee, the frustrated farmer preferred to sprinkle petrol on his produce and set it on fire.Four days later, another farmer from Dhone mandal in Andhra Pradesh, put his 3 acres under banana plantation to fire when the prices in the wholesale market effectively crashed to Rs 2 to Rs 3 per kg. Mallikarjuna claims that he had spent about Rs 5 lakh in cultivating bananas, but when the prices fell so low at the time of the third harvest, he felt defeated. All that he had earned from marketing his crop was not more than Rs 1.5 lakh. Out of exasperation, therefore, he was left with little choice but to burn the plantation.In Madhya Pradesh, a couple of days later, an irate Shankar Sirfira, a farmer from Deoli, burnt 160 kg of garlic that he had brought to the Mandsaur market yard. In the video clip that went viral on the social media, he was heard saying that he had spent Rs 2.5 lakh on cultivating garlic, but all he got in the market was Rs 1 lakh. This did not even cover the cost of cultivation. He said all he wanted from the government was to ensure a fair price to the farmers.The three painful incidents that I have highlighted above may appear to be isolated but are a reflection of the deeper agrarian distress that prevails. There are tens of thousands of farmers cultivating the same crops who are lashed with the same ferocious blow from the markets but whose despair, dismay and hopelessness go unrecorded. When prices crash, economists blame it on supply-demand disequilibrium but fail to see the human suffering it unleashes. Not only in India but globally too, the volatility of the markets has destroyed livelihoods, and increasingly forced farmers to abandon farming, sell off their lands and migrate to the cities looking for menial jobs.This is no less than mayhem. Take the case of America, where the farm gate prices have been on a steady decline since 150 years, thereby gradually pushing farmers out of agriculture. With a hollow disquiet prevailing in the countryside, not only have farm suicides increased but so has mental distress. In the US alone, from where we borrowed the failed market reforms in agriculture, as many as 915,725 farm workers and their families are being treated for depression at the Migrant Health Centres that have been set up nationwide. This is happening at a time when hardly 1.5 per cent of the US population now remains in farming. While there may be complex reasons behind the mental health challenges that farmers and farm workers are faced with, fluctuating commodity prices remain on the top.But for policy planners and the media, especially business journalists, mayhem occurs only when equity indices plunge, when stock markets end at a lower level. This is how the economic design is cast. While a dominant section of the mainline economists rue the slide in stock markets, they spare no effort in welcoming the low farm prices that eventually leads to increased farm indebtedness, pushing more and more farmers to migrate to the urban centres.No wonder, the daggers are already out against any possible move to provide farmers with a guaranteed income by way of a legal sanctity for Minimum Support Price (MSP) for 23 crops for which the prices are announced every year. Some senior economists, who themselves get a guaranteed salary packet linked to inflation every month, are the ones to talk about the virtues of free markets for farmers, which they believe would lead to price discovery. Although I have earlier talked in these columns of how the markets in case of highly commercial products like chocolate and coffee have left millions of primary growers of cocoa beans and coffee bean in Africa and Latin America to live in misery, the case of banana value chains squeezing farmers’ income is no less of an eye-opener. A study shows for every euro worth of purchase by the European consumers, banana producers in Latin America, from where the fruit is imported, receive only 5 to 9 per cent of the end price.It is the primary producers who play a strenuous role, working the hardest, and yet their share of income in the agricultural value chains is the lowest, not even covering the cost of production. And let’s not forget. For the three commercially important crops — coffee beans, banana and cocoa beans — there is no MSP, nor is there any APMC mandis that we can point our fingers to. It is the big multinationals operating in a competitive environment that actually thrive on sucking farmers’ wealth. Imagine, if the global agricultural chains had set an example by guaranteeing a minimum economic price covering the cost of production plus a reasonable share of profits, farming too would have been a profitable enterprise.Instead of leaving it to exploitative market forces, as the international evidence has conclusively shown, the time is ripe for India to usher in a new set of ingenious farm reforms that begins by first ensuring a living income for farmers. Guaranteeing an economically viable livelihood to 50 per cent of the country’s population is the way to bridge the great economic divide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dont-let-exploitative-market-forces-run-riot-353356
23-12-2021||---||The Varanasi spectacle||ON December 13, the PM presided over yet another temple project. He inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor linking the temple complex to the ghats of the Ganga. The televised ceremony offered us a riot of colours; it gave us sheer spectacle. Deep reds merged into burnt sienna, mustard dovetailed into a rich beige, ornamental golds overlapped with cream, and today’s master colour, saffron, dominated everything else. Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s elaborate and rich film sets pale in comparison to the glittering display of piety and consummate political performances. The spectacle provided the setting for not only religious rituals — baths in the sacred river and the chanting of Sanskrit shlokas by pundits — but also for political speeches.The beast of violence lurks on the boundaries of every society. It has to be kept outside these boundaries by a government that rules in the interests of all, that respects all human lives, that ensures justice.We listened to tales told often enough — that in the past, Hindu rulers battled to avenge the desecration of temples by Mughal rulers. Some leaders tell us that the glories of a Hindu state and civilisation will be restored. Few people have any idea of what a Hindu state and civilisation look like. No doubt, we will be suitably informed when the project is completed. What we do know is that excavations of discomforting historical memories expose a vulnerable minority to even more violence. A mob can easily assume that members of the minority community are responsible for what kings did centuries ago and punish them. Kashi is the abode of Lord Shiva. He is the guardian of justice/dharma. He destroys the world if injustice prevails. Let a democratic India worship Shiva as the embodiment of justice, and as the ascetic who can do without too much spectacle to celebrate His divinity.Spectacle need not be ornate. Consider the play Uttar Priyadarshi written and directed by the gifted Manipuri director Ratan Thiyam. Emperor Ashoka returns victorious from the Battle of Kalinga. He expects acclaim. Instead, he is surrounded by wailing war-widows clothed in stark white, and ghosts of soldiers killed in the battle. Mourners symbolically wrap him in crimson banners. The juxtaposition of white and searing reds is spectacular without being opulent. Thiyam, agonisingly conscious of the violence that wracks his beloved Manipur, reflects on unnecessary bloodshed. Ashoka ruminates on sufferings caused by war. The contrast between an uncluttered set, an emperor who is at war with himself, and reams of red satin that unfurl across the stage is striking. Buddhism and its message of peace do not come easily to Ashoka. He has to learn through a prolonged period of internal conflict that the battle between good and evil is not external to us. It takes place within us. We have to battle our own demons.The message of the play is salutary. Our society has to come to terms with itself and with our history. Why should we see violence as a property only of medieval India which gave us magnificent architecture, cuisine, manners, poetry, language, and above all, the richness of Hindustani classical music? Think of the violence that dodges our bare lives: hate speeches, SUV deliberately crushing peaceful protesters, hooligans surrounding and outshouting a group saying the namaaz, rapes, and domestic violence. We do not destroy temples. We also watch silently when churches and masjids are destroyed, and when sacred books are desecrated. Think about the ravages of violence, about what violence does to the victims, to us and to our society. ‘Each new morn,’ says Macduff of war in Shakespeare’s Macbeth, ‘new widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows strike heaven in the face, that it resounds.’ The costs of violence are incalculable. Why violence? For what?Poet Amreeta Syam scripts an imaginary conversation between Subhadra, Arjuna’s wife, and Lord Krishna in the poem Kurukshetra. The Mahabharata depicts a war of the just against the unjust, a war of the righteous against the unrighteous. But as Yudhishtir himself acknowledges at the end of the war, the costs of war were beyond compare. Subhadhra asks the God to account for these costs. Her young son Abhimanyu was brutally killed in the Great War, and with despair she introduces a subversive note into the dialogue: ‘This is a fight for a kingdom/Of what use is a crown/all your heirs are dead/When all the young men have gone/…And who will rule this kingdom/So dearly won with blood/A handful of old men/A cluster of torn hopes and thrown away dreams’.In our world, violence is no longer a part of war, it is part of our every-day lives. It always has been so, but we live in a democracy. For long it was thought that democracy and violence were antithetical. Today, we see Indian citizens being tortured by vigilantes. We also see people crowd around the assassins, record shameful acts on their cameras, and post them on social media. What kind of a society celebrates bloodshed as spectacle? The point is that democracy can coexist with violence. We should recognise that the beast of violence lurks on the boundaries of every society. It has to be kept outside these boundaries by a government that rules in the interests of all, that respects all human lives, that ensures justice. For when violence becomes spectacle, we are turned into helpless audiences. When violence holds us in thrall, moral disintegration follows. For we cannot control violence, violence controls us. It leaves stigmata much like the murder of Duncan left blood on Lady Macbeth’s hands: ‘What, will these hands ne’er be clean?’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-varanasi-spectacle-353355
