24-12-2021||---||ED’s powers and functions call for scrutiny||TWO recent higher court observations on the Enforcement Directorate (ED) have put in focus the functioning of the directorate, which has been in the news for several reasons.The first was on December 15 when the Supreme Court ‘slammed’ the agency for “weaponising Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by invoking its stringent provisions even in minor cases to put people behind bars”. CJI NV Ramana had said: “You are diluting the Act by invoking the PMLA provisions indiscriminately”.The second instance was on December 17 when the Kerala High Court reminded the ED of its responsibility “of persons outside India” in the fake antiquities case against the infamous dealer Monson Mavunkal and that the ED and Crime Branch should work in tandem to reveal the full picture.It looks as though the ED has lowered its priority of international responsibilities, almost like our Narcotics Control Bureau. Otherwise, our government should not have been surprised by the 2016 Panama or 2021 Pandora papers leading to the detection of Rs 20,353 crore of unaccounted money from 930 ‘India-linked entities’ as revealed in Parliament on December 16. Like a typical Bollywood film, the ED was seen rushing in after the hero had caught the thief. This, despite the 2020-21 annual report of our Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) saying that this is the ED’s ‘primary function’.The ED was established in 1956 as an enforcement unit of the Department of Economic Affairs, in the Ministry of Finance for investigating exchange control violations under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA), 1947. In 1960, it was brought under the Department of Revenue to enforce the new FERA of 1973 which became a new law, Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) in 1999.In 2002, it was designated “as the sole body” to implement the PMLA to meet our international obligations under the United Nations General Assembly’s (UNGA) special session of February 23, 1990, and the UNGA’s Special Session of June 8-10, 1998, calling upon member states to adopt national money laundering legislation and programmes.Pages 178-184 of the DEA’s annual report (2020-21) give the ED’s performance under PMLA, while pages 184-186 disclose its work under FEMA. However, these dry statistics give no clue on the quality of cases detected nor the final disposal with conviction figures, unlike the statements of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).Was the PMLA drafted in haste without due legal scrutiny? This is because several legal issues started cropping up during its implementation as it encroached upon the jurisdiction of our States which, under Schedule 7 of our Constitution, oversaw the police.Since the ED was also doing ‘investigation’, resulting in arrests and remands like the police, there are serious doubts whether this ran counter to the assurance given by Dr BR Ambedkar to our Constituent Assembly on August 29, 1949, that Central agencies like the proposed Intelligence Bureau would not make ‘investigation’: “The point of the matter is the word ‘investigation’ here does not permit and will not permit the making of an investigation into a crime because that matter under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) is left exclusively to a police officer. Police is exclusively a State subject; it has no place on the Union List. The word ‘investigation’ therefore is intended to cover general inquiry for the purpose of finding out what is going on. This investigation is not investigation preparatory to the filing of a charge against an offender which only a police officer under the Criminal Procedure Code can do.”Are ED officers ‘police’ as defined in the Police Act, 1861? An article in Law Street India on August 21, 2020, had said that this point was examined by the Delhi High Court, which referred to a higher Bench whether the provisions of CrPC apply to ED under the PMLA and to what extent. This is still pending. Also, under Section 54 of PMLA, police officers are “empowered and required” to assist the ED. If so, is the ED considered as “Superior Officer” under Section 36 of the CrPC competent to over-rule the state hierarchy’s decisions?Also, unprecedented powers were delegated to the ED officials which are not given to police officials under the CrPC who also investigate cases of export and imports of currency and counterfeiting under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Under Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, no confession before a police officer is admissible in a court, the basic idea being that a person who is investigating a case under the CrPC should not be empowered to create self-inculpatory evidence against the accused. However, this is not followed by the ED.A second question about Section 50 under PMLA is whether it violates Article 20(3) of the Constitution which protects against self-incrimination. In other words, an individual cannot be compelled to be a witness against himself. However, the Supreme Court has laid down that Article 20(3) can be availed of only if a person is ‘accused’ of a crime. Yet Section 50 under PMLA does not distinguish between a witness and an accused person. All can be summoned.This technical loophole allows ED to summon anybody to record their statements without accusation, thereby preventing that person his constitutional protection under Article 20(3) as in many cases the ED file charges based on such recorded statements.All these questions were cited on July 19, 2021, when the Supreme Court took up a hearing wherein it was ruled that there would be no stay in trial or investigation in cases where order of no coercive simpliciter was passed. However, it was revealed that 200 pleas on various issues relating to the ED’s powers to launch probes, issue summons, arrest, search and seize evidence were pending since 2014. The Solicitor General formulated 14 questions of law on PMLA including whether the offences under PMLA is cognisable or non-cognisable offence, considering the ‘explanation’ under Section 3 inserted in 2019?Until all these legal issues are decided, there will be no clarity on the ED’s functioning and the impression that it is ‘weaponising’ the PMLA will persist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/eds-powers-and-functions-call-for-scrutiny-353803
24-12-2021||Sacrilege is the word that is most bandied around in the run-up to the Punjab elections. Politicians of all hues have clutched at this ephemeral straw. Bread and butter issues like jobs for the unemployed youth and the rise in prices of commodities seem to have lost ground to the emotive issue of alleged disrespect to holy books and places of worship.||Fallacy of forced conversions||Two young unknown men, probably from outside Punjab, obviously jobless and hence hungry, have lost their lives to a collective rage that has gripped an entire community ever since the country’s former Test cricketer-turned-politician used the then CM’s tepid reaction to a previous (2015) ‘sacrilege’ to oust him from his perch. Every second denizen of the country’s most prosperous state has primed herself or himself to take umbrage to any sign of disrespect to their beliefs. If elections are to be won or lost on such issues, thoughtful will have to approach the Almighty for wisdom.I don’t subscribe to conversions. If a Christian, through personal example of love for others, unwittingly propagates his or her religion, there is no antidote to such propagation.In Uttar Pradesh, where the ruling BJP was in a spot of bother because of the memory of dead bodies floating down the Ganga into neighbouring Bihar, and Yogi’s mishandling of the oxygen crisis during Covid’s second wave, and finally the mini massacre of innocents by the son of the Union Minister of State for Home. The sting of these failures was impacting the electoral fortunes of the BJP. To checkmate the opposition in a crucial state election early next year, the BJP decided to fall back on the religious sensibilities of the masses.Voters are reminded that it is the saffron party that ensured the construction of a magnificent temple to Ram at Ayodhya, on the very spot where Muslim invaders had built a mosque! This feat itself entitled them and their saffron-robed CM to rule for another five years or more. Yogi, they point out, has his own fan base in the state. He had consolidated this base by the instant justice he metes out on the streets of Uttar Pradesh through the use of the police. Since trials take years to complete, the people accept this instant justice. It has become inordinately popular!The grand spectacle of the PM, with Yogi in tow, inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor in Varanasi made such marvellous optics that victory in elections could be savoured even before the voter trod her or his way to the polling booth some two months hence. Here, again, it is not development or ‘vikas’ that will carry the day, like it did in 2014, but the pride of the native returning to his roots and his heritage, despite the lack of jobs and hunger pangs.In the meantime in a southern state that has still two years left before elections kick in, emotive issues are being resurrected in anticipation of the hustings. I am reminded of a famous German pastor, who famously repented for not opposing the Nationalist Socialist Party of the Great Dictator when it needed to be opposed most. ‘First they came for the Communists and I said nothing because I was not a Communist. Then they came for the Jews, and later for the Gypsies and again I said nothing because I was neither a Jew nor a Gypsy. Then they came for me! By that time none was left to plead for me!’The Christians of Karnataka have been chosen for special attention by Hindutva’s storm troopers. Having tamed a much bigger entity, the Muslims, Hindutva forces decided to turn their attention to an easier target, a community engaged mainly in education and health amelioration, both sectors greatly neglected by most state governments, except the AAP in Delhi. The bogey of conversions has been raised to arouse primeval passions.Christians are being accused of ‘forcible’ conversions! This charge could have been made four or five centuries ago when Portuguese seafarers landed in the land of my ancestors, accompanied by Franciscan and Jesuit missionaries. It was the Age of Faith. Conversions could have been forced or induced by carrots (land, for instance, was a major inducement — the prospect of owning more land than one required for survival was a compelling instrument of inducement).I am a practising Catholic for the past 92 years. I do not subscribe to conversions. If a Christian, through her or his personal example of love for other human beings, compassion for the dispossessed and the downtrodden, justice for one and all and above all, service to fellow human beings unwittingly propagates his or her religion, then there is no antidote to such propagation.The false charges of ‘forcible’ conversion are ridiculous and can be discarded without debate. Nobody can be ‘forcibly’ converted. Inducements are possible. Prospects of a better social status that attracts those excluded from the Chaturvarna or a better quality of life that attracts the poor and those whose finances do not admit of a possibility of an education that will open vistas for advancement in life. Should such inducements be dangled in front of prospective beneficiaries with intent to convert? The answer is a no. But should they be deprived of education for fear of their being induced to convert? Here, too, the answer is no. The solution lies in the State improving its education system. The solution is not to destroy Christian schools as is being done by Hindutva’s storm troopers in Karnataka and MP.Marriage is another avenue for conversion. Muslims are already subject to ‘love jihad’ accusations. Not one accusation has been proved! The Catholic Church does not insist on conversion before a marriage is solemnised in a church. The groom or bride is free to practice his or her own religion.It will be interesting and also educative to watch if the gambit of relying on religion pays off. When voters start using their minds more than their hearts, voting patterns are bound to change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fallacy-of-forced-conversions-353802
24-12-2021||---||Insurgencies feed off people’s discontent||The botch-up on December 4 by security forces in Nagaland, where a group of workers on their way home were gunned down, has reignited the demand for the repeal of Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA). Obviously, the security forces failed to follow the proper procedure when fed with an intelligence report about insurgents travelling in a vehicle down that road. A barricade could have been put up to stop the vehicle and a check on those in the vehicle carried out, rather than just open fire. This tragic incident seems to have stalled the ongoing peace talks with Naga groups.Often, troops have to operate in an environment where you either kill or get killed. Equally at times, the line between an insurgent and a peaceful citizen is hazy, often due to faulty intelligence inputs. Failure to act can prove costly, as was seen in the 2019 Pulwama tragedy, where failure to check and intercept the explosives-laden car resulted in the death of 40 CRPF personnel. Viewing unintended human rights violations in isolation from other factors prevalent in insurgency environments is somewhat unrealistic.The Army must carry out a thorough investigation into this case and the guilty should be strictly dealt with. This is not the first time that such an incident has taken place. It goes to the credit of the military that all such cases, where troops have acted without due care, caution and diligence, resulting in the death of innocent civilians, are handled with severity. Equally, it is not uncommon for troops to be blamed even where they had acted with due diligence and the victim was a terrorist. The well-known case is that of Manorama, who was shot dead by Assam Rifles personnel. She was a hardcore terrorist and had been involved in the killing of soldiers and at the time of her arrest, a transmitter was found in her possession. She was shot when she tried to escape. Yet there were large-scale protests over her killing and demands for abrogation of AFSPA raised.Normally, the Army does follow the dictum: “if in an encounter with the insurgents, there is the possibility of an innocent civilian getting killed, then let the insurgent escape — to be dealt with on another occasion.”While we continue to dwell on the so-called high-handedness by the Army in such rare incidents, we have rarely focused on the background and underlying causes for the Army to be called in to tackle insurgency. It is only when the situation runs completely outside the control of police, including Central Police Organisations (CPOs) that a call on the military is made. Though there is no dearth of police forces, both state and Central, and to deal with insurgents, they are as well equipped with appropriate weapons as the Army, still a demand to call the Army persists. Call on the Army is made only when the situation continues to be grim and well outside the capacity and capability of these police forces to manage.Since the Army does not have even the police powers to arrest, interrogate and use weapons to engage insurgents, its employment in counter-insurgency tasks in any manner would be counter-productive. For making a call on the Army, the area has to be declared as ‘disturbed’ and then AFSPA is brought in, which provides immunity to the Army personnel against any legal action without clearance from the Central government. The Justice Jeevan Reddy Commission did recommend the scrapping of AFSPA and in its place bringing in the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Interestingly, the latter incorporated many provisions of AFSPA, making it more rigorous and its applicability in less virulent situations objectionable.Counter-insurgency operations are akin to low intensity conflict, but distinctly unlike a regular war. Its setting is amongst our very own people, where at times the environments may be that of a war zone, but the rules of engagement are different though never well defined, nor can these be exactly the same in every situation. Often, troops have to operate in an environment where you either kill or get killed. Equally at times, the line between an insurgent and a peaceful citizen is hazy, often due to faulty intelligence inputs. Failure to act can prove costly, as was seen in the case of the 2019 Pulwama tragedy, where failure to check and intercept the explosives-laden car resulted in the death of 40 CRPF personnel.Therefore, to view only the unintended human rights violations in isolation from other factors prevalent in insurgency environments is somewhat unrealistic. These legal provisions and their applicability need to be assessed in the prevailing conditions in insurgency environments, which has some semblance of a war-like texture. What must be kept in mind is that insurgency in India is engineered and abetted by a hostile neighbour, and at times does take the form of a proxy war.Some people seem to contend that AFSPA has become a symbol of oppression in the Northeast and Kashmir. They miss out on the basic fact that what prevails in some parts of Northeast and J&K does not even remotely exist elsewhere in India.Perhaps, there may be some justification for the local civil population and so-called human rights activists to seek abrogation of AFSPA. However, we need to address two related issues which result in enforcing of AFSPA. The first being the inability of the police, both state and Central, which otherwise are as well equipped as the Army to handle insurgency. Is it in motivation and training or leadership, or else in all of these, where a shortfall exists? One may recall the days of the so-called insurgency in Punjab. Since the police would not stir out at night, insurgents ruled the roost.Consequently, there were no intelligence inputs about their activities and whereabouts forthcoming. It is only when the Army was called out and it started intensive night patrolling and visiting farm houses and villages that locals gained confidence and intelligence reports of the movement of terrorists started pouring in.The second reason is that these areas in the country’s Northeast, where insurgency persists, have seen little or no development. My one company post at a tehsil headquarters in Arunachal Pradesh was 14 days walking distance from the road head. There is no industry and hardly any job opportunities. Similar are the reasons for the coming about of the Maoist Corridor, which runs through the very centre of the country and where the government’s writ does not fully run. In the case of the Northeast, we have also tried to meddle with the people’s traditional way of life without offering a viable and attractive alternative.Civil officials in these areas operate from their very well-protected residences and offices and do not go around their districts to see for themselves the state of affairs. While now and then, Central police and military parties run into an ambush and their vehicle are blown up by a landmine, no deputy commissioner or superintendent of police in all these districts have ever encountered such a situation or got killed. They simply do not stir out of their safety circle.Unless we look deep into the causes of these insurgencies and take proper action to drastically improve the state of affairs, insurgencies will persist and our neighbours will keep exploiting people’s discontent. In such a situation, there will be no option other than to call the military and with it we will have to promulgate AFSPA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/insurgencies-feed-off-peoples-discontent-353804
