25-12-2021||---||Why UP is a fertile ground for hate politics||Every five years, just ahead of the Assembly elections, Uttar Pradesh becomes a hotbed of communal politics. It has started once again, ranging from subtle references to Aurangzeb and Shivaji to outright hate speeches and calls for the ethnic cleansing of Muslims. It is easy to believe that these are the handiwork of cynical politicians who polarise the electorate to get votes. And that is partly true. Netas light up the fuel of religious discord and their party workers actively spread the fire. But this approach does not explain why it is so easy to weaponise religious differences in UP.Some of the reasons for this can be found in the history, demographics and political economy of the state. While Muslims make up less than 20 per cent of UP’s population, they are heavily concentrated in its towns and cities. In the state’s villages, only one in every six persons is a Muslim, but in urban areas that number rises to one in three. According to a report by the Centre for Policy Studies (CPS) — whose board of directors includes several luminaries from the Sangh Parivar — there’s been a steady increase in the number of Muslim-majority towns in UP: from 17 per cent in 1981 to 25 per cent in 2011. The report also says that Muslims account for more than 40 per cent of the population in more than half of the urban talukas in the state.This has had a significant impact on the political representation of Muslims in Uttar Pradesh — the smaller the electoral unit, the more likely it was for a Muslim to win it. In 2009, less than nine per cent of UP’s Lok Sabha MPs were Muslim, even when the Congress, BSP and SP had won most of the seats. Three years later, in the Assembly elections, Muslim MLAs accounted for about 17 per cent of the state legislative Assembly, close to the share of Muslims in the overall population. However, as political scientist AK Verma showed, Muslims won over 31 per cent of the seats in the 2012 urban local body elections, which is in line with their urban population.This suggests that by 2012, Muslims played a visibly significant role in the exercise of power in UP’s towns, especially in the Ruhelkhand, western UP and Awadh sub-regions. It also points to the concentration of Muslims into dense residential clusters in these towns. This has lent itself beautifully to communal politics, as visible spatial examples of the discourse of us-vs-them.And since modern politics always uses the language of numbers to validate itself, an entire body of ‘data analysis’ — real and false — has arisen around these trends. The CPS report cited above, for instance, differentiates between Muslims and ‘Indian religionists’, and also makes the claim that the “rapid rise in the share of Muslims” in UP’s towns has “involved or led to an out-migration of other communities, mainly Hindus, from several towns.” A single look at the report will show how this claim is based on flimsy, cherry-picked evidence.The rise of Muslim populations in UP’s urban centres has a lot to do with the way the state’s economy developed after Independence. Muslims had played a significant role in traditional crafts — weaving, embroidery, metalwork, jaggery-making. As these crafts became modernised and moved out of the villages, Muslims began to move to urban areas in search of work. Muslims found it difficult to get steady salaried jobs in the post-Partition India, and their dependence on self-employment increased.This is not restricted to UP alone, but is an India-wide phenomenon. For instance, the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), 2019-20, shows that while 51 per cent of the urban Hindus who have work get regular salaries or wages, the corresponding proportion for the Muslims is only 36 per cent. Again, while less than 37 per cent of the urban Hindus who have work, are self-employed, the number for the Muslims is 45 per cent. The Muslims, therefore, have a disproportionate presence in several occupations — tailor, auto-mechanic, cab-driver, delivery personnel, house-painter — which upper and intermediate caste Hindus have tended to shun.So, as salaried jobs have got squeezed, both in the private and government sectors, young Hindus, especially male, have begun to try their hand at ‘entrepreneurship’. But the overall economic slowdown over the last 10 years has made it extremely difficult to succeed at business. As the Lokniti-KAS surveys have shown, this has caused a marked drop in the number of young people wanting to start their own businesses — from over 15 per cent in 2007 to less than 10 per cent in 2016. Similarly, the proportion of India’s youth who want government jobs rose to 62 per cent in 2007 to 65 per cent in 2016. This has resulted in higher job ‘anxiety’ amongst the young.All this has happened in the backdrop of successive governments asking young people to create their own jobs. Competition in the self-employed space has increased sharply over the past decade. When young Hindus from upper and intermediate castes look for ways to earning a living, they are faced with a lack of salaried jobs and when they reluctantly turn to self-employment opportunities, they find the presence of young Muslims, who were already reconciled to such work. This has increased the anxieties of the ‘other’ taking away jobs meant for ‘us’. Such psychosocial pathologies very easily translate into discourses about demography, where people readily believe false theories about an alleged Muslim population explosion.On top of this sits an entire public culture that promotes communal mindsets. It ranges from Bollywood cinema, which stereotypes the Muslim ‘terrorist’, through pop-history spread via WhatsApp forwards, to prime-time television debates which demonise Muslims and Islam. It is no wonder that the Lokniti-KAS survey shows that young people born in the 21st century are more likely to be socially conservative than those born in the 1990s.The discursive framework and ideologies within which today’s youth produce their ideas is dominated by communal notions, themes and images. It is no surprise, therefore, that UP’s towns and cities, with their high Muslim populations, form a fertile ground for the politics of hate and exclusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-up-is-a-fertile-ground-for-hate-politics-354071
25-12-2021||---||Taking the low road||On Christmas night, 25 years ago, over 280 persons died in the icy waters of the Sicilian coast when their boat broke up in the Mediterranean. This gruesome incident has come to be known as the Malta Boat Tragedy. As many as 170 of those who perished that night were Indians, mainly from Punjab. They were part of a group of over 500 persons, from different countries, who were brought by human traffickers to Alexandria in Egypt with the object of smuggling them into Italy. A week after the tragedy, Sicilian fishermen began to catch human remains in their fishing nets but decided to remain silent out of fear that their occupation may be adversely impacted. One of them, however, could not overlook what had happened and informed an Italian journalist who brought the horrendous incident to public attention.There is a need for greater vigilance on the activities of human traffickers, especially in areas from where such migration traditionally occurs.In 1997, the CBI began investigations in the matter and registered a case against 27 persons, some of whom have died by now. The case was taken to court. After 25 years, it has not made sufficient progress and the human traffickers in India who were responsible to take the victims, to what was ultimately their death, have escaped justice. At the same time, the families of the victims have had to endure the pain of the long wait, one with no end in sight. It is unlikely that their suffering will end anytime soon, for such is the state of the Indian criminal justice system.As much as this tragedy is heart wrenching, what is chilling is that thousands of men and women from Punjab and elsewhere in India continue to fall prey to human traffickers, spend large sums of money, risk life and limb, to become part of what is euphemistically known as ‘irregular migration’ to foreign lands, principally to Europe and the US, but also to Southeast Asia. Social and economic factors and dreams of the good life abroad are drivers for the youth. Waiting to exploit them are the traffickers who are often part of organised criminal networks with tentacles spreading across countries. The government attempts to control this illegal ‘trade’, but its efforts have met with only partial success.Irregular migration is not confined to India. It takes place from other countries of South Asia, Southeast Asia, Africa and South America. The motivations and drivers are the same. Since the Malta tragedy, numerous boats carrying irregular migrants have sank in voyages from the North African coast to Southern Europe. The UN estimates that 1,600 people have died or gone missing while attempting the crossing this year itself. The deadliest year was 2015 when 5,000 are believed to have perished in attempted Mediterranean crossings.While irregular migration is bad enough, what is worse is the other and more vicious forms of trafficking, where those who are trafficked are mercilessly exploited. These forms of exploitation include forcing women and girls into the sex industry and coercing men and women into forced labour. Ghady Waly, Executive Director of the UN Office on Drugs and Crimes, which is the main UN organisation with the mandate to assist member states to combat drugs and transnational crimes, including human trafficking, noted in the organisation’s 2020 Global Report on Trafficking in Persons: ‘Although found in every country and every region, trafficking in persons remains a hidden crime, with perpetrators operating in the dark corners of the Internet and the underbelly of the global economy to entrap victims for sexual exploitation, forced labour, domestic servitude and other forms of exploitation.’The situation is worse in underdeveloped countries than in the advanced world, for poverty makes it far easier to entrap what for human traffickers are only prey. This is particularly so for children used for labour. The UNODC reports notes: ‘In Sub-Saharan Africa, children have been trafficked to work in plantations, in mines and quarries, on farms, as vendors in markets and on the streets. In South Asia, children as young as 12 have been trafficked to work in brick kilns, hotels and garment industry and agriculture. Child trafficking for forced labour has also been reported on South American plantations.’ What the report states about South Asia is visible in Indian cities and also in the rural area. The sad fact though is that it hardly registers on our consciousness, leave alone our individual or collective conscience. This is notwithstanding the fine work being done by some NGOs in seeking to rescue and rehabilitate trafficked children.Conflicts lead to an increase in phenomena associated with child trafficking. This is illustrated by current reports that the extreme economic distress in Afghanistan because of famine and a collapsing economy consequent to the Taliban takeover is leading some of the poor to sell their infant and young children. These children are ruthlessly exploited for forced labour and sex, sometimes with the connivance of the police. What is true of the approaches of the law enforcement personnel in Afghanistan towards child trafficking is equally true of their counterparts in many parts of the world towards trafficked young women who are pushed into prostitution.The economic ravages brought about by Covid-19 are expected to increase irregular migration. The UNODC report opines: ‘As with previous economic crisis, the sharp increase in unemployment rates brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to lead to trafficking in persons….’ The organisation believes that job-seekers from the most adversely impacted countries will be willing to take greater risks to get to the advanced countries and those which are witnessing faster recovery rates. This will make traffickers more active. There is therefore need for greater vigilance by the authorities on the activities of traffickers, especially in areas from where irregular migration traditionally occurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/taking-the-low-road-354070
25-12-2021||---||Ken-Betwa link project to benefit Bundelkhand||IN the article titled ‘Ken-Betwa project can ravage Bundelkhand’, published in these columns on December 22, Himanshu Thakkar questioned the viability of the Ken-Betwa Link Project (KBLP) while highlighting its adverse impact, particularly on the Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR). He also questioned the Union Government’s decision for Central support and implementation of the project pending the final forest clearance and recommendations of the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) submitted to the Supreme Court.The Bundelkhand region is frequently in the grip of severe droughts, particularly during the non-monsoon period. The region is also not very rich in groundwater due to hard rock and marginal alluvium terrain. Therefore, there is a need for a project of a scale which will help in harnessing the flood water during the monsoon period and stabilise water availability in the region in the lean period, particularly during the drought years. Consequently, the government approved the implementation of the KBLP on December 8. It envisages to provide enormous benefits to the region covering an annual irrigation of 10.62 lakh hectares, drinking water supply to a population of about 62 lakh and also generate 103 MW of hydropower and 27 MW of solar power, utilising about 4,909 million cubic metres (MCM) of water.Coming to the points raised by Thakkar, Stage-II forest clearance is granted on fulfilling the conditions of Stage-I clearance, i.e., transfer of requisite non-forest land/degraded forest land for compensatory afforestation (CA), transfer of cost of CA and Net Present Value (NPV) in the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) fund of the State etc apart from other conditions of forest clearance. The progress on these conditions can be made only after approval of the project by the government and budgetary support. Initially, the focus would be on land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R), environmental management plan etc before planning and taking up construction work.The recommendations of the CEC were thoroughly discussed by a Special Committee on Interlinking of Rivers (SCILR), headed by the Union Minister of Jal Shakti, the apex body for taking decisions on various issues on ILR, during its 17th meeting held on February 26, 2020. Based on the recommendations of the CEC to examine the alternative of the KBLP through a specialised agency to meet the irrigation needs of the proposed command area, the Special Committee was of the opinion that all the available alternatives/options have already been examined while preparing the Detailed Project Report (DPR) and the KBLP was the only viable option to meet the water needs of the drought-prone Bundelkhand region. The replies to the recommendations of the CEC have been submitted to the said committee by the National Water Development Agency (NWDA) and the case is under consideration in the Supreme Court. The court, in its judgment dated February 27, 2012, had directed to take up the Ken-Betwa link project for implementation at the first instance itself.The article states that the KBLP will lead to a loss of 10,500 hectares of wildlife habitat in the PTR. The figure quoted is not based on facts. As per the detailed assessment made, the Daudhan reservoir will cause the submergence of 4,141 hectares of the core area of PTR (about 7 per cent of the total core area of 57,600 hectares of PTR) and another 1,314.4 hectares in the PTR buffer. The link canal will impact another 65.50 hectares of the core area and 58.02 hectares of the buffer area of the PTR. Thus, the total area impacted by the project is 5,578 hectares only, a mere 3.5 per cent of the total area of 1,57,800 hectares of the PTR. The author ignores that this loss of the core area of PTR is being compensated by providing revenue land/degraded forest land for compensatory afforestation in the vicinity of the PTR. The water lake created under the project shall also form part of the PTR, thus increasing the overall area of the PTR and its carrying capacity. As per the assessment made, about 43% of the submerged area will be available as pasture land after November which would lead to a significant increase in herbivorous population in the PTR. Moreover, a comprehensive Landscape Management Plan (LMP) is being prepared by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) for the conservation of wildlife and biodiversity, not only in the PTR area but also in the surrounding area to offset the impact of the Daudhan reservoir. Under LMP, it is proposed to integrate the PTR with Nauradehi wildlife sanctuary (WLS) and Durgavati WLS in MP and Ranipur WLS in UP to increase the carrying capacity of the PTR. Thus, the project is aimed at not only providing water security in the Bundelkhand region, but also ensuring the overall conservation of the region, especially for landscape dependent species such as tigers, vultures and gharials.The article mentions that the cost of ecosystem services lost due to the diversion of forest land has not been included in the cost of the project, which is factually not correct. In case of submergence due to the Daudhan reservoir, the value of eco-services of Rs 3,512.8 crore in the form of NPV of submerged area has been added to the cost of the project, apart from keeping liberal provisions for compensatory afforestation and catchment area treatment.The article further mentions that the project is meant for benefiting the Upper Betwa region which is outside the Bundelkhand region. Perhaps, the author has not gone through details of the DPR. The project is planned to largely benefit the Bundelkhand region in two states. A provision of 2,266 MCM of water has been kept to meet the requirement of the area coming under Upper Ken basin.The hydrological studies for the project have been carried out by the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, as per the standard procedure followed for water resource projects in the country. The hydrology has been examined and reviewed thoroughly by the Central Water Commission.The project will also rejuvenate all the tanks in the en route area of the link canal by feeding through the link canal, wherever possible and would help in groundwater recharge. The use of micro irrigation is also planned in about 5 lakh hectares command of the project for better water use efficiency.The fears on the viability of the KBLP are unfounded and devoid of ground realities in the region. Water is a key driver of overall socio-economic development in any region. The project would be a big boon for drought-prone and water-starved Bundelkhand region. The project will definitely bring economic prosperity to this backward area due to increased agricultural activities and the arrest of migration of people from the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ken-betwa-link-project-to-benefit-bundelkhand-354072
