26-12-2021||This is my last column for 2021||Old, new & 'other'||Even as I say this, I am aware of how terrified we all are of the fragile nature of a brief respite from the pandemic. So far, India seems to have been spared the devastation that has forced several European countries, Australia and the US to consider imposing crippling restrictions on public gatherings once again. Imagine the plight of those who could not celebrate Christmas with friends and family, or those who were looking forward to making some profits after a long spell of losses in their businesses. Yet, worse than all this is the agony of those students who have been forced to study at home, away from the excitement of making new friends in a university as they pass out of school.Some of our fondest memories of our youth are the rocking time we had on our university campuses, the lively debates in noisy coffee houses, those boyfriend-girlfriend romances, and the discoveries made about students who spoke a different tongue. As for those little children still in school, what is life without scraped knees and fiercely fought matches in dusty playfields? Alas, there appears to be no hope that this will end anytime soon as college and school managements as well as parents weigh the consequences of opening up and live teaching again.Added to all this is the huge anxiety that the world as we knew it has changed and that climate change is upon us. The speech delivered by the Prime Minister of the Dominican Republic at the recent conclave of nations on this subject raises uncomfortable questions about the profligacy of the developed world. She pointed out how they have squandered the resources that are our common heritage on lavish lifestyles, generating horrifying levels of pollution that now threaten the entire world. As small island nations (the countless Pacific Ocean cluster), Maldives and parts of Bangladesh, to name a few, fear they may be obliterated in one lifetime, powerful bully nations refuse to curb their wasteful ways. It is perhaps some divine justice that it is precisely these countries that now face the threat of migrations and demographic upheavals. Europe is already facing huge numbers of displaced migrants from Africa who brave dangerous crossings to arrive on the beaches of the Mediterranean coast. The social consequences of such huge human migration is a question many fear to even address. Then there are the devastated Central Asian nations, once the playfield of oil-chasing western economies abandoned after they had had enough. How can one not feel the pain and anger of those from Syria, Yemen or Afghanistan who are forced to live on dole in refugee camps that offer little protection from the cold and hunger they have to brave for an infinite time?Truly, as people of my generation enter the last few decades of our life, we are compelled to ask: is this the world we wish to leave for our children and grandchildren?It is time to turn to another topic that has always fascinated me: language and speech. The coarseness that has steadily crept into our everyday speech — whether in our own lives or in the realm of public discourse — is another area that should concern all of us. How many of us have just stopped listening to the television news is an indicator that we want news reportage, not slanging matches. Time was when the pitch (both sound and content) attracted one to listen. Now the whole purpose is to create violent hatred for an imagined ‘other’, absolving the listener of any responsibility or agency. News is now created in newsrooms, not gathered from the field. Opinions are not left to readers or listeners to formulate after sober reflection, but urgent binaries asked by hyper-nationalist anchors and editors in an hour. This constant navel-gazing has made us into a nation of illiterate idiots who have no sense of history, international affairs or even basic decency. I remember a time when the words Hindu and Muslim were not openly bandied, leave alone filled with bigotry and hatred. This bred in the reader or listener a respect for the privacy of faith and a level of tolerance that has all but vanished now under the benign gaze of our courts and law agencies.I refer to the communal conclave of saffron unholy men and women (I refuse to call them holy) who openly incited their audience to pick up cudgels to protect their faith. Some have even pointed out that the ‘other’ side openly preaches bigotry on loudspeakers at prayer times. Since when have two wrongs made a right? How soon we all have forgotten Gandhiji, who said an eye for an eye will only make us all blind.Hey Ram!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/old-new-other-354514
26-12-2021||It was the month of December. The regiment was out for a winter wargame and exercise. One morning||When boundaries were caste aside||Sowar Thomas, the driver, stopped the jeep and jumped out saying that the vehicle had overheated. He went and pulled up the bonnet hood. The jeep’s engine was smelling of a heat-up. Thomas untied the canvas water bag from the bumper and poured water into the radiator. I tried starting the engine, but it refused to cough up. We used up all the water but the jeep would not start. I scanned the sandy horizon and saw a few huts about half a kilometre away.“Take the bag and get some water from those huts,” I told Thomas. He returned after 20 minutes and said that the occupants refused to give him water. I found it very strange that a soldier wearing an Army uniform was refused water. I was a Captain wearing a three-starred cloth epaulette and felt that I would be able to draw out the water from them.I said to Thomas, “Come along, I will show you how to get water.” We left the jeep and trotted off into the dunes. The huts were thatched and conical-shaped. A 6-foot-tall Rajasthani with a pointy moustache stepped out when I shouted, “Koi hai?”He stood and looked at me. I said, “You refused to give water to my man.”“Yes I did.”“Do you have any water?”“Yes we do.”“Do you want me to pay for it?” I said, taking out my wallet.“I don’t need any money,” he said.“Then can you fill this up for me?” I said, extending him the canvas water bag. He jumped backwards as if I was trying to touch him with a live electric wire.“I am not giving you a live cobra, it’s just a canvas water bottle,” I said, puzzled by the man’s behaviour.“Sahib, we don’t give water to anybody,” he explained. I was even more puzzled now.“Look brother, our jeep has heated up and we have to pour water in its radiator to start it up. Our camp is 10 miles away.”The man said, “Oh, you need water for the jeep, then take it. My wife gets water from a well very far off.” He shouted and a veiled woman, jingling of silver amulets and anklets, took the bag and came back and gave it to the man. He handed me the filled bag.I found his behaviour strange. I asked him why he had no problem in giving water for the jeep, but refused it earlier.“I belong to a Scheduled Caste and nobody can drink our water. You will get polluted, that’s why I refused you water.”I was carrying my packed breakfast in a haversack. I told him to get his morning meal. He came out with a bajra-roti, a green chilli, a small onion and lehsun chutney.“You eat my food, I will eat yours. We don’t have any castes in the Indian Army.”The tall man found it incredulous until he ate the omelette and toast and I ate his bajra roti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-boundaries-were-caste-aside-354519
26-12-2021||The past two years have been really hard. Humanity has been troubled by the pandemic and now there are newer variants of the virus. No one knows what the future holds. Personally||We sang together for 57 years, for whom should I sing now?||But then, his teachings come to mind. I know he would want me to continue to sing. He would always tell me, “I am with you, always.” And, somehow, I feel his presence, guiding me. It is difficult, but I am continuing to perform. God is great. He makes the impossible possible. His sons, Ritesh and Rajneesh, are successful singers. My son Swaraansh is younger; he is a lyricist-composer and has now started singing with me. They are taking our legacy forward, as are our many disciples. We have always believed in sharing the music we inherited, and have been teaching for decades now. I hope we all are able to continue singing until our last breath.Today, I look back with gratitude at the support we got from our elders and audience. Both of us started our journey in khayal gayaki by offering musical haazri in the temples of Varanasi, at the age of six to seven years. As children, we sang first, followed by older children, and then the established artistes. This was a great opportunity and learning experience. In our family, there was always a rich maahaul of music. We were really lucky to be surrounded by music all the time.When Rajanji finished his post-graduation, both of us came to Delhi. Our mission was to sing for passion, not as a profession, and definitely not at the cost of compromising on our music for popularity. We planned to accept only select concerts, but destiny had other plans. In 1974, we sang at the celebrated Sawai Gandharva in Pune and at Bhaini Sahib in Ludhiana for Satguru Sri Jagjit Singh ji Maharaj. He blessed us as long as he lived. People say Rajanji was a cashier in a shop and it was Satguruji who made it possible for us to sing professionally. However, this is not true. Satguruji was a saint and blessed and encouraged us always. But, by God’s grace, we were already on this path of music when we first came in contact with him. Of course, we always had his blessings.Akashvani also brought us immense popularity throughout the country.To come back to the present, artistes have suffered a lot during this pandemic, with absolutely no means of sustenance. No one came to our aid. Nobody took up for us — neither the media, nor the Central or state governments. All of us were so immersed in our own troubles that we forgot to ask about each other. Even relatives were wary of calling up, afraid that the other might ask for help. An unfortunate time indeed. It has really been tough, but we should remember that our Maker is there for us.I hope humanity heeds the lesson. The more we tamper with Mother Nature, the more we will suffer. Problems like the pandemic arise only when there is imbalance. I appeal to the readers to protect Nature, make the environment in your homes nurturing, loving and healthy.The writer is the younger of the Mishra duo (As told to Shailaja Khanna)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/we-sang-together-for-57-years-for-whom-should-i-sing-now-354520
26-12-2021||The farmers’ agitation has been suspended for now. The three laws dealing with agriculture reforms were promulgated through an ordinance (as is the custom these days) in the face of opposition from farm unions and farmers. There was no interaction between the government and the farmers||Peaceful conflict resolution||This one-sided exercise of executive power and the total sidelining of Parliament led to the conflict. It is ironic for a government which has come to power through a democratic process to behave in such a manner. Parliament and debate are the very hallmarks of democracy. Unfortunately, today, the norm is to ignore these processes. The government refuses to engage even on national security matters such as problems posed by China along the LAC, the issues of migrant labour, Covid, etc. Mass non-violent movements were successfully carried out by Mahatma Gandhi in pre-Independent India, by Martin Luther King with the civil rights movement in a racially divided USA of the 1950s. Is the government today suggesting that the only approach left is that of mass agitation and it will only act when threatened at the ballot box?India is a sub-continent where 1/6th of the global population resides — one would expect differences on various aspects of life to be the norm. However, letting these differences become conflicts, and especially unresolved conflicts leading to armed insurgency, is a result of failure of various governments which have occupied the seats of power at the Centre and in the states. How the current incumbents have accentuated these conflicts is a matter for history to judge. Let us look at some of the major conflicts that have been raging within the country, like the Maoists in Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand and parts of Maharashtra for many decades now, with hundreds of lives lost on both sides.The corporates have wanted a ‘piece of the pie’. A country trying to become a modern economy will need to explore and farm its natural resources. That is not the problem. The problem lies in the inequitable distribution of wealth between the traditional owners and the new parachutists. The World Inequality Report, released recently, showed that nearly 65 per cent of the country’s household wealth is concentrated in 10 per cent of the population. That is where the problem lies — crony capitalism is being encouraged with rogue outfits exploiting resources and people, which is further accentuated in tribal areas. The resulting conflict is allowed to simmer, with a ruling government enjoying a vested interest in the continued armed enforcement of their interests. There is no sustained effort to engage the people in a dialogue to redress grievances. In the absence of this dialogue, the state resorts to special powers and laws and large-scale deployment of CAPF (Central armed police forces) and unskilled state police forces. This leads to unending conflicts and the suppression of the local population. Due to this failure of the state, some sections of the population have resorted to violent confrontation. However, this approach has not succeeded and has led to major collateral damage in the form of loss of life and livelihood. The only viable option left for the people, it seems, is to launch peaceful agitations and sustain them through their own local leadership. Ironically, this was the path that led to our Independence from the British. A mass movement with its resulting fear of losing at the ballot box seems to be the only viable path left.Let us come to the North-East, an area disturbed for decades. In this case, it is the Government of India which has been governing through remote control for most of the time, with no better results. For long, the bureaucrats sitting in Delhi handled things and that also mostly at the joint secretary level. For many years, even the Chief Ministers could only meet the joint secretary and nobody higher. It was a humiliating experience for them and their people. AFSPA has been promulgated in most of these areas with no positive result except harassment of the average citizen. AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act) has been in place in many states for decades now. It only implies a failed state, not a special situation, as we would be made to believe. The administration is corrupt and ineffective and the politician is complicit. The borders are porous and small arms, ammunition and drugs are transported through free movement of militants.Special development funds and special departments have failed to redress the grievances of these people because of large-scale corruption. Funds and recruitment to various departments are distributed amongst the government functionaries and the underground; in fact, in places like Nagaland and Manipur, the underground gets a large share of the funds in a regular manner and also collects taxes from transporters, businessmen and shopkeepers. They hold the state and the people captive by enforcing large-scale bandhs. In Nagaland, the underground has virtually ruled the state after the ceasefire. Interlocutors have been there for almost two decades, with no visible results. Solutions are always said to be round the corner, but the corner keeps on shifting. There should be a dialogue directly between the government and the people, minus the vested interests. The civil rights movements in Nagaland and Manipur are strong and capable of carrying out a dialogue. In its absence, they are likely to resort to peaceful mass movements. The gap and the mistrust between the government and the people have to go if conflicts are to be resolved and for this, the initiative lies with the government. Good, honest governance cannot be replaced by doles and handouts, the new opiates of the masses.The problem gets compounded by the continued failure of our criminal justice system, which the politician continues to manipulate through compliant officers and members of the judicial system. The upshot is that special emergency powers are drawn upon by these governments and large-scale deployment of PMFs and Army is called upon. The Army is a broad sword designed to defend the country against foreign enemies, which is a critically important role given the situation on both the LAC with China and LoC with Pakistan. Similarly, the PMFs by their very definition (para military forces) are meant to be used in extreme situations of violence and trouble, not in everyday situations of law and order. By all means, use them against terrorists, radicals and organisations bent upon destabilising the country, but certainly not as a go-to daily solution.On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh has successfully countered insurgency, and importantly, it was done by the local police, meticulously trained policemen led by committed leaders who put an end to the insurgency without involving the armed forces. In between, back-channel talks were also held and that also contributed to the resolution of the conflict. Governments of different hues came and went, but the policy remained the same. Today, Andhra is free of radical Maoist conflict and its sons and daughters are holding leadership positions not only within the state, but abroad as well. The common people, wherever they are, want peace, education, health and a good standard of living through adequate employment — not just doles and handouts.J&K is a different ballgame because of Pakistan’s interference in the form of infiltration of foreign agents, arms and drugs. The terrain is such that this cannot be totally blocked and it has to be admitted that there is some form of limited support by locals. Here also, mainstream parties and state administrators have not been of great help. There is massive leakage of funds at various levels and the administration is not proactive and empathetic. A government-to-people dialogue is essential. Simultaneously, people should be actively involved in developmental work. A running dialogue between people’s representatives and local administrators at the ground level is also necessary. Stringent laws like AFSPA alone cannot deliver results, or resolve conflicts. The absence of dialogue is today showing in the increased participation of local boys in militancy, especially in Srinagar city.Briefly, the government and the people should talk without intermediaries at all levels from the village to the top, and in a sustained manner. There should be greater involvement of the state police and less resorting to intervention of the armed forces. In the face of the developing situation at the LAC, the armed forces should be left free to do the primary duty of guarding borders. If an emergent situation arises within the country, they can always be called in. Our Army is a highly trained, disciplined and motivated force and should be brought in as a weapon of last resort. It should not be deployed for long periods in civil areas and to sort out civil strife.One last word for the friends in the media — TV, print and social. For a change, most of you should come out of your ivory towers and visit places and meet people whom you write about, and about whom you pontificate on your channels. If you do your duty in an honest, dignified manner, problems will be resolved in a much shorter time, and more amicably. Try to look at things from the point of view of the common people involved and help in mitigating problems and not exacerbating them.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/peaceful-conflict-resolution-354510
