27-12-2021||---||Changes in biodiversity law may weaken regulation||The proposed Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, now being referred to the Joint Parliamentary Committee for scrutiny, was tabled in the Lok Sabha without public consultation. The Biological Diversity Act (BDA), 2002, was prepared with caution and on the basis of a scientific spirit to protect and preserve the scarce biological diversity of India and the traditional knowledge associated with it. The Act was also in support of sustainable economic use of its components on the principle of fair and equitable sharing of the benefits. To ensure its implementation in letter and spirit, and prevent bio-piracy from foreign research institutes funded by multinational pharmaceutical companies, the National Biodiversity Authority, state biodiversity boards and biodiversity management committees at village levels were empowered to take decisions and impose fines.Though the amendments to the BDA-2002 are well intentioned, they have weak regulations. While the Bill encourages the cultivation of medicinal plants on private land to reduce dependence on wild medicinal plants, poor monitoring and regulation over the supply chain may lead to an appropriation of wild plants associated with traditional knowledge of the local communities. The concern is real as the Bill proposes to exempt Ayush practitioners from seeking approval for the economic use of plants from biodiversity boards. The amendment pushes for the commercial use of biodiversity involving Ayush with relaxations in punishments, including decriminalisation of bio-piracy, simplification of the patent process, promotion of patents based on research, and attraction of foreign investment. This shows that the government intends to reduce its control on biodiversity — a state and community property resource.In recent years, the demand for access to biodiversity or genetic resources and associated knowledge for economic use and development has increased, particularly among the Ayush, seed and research industries. They have sought relaxations of the benefit-sharing provisions to gain more patents. The expanding patent activities have implications for public health, food security, biodiversity, agriculture, indigenous knowledge and benefit-sharing. Traditional livelihoods of millions of local communities directly rely on the rich biodiversity of plant genetic resources in India. The livelihoods, especially of indigenous people like forest-dependent communities, have been increasingly getting affected in recent years as the quest increases for the mining of traditional and genetic resources with the aid of changes in policies and regulations.There are instances of misappropriation of traditional knowledge that have resulted in bio-piracy. The proposed amendment disempowers biodiversity management committees with respect to rights over genetic resources associated with their traditional knowledge. The provision for the Ayush sector to access the biodiversity and traditional knowledge without intimation and approval of the state biodiversity boards may pave the way for commercial use without benefit-sharing with the knowledge owners. The amendment undermines sustainable use of genetic resources and protection of indigenous knowledge through scientific documentation of knowledge through the India Biodiversity Register.Already, the poor farmers and communities are made to pay for seeds and medicines that they themselves have evolved or created (the basis for modern seeds and medicines) without receiving royalties for their knowledge-sharing.These provisions raise the critical question of the potential impact on indigenous people’s livelihood and their knowledge protection where knowledge in the public domain is increasingly becoming private, thereby ushering in private rights over public goods. Biodiversity or genetic resources are increasingly being privatised. The structural alternations of property rights over common property resources have several implications, particularly for indigenous people’s livelihoods. The traditional knowledge continues to be the basis of food and nutritional security for the indigenous people who have accumulated this knowledge through interaction with biodiversity for generations.The Food and Agriculture Organisation states: “India has a long-standing knowledge and understanding of using medicinal plants in its codified medical systems, as well as through its highly diverse folk traditions. The knowledge of plant identification, methods of collection and processing, biological activities and uses was transmitted both orally and in written form by traditional medical cultures in India.” Ethnopharmacologist Elaine Elisabetsky observes: “To transform a plant into a medicine, one has to know the correct species, its location, the proper time of collection, the solvent to use, the way to prepare it, and finally, posology (route of administration, dosage).”The amendment may allow private interest to take precedence over public concern and the proliferation of exclusive rights could be a stumbling block for the provision of numerous national public goods, including healthcare, biodiversity conservation and environmental protection. Studies show that patents held by the public sector are much lower than the private sector, showing the domination of MNCs in commercialising biodiversity. It has led to a rise in the prices of essential and lifesaving drugs. Less than 2 per cent of our plants are studied for their phenolic constituents. More evidently, a lacuna in medicinal plant research is due to the unavailability of data on the chemical constituents of herbs available as drugs are camouflaged.Though India has the advantage of a wealth of herbal plants, it lags in identifying medicinal plants for new drug discovery, which is associated with poor investment in R&D. Traditional knowledge is being exploited by the private sector. Relaxation of benefit-sharing will lead to overexploitation of biodiversity and undue use of traditional knowledge. Government policies need to serve society at large with the aim of protecting biodiversity and associated traditional knowledge against commercial exploitation by a few private entities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/changes-in-biodiversity-law-may-weaken-regulation-354889
27-12-2021||---||India in a world at war||India faces an unprecedented foreign policy challenge as big-power conflicts are brewing in Eastern Europe and in the Far East. Independent India has not witnessed anything like this before.Cataclysmic events can wreak collateral damage when things fall apart and blood-dimmed tide and anarchy is loosened upon the world.In uncertain times ahead, India’s robust partnership with Russia is at the core of its calculus.Proxy wars are one thing, but conflicts directly involving great powers hold the high risk of escalation into apocalyptic proportions. Twice it happened in the last century, when embedded within seemingly innocuous ‘incidents’, there were germane seeds of world wars — the assassination of an archbishop (1914) and the annexation of Sudetenland (1939).Some Indian analysts make predictions that what is unfolding in Eastern Europe is a storm in a tea cup since President Biden desires an entente cordiale with Russia to balance China’s rise. Such delusional optimism not only overlooks the mood in the US Congress, but lacks a sense of history and borders on the naïveté about great power politics.The Indian discourses are generally one-dimensional nowadays due to a tunnel vision. It should never be that the present day India-China tensions are turned into a touchstone on any regional or international situation or that we reduce ourselves to a state of dreamy forgetfulness and idleness that God is in heaven and all is well with the world so long as India travels on the US bandwagon.Any long-time observer of Russian-American relations knows that the crisis over Ukraine and NATO expansion are symptomatic of a much larger struggle that began with the US military intervention in Russia to stifle the Bolshevik Revolution. Putin, in his annual press conference last Wednesday, in Moscow, spoke about the historicity of the US aspiration dating back to Woodrow Wilson that ‘the entire world would rest easier if instead of the currently enormous Russia there was a state in Siberia and another four countries in the European part’.What brings Russia and China into “an absolutely comprehensive partnership of strategic nature” today, to borrow Putin’s words, is also their profound realisation that an invidious common agenda is in play behind the steady build-up of tensions by the US over Ukraine and Taiwan. India cannot afford to miscalculate. Fundamentally, this is about the fate of the five centuries old western dominance of the global order. The US is openly daring Moscow to make a military move in Eastern Europe and is deliberately provoking Beijing over Taiwan almost on a daily basis. The US is apprehensive that within a decade, the global balance will have transformed phenomenally with multipolarity gaining ascendancy in the world order. Its best hope lies in bleeding Russia first and defanging it in Eurasia and to go for China’s jugular vein. Moscow and Beijing understand that they swim or sink together.India should take utmost care not to get sucked into the big power confrontation. Basically, India faces the same predicament as the ASEAN countries. In practical terms, India, too, should somehow mark its distance from the Quad. Second, India must be vigilant about the US attempts to erode its time-tested friendship with Russia. In uncertain times ahead, India’s robust partnership with Russia is at the core of its calculus. Prime Minister Modi enjoys great trust and mutual confidence with Putin at the personal level. Their mutual understanding is unshakeable. That said, Indo-Russian partnership is not directed at any third party. Moscow knows full well how deeply India cherishes its strategic autonomy. The deployment of the S-400 missile defence system in the face of threat of US sanctions testifies to the resilience of India’s strategic autonomy.Third, India belongs to the region. The emergent situation demands that India should strengthen its ties with the countries of the surrounding regions. The recent India-Central Asia Dialogue and PM’s invitation to the leaders of that region as chief guests at the Republic Day celebrations are initiatives in the right direction. There is much goodwill towards India in Central Asia, Southeast Asia and West Asia. And, there are really no obstacles to the pursuit of an active, constructive engagement with the regional states.Finally, there will be interest groups and lobbyists for America, who propagate the seductive thought that India stands to gain if the US undermines China’s development path. They reduce life to game theory. The plain truth is, the US has always exploited India-China relations in its self-interests.India-China bilateral issues, especially the border dispute, cannot be mixed up with the big power confrontation. It is unrealistic to expect China to give up its stance on the boundary dispute because it is embroiled in a rivalry with the US— just as Beijing knows it is unreasonable to expect Russia to turn its back on its enduring friendship with India because of the Sino-Russian alignment in the grim struggle ahead. The paradox is that the Indo-Russian strategic understanding can serve China’s interests too. There are three platforms — BRICS, SCO and RIC — where Russia, India and China harmonise their common interests.Peace has prevailed in Ladakh for close to a year and a half. China is not seeking to create new facts on the ground. It seems to be pinning hopes that with tensions steadily lowering and emotions calming down, the diplomats and political leadership can charter a new course. The Chinese commentators visualise that Delhi’s decision to appoint a ‘China hand’ as its next ambassador to China could be a signal that India seeks a ‘breakthrough’. An improvement in relations with China will increase India’s strategic depth if an epochal great power conflict erupts, which cannot be ruled out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-in-a-world-at-war-354887
27-12-2021||---||India must wake up to CPC’s penetration||Historically, British imperialists have succeeded more than their rivals in reading the enemy’s mind for 200 years (mid-18th to mid-20th century) and thus subjugating them. The imperialism of conquest, profit, trade, cash, exploitation and suppression, however, also taught the Communist Party of China (CPC) the advance reconnaissance and craft of subjugating the target country after World War II. Thus, the world today is witness to the CPC’s preference for avoiding frontal combat, except in limited sectors pertaining to India. The CPC possesses enough non-combat ammunition to take on New Delhi through the inter-locking of economics and commerce. The ceaseless humbling of India by an aggressive CPC, regrettably, continues unabated.It began at the turn of the 20th century and the start of the 21st. Despite the 1962 drubbing by China, India showed an unusually premature eagerness to ‘open up’, riding the crest of ‘globalisation, liberalisation, privatisation’ wave, thereby inexorably falling into the CPC’s trap. Why? Because, “the world now is a global village. Everything is inter-connected, and the line dividing friend and foe is getting blurred.” Really? If so, then why does the ‘global village’ still carry in its womb a whopping 200-plus sovereign nation-states? Not all of whom are able to sustain on their own, owing to big fish eating the small fish! Why open up before the shark’s illusory trap of ‘free flow of goods, capital and labour’?Despite the forewarning, India erred on China and its calculation went haywire. Delhi misread the CPC mind on the strategic/long-term plan. Nevertheless, long before ‘globalisation’ and ‘open up’ became the catchwords, ‘domestic politics of revenge’ to reverse Indira Gandhi’s China policy made Delhi open the diplomatic door to the Dragon. The then Prime Minister Morarji Desai and Foreign Minister Vajpayee’s Beijing visit in 1978 couldn’t make India pull back from China. Contrarily, India succumbed. For PM Rajiv Gandhi, too, the 1988 Beijing visit became a compulsion for the sake of continuity. The CPC was on a roll. Beijing saw the Delhi move as an acceptance of its inequality, rather than equality or mutual reciprocation.Expectedly, things moved fast thereafter. Never mind, even if it was unidirectional profit for Beijing. The CPC yield soared as India got hooked to opening other Delhi-Dragon bilateral trade routes through the east and north-east, despite the vulnerability, volatility and violence caused by the Chinese contempt for Delhi’s sovereignty over the area. The CPC enjoyed trade profit as it went on inflicting territorial loss on Delhi.Almost two decades ago, thus, was set up India-Tibet trade via Nathu La as one of the bilateral routes. Suspicion didn’t manifest itself till India got a dose of the CPC’s mischief, especially during the past four years, with a determined CPC push to opening a diplomatic base in Bhutan as well as violating the India-Bhutan-Tibet boundary with impunity.In hindsight, one may now pose questions pertaining to the efficacy and effectiveness of the Dragon’s motive. Is it only trade profit? Or is it territorial acquisition under the garb of trade? Thus, when the joint India-China team was formed to chalk out modalities for trade, a rank outsider, lacking experience of dealing with Chinese state representatives or policymakers, was assigned the task of preparing a report. Was India’s interest protected?Undoubtedly, the CPC got a virtual ‘deep penetration’ into Delhi’s geostrategic soil where India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Tibet meet. Under the trade garb, the CPC got a readymade picture — Is it very easy for other Indian traders (implying bigger and wealthier lot from places other than Sikkim) to come to Chhangu (near Nathu La, Sikkim)? Is it easy for Chinese goods and services to capture the market in India? It clearly showed the deep, long-term plan to capturing the Indian market, far and much beyond border trade. What are the main difficulties in planning in the Chhangu region? What is the Government of India’s stand on the proposed route? What is the Sikkim government’s stand on the proposed route? What is the pulse of the local people on the resumption of trade from this route? Can one use a mobile network in the Nathu La area? What are the present road conditions in the Nathu La region? What are the distances of major towns and cities from Nathu La? What local products of Sikkim are meant for export?Simply put, do these constitute bona fide questions of the Chinese trade delegation, or advance intelligence, impregnated with military ops and a deep penetration info-system for feeding into China’s target? Including finance, economics, trade and commerce of India’s hinterland? Is Nathu La an alibi? To stamp the CPC’s presence in India’s underbelly, border and spread wings therefrom?Today, do the majority of the Indians care as to how swift a change is occurring in that vulnerable region (India-Tibet-Bhutan-Nepal-Bangladesh)? How deep have Chinese ‘businessmen’ penetrated, owning ‘benami immovable properties’ around military areas? How money is being pumped in the name of start-ups and trade investment?Strangely, however, the pioneer Indian ‘whistleblower’ at the turn of the 20th century was the then Defence Minister George Fernandes. In 1998, he accused Beijing of helping Myanmar install surveillance and communication equipment in Bay of Bengal islands. Expectedly, Indians castigated their own Defence Minister, thereby weakening Delhi and strengthening the Dragon. Fernandes was spot on. His words appear prophetic in retrospect.So, how disastrous was that for India after a marauding CPC instigated north-eastern states to secede from India and devastate Bengal from the 1960s to the 1980s? Why are Indians so blindly transfixed on, and forgetful of, the CPC’s malice? Does anyone remember the Dragon’s animosity towards New Delhi in its support for Naga, Mizo and other ethnic, north-eastern insurgents? Does India suffer from selective amnesia pertaining to the CPC-abetted Communist uprising (Naxalite) violence which ravaged Bengal?Thus, those few who have followed the CPC trajectory over South Asia are likely to say that unless the 1.3 billion Indians collectively decide to deal with the menace which has penetrated deep — for instance, the recent Oppo-ISRO tie-up — Delhi will face the same (if not worse) fate as what the West is experiencing. The US slept for three decades over the prospect of getting ‘cheap’ finished goods from the ‘factory of the world’ of Zhong Guo. It suddenly woke up to face the harsh economic reality and is now trying to stop a further slide by introducing legislations by the dozen.But, the West can’t yet fathom the bottom line. No imperial power ever had so large a demography even at its peak. Can India wake up and try to rectify its past follies?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-must-wake-up-to-cpcs-penetration-354886
