29-12-2021||---||Democracy in peril||There are many ways of looking at the recent Summit for Democracy initiated by US President Joe Biden. Yet, what is difficult to deny is that a summit of this kind is an acknowledgement of the harsh reality — not everything is fine with democracy amid rising authoritarianism and all sorts of totalitarianism in different parts of the world. ‘Democracy doesn’t happen by accident,’ said Biden. Yet, as he said, ‘we have to renew it with each generation’. Biden is right. However, the moot question is: How do we do it?Democracy needs our alertness and courage — and this requires the light of critical pedagogy.There are four points that deserve special attention. First, the democratic spirit of freedom or the ability to choose one’s life-project requires a reasonable degree of socio-economic empowerment, and decolonisation of consciousness. As we recall the brutal history of colonialism, its politics of cultural invasion and economic loot—the way the masters of the ‘democratic’/ ‘enlightened’ West deprived the colonised of the principles of ‘liberty, equality and fraternity’, we realise the hypocrisy of ‘western democracy’. And who can deny that the much-hyped ‘American democracy’ is inseparable from neocolonialism and the history of war in modern times? No decolonisation, no democracy.Second, a society like ours, characterised by heightened class inequality and oppressive practices like patriarchy, casteism and religious bigotry, is inherently against democracy because it doesn’t allow a large section of the population to unfold its creative potential, and live with the light of dignified work and liberating education. As a matter of fact, we see only the façade of democracy through the ritualisation of periodic elections, and routinised deliberations in legislative assemblies. But then, democracy is not merely an act of voting, ‘electing’ one’s master, and existing as a passive receiver of ‘pro-people’ promises. Believe it, it is not altogether impossible to have a ‘democratically elected’ anti-people government’ that serves primarily the interests of the privileged classes.In contemporary times, neoliberalism (with its onslaught on shared/public concerns, and resultant promotion of market-driven/privatised solutions) is a major threat to the egalitarian principle of democracy. While it promises that one is free to make ‘choices’, and buy or consume any ‘product’ or ‘brand’, be it health, education or fast food, the fact is that most of us do not have the economic capacity to make these choices. Even though, to take a simple illustration, while none would prevent a construction worker or a marginalised Dalit woman from entering a spectacular shopping mall, it would be absurd to think that they could be able to buy a cup of Starbucks coffee, or send their children to a fancy ‘international’ school! Furthermore, the rising cult of narcissism, the growing anti-intellectualism and the gigantic propaganda machinery (ceaselessly invading our collective consciousness through the imageries of big and spectacular ‘development’ projects, or achievements in war and military power with the euphoria of assertive nationalism) pose a serious threat to what democracy needs — the ability to think critically, make the leader accountable, and distinguish development as pro-people/ecologically sustainable/socially empowering endeavours from the market-driven needs of techno-corporate global capitalism. Democracy can be in real danger, even amid ‘popular mandate’, multiple television channels and innumerable ‘brands’ for consumption.Third, we must think of the widening gap between words and practices. In his speech at the summit, Prime Minister Modi said the democratic spirit or the ‘pluralistic ethos’ is ingrained in Indians. If we dare to keep our eyes open, and go deeper into the cultural landscape of this patriarchal/caste-ridden/fragmented society, we realise that there is not much substance in a statement of this kind. Instead, we are becoming increasingly anti-democratic. Think of the mighty assertion of majoritarianism, constant humiliation of the minorities, the epidemic of FIRs and sedition charges, demonisation of dissenting voices, growing attack on culture of protest and resistance, encouragement of intellectually impoverished and toxic television channels, monopoly of the resources by the rich, aggression of hyper-masculine nationalism, and growing insecurity of women, Dalits and tribal communities. Is it, therefore, surprising that these days India is often being seen as a site for ‘electoral autocracy’?And fourth, the spirit of democracy cannot be renewed without the enchanting power of emancipatory education or critical pedagogy. In our times, this is precisely what is in danger. For all practical purposes, education has been reduced to either an exam-centric, official curriculum-oriented and regimented schooled consciousness, or some sort of ‘skill learning’ for reducing human subjects into mere resources for techno-capitalism. This sort of education does not liberate one’s consciousness, or encourage one to sharpen the art of debate, dialogue, creative awakening and critical thinking. Instead, it breeds the ideology of hyper-competitiveness, selfishness and reckless consumerism. It abhors the ethics of care, cooperation, sharing and justice. No wonder, critical pedagogues like Paulo Freire, Ivan Illich, bell hooks (Gloria Jean Watkins) and Henry Giroux pleaded so passionately and convincingly for emancipatory education — the spirit of learning and unlearning that empowers the student, and enables her to see through the discourse of power, resist oppressive/regressive social practices, and understand the distinction between organic needs and market-driven false needs or desire. It is only through this sort of education can we nurture a democratic generation who can hope, dream of a better world, activate their agency, and refuse to be fooled by authoritarian figures, neoliberal techno-fascists, militant nationalists, sexist fundamentalists and Stalinist ‘revolutionaries’.Democracy cannot be saved merely through the ritualisation of periodic elections; nor can it be saved through the occasional delivery of ‘relief packages’ to the poor. Democracy needs our alertness and courage — and this requires the light of critical pedagogy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/democracy-in-peril-355186
29-12-2021||---||1971 war accounts fail to shatter the myths||The 1971 India-Pakistan war was a brilliant and comprehensive military victory which gave birth to a nation. The grand strategy resulted in the unconditional surrender of 93,000 PoWs, capture of 5,000 sq km in the west and humiliation of the Pakistan military. When Prime Minister Indira Gandhi went to Simla, she was the victor armed with strategic gains, while Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto was the defeated and depleted leader. The Simla Agreement resulted in the following: (a) conversion of the ceasefire line (CFL) into the Line of Control; (b) concept of bilateralism and peaceful (non-use of force) resolution of disputes and (c) heads of both states would meet for a final settlement of the Kashmir issue. This meagre outcome was obtained even after Indira Gandhi came to be venerated as Durga and Sam Manekshaw as the victorious General of India’s first military triumph in a thousand years. The strategic community has long argued that military gains were frittered away at the negotiating table.The Indian diplomatic corps had not accepted this failure gracefully. So, we now have seasoned diplomat Chandrashekhar Dasgupta’s book India and Bangladesh Liberation War: The Definitive Story, which has been hailed as ‘myth-shattering’. Dasgupta’s claims are based on painstaking research from archival material but as Sarmila Bose (Oxford University) wrote in Dead Reckoning: Memories of 1971 Bangladesh War, that most of what is written are partisan accounts, not history. She wants “evidence to tell the story” and testimony of participants and eye-witness accounts to become building blocks for chronicling and analysing memoirs and official accounts. That war is “poorly documented” is a fact. Equally, PN Haksar, DP Dhar and PN Dhar — all distinguished civil servants’ accounts are in many ways partisan. Dasgupta’s definitive account is a valiant effort in countering the critique of the foreign and civil services during and after the war.Dasgupta’s depiction of the Simla outcome, rationale for delaying military intervention and portrayal of Manekshaw as no great leader contradict conventional wisdom. When Indira Gandhi summoned Manekshaw for a Cabinet meeting in April following the military crackdown in East Pakistan, he told her that immediate military invasion would fail as time was required to construct infrastructure, logistics, make up shortfalls in equipment, avoid monsoon in riverine terrain and allow northern passes to close to prevent Chinese intervention. In fact, Lt Gen JFR Jacob, in his book Surrender at Dacca: Birth of a Nation, has arrogated the need for more time to his recommendation from the Eastern Command. But Dasgupta says that even before Indira Gandhi called in Manekshaw, she had already made up her mind that more time was needed for political and diplomatic preparations as “non-interference was held sacred and intervention was not kosher”. It was Haksar who dissuaded Gandhi from early intervention. So, Gandhi’s intent to delay action coincided with Manekshaw’s recommendations. What is the big deal in the uncanny strategic politico-military congruence! That Manekshaw stole the limelight is another matter.Similarly, on the outcome at Simla, Dasgupta tells us that India’s aim was the liberation of Bangladesh. Period. That was achieved in entirety on December 16, 1971, following the abject surrender of Pakistani forces. Gandhi went to Simla with several aces up her sleeve — 93,000 PoWs, 5,000 sq km territory in the west and 195 Pakistan PoWs to be tried for war crimes in Bangladesh. Dasgupta says India’s subsidiary aim was to convert CFL into LoC and secure a treaty encapsulating bilateralism, non-use of force, and a final settlement of Kashmir. The Simla agreement was held from June 28 to July 2 and that talks had failed was leaked to journalists on July 2. Bhutto sought another meeting with Gandhi after dinner to break the deadlock and clinched a favourable deal with just sweat up his sleeves.The only definitive book on the Simla Accord, Simla Summit 1972: Its Wasted Promise, authored by PR Chari and Pervez Iqbal Cheema, presents each country’s perspective. Before the summit, preliminary talks were held in London and Murree. While Gandhi wanted a final settlement on Kashmir, Bhutto wanted back 93,000 PoWs, 5,000 sq km of land and foregoing the trial of 193 PoWs. In the London talks, DP Dhar and Bhutto’s emissaries agreed on conversion of CFL to LoC and settling all disputes by peaceful means. PoWs could not be returned and some not tried without the consent of Bangladesh. Chari writes: “It is clear India was agreeable in Simla to resolving Kashmir by accepting its division along LoC.” The inability of Indian negotiators to freeze status quo in Kashmir led to the failure of Simla. Cheema notes that Bhutto went to Simla with no cards up his sleeve. It was repeatedly stressed by the Indians to convert the new LoC into IB (p135) despite their arguing that it was constitutionally and legally a part of India. And yet they were seeking status quo. The wasted promise in the title of the book refers to Bhutto’s promise to gradually turn the LoC into IB. Senior journalist Inder Malhotra says in The Indian Express (April 9, 2014) that Pakistanis said Bhutto’s diplomatic artistry fooled Gandhi. He adds that Soviet President Brezhnev had told Gandhi that Bhutto must not be sent back empty-handed. Gandhi’s magnanimity as victor made the accord possible as Bhutto promised, DP Dhar wrote in 2005: “Aap mere par bharosa keejiye” on turning LoC into a border.Manekshaw comes in for some uncharitable comments like lacking geopolitical vision, being a story-teller and that it was Jacob not Manekshaw who masterminded the victory, including naming Dacca as the war objective. It would take another column to demolish this myth, the handiwork of Jacob. Suffice it to say that Jacob was a thinking staff officer, akin to a principal secretary to the executive. But Manekshaw and the Eastern Army Commander Jagjit Singh Aurora were commanders, heading the campaign. A picture appeared in mid-December in The Hindu, showing Manekshaw conspicuously leaning forward, seated opposite Gandhi in her office that testifies to the unique rapport between them. No one can take away from Manekshaw his well-earned glory. Dasgupta’s book is a must read even if it does not shatter any myths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/1971-war-accounts-fail-to-shatter-the-myths-355188
29-12-2021||---||Central Asia of strategic import for India||India is considering a proposal to invite the Presidents of five Central Asian (CA) states, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan as chief guests at the forthcoming Republic Day celebrations. The decision is a recognition of the shifting geo-political trends following the US military withdrawal from Afghanistan, increasing threats to security from terror groups based there, emergence of CA countries as strategic partners and China’s creeping economic and security outreach in this region.Recently, there has been a sharp increase in India’s interaction with the CA states. Last month, India hosted the National Security Advisors of Russia, Iran and the CA states for a dialogue on Afghanistan. Instead of attending the OIC meeting in Islamabad on December 18-19, the foreign ministers of CA countries came to New Delhi for the 3rd India-CA dialogue with India’s External Affairs Minister (EAM). Earlier this year, EAM Jaishankar had visited Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan and also held a meeting with his Turkmenistan counterpart.Central Asia is home to the world’s biggest untapped resources of oil, gas and minerals. It is also a key gateway for connectivity with Russia, the Middle East and Europe. While Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are endowed with attractive hydrocarbon deposits, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan have considerable strategic importance. Three CA states, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan share common borders with China; similarly, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan share borders with Afghanistan while Tajikistan and Uzbekistan are proximate to India.Russia has traditionally enjoyed considerable influence in the CA states as their economies, infrastructure and the ruling elites were closely linked to Moscow. Ethnic Russians account for 5%-20% of the population in these countries. Russia has allowed millions of Tajik and Kyrgyz nationals to work and send remittances; it meets Russia’s needs of additional labour in view of its declining population (its population of about 143 million is estimated to decline by 20% by 2050).Russia established the Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) in 2015 to foster closer economic ties with its ex-Soviet Republics, including the CA states. Its record has been patchy. While Russia views it as a political instrument to regain its former influence, others such as Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan see it as primarily economic. Kazakhstan has been opposed to any EEU support for Russia’s counter sanctions imposed on certain Western commodities. Uzbekistan and Tajikistan have been reluctant to join the EEU.Another multilateral grouping which Russia set up, this time with China and four CA states (all except Turkmenistan) was the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on June 15, 2001, mainly to fight against regional terrorism, ethnic separatism and religious extremism. India and Pakistan were added in 2017 and now a decision has been taken to include Iran. Russia and China look at SCO in terms of strengthening their influence in Afghanistan and South Asia. The SCO has taken some initiatives against the spread of terrorism, separatism and encourage cooperation in agriculture, energy, education, pharmaceuticals and IT.In the field of security, Russia has established a Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) with Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, providing formal security guarantees to its members. Russia has expanded its military presence in CA by deploying new anti-aircraft missile systems, tanks and infantry fighting vehicles at its bases in Tajikistan.China views Central Asia as a buffer between an unstable Afghanistan and its Xinjiang province and as a transit point for its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to reach across the Middle East and Europe. It is building high-speed rail lines, roads and other infrastructure to connect CA with Europe. China’s FDI in the five CA countries reached $14.7 billion in 2018 from $8.9 billion in 2013. Its investments have been made to secure a steady supply of hydrocarbons, minerals and seek tacit cooperation for Beijing’s political agenda.China’s trade turnover with the CA countries in 2018 was about $41.7 billion, almost twice that of Russia; it accounted for 22% of all CA exports and 37% of their imports. Several CA countries are reeling under a huge debt trap, i.e., debt of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan owed to China is about 20% of their GDP, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan about 16% and Kazakhstan 6.5% (2018).While Russia remains the main security provider in CA, China is gradually expanding its role keeping the Russian sensitivities in mind. In 2016, China set up a military base in Tajikistan’s Gorno-Badakshan region to prevent the infiltration of Uighur activists via the Wakhan corridor. China also established a new regional mechanism, including Tajikistan, Pakistan and Afghanistan, to monitor the security situation in this area.Since 2002, China has conducted many military exercises with the CA countries, both under the SCO framework and bilaterally. China has emerged as an important exporter of military equipment (mainly air defence systems, drones, armoured carriers and surface missiles) and technologies to the CA countries.India has historical, cultural and religious links with the Central Asian countries. India’s interaction with these countries has expanded after several high-level visits, including by PM Modi in July 2015, and joining of the SCO. Among the CA countries, Kazakhstan is India’s biggest trade partner. A major constraint for India is lack of connectivity as the trade routes to these countries pass through Pakistan-Afghanistan, Iran and China. The Iran route was severely impacted due to the US sanctions. India and the CA countries are now trying to set up new transportation links using the Chabahar port.India’s relations with the CA countries have acquired a strategic dimension. Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan have emerged as important suppliers of uranium to fuel India’s nuclear power plants. Tajikistan provided critical help in the evacuation of Indians from Afghanistan in August-September 2021. Considering that CA is part of India’s extended neighbourhood with its increasing political, economic and strategic significance, it will be in India’s interest to augment its linkages with these countries to reduce their dependence on China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/central-asia-of-strategic-import-for-india-355185
29-12-2021||---||Digital financial transactions need a safety net||The Prime Minister recently called for a FinTech revolution with a security shield. The RBI’s working group on digital lending has submitted its recommendations, making it an opportune time to analyse the current digital ecosystem, not only in the lending domain but also in payments, and what it will take to address the trust issues. The disruptiveness of these domains of digital lending and digital payment was waiting to happen, considering the colossal gaps in financial inclusion and lessons from JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) and UPI (Unified Payment Interface) experience of the Indian economy. The accentuated angularities of the present ecosystem need to be rounded off.The Indian digital landscape has seen the emergence of new models of digital lending due to the demand-supply matrix, accentuated partially by the distress caused by the Covid situation: (a) NBFC/bank-owned digital platforms in which the RBI has direct regulatory oversight (balance sheet lenders, as they lend their own money); (b) Digital platforms working in partnership with NBFC/banks, acting as intermediaries, and hence, not registered with the central bank but vicariously regulated by RBI regulations applying to banks/NBFC (marketplace lending, where others are allowed to lend); (c) Peer-to-Peer (P2P) lending platforms, new but majorly unregulated entities, laced with digital tools, closest to the needy borrower. The RBI has mandated these retail lenders to seek regulation as P2P-NBFC. ‘Pay day lending’ platforms and ‘Buy now pay later’ provisions also fall in this category.Loans without credit-worthiness and without KYC make entry easy. Unethical and unauthorised use of personal data to mitigate lethal and coercive methods of repayment of exorbitant and unregulated interest rates make exit impossible.At present, genuine P2P platforms connect lenders (cash-rich investors looking for attractive returns) with borrowers of poor credit score or out of conventional financial outreach. In future, India Stack is going to help private players to enable disruption. India Stack is a set of APIs (Application Programming Interface), which allows the government and private companies to deploy cashless and paperless technology products, independent of their owners to transform India into a cashless economy.This would enable even the street vendor who does not have a bank account to make all his transactions digital and use this information to grow business. Through the Open Network for Digital Commerce, the government is seeking to replicate the success of the Open Network forE-commerce, hoping to put in place a backbone on which sellers and logistics service providers can connect with the buyers, no matter what platform they use through open APIs.A large part of digital retail payments in India is processed by the National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI), incorporated as non-profit in which various national banks are shareholders. The UPI, Immediate Payment Service (IMPS), Bharat Bill Pay, Aadhaar Enabled Payment Service (AEPS) and RuPay are some retail payment platforms operated by the NPCI.The RBI had invited expressions of interest last year under a plan to allow new entities to create new digital payment platforms other than NPCI, called New Umbrella Entities (NUEs). These were to be for-profit platforms (charging fees for transactions, say utility bill etc), presumably to cut concentration risks and also for more options in the market. Six consortiums, including Amazon, Facebook and the Tata group, applied in partnership with Reliance, ICICI etc.But the RBI has put this plan on hold, realising the risks involved in allowing the private sector manage payment platforms till the Data Protection Law is in place, learning its lessons from Masterbank’s non-compliance of data localisation and data breaches in MobiKwik etc.The landscape is peppered with both unscrupulous players as well as genuine entities. There is and always will be pressure to balance regulation with innovation. There is increasingly a clamour for the oft-heard ‘Soft Touch Regulation’, a euphemism for self-regulation. But self-regulation is easier said than done. The reason unauthorised lending platforms have mushroomed is the existing credit information asymmetry faced by lenders vis-a-vis borrowers. This could have been set right long back. The RBI has proposed a Public Credit Registry (credit information database), accessible to all stakeholders and Open Credit Enabled Network (infrastructure protocol for lending based on consent-based operations), which will promote legit players and curb unauthorised lenders.The existing digital lending landscape is governed by the existing Fair Practices Code for NBFCs and banking directions issued by the RBI from time to time, including the most recent Master Direction NBFC-P2P lending platform (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2017. The Money Lenders’ Act (Sahukar Act, as it is called in some states), in most places of jurisdiction, has been obfuscated and has lost teeth because of poorly regulated and supervised rules and bylaws. States such as Telangana have stringent and non-bailable clauses which have come in handy for tackling instant loan app-related frauds. Industry associations also suggest that there should be a law not allowing short-term loans (less than 60 days). Data Protection Act in place is the necessity for both digital lending and digital payment domains to function smoothly and securely.The working group has suggested a nodal agency to verify all digital lending apps. It has also suggested tighter norms for ‘Buy now, pay later’ loans and government notification to bring them on a par with traditional credit facilities. In all correctness, it suggests the regulated entities to take the onus of adherence to standard protocols of business conduct of attached entities. Similarly, emphasis on protection of data privacy of citizens is a sine qua non.Similar brainstorming is underway in the sphere of digital payments. No doubt a well thought out strategy by the central bank with last mile connectivity by law enforcement agencies will help to resolve the issues being faced today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/digital-financial-transactions-need-a-safety-net-355682
29-12-2021||---||Communal virus runs riot||The three-day hate fest against the Muslim community, held at Haridwar recently, is only the latest in a series of intemperate and vulgar attacks against minorities that, if unchecked, may lead to an irreversible fragmentation and disintegration of the Indian Union. We should stop minimising the destructive impact of these increasingly brazen and violent attacks against minorities throughout the North Indian heartland by putting them in the context of impending elections.Violence undermines the sense of solidarity among citizens that lies at the heart of a democratic State.The assumption, completely mistaken, is that once the electioneering is done, we shall be back to our normal day-to-day living and forget these rantings of persons many still consider to be fringe elements. They are not fringe elements. They are now dangerously close to being the mainstream. They have flourished in a political ecosystem built on the deliberate stoking of both sentiments of victimhood and pride, side by side, among the majority Hindu community. The instruments of the State have been bent to advance this communal agenda. The police is thoroughly compromised, the judiciary has become hesitant and selective in upholding India’s Constitution and the carefully constructed system of checks and balances is being dismantled step by step. When this happens, it will not just target the minorities. It will target, as it has already started to do, those in the majority community who question the ruling dispensation on any issue, even unrelated to the communal agenda. If the instruments of the State and its coercive power can be turned to disempowering the minorities, the same, if unchecked, can disempower any citizen, irrespective of his faith. Hindus need to understand that their faith is no shield against a predatory State. There are enough examples from history to bear this out. The use of arbitrary power against minorities which some applaud today and are happy to be complicit in, may soon turn against them and their children.Violence corrodes democracy. It undermines the sense of solidarity among citizens that lies at the heart of a democratic State. India’s own recent history bears this out. We have had violent paroxysms which have threatened to tear asunder the very fabric of a civilised society. Their scars remain and some continue to fester. What we are witnessing today is a deliberate and cynical attempt to resurrect painful wounds of the past, re-enact past contestations and prevent the consolidation of a common and equal citizenship, which is the foundation of a democracy. We should be aware of our tortured history of immense cruelty, pain and suffering, but the objective of being acquainted with this history is to ensure that it does not blight the future of our children and grandchildren. In some of our commentaries, one sees an attempt to lay the sins of an earlier generation at the door of its present successors and on that basis seek recompense; that reconciliation between the Hindus and Muslims is a two-way street, which behoves the latter to willingly and gracefully hand over the sites, where mosques were alleged to have been built at the sites of temples which may have been destroyed. Once this argument takes hold, there will be an open licence to right what some may consider historical wrongs and we all know how flimsy the historical basis is and how it may be manipulated for reasons other than religious. After all, the champions of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya argued that their demand rested not on law and history but on the strength of their religious sentiment. Once the law of the land is set aside to assuage religious sentiment or the expression of dissent is stifled on the grounds that law and order may be vitiated, the discretionary use of the State’s coercive power will become endemic. When that stage is reached, the State will have the ability to target any citizen irrespective of his faith. Some Hindus may applaud the use of arbitrary power because they believe that it targets the minorities; that the State is indeed complicit and accommodates them in their attacks against the minorities. They do not realise that their encouragement of the use of arbitrary State power is leading to a situation when the violation of their rights by the State will also have no remedy. We are witnessing this already.Former Navy Chief Arun Prakash has warned us that the divisiveness and social fragmentation we are witnessing today is having a most adverse effect on national security. A divided India is a vulnerable India.India is and has always been a plural society. The Hindus themselves are a diverse community, though sharing an overarching sense of affinity in their religious beliefs and cultural sensibilities. They speak different languages, savour an enormous range of cuisines, delight in their own cultural traditions and practices and take pride in their local identities. Democracy is the most appropriate political dispensation for India because it allows the celebration of plurality both among the majority Hindus and the minorities. This breathtaking diversity is subsumed in a larger and shared identity of being equal citizens of the country. And that citizenship can only be based on a sense of fraternity among its people.The Prime Minister has declared an uplifting message of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and also Sabka Vishwas (Together with Everyone, Progress for Everyone and Enjoying Everyone’s Trust). I believe this solemn commitment applies to all citizens of the country he leads and not only to those belonging to the majority community. The hate that was spewed hour after hour by the saffron-clad rabble rousers at Haridwar was an attack on the very essence of the Prime Minister’s message. There was even a threat to shoot dead his predecessor in office, Dr Manmohan Singh. So, the office of the PM is no shield against the murderous intent of these savage elements. If these vile threats are tolerated and go unpunished and unchecked, the very idea of India that we have inherited and nourished through many challenges, will cease to exist. This is a moment of peril for all Indians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/communal-virus-runs-riot-355681
29-12-2021||---||Need to sharpen India’s Omicron strategy||The Omicron variant of the coronavirus has now spread into more than a hundred countries worldwide and it stands poised to unseat the Delta as the dominant variant in certain parts of the world. As of December 27, India had seen 578 Omicron cases across nearly 19 states and UTs, and a fresh wave of the epidemic is being anticipated, fuelled largely by this runaway variant. Multiple states have thereby instituted fresh measures, such as gathering restrictions and night curfews.While hard evidence on the diminished severity of Omicron is still deficient, and its apparently lower virulence could be an insignia of widespread though varying levels of pre-existing immunity, some interesting observations and predictions could be arrived at. Viruses gain a survival advantage from, and thereby often tend to drift towards, lower virulence and higher transmissibility in the population. While the initial epidemiological presentation of this could be alarming, it could augur the early stages of its end as a calamitous global pandemic.As witnessed in South Africa, the wave inspired by Omicron is likely to be a contracted one, rising and falling sharply, and also largely under-detected — leaving in its wake a fresh round of disease-induced immunity.This, however, doesn’t remotely imply that our guard should be let down. An onrushing Omicron wave can spell another onslaught on our health system, which has incompletely recovered from the two closely successive previous shocks. A sharp rise in cases could bring a torrent of hospitalisations despite the overall profile of a mild disease. While the experience of the preceding Covid-19 waves has indeed rendered us more prepared to counter an upcoming wave, we must understand that health systems as a whole need time to recuperate between stresses, and tend to progressively weaken without it.There is emerging evidence globally on the benefit of booster doses in dampening Omicron, notwithstanding its paucity nationally. The evidence on the general effectiveness of boosters is also well established, particularly for the vulnerable sections, as demonstrated by countries such as Israel.For India, which is looking at an imminent Omicron wave, where a good chunk of the population is yet to be fully vaccinated, and with a likely under-prepared supply chain, booster as an overarching public health strategy goes out of the question. Such a programme would also need to be backed by substantive evidence of a major public health benefit of boosters in the context of the circulating variants, which can justify its opportunity costs. Carefully weighed but speedy decisions to allow boosters to certain vulnerable sections are indeed merited, even as we continue to expand the regular Covid-19 vaccination.The Prime Minister’s recent announcement to this effect, allowing ‘precaution doses’ for frontline workers, healthcare workers and the elderly co-morbid, should be welcomed. However, the technical difficulties in targeting the elderly co-morbid possessing a doctor’s prescription must be kept in mind and a blanket approach involving the entire eligible elderly population may be more efficient.Moving forward, erratic decisions, such as the erstwhile liberalised vaccination strategy, need to be avoided with respect to boosters as they may fuel vaccine inequity and provide little public health advantage, if not veritably counterproductive results.Another important area is the pace of regular Covid-19 vaccination. While we have recorded tremendous strides in this respect in the recent past, we must not forget the rule of the diminishing rate of gains over time. The uptake of any public health intervention is always rapid in the early stages, when the easily accessible and favourably disposed sections get approached largely by default. It is in the later stages that the inaccessible and hesitant populations are left to be reckoned with and the progress slows down. Certain states, including some progressive ones like Maharashtra, show a slowed vaccine uptake, particularly with the second dose.The level of full vaccination coverage will have a significant bearing on the rollout of a full-fledged booster strategy, which might be merited in the future, regardless of Omicron. In this regard, there is indeed some good news, as some recent surveys indicate that vaccine hesitancy has dwindled since the rise of Omicron. India should use this opportunity and plug any supply sided, operational or communicational gaps with dispatch to rapidly expand the regular Covid vaccination.Health communication is likely to remain a major element of our prevention efforts. The rise of Omicron has quickly elicited measures like night curfews as knee-jerk reactions with dubious efficacy.However, little has been done so far to shape and tailor our public health communication and discourse to suit the changed needs of Omicron. Cliched exhortations on masking and social distancing continue to be floated in the name of risk communication, just like during the second wave.It is important to note at this point that positive health behaviours inculcated during the first wave have only tended to diminish in intensity subsequently, owing to widespread pandemic fatigue. This warrants that the communication strategy be more nuanced and fine-tuned in light of existing and emerging evidence.For example, a disproportionate chunk of Omicron cases is among the fully vaccinated. This could indicate that the fully vaccinated, for obvious reasons, are indulging more freely in risky behaviour, such as not wearing masks and flouting social sdistancing norms. While they may be less prone to severe disease, they can perpetuate and spread infection.Similarly, health communication with respect to the diminished severity of Omicron, which is still weakly backed by hard evidence, is largely indiscriminate and has been allowed to take its own course without regard to the adverse impact it could have on the collective health behaviour. Only a robust and thoughtful communication strategy can tackle these.One way or another, Omicron is likely to prove to be a momentous turn in the story of the Covid-19 pandemic. We must continue taking lessons. There is no room for complacency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-to-sharpen-indias-omicron-strategy-355641
