30-12-2021||---||How Pak bridge was blown off in risky conditions||Dera Baba Nanak (DBN) is a small town near Gurdaspur in Punjab, located on the banks of the Ravi river. Though the international border between India and Pakistan generally runs along the river line, there are certain areas of Pakistan which are across the river towards the Indian side. One such area is near DBN and is called the Pakistan DBN Enclave. In this enclave, there was a rail-cum-road bridge over the river which connected the enclave to Narowal and Sialkot towns in Pakistan. This bridge was used to provide logistics support to the Pakistani troops deployed in the enclave.One of the operational plans of Pakistan was to launch an attack through this enclave and capture the towns of DBN, Gurdaspur and Pathankot and cut off the supply lines to Jammu and Kashmir. Hence, this was a critical area as far as India was concerned.The war broke out on December 3, 1971. On the night of December 5, 86 Infantry Brigade of the Indian Army, under the command of Brig Gauri Shankar, launched an offensive and captured the enclave by the morning of December 6, pushing the enemy back across the river.I was commanding 83 Engineer Field Company (55 Engineer Regiment). We were operationally under 86 Infantry Brigade. On the evening of December 16, I had just finished my dinner in the underground bunker at Dera Baba Nanak, when I heard the news over the radio that the Pakistan Army in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) had surrendered and India had declared a unilateral ceasefire with effect from 8 pm the next day, i.e., December 17, 1971.I had been earlier warned by my Commanding Officer, 55 Engineer Regiment, that the rail-cum-road bridge of Pakistan over the Ravi at DBN would have to be demolished before the ceasefire. Now that ceasefire had been declared with effect from the next evening, it meant that the bridge would have to be demolished that night itself. Sure enough, at 10.15 pm, I received a telephone call from my commander engineers that the bridge be demolished by the first light next day, i.e., December 17.I took my 2IC, Lt PB Vartak, one JCO, one Havildar and a section of sappers for the task. We moved out from the company location, carrying explosives and stores that would be required for the task. Normally, it would have taken about 20 minutes to reach the bridge site. However, heavy mortar firing and artillery shelling was going on and twice, we had to stop and take cover in the folds of the ground to avoid being hit by the shells. We reached the bridge site by 11.15 pm, tucked the vehicles behind earthen bundhs to prevent them from getting damaged and moved to the bridge site along with the explosives. It was 11.30 pm.The bridge had a dual carriageway: the roadway on the top and the railway line running below. We decided to tackle the road bridge first. Our explosives were put in five wooden crates, each having 200 kg of explosives. It required eight men to lift one crate and haul it up to the top of the bridge.Due to the continuous shelling in the area, we had to stop work many times when the shelling was heavy and take shelter in the trenches. Also, the enemy had put one machinegun on ‘fixed line’ over the bridge and was intermittently firing bursts. Hence, we could not stand and work as the bullets would have hit us.Therefore, we had to crawl to push the crates into place. It was a very tedious and difficult task and took a considerable amount of time. All this time, the Engineers’ party was fully exposed to the shelling and firing that was going on. Having placed all five crates, we connected these with cordtex and put primers in the explosives (gun cotton slabs). It was already 2.30 am and we still had a lot of work to do. Then, we moved down to the railway track to prepare the heavy steel girders for demolition.This was an old bridge, constructed with steel plates and girders braced together. Since it supported the road bridge on the top, the steel columns, plates and girders were very thick and heavy. To destroy these, we planned to use cutting charges. However, we found that the PEK explosives would not stick to the steel girders as the girders were very cold and damp. We tried using mud from the river bank to make the gun cotton (GC) slabs stick, but that also did not help as the mud was mostly sandy. Ultimately, we used a combination of GC slabs and PEK explosives and used steel wire, thin ropes and mud all together to put these in place. Also, we used a combination of both footing and cutting charges. A total of 1,400 kg of explosives had been used for the demolition. We were finally ready by 5 am.We had been working on the bridge now for more than five hours, fully exposed to artillery and mortar shelling and machinegun fire. Had any shell or bullet hit any of our crates with explosives, all of us on the bridge would have been blown off.As per the engineering practice, we tested the rate of burning of the safety fuse and set it for a burning time of two minutes. We rechecked the circuits and put the detonators in place. The weather was very cold, damp and foggy, and it took a considerable amount of time to light the fuses.Once the fuses were lit, we ran back to the safety of our bunker in the rear. We felt great anxiety while waiting for the explosion. We put fingers in our ears and waited for the big bang. Finally, in another minute and a half, there was a huge blast and the bridge was blown off. The bang was so loud that it shook the enemy, and they opened fire with all their weapons.We waited inside the bunker till the firing had subsided. Then we moved out cautiously to see the result and check what damage had been done to the bridge. It was dark and the whole area was full of smoke and dust and tree leaves were flying all around. We could hardly see beyond 20 metres. All trees and the sarkanda grass within a 100-metre radius were charred black. The leaves of trees within 50 metres had been blown off. A brick building near the bridge was completely destroyed. The infantry bunkers/ trenches up to 150 metre alongside the bridge had collapsed. The road bridge was completely destroyed and it had slumped to the ground. The railway bridge was totally shattered and it had fallen into the river.There is now no possibility of the bridge ever being repaired or reconstructed. In future, a major offensive by the enemy through this sector is ruled out. Due to the demolition of this bridge, the operational plans of the enemy in this area have, perforce, to undergo a change.This demolition is a milestone in the history of the Indian Army. It is the first time ever that a huge bridge of this size had been demolished during operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-pak-bridge-was-blown-off-in-risky-conditions-356111
30-12-2021||---||Health challenge in New Year||The year-end usually provides an opportunity to reflect on the happenings during the preceding twelve months and is also an occasion to look forward to the next twelve. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, however, has turned this exercise into a difficult one. The outgoing year began with the fear of a new variant — Alpha. Just a handful of its cases were detected through genome sequencing in December 2020. As the year progressed, it saw the emergence of the Delta variant which led to the deadly second wave of the pandemic in India, peaking at over 2.7 million infections on May 3.About 1.4 billion have been administered vaccine doses in India alone, but some harsh realities remain. Delta resulted in millions of cases in several countries as it became the dominant variant globally. Towards the end of 2021, we are reeling under the spectre of Omicron. The variant is driving the pandemic in South Africa and is spreading fast elsewhere. New variants, genome sequencing, travel advisories, partial lockdowns and economic disruption, all sound familiar and seem to have become cyclical events. The challenge in 2022 will be to find ways to break this cycle and halt the pandemic.Though the sequence of events unfolding now seems a déjà vu of what happened a year ago, there are significant differences. The biggest differentiator is that the world has a formidable weapon in the form of a slew of vaccines and hope of possible therapeutic tools as well. On December 8, 2020, Margaret Keenan of the UK became the first person in the world to get a Covid-19 vaccine. Since then, nine billion doses of different Covid-19 vaccines have been administered globally. Of them, about 1.4 billion have been administered in India alone. The Covid-19 vaccination has become the largest immunisation programme in medical history. The big picture looks impressive, but it masks some harsh realities of the iniquitous world. The rich have cornered the greatest number of vaccines, with people receiving the third dose as a booster as well. On the other hand, vaccination coverage in poor countries remains abysmal. This is what the World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus had feared as ‘catastrophic moral failure’. In India, the share of people who have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine as of December 26 is 60 per cent, while the share of people who are fully vaccinated is 41.8 per cent. Vaccination data for different socio-economic strata is not in the public domain.Despite its shortcomings, vaccination remains the most potent weapon against the threat of new and emerging variants of SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, the focus will continue on increasing the number of fully vaccinated people and on rapidly rolling out booster or ‘precautionary’ doses among people already vaccinated. Though Omicron is gaining notoriety for its capability to infect those fully vaccinated, vaccination is supposed to protect against severe disease. The picture will become clearer as more data on Omicron is collated and studies are done, but vaccination will continue to be the mainstay of our fight against new variants and Covid-19 disease. The extension of vaccination coverage in India to teenagers and booster dose for frontline workers and elders with co-morbidities is critical. At the same time, it is vital to reach the unvaccinated urgently, as they remain most susceptible to Covid-19. It has been observed in countries with high vaccination coverage that even a small number of unvaccinated can start new waves, what experts are calling as ‘pandemic of the unvaccinated.’Another important way to prevent Omicron from going the Delta way is to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. At the beginning of 2021 when the Alpha variant had been detected and when the Delta variant was taking shape somewhere in India, the country lowered its guard on the behavioural front. There was euphemism over the likely availability of Indian vaccines, and the political leadership declared a premature victory over the virus. The Election Commission announced Assembly poll in Kerala, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. It opted for an elaborate, multi-phase schedule which meant a continuous election campaign. Large rallies were held with no regard for safe distancing and masking. The polling took place in several rounds between March 27 and April 29, with counting on May 2. Within days, the Delta variant hit the country in full force.At the beginning of 2022, we are in a similar situation again. A new variant has made its way into India, and elections to five states — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur — are on the cards. Seemingly high vaccination rates have led to complacent behaviour, as demonstrated during the recent festival and holiday seasons. Political parties are all geared up for elections, large events and public rallies, even before the announcement of the election schedule in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The Election Commission has consulted the Health Ministry on the pandemic situation. Hopefully, it will hold wider consultations with independent health experts and epidemiologists as well before taking a call on the poll schedule. The assembly elections should be held in such a way that they do not contribute in any way to a future wave of Omicron or any new variant which may be lurking to surface.Science has progressed rapidly since the onset of the pandemic, giving us new insights into the virus and its behaviour, and new tools such as testing kits and vaccines. We still need India-specific studies on various counts. In addition, pandemic management has a lot to do with disciplines beyond medical research. We need social science and epidemiological research to address challenges such as vaccine hesitancy, behavioural change, mental health etc. Indian medical agencies have amassed a mountain of data in the past two years, analysis of which can help find possible solutions. For this, the data will have to be shared with researchers outside the government system. The government has so far been secretive with this data, despite repeated calls to open up. Hopefully, this will change in 2022 as we enter the third year of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/health-challenge-in-new-year-356110
30-12-2021||---||Battling virus makes 2022 a daunting year||Trying to get a sense of what’s in store for the country in the coming year is proving to be extremely difficult in view of the unpredictable course that the pandemic has taken since early 2020.Just when there was some confidence that the world had managed to get the better of the highly destructive Delta variant and that we could look forward to a period of normalcy, the Omicron variant, which spreads superfast, has appeared suddenly.In time, scientists will develop a vaccine which will defeat this demon, but the question that arises is, what next? Surely, there will be another new variant down the road, which will plunge the world into another traumatic phase. In keeping with this see-saw progression, the stock markets started recovering and took wing in the latter part of this year, planting hope in the mind of investors. But then, Omicron struck and the markets crashed sharply.The rapid change in sentiments is best illustrated by what Microsoft founder Bill Gates had to say. He was guardedly optimistic when he said: “I think the acute phase of the pandemic will come to a close some time in 2022…The Omicron variant is concerning…but the world is better prepared to tackle potentially bad variants than at any other point in the pandemic so far.” If that was guarded optimism, look what he said last week: “Just when it seemed like life would return to normal, we could be entering the worst part of the pandemic.”There’s no doubt that there is light at the end of the tunnel, but the tunnel seems to be getting longer with serious obstacles appearing so often and the light at the end remaining as faint as ever. It is with this sense of foreboding that 2022 needs to be approached and an attempt made to find a few bright spots that seem to be hiding themselves as shyly as possible. The redeeming feature is that there are a few bright spots. One is that we are much better prepared healthcare facility-wise to tackle the sudden sharp rise in infection in terms of hospital beds, intensive-care wards, enough equipment. Doctors are by now familiar with the regimen to tackle a serious infection. And as the Omicron variant is spreading, its symptoms till now do not appear to be severe. Without seeking to sound over-confident, it seems we can take this infection in our stride.The second bright spot is that we have learnt how to live with the pandemic with minimum disruption to daily life routine unlike the draconian lockdowns that marked official response to the first wave in 2020. Now, restrictions such as night curfew and ban on large gatherings can coexist with normal economic life, with only a few sectors, including hospitality, remaining severely impaired. As against this, the tech sector made up of social media, e-commerce and e-learning is experiencing rapid growth.The third bright spot is the agricultural sector that seems to be the least affected, unlike manufacturing and services. In the countryside, the pressure of huge crowds and air-conditioned malls are absent, leaving the farmer in some peace to tend to his crops without fear of infection. As a result, a period of food shortage and high food prices seems unlikely, contrary to the rising prices of fast-moving consumer goods or the non-availability of enough new cars because of the shortage of semiconductors and myriad disruptions of the global supply chain.Unfortunately, the positive list must end there. There need be no fear of a food shortage overall, but the critical question remains: will all sections of the population be able to get the food they need? The disruption in the functioning of small businesses continues and the ability of the self-employed at the bottom of the pyramid — say the rickshaw puller and the street hawker — to earn a living remains seriously affected. As the government seeks to keep the fiscal deficit under control and prevent petty fraud, too many of the poor have neither the paperwork such as the ration cards usable across the country, nor the means to buy ration to feed the family.Payment of wages earned under the employment guarantee programme should never be in arrears and there should be enough work for all those who come forward to enlist themselves. Revenue spent on distributing to those who self-certify free foodgrains procured at the minimum support price and left to rot in public godowns cannot be inflationary. The productivity and value creation of a well-fed worker as opposed to an underfed one cannot be compared.Distribution of free ration and running of public kitchens needs to become a bigger and well-organised programme. The record of state governments in running welfare programmes is highly varied. States where anganwadis and midday meal programmes don’t run well should be pilloried. Similarly, states where primary health centres are not adequately provided with staff and medicines, should be severely strictured.Perhaps the biggest failing of the Centre remains its vaccination policy. The PM has announced booster doses for the aged, vulnerable and healthcare workers only after there was a nationwide clamour for these. The government was supposedly waiting for experts to give their view on boosters even as countries across the world went in for it. The likely reason is that there is inadequate supply of vaccines to take care of booster doses at a time when the chief of Serum Institute of India has publicly spoken of lack of orders from the government that could lead to idle capacity. The best way to make a success of 2022 is to ensure that the protective triad — wearing masks, avoiding crowds and all getting properly vaccinated — is strictly adhered to.A more prompt and robust vaccination policy has to be the main weapon to fight the battle against the virus through a daunting 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/battling-virus-makes-2022-a-daunting-year-356108
