31-12-2021||---||BJP govt has not much to write home about||On December 17, in a speech at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Union Home Minister Amit Shah claimed that the government had solved “several long pending problems of the country — abrogation of Article 370 without a drop of blood being shed; the complex issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved and that there is no sphere where in the past seven years, comprehensive change has not been brought.” He claimed that there has not been a single charge of corruption against this government and that the Covid-19 pandemic has been brought under control due to the charismatic leadership of the Prime Minister. Tall claims, but hidden within are some disturbing facts.In abrogating Article 370, apart from employing extreme coercive measures, the Central Government, from August 4, 2019, a day before the abrogation, to March 4, 2020, imposed the world’s longest Internet shutdown (233 days), within the state. The clampdown included booking 2,300 people under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in Kashmir with the J&K police booking 954 people (till August, 2021) under the Jammu & Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA). Around 16,000 individuals, including former chief ministers, were arrested during this period. Curfew was the order of the day. The Home Minister was perhaps unconcerned with livelihoods lost; businesses crippled and the collateral damage that went with it. Superficial scars easily heal, but wounds deep within fester. None can predict the future. I can only hope we can keep the peace.As for handling of Covid-19, contrary to Amit Shah’s claim, this government’s unpreparedness in dealing with it exposed its utter disdain for the concerns of those afflicted. Modi and Shah, disregarded all Covid norms to get a foothold in West Bengal by holding political rallies, unconcerned with their possible impact on public health. Modi’s Twitter feed celebrated the presence of huge crowds at these mass gatherings. The Kumbh Mela saw crowds of up to 3 million come together on the banks of the Ganga. During this period, all previous single day surge records of Covid were broken with over 350,000 daily cases in under a month. This apocalyptic spike wreaked havoc on India’s healthcare system. Medical oxygen was in short supply. We, as a nation, grappled with a never before death count, witnessing visuals of overflowing crematoriums and graveyards, of bodies floating in the Ganga and of thousands of bodies buried in shallow graves along the river banks. The mismanagement was evident. Despite official denials, the reality of the tragedy shocked the country. We failed to learn any lesson from the experience of other countries in early procurement of vaccines, graded lockdowns, better health surveillance and investment in health infrastructure and medicines. We saw a tragic spectacle of lakhs of migrants, desperate to reach home and stranded without hope, when the Prime Minister announced an ill-conceived lockdown on March 24, 2020. The poor had to walk and fend for themselves, with all forms of transportation suspended and inter-state borders sealed. Despite this, the Home Minister considers the government’s management of the pandemic a shining example of Modi’s charismatic leadership!Amit Shah’s claim that the Modi government has provided a corruption-free government is yet another ‘jumla’. This regime is riddled with huge scams and instances of crony capitalism. The Lokpal Act, meant to tackle corruption, has been administered a sleeping pill. The Lokpal may not wake up from its slumber before 2024. The promise of corruption-free governance by the Prime Minister was subverted soon after he got elected in 2014. Provisions relating to mandatory public disclosure of assets and liabilities of public servants in the Lokpal Act were whittled down through amendments. Even the requisite rules, after the amendment, are yet to be notified. For over five years, after the law was passed in January 2014, the chairperson and members of the Lokpal were not appointed.According to Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index, India’s rank has slipped six places to 86th among 180 countries in 2020. In another report titled ‘Global Corruption Barometer — Asia’, released in November 2020, India had the highest bribery rate of 39 per cent in Asia. “Yeddyurappa diaries, Sahara-Birla diaries, PSU bank fraud involving Nirav Modi & Mehul Choksi, Rafale and demonetisation” are among the major scams which are yet to be investigated. The recent catch of over Rs 200 crore in cash in Uttar Pradesh is hardly evidence of the claim this government made that with demonetisation, black money will receive a death blow. On the contrary, according to RBI data, despite demonetisation, the currency notes in circulation in terms of value went up from Rs 17.74 lakh crore on November 4, 2016 (just four days before demonetisation was announced) to Rs 29.17 lakh crore on October 29, 2021, an increase of 64 per cent.Democracy under the BJP is in crisis. Dissent has been criminalised. India has slipped from 27th position in 2014 to 53rd in 2020 on the Economic Intelligence Unit’s Democracy Index. India now ranks 101 out of 116 countries on the 2021 Global Hunger Index, behind Nepal (76), Bangladesh (76) and Pakistan (92). India is also ranked 142 on the World Press Freedom Index, 2021, out of 180 countries. It was ranked 133 in 2016. Signal transformative achievements in Modi’s India!As for the complex Ram Janmabhoomi issue, I am intrigued by Amit Shah’s statement that the government solved this complex issue. I hope this is not a confession.Claims can be bandied about. Truth, however, has the habit of surfacing, sooner rather than later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-govt-has-not-much-to-write-home-about-356447
31-12-2021||Ever since I undertook to write a weekly column for The Tribune||A tale of good tidings||Seeing the big strides the girls of the majority community have made, the fences are slowly being crossed.But I will avoid that temptation, keeping in mind my Prime Minister’s advice to ‘be positive’ at all times. He kept to that line a few days ago by emphasising the need for unity to keep the country progressing, but his followers went about creating mayhem in BJP-ruled states with the tiny Christian communities as easy prey and his Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya admonishing Muslims and Christians to return to the Hindu fold to avoid the worst, I presume.So, to be positive, I shall talk about an individual from my city of Mumbai who is helping the less fortunate to strengthen and lift themselves from the ranks of the deprived to that of the haves.Every year around Xmas, Leena Gandhi Tewari, chairperson of a family-owned pharmaceutical company, USV Pvt. Ltd., hosts a dance, drama and prize distribution event in a packed auditorium in the city’s suburb of Bandra. The emancipated are girls whose parents are employed as domestic help or drivers or security guards and stay in a slum near Vakola.Leena’s grandfather Vithal Gandhi had set up this company after completing his studies in the US seven or eight decades ago. Hailing from Ratnagiri in Maharashtra’s Konkan region on the country’s western coast, Vithal Gandhi was attracted to the freedom movement led by the Mahatma and other stalwarts of those times. He was elected MP from one of Mumbai’s six constituencies, but he did not forget to consolidate the company he had established.He married Dr Susheela, one of the first women doctors and gynaecologists of the time. Dr Susheela encouraged women to study, become independent and think for themselves. Her granddaughter, Leena, is one such woman who has made the doctor proud, though today the good doctor is not around to relish the fruit she had planted! Leena set up the Dr Susheela Gandhi Centre for Social Development in Vakola, hired English, maths, science, and IT teachers to supplement what the girls had been taught in school, hired dance and drama teachers to introduce them to a cultural study beyond school and build their self-confidence and arouse their latent interests.Dance was a great draw. The girls loved it. Drama lessons followed. Spoken English classes were taken by Leena herself. Her husband, Prashant Tewari, who manages the business in his capacity as the company’s Managing Director, chipped in with his favourite subject, maths! Leena had met Prashant in the US, where both were doing their graduate studies at the same time.The personal involvement of husband and wife in the mental and social development of the girls gave a quantum boost to the CSR (corporate social responsibility project). Soon, the parents got interested and involved in their children’s advancement and there was a demand from male siblings of the girls for inclusion in the scheme. Leena decided to take in a few boys and has started with six of them.She has also finally succeeded to get a few Muslim children to join. The few Muslim families in the slum were at first suspicious, but seeing the big strides the Maharashtrian girls of the majority community have made, the fences are slowly being crossed.I have been attending Leena’s yearly event for 10 years or more. Last year, she cancelled the show, but this year, she showcased it online. One girl from the first batch to join, Yogita Kamble, got her MBA degree with honours! Leena employed her as a management trainee in her own company. The girl’s sister, also an MBA degree holder, got employed in another private company. A boy, who had been recently included, completed his IT studies from the NIIT and was picked by Infosys as a trainee operations executive. Three other girls have graduated and two of them are preparing to compete for admission to the MBA course.Leena Gandhi Tewari has shown what a well-intentioned woman of compassion and a social conscience, wanting to share her good fortune with others less privileged, can achieve if there is a stirring in the heart to give back to society the blessings she herself has received because of a privileged birth.Her mission in life is to motivate the underprivileged to dream and break the shackles of poverty through their own efforts and the use of their own natural talents. What they needed was a friendly push that this good lady so willingly provided and the girls so eagerly accepted.Leena knows each girl in her centre by name. She knows their respective parents, particularly their mothers. I would not be surprised if she has visited their homes. She would have no hesitation in doing that as Leena is a remarkable human being. I am sure there are many more such women and men in our beloved country. They should emerge from the woodwork and share their stories for others to emulate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-tale-of-good-tidings-356446
31-12-2021||---||Professionalism hallmark of armed forces||The Indian military as an institution was recalled with gratitude and pride in December as the nation commemorated the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Goa and the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh.Collectively, these events and the manner in which they unfolded, point to the distinctive profile of the military in the larger Indian democratic edifice and the deep esteem and respect that the common citizen has for the Indian ‘fauj’ — a sentiment that has not been bestowed on any other institution. As India prepares to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Independence in August 2022, the institutional relevance of the military to the democratic experience merits attention.The brief 1961 war for the liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule is an important but often ignored punctuation in India’s military history. It testifies to the role played by the Indian armed forces in the consolidation of the nascent republic as it emerged from the colonial yoke. Despite the western condemnation of the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru’s decision to use military force to evict the last colonial power, the realpolitik compulsion for independent India was inescapable.The symbolism of a former colony taking recourse to arms against a European colonial power barely 16 years after the end of World War II was important but remained muted in keeping with India’s strategic culture of reticence in matters military. To its credit, the Indian military conducted itself with professionalism and rectitude in the Goa operation and one recalls former Portuguese PoWs recounting their humane treatment in India as per the Geneva Protocol with nostalgia and gratitude.The 1971 war that led to the birth of Bangladesh was a tectonic geopolitical event and the enormity of what India had achieved under the leadership of PM Indira Gandhi (who was only 54 years old at the time) merits objective contextualisation.India was emerging from the humiliation of the 1962 border war with China and the demise of PM Nehru in May 1964 added to the national ambivalence and anxiety. The 1965 war with Pakistan was a stalemate and the sudden death of PM Lal Bahadur Shastri a major setback.The political discord that followed within the Congress party led to a hesitant Indira Gandhi being elected as the Prime Minister — the first woman to assume this high office.At the time, her critics derisively dubbed her the ‘goongi gudiya’(dumb doll) and opined that her tenure at the top would be short-lived. Recall also that the US had an estranged relationship with Delhi during that period and this was an India that was economically weak and still dependent on food imports.The regional strategic environment was unfavourable to India. Notwithstanding the many challenges and costs imposed by the civil war in East Pakistan, PM Indira Gandhi played her modest cards deftly. She led India to its most emphatic military victory with a political outcome that was unprecedented in the annals of 20th century history — the creation of a new nation that was sui generis — Bangladesh.While a professional and apolitical military enhances and burnishes the resilience of the democratic trajectory, the fear of states being overwhelmed by overt and covert militarisation was a perennial anxiety and 20th-century history is replete with the catastrophic consequences of such transgressions.Consequently, under PM Nehru (1947-64), the civil-military relationship was uneasy and exacerbated by the maverick Defence Minister Krishna Menon. An appropriate degree of equipoise was restored during the Indira Gandhi years and the 1971 military victory was a turning point in how India perceived the professionalism and gallantry of its fauj.The apolitical nature of the Indian military came to the fore soon after the Bangladesh war. When PM Indira Gandhi imposed the Emergency in 1975, an attempt was made to involve the Army and to his credit — then Army chief General ‘Tappy’ Raina correctly and firmly resisted such overtures. Defence Minister Bansi Lal was part of the Sanjay Gandhi coterie and his suggestions to involve the Army were ill-advised. While the details remain opaque, the Indian military retained its institutional credibility of being committed to the Constitution, the flag and the nation, and not any particular political party, or much less a powerful leader.In the past few years, since its electoral victory in 2014, there has been a visible attempt by the BJP to project itself as a party that is more committed to national security and the military than its opponents and a degree of progressive institutional co-option is discernible. This is cause for disquiet and can have corrosive consequences as India@75 gathers traction.From the surgical strike of 2019 to the induction of the Rafale fighter aircraft — spectacle is now the dominant leitmotif and the manner in which some sections of the mass media have joined this adulation of the military, is illustrative.This outpouring of admiration is perhaps testimony to the respect that the military elicits. But it is pertinent to add that part of the reason is that at a time when almost every major institution in India is perceived to have compromised its rectitude by leaning towards the majoritarian ideology of the BJP — the fauj has remained relatively insulated from the divisive socio-political churn that India is now experiencing.The civil services and the police have lost the professional sheen once associated with them and the judiciary has often deferred to the executive at the expense of the citizen and the spirit of the Constitution.The more recent vilification of the Muslim community and the attack on churches augurs ill for internal security and societal amity and many eminent citizens, including retired service chiefs, have expressed their dismay at this dog-whistle pattern.The challenges to national security (with the Covid-related pandemic erupting in its latest variant) are both complex and abiding. State- sponsored terrorism from Pakistan apart, the Chinese pressure apropos contested territoriality, warrants more resolute action than opacity and optics.India is waiting for the next CDS to be appointed and the lodestar must be to ensure that the institutional rectitude of the military is not compromised — by design or default.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/professionalism-hallmark-of-armed-forces-356445
