06-11-2021||Bathinda||Safety measures missing, fire breaks out at six stalls in Bathinda village||A major fire broke out at six stalls of firecrackers at Jalal village in Bathinda on Thursday. The entire stock at the stalls got damaged . However, no loss of life was reported in the incident. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.The administration had instructed the traders to keep water and sand and a fire extinguisher at each stall. But giving two hoots to the instructions, safety measures were missing at various markets. Stalls could also be seen next to each other in small lanes, sans any fire safety equipment. A fire department official, said: “This year, many shopkeepers had installed stalls in residential areas, making the situation challenging. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/safety-measures-missing-fire-breaks-out-at-six-stalls-in-bathinda-village-334460
06-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Firecracker sales dip in Bathinda amid restrictions||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 5Diwali remained a low-key affair in the city this year as not many people were seen bursting firecrackers and distributing sweets. The sale of firecrackers was also muted.Firecracker sellers attributed the dip in sales to increased awareness among people on pollution, Covid, dengue and inflation. It is also learnt many people did not celebrate Diwali as Covid had claimed lives in a number of families in the second wave.Diwali celebrations remained peaceful in the city as no major fire injury was reported. Vendors claimed the cost of firecrackers was also higher as compared to last year. Earlier, people used to purchase firecrackers worth Rs 20,000-25,000 and now, the upper limit stayed near Rs 5,000 only.A Tribune team visited many areas in the city on the Diwali night and observed a mixed response as there were places where people hardly burst any firecrackers.Vijay Kumar, a firecracker vendor, said instead of restricting bursting of firecrackers to a few hours or reducing the number of vends, the government should have made it compulsory for manufacturers to introduce only green-firecrackers. “We have been into this business for the past 20 years but have not seen such a poor sale. Earlier, people used to come and buy crackers in a huge quantity. Now, they don’t spend much on these,” he added.Another vendor, Satish Kumar, said the sale had gone down by almost 50-60 per cent. “There is an increased awareness among people about saving the environment by bursting a lesser number of firecrackers. Majority of my customers bought only small crackers for their children,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/firecracker-sales-dip-in-bathinda-amid-restrictions-334459
