11-11-2021||Bathinda||Seeking pay parity, nurses go on indefinite strike in Bathinda||Staff nurses under the banner of the Punjab Nursing Association started an indefinite ‘pen down, tool down’ strike and sat on a dharna outside the Civil Surgeon’s office in Bathinda.They have been demanding that the government must ensure pay parity and implement the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations as per the revised pay scale in 2011 and also increase the strength of nursing staff in state hospitals.Govt apatheticThe govt has been turning a deaf ear to our demands. So, we have launched an indefinite ‘pen down, tool down’ strike. The protest will continue until our demands are met. Swaranjit Kaur, Bathinda Nursing Assn ChiefSwaranjit Kaur, president of the Bathinda unit, said: “The government has been turning a deaf ear to our genuine demands. So, we have launched an indefinite ‘pen down, tool down’ strike. Our protest will continue until our demands are met.”“We have also been demanding for long that the status of nursing staff be changed to nursing officers but that also seems to have been ignored. Moreover, we also demand that nurses doing night shifts be given extra nursing care allowance considering the workload they undertake when the department is grappling with acute staff cruch.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/seeking-pay-parity-nurses-go-on-indefinite-strike-in-bathinda-336530
11-11-2021||Bathinda||Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Harpal Singh Cheema take swipe at each other||A war of words between AAP senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema and Bathinda (Rural) MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby broke out on Twitter today.After Ruby resigned from AAP’s primary membership on Tuesday night, Cheema tweeted: “Rupinder Ruby is our younger sister, stay happy wherever you go. This time she did not have a chance to get ticket from AAP, so she is joining the Congress. I request the Congress not to betray Ruby and give her ticket from Bathinda (Rural).”Quit over ticketShe wouldn’t have got ticket from AAP this time, so she joined the Congress. Harpal Cheema, AAPMLA dares CheemaWhen it was time for you to speak, you did not, neither could you raise your voice. You contest against me. Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Bathinda (R) MLAReacting sharply, Ruby tweeted: “Respected Harpal Cheema ji, you also know where the party is taking Punjab, I can’t see it quietly. When it was time for you to speak, you did not, neither could you raise your voice for the people of Punjab nor for Bhagwant Mann. Regarding the ticket, you contest against me”.The resignation of Ruby has come as a big jolt for the party at a crucial time ahead of 2022 Assembly polls. In 2017, AAP won three seats of the six in Bathinda district, but till now two MLAs — Ruby and Jagdev Singh Kamalu (Maur) — have quit the party. Similarly, AAP MLAs Nazar Singh Manshahia (Mansa) and Pirmal Singh Khalsa (Bhadaur) left the party and joined the Congress earlier this year.The Malwa region is crucial for AAP, as it succeeded in winning a majority of seats in the 2017 Assembly elections. With its MLAs leaving, the alarm bells are ringing for AAP to set the things in order.“AAP is expanding in the state. Many people come and go, such things (quitting of MLAs) happen, the stability will come,” said Neel Garg, spokesperson, AAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/rupinder-kaur-ruby-harpal-singh-cheema-take-swipe-at-each-other-336541
11-11-2021||---||Day after quitting AAP, Bathinda MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby joins Congress||Chandigarh, November 10A day after she resigned from the primary membership of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bathinda (Rural) MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby today joined the Congress in presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary here this evening.The timing of Ruby’s joining the Congress coincides with the newly-earned truce between CM Channi and the PCC president. Heating up the electoral scene ahead of the polls, the party’s top leadership is in talks for at least four more AAP MLAs from Malwa to join the party. “The Congress is looking for the seats where it does not have a strong candidate”, said a senior leader engaged in the dialogue with opposition party MLAs.After strategically projecting Chief Minister Channi as the real “aam aadmi”, the joining of Ruby into the Congress punctures the AAP’s narrative of Arvind Kejriwal’s party. CM Channi said more leaders from AAP are expected to join Congress in the coming days.MLA Rupinder Kaur said she was highly moved by the recent pro-people policies of CM Channi-led government and Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP was exploiting the sentiments of common people. She said AAP MLAs were feeling suffocated as the party was being controlled from Delhi. Indicating growing trouble in AAP over Bhagwant Mann, she claimed she had been demanding that Sangrur MP should be made the CM face, but the party leadership did not have the courage to do so.Eye on Malwa MLAsCongress sources said the party was on a lookout for strong candidates and its top leadership was in talks with at least four more AAP MLAs from the Malwa region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/day-after-quitting-aap-bathinda-mla-rupinder-kaur-ruby-joins-congress-336542
