15-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Prices spiral as demand for kiwi, dragon fruit up in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 14The rising number of dengue cases in the city has led to a sudden increase in the demand for exotic fruits kiwi and dragon fruit as it is believed these help increase the platelet count in patients suffering from dengue.As the district has reported more than 24,000 cases so far, the sale of coconut water, too, has witnessed surge. While doctors say there is no scientific evidence of the fruits boosting platelet count, fruit retailers across the city are doing a brisk business.The varietiesThe exotic fruit traders, who used to report a footfall of around 10 customers a day, are now serving as many as 35-40 customers daily. They say they have increased the stock of these exotic fruits to meet the rising demand. “Customers say these fruits help in increasing the platelet count,” a trader said.Manoj, a fruit seller, said: “Earlier, there were only a few selected customers for the exotic and expensive fruits, but now as dengue cases are on the rise, the demand and sale of these fruits have witnessed a manifold surge in the city.”Two types of dragon fruit are available in the market. The first one is imported from Thailand. Its wholesale price is Rs 350 per kg and is sold at Rs 400 per kg in the retail market. The other one is imported from China. It is available in the wholesale market at Rs 260 per kg and at Rs 300 per kg in the retail market.Three types of kiwi are available in the market. Kiwi is imported from New Zealand. Its wholesale price is Rs 35 per piece and Rs 40 per piece in the retail market. One of the kiwis is imported from Iran and is available at Rs 25 per piece in the wholesale market. Even a third new variety gold kiwi is also available in the market, which is considered most effective and is being sold for Rs 60 per piece. Besides, even juice sellers in the city have come up with booster juices — kiwi, dragon fruit and avocado shakes — for patients and are in high demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/prices-spiral-as-demand-for-kiwi-dragon-fruit-up-in-bathinda-338194
15-11-2021||Bathinda||Protest outside BJP event venue in Bathinda||Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today staged a protest outside the venue for BJP state president Ashwani Sharma’s event organised by party leader Veenu Goyal here.As farmers got the information about the BJP senior leader’s expected arrival here, they reached the venue and staged a protest outside the main gates.The farmers raised slogans against the party and said they would continue to protest its events across the state till the Centre repealed the three farm laws.Union leaders Harjinder Singh Buggi, Jagdev Singh Jogewala and Paramjit Kaur Pitho said farmers had been fighting for repeal of the central laws, including one imposing heavy fines and penalties on farmers for burning straw, for over an year. “Unions have been fighting on the Delhi border for over a year, but the Modi government at the Centre is adamant on not repealing these laws, which are in the interest of corporate houses,” said the leaders.On his part, Goyal said: “She had organised an event in which 400 families were to join the party and state president Ashwani Sharma slated to attend the event. However, he could not join them as he had to head to Delhi and instead sent state unit vice-president Jaswinder Singh Dhana.”She said in a democracy, everyone had the right to hold functions or join a party of their choice. Staging such protests amounted to “murder of democracy”. — TNSSoni stopped from attending functionsJaito: Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni faced farmers’ protest during his visit to Jaito town on Sunday. He was on a day’s visit to Faridkot, Kotkapura and Jaito. Soni was to attend public functions, but farmers prevented him from attending some. They demanded answers to their queries regarding the shortage of DAP, debt waiver for farmers who died at Delhi protest sites. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/protest-outside-bjp-event-venue-in-bathinda-338204
