22-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda: 14-year-old sniffs ‘glue’ to get high, dies||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 21A 14-year-old boy died after inhaling a “solution”, used to repair tyres, in Bathinda on Saturday. Identified as Vikas, his body was recovered from the autorickshaw stand of the railway station.Vijay Goyal, president of NGO Sahara Jan Sewa, said after receiving information, volunteers of the organisation reached the spot and were told that Vikas was a beggar and addicted to the solution and cigarettes. It is learnt that many kids in slum areas are addicted to the “solution” as a substitute for drugs, owing to its easy availability and low cost.Substance abuseAcute poisoning with volatile substances usually follows the deliberate inhalation of vapour in order to become intoxicated. This phenomenon is known as glue sniffing, inhalant abuse, solvent abuse or volatile substance abuse. — Dr Vitul K Gupta, Health activistA child said: “Most of the children sniff tyre or rubber solution, which they get from the puncture repair guys. They rub it on a cloth and keep sniffing it throughout the day.” Dr Vitul K Gupta, health activist, said the abuse of volatile substances involved deep breathing via the nose and/or the mouth. “Re-breathing exhaled air may add to the effect if a plastic or paper bag is used to contain the abused substance. Cycle tyre repair cement contains Toluene and xylenes. Contact adhesives are usually poured into plastic bags such as empty potato crisp packets or paper bags,” he said.He said: “Four possible modes of death which may be related directly to volatile substance abuse have been suggested: Anoxia, vagal stimulation leading to bradycardia and cardiac arrest, respiratory depression and cardiac arrhythmia.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-14-year-old-sniffs-glue-to-get-high-dies-341220
22-11-2021||Sameer Singh||No vet at Bathinda's Bir Talab Zoo, leopard project stalled||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 21In the absence of a permanent veterinary doctor at Bir Talab Zoo in Bathinda, the project to bring a female leopard and other rare species of animals is lying in cold storage for the past over three years.The zoo was to get a female leopard from Chhatbir Zoo near Chandigarh last year but approval for it could not be granted owing to absence of a permanent doctor at the hospital, situated inside the Bathinda zoo. Earlier, the authorities had claimed that leopard could not bebrought in the wake of restrictions imposed during the Covid pandemic.There are three male leopards in the zoo. The authorities had written to the state Wildlife Department to provide a female leopard and one pair each of painted storks and hog deers but there is no headway in the project.Sources said there was a fully-equipped hospital inside the zoo premises but it was lying locked for the past many years. Whenever there is any medical emergency, the zoo authorities take assistance of veterinary doctors from the city, who have to travel long distances to reach the zoo and at times, animals requiring immediate medical intervention have to suffer.Even during breeding of animals, the zoo authorities face a lot of difficulty.Divisional Forest Officer, Bathinda, Swaran Singh said, “We were to receive a female leopard from Chhatbir Zoo but have not got it yet. We have written to the higher authorities regarding the permanent appointment of a veterinary doctor but there is no progress on that either.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-vet-at-bathindas-bir-talab-zoo-leopard-project-stalled-341229
