25-11-2021||Bathinda||No ward attendant at Bathinda Civil Hospital, critical patients suffer||In the absence of ward attendants at the emergency unit of the Bathinda Civil Hospital, family members/relatives are forced to lift and carry critical patients themselves inside the premises.Even when the critical patients are inside the emergency unit, there is no one to move them around. The patients are seen moving inside the unit on their own while others are assisted by relatives accompanying them.Family members or relatives of these critical patients can be seen taking them out from ambulances and then carry them to the emergency unit.Even critically injured patients, are lifted by family members and taken to the unit. Dr Maninder Pal Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, said: “There is a ward attendant at the emergency unit but he often remains busy in the work. Also, there is staff crunch. If the ward attendant will stand at the entrance then the work inside the unit will get hampered.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-ward-attendant-at-bathinda-civil-hospital-critical-patients-suffer-342474
25-11-2021||Bathinda||PRTC workers’ protest leads to traffic snarls in Bathinda||Members of the PRTC/Punbus Contract Workers’ Union today staged a protest and blocked the entrance of the city bus stand here on Wednesday. The protesting workers raised slogans against private bus operators and demanded action against them.Union president Sandeep Grewal said: “Though new timetable is in place for many routes now, some private bus operators were still running their buses as per old timings. When PRTC workers raised question over this, the bus operators engaged into a verbal spat with them following which we blocked the main entrance to the city bus stand and started a dharna. We will not tolerate the private players’ high-handedness and if it continues, we will stop work at all state depots and start a state-wide agitation.”Meanwhile, owing to the blockade, a huge traffic jam was witnessed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/prtc-workers-protest-leads-to-traffic-snarls-in-bathinda-342471
25-11-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||In 24 days, Bathinda sees 4 deaths, 49 new Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 24Amid dengue surge, Bathinda district has witnessed a spike in Covid cases with 49 new infections and four deaths reported so far this month. A total of five cases have been reported from a house in Janta Nagar in Rampura Phul. The street has been declared as a micro-containment zone by the authorities.The Deputy Commissioner has directed the Health Department to carry out door-to-door survey in the micro-containment zone on daily basis, clinical management of all confirmed cases and carry out random stratified sampling in such areas.The period for which the area will be tagged micro-containment zone will be at least 10 days. If not more than a single new case is reported from the area in five days then the micro-containment zone shall cease to exist. Otherwise, the period would be extended by one week at a time. As per the Health Department data, out of 5,79,100 samples collected, 43,441 had tested positive for Covid. As many as 1,071 deaths had been reported so far in the district and at present, there are 20 active cases, out of which 14 are in home isolation and six are from Army Cantt.Bathinda Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “A total of 40 cases were reported in October and this month, four deaths and 49 cases have been reported so far, out of which around 30 per cent of the cases are from military area. People need to be cautious and follow the government-issued guidelines.” He also said the department was closely monitoring the spike. “As many as nine cases were reported on Monday, including five from a single family in Rampura, and on Tuesday, the total new cases reported were only two.”Micro-containment zone declaredA total of five cases have been reported from a house in Janta Nagar in Rampura Phul. The street has been declared as a micro-containment zone by the authorities||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/in-24-days-bathinda-sees-4-deaths-49-new-covid-cases-342456
25-11-2021||---||NIA begins probe into dera follower Manohar Lal’s murder||Bathinda, November 24A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has initiated a probe into the murder of a dera follower Manohar Lal (53), who was shot dead by two masked men at his shop in Bhagta Bhaika in Bathinda on November 20 last year.As per information, the team today reached the crime site, Jatindra Telecom shop in Bhagta, to recreate the scene and the entire process was videographed. The team reviewed the spot and talked to the deceased’s family members. However, they did not speak to the media, but sources claimed that the officials were working on the role of foreign elements in the case. Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja confirmed that a team of the NIA had visited Bhagta to probe the murder case of dera follower Manohar Lal. He said the case had been handed over to the NIA and the files had already been transferred to them.Notably, the police had arrested two Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) activists, Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi, and Ram Singh, alias Sonu, from Moga on May 22.Later, the police had arrested their third accomplice Kamaljit Sharma, alias Kamal, on June 1 with ammunition. According to the police, Kamal is the main sharp shooter involved in the dera follower’s murder, murder of a priest of KTF chief Hardeep’s Nijhar village, Sukha Lamme murder case and Moga supershine murder case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/nia-begins-probe-into-dera-follower-manohar-lals-murder-342449
