01-09-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar records 87 deaths, 2,183 cases in Aug||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 31In the month of August, the number of Covid-related deaths in the district more than doubled, rising by 111.5 per cent. The positive cases also registered a growth of 117.4 per cent. On July 31, the district had registered 78 deaths and 1,859 cases. By the month end, the number of casualties increased to 165 while the number of positive cases rose to 4,042.A look at the list of daily reported deaths reveals that a sudden increase in casualties happened during the second fortnight of August.Seven more succumb to virusIn the first fortnight, a total of 27 deaths were reported. In comparison, the second fortnight witnessed 60 deaths. Similarly, the number of positive cases saw an increase during the second fortnight, rising from 806 during the first fortnight to 1,377 during the second fortnight, a rise of 70.84 per cent. Further examination of death cases reveals that of 87 casualties, 29 were patients in the age group of 60-70 years. While in the age group of 70-80 years, nine deaths were reported, only five deaths were reported in the age group of 80-90 years. Only one death of a patient above 90 years has been reported. The district has also reported five deaths of patients below 40 years of age, of them three were in the age group of 20-30 years. Age of three patients could not be ascertained.Meanwhile, at a meeting with senior officials of the health and civil administration, Medical Education Minister said casualties in patients aged above 40 years were higher and there was a need to rev up medical facilities for them. He instructed the officials to enhance contact tracing, testing and isolation of Covid patients as the next two weeks were crucial in fight against the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-records-87-deaths-2-183-cases-in-aug-134361
01-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||No bulk buyers of milk, producers suffer losses||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 31 The bottlenecks on supplying of milk were done away with after it figured in the list of essential commodities, but still, the milk producers continue to suffer losses on account of low sales.  Its bulk sale and its array of dishes are off the table as weddings, parties, hotels, public events and others continue to remain non-existent due to restrictions on gathering of people.  Raja Bhullar, a milk producer from Kotla Gujara village, said unlocking of the lockdown only made it convenient to deliver milk in towns. “Rest of the situation remains the same,” he added. He pointed out that bulk sale has completely vanished. The regular amount has too come down as purchasing power of people was hit. However, he apprehended that the yield could increase with the climate turning cold after nearly four to six weeks. “Milk producers in villages are on the receiving end as procurement prices remained same as requirement of sweets and dairy shops has been on the decline.  Harminder Singh Sandhu, general manager, Verka Milk Plant, said the unit was procuring one litre of seven fat quality milk for Rs 43.40 and its price in the open market was less than that and it frequently fluctuated depending upon its availability.  He added: “In order to help out milk producers daily procurement was increased to one lakh litre which used to be 75,000 litre during this time last year.”  About four lakh litre of milk was distributed through the unorganised sector in the city. As a result, village milk producers refrained from market sale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-bulk-buyers-of-milk-producers-suffer-losses-134362
01-09-2020||---||Poultry industry reels under curfew impact||Amritsar, August 31 The livestock profession such as poultry has been in doldrums as the sale of eggs and broilers witnessed a huge decline. Though it falls under the category of essential services, yet cops on duty do not allow it as shops are yet to open.  Baljit Singh Bittu, a retail butcher, said cops did not allow the shops to open on Saturday and weekend, which deteriorated the quality of broiler and mutton.  So, a delegation of the Amritsar Poultry Association, led by its district President GS Bedi, today met Jagmohan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), requesting him to allow these shops to open to curtail their losses.  Bedi said the police and district administration besides governments, need to understand that the poultry farmers were dealing in livestock, delay at any level could cause immense financial losses to the farmers.  He said the loss of two days of trading in a week was immense as already Tuesday and Thursday were dry days as people do not consume non-vegetarian food due to religious beliefs. It meant that they got only three days for selling livestock in a week.  He elaborated that annually they got only 200 days for sale as 165 days fall on Tuesday, Thursday, Sawan, Navratra and other religious occasions. The DCP assured the delegation to forward their demand to let their shops open on the weekend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poultry-industry-reels-under-curfew-impact-134363
01-09-2020||---||Webinar dwells on ‘Life beyond Covid’||Amritsar, August 31As the country grapples to come to terms with the ‘New Normal’ set by the Covid-19 pandemic, IIM Amritsar, in collaboration with the Government of Punjab, conducted a panel discussion on the theme “Life Beyond Covid-19: Institutionalising the New Normal in Health and Well-being,” on Sunday.IIM Director, Prof N Ramamoorthy said in current times, it becomes quintessential to embrace the challenges posed by the pandemic for fostering better productivity and good health. The event hosted eminent personalities and experts from the field of medical science including Dr Krishna M Ella, Chairman, and MD, Bharat Biotech International Limited, Dr William Bhatti, Director, CMC Ludhiana; Dr Rakesh Chaddha, Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatry, AIIMS New Delhi; Dr Santosh Chaturvedi, Head, Department of Mental Health Education, NIMHANS.“We are committed towards working for the community in collaboration with the Government. Covid-19 remains a challenge for the humanity. It is no longer a medical issue but a public policy challenge. From public policy making to crippling economies, from impacting the socio-emotional well being to stigmatising healthcare workers, the shocks of the pandemic are rampant,” said Prof N Ramamoorthy in his address.Vini Mahajan, Principal Secretary of Punjab, delivered remarks during the panel discussion. Capt Amarinder Singh, CM Punjab, was unable to join for the meeting as he has self isolated himself for a period of seven days. Vini Mahajan said the new challenges emerging from the spread of miscommunication and rumour are being handled by the government agencies.Dr Krishan Ella spoke about the stage of vaccine development in India. He informed the audience that two of every three vaccines administered to children in developing nations were manufactured in India. Highlighting the preparedness of India for manufacturing of massive numbers of syringes and needles, too, which would be required for a country with 1.3 billion population, he said the challenge ahead was disposing of such massive number of disposables. Dr Ella was confident that only India could produce the numbers that would be required to meet the needs of the world. He also emphasised the need for having a safer and less-riskier vaccine using inactivated strain.Dr William Bhatti said the surgeons would face up to 20 per cent increased workload at a later time owing to the postponement of the surgeries on account of the pandemic. He felt that this 20% surge in the number of surgeries may continue for around 45 weeks. Dr Santosh Chaturvedi highlighted the issue of mass hysteria and social stigma created by the pandemic. “Since everything is happening from home, work from home, schooling from home, socialising from home, the home is nowhere to be found. The present situation is causing much stress for everyone. Some relief would come to people if they locked down misleading sources of information and developed ‘Heard immunity,’ that is, immunity to hearing wrong information.”Dr Rakesh Chaddha talked about the psycho-social challenges of the pandemic. More than 350 participants, including healthcare professionals, medical students and others turned up for the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-dwells-on-life-beyond-covid-134364
01-09-2020||---||CBSE Teacher Award for Bhavan’s SL school teacher||Amritsar, August 31Alka Sharma of Bhavan’s SL Public School has won the CBSE Teacher Award for the year 2019-20 under the primary teacher category. Out of 21,000 CBSE-affiliated schools, only 39 teachers were selected for this award in which she is the only teacher from the state to have won the honour under the category. She will receive the award on Teacher’s Day at the ceremony to be held by the CBSE.Besides teaching mathematics, Alka Sharma also teaches moral education and has been involved in conducting extracurricular activities, including scouts and guides programmes at Bhavan’s SL. “It’s a big honour for me to be recognised by the CBSE. Teachers, I believe, are the mentors for life and we have an added responsibility to move beyond classroom teaching and connect with our students in a way that shapes their ideas and concepts about life. Apart from regular subjects, we must inculcate the values of national integration and unity among students to lay the strong foundation of a prosperous nation,” she said.Chairman, Bhavans SL, Avinash Mohindru expressed his happiness over the achievement and underlined that it was a matter of great pride that every year their teachers were awarded this honour. “Since 2017, Bhavan’s has secured so far six exalted CBSE Teachers Awards. In 2018, two of our teachers received the honour. Our Principal, Dr Anita Bhalla, was awarded the CBSE Mentor Award in 2011-12. This speaks volume about our faculty’s competence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-teacher-award-for-bhavans-sl-school-teacher-134365
01-09-2020||---||Lecture on Digital Reimagination held||Amritsar, August 31The UGC-Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC) and the placement department of Guru Nanak Dev University organised a Webinar on Digital Reimagination, which was hosted by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), New Delhi, here on Monday.A large number of faculty members and research scholars of the GNDU main campus, Amritsar, its regional campuses, constituent colleges and other institutes participated in the webinar. The aim was to bridge the gap between industry and academia and lay emphasis on the skills which were required by the industry. Around 55 participants attended the event.The subject of digital transformation, IT Infrastructure and IT, e-governance and IT were discussed in the webinar. The chief guest, Prof Sarabjot Singh Behl, Dean, Academic Affairs, in his inaugural address informed the participants that the adoption of technology was the need of the hour for the present civilization.He said during the current scenario how people were working from one room using the technology and doing miracles in digital technology world. He said the gap between life and technology must be bridged. “The more you use and link yourself with technology, the more comfortable you will be in your work and responsibilities,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lecture-on-digital-reimagination-held-134366
01-09-2020||---||Khasa railway station demolished||Amritsar, August 31Two days after Amritsar Tribune highlighted the emotional association of the villagers with the Khasa railway station, railway authorities on Monday pulled down the station building, a specimen of the colonial architecture.The colonial-era building was part of the memories of many residents of surrounding villages and they did not appreciate its demolition. “The building carried a vintage charm that brought many famous stars for film shooting here, besides attracting many youngsters and newly married couples for photo shoots,” said Ranjeet Singh, a villager.Many were also seen taking pictures and making videos too while hammers were being pounded on the building.Meanwhile, small-time shopkeepers in and around the Khasa railway station expected an increase in business once this would be turned into an international dry-port loading and unloading merchandise, to and fro Pakistan, as a part of the comprehensive scheme to decongest the Amritsar railway station. Under the plan, cargo handling operations from the Chheharta railway station would be shifted to the Khasa railway station. A state-of-the-art electronic interlocking system has been made operational at the Khasa railway station, which falls between the Amritsar and Attari railway stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khasa-railway-station-demolished-134367
01-09-2020||Amritsar||Complaint filed against actress Kangna Ranaut||A local resident, Avtar Singh, through advocates Navraj Singh and Naresh Gill, has lodged a complaint with the local police against Bollywood star Kangna Ranaut for allegedly making objectionable remarks against the Indian Constitution and reserved categories on her social media platform.The complainant demanded the registration of an FIR against her under relevant sections of the IPC, the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act and under the SC/ST Act.In the complaint submitted to the Police Commissioner, they said called members belonging to the SC/ST/OBC categories unworthy and unqualified in her social media posts. This has hurt the feelings of many countrymen, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complaint-filed-against-actress-kangna-ranaut-134368
01-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Police party attacked, two brothers booked||Tarn Taran, August 31A police party was attacked at Mundapind village here on Monday. Ranjit Singh, a constable of the local CIA staff, who was a member of the party, had a narrow escape.The police said constable Ranjit Singh and an ASI, Sukhdev Singh, had gone to the village in connection with some inquiry regarding the recovery of a weapon from Sahib Singh by the Goindwal Sahib police. After arresting Sahib Singh, the police party was grilling him while his brother Gurjant Singh reached the spot in an SUV (PB-11 VK-9062).Seeing his brother being grilled by the policemen infuriated Gurjant Singh who tried to run over constable Ranjit Singh with his car. Though Ranjit somehow saved himself, he was injured. Gurjant Singh forcibly took away his brother Sahib Singh from the custody of the police party.The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 186, 506, 427 and 34 of the IPC against both brothers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-party-attacked-two-brothers-booked-134372
01-09-2020||---||3 snatching incidents reported in holy city||Amritsar, August 31Incidents of snatching are in the city are on the rise. In the past three days, the police have reported three such cases.In the first case, a man working with a Hindi daily here was robbed by six unknown persons when he was returning home on late Saturday evening. Kamaljit Singh, a resident of Old Octroi area on Tarn Tarn Road, in his statement to the police, said around 8.30 pm when he was returning home on his bike and had reached near Thothian village, six persons on two motorcycles intercepted him. They snatched his bike and a bag containing Rs 10, 300, mobile phone and documents.The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B, 148 and 149 of the IPC against unknown.In the second incident reported on Sunday, unknown persons snatched a scooter from Prince, a resident of Nava Pind village here. The victim told the police that he lived with his uncle Sukhdev Singh at village Nava Pind on Mehta Road here. He said he was returning after meeting his uncle Bikramjit Singh in the Mall Mandi area, when he reached Model Park, the suspects arrived and asked him the way to Othian village. Before he could understand anything, they with him an iron kara (bangle), he said. As he fell down, the suspects snatched his scooter and fled away. The police have registered a case.In the third case, unidentified person snatched a mobile phone from a person in Ranjit Avenue here on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-snatching-incidents-reported-in-holy-city-134373
01-09-2020||Amritsar||Illegal still seized, one held||Fans, CPUs stolen from schoolAmritsar: Unidentified persons committed a robbery at Government High School at Dayal Bharang village here on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. They decamped with an LED, ceiling fans, CPUs, computer keyboard, mouse and other accessories. School principal Meenakshi Dhariwal told the police that on Sunday, she got a call from school chairman Gurmej Singh that a CPU and a sharp-edged weapon were found outside the school. She said she informed the staff and the village sarpanch. She said they checked the entire school and found that other than the computer lab, the miscreants also broke the locks of the mess and the sports and art rooms but nothing was missing from there. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380, IPC, in this regard. . TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-still-seized-one-held-134374
01-09-2020||STORIES THAT INSPIRE||Start-up sabotaged, but they fixed their fortunes by raising another||Neha SainiTribune news serviceAmritsar, August 31Just when the lockdown and its aftermath shrank the job market and ate into most of local businesses, especially the tourism and hospitality industries, city-based young entrepreneur duo, Rishabh (32) and Tushar Mahajan (29), have managed to find opportunities that might just turn things around for good. Rishabh, an IIT graduate and expat, had founded ‘City on Pedals’, a unique start-up that offers guided tour on cycles, in 2017, and had managed to grow his business considerably since, until the pandemic struck.“We were still growing when in March, earlier this year, we could see what was happening in Italy and other countries got hit by the Covid. We knew that we would also have to halt our operations as guided tours were mostly pre-planned and catered majorly to tourists from across the globe,” Rishabh says. While the industry insiders in city were left cornered in a tight spot, Rishabh and his younger brother Tushar wasted no time and shifted their focus completely on another start-up, Statusbrew, a social media marketing platform offering digital solutions for businesses. Co-founding the two start-ups, both have fared fairly well as pandemic has given a boost to the IT and digital marketing segment.“We are a global player in social media marketing and have expanded our business tremendously in this quarter as post-pandemic there is a big surge in local businesses shifting towards technology-driven practices. We have managed to double our revenue, absorb most of our staff and we are even hiring,” he says.The suspension of activities regarding City on Pedals was disappointing, but the fact that they were able to retain most of their employees and team members is their oasis of positivity. “We now have a team of eight highly skilled professionals and are hiring professionals from other cities as we have plans for expansion. There is a push towards technology in most industry segments post-pandemic and it will definitely create new opportunities for local entrepreneurs who will re-imagine business space,” he adds.From conceiving and designing guided heritage tours, food tours and experiences to tourists on pedals to working from a home space, Rishabh says the transition was not a big challenge. “It’s time that one has to look for viable solutions as business in a post-pandemic world. The gradual change in business has paid off well,” he shares.Apart from this, Rishabh is also a co-founder of Amritsar Start-ups, an umbrella organisation comprising 27 city-based entrepreneurs, who have come forward to create a community to support each other constructively. “The members include entrepreneurs, small business owners, bloggers, artists, angel, and accredited investors, venture capital managers, crowd-funding experts, all looking towards exploring new opportunities the pandemic has opened up,” he tells.Having learnt his lesson, he has a piece of advice to give, “I think the fact that the hospitality and tourism industry couldn’t wake up at the right time is because we have a habit of not doing anything until things go wrong. We should have seen this coming and accordingly adapt to a more technology-friendly operations.”He hopes to revive City on Pedals when the time is right and normalcy returns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/start-up-sabotaged-but-they-fixed-their-fortunes-by-raising-another-134375
01-09-2020||Neha Saini||Walls that breathe: Vertical garden catches fancy of this ‘green couple’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 31Turning 3,500 waste plastic bottles into a vertical garden, IRS officer Rohit Mehra and his interior designer wife Geetanjali Mehra have made their home garden into a fine example on nature conservation. The ‘green couple’ whose residence at the Airport Road has now been recognised as the green haven by many in the city, introduced the concept of a vertical garden in Amritsar back in 2018.Fixing these bottles in the walls and filling them with different varieties of shrubs and small plants, the Mehras gave a cool new idea that many have since followed.“The common excuse especially in the urban centres is that lack of space required for creating a garden. With vertical gardens, that issue is taken care of. And using waste plastic bottles as planters for shrubs is eco-friendly as otherwise they would have gone to a landfill,” says Rohit, who is currently posted as Assistant commissioner, Income Tax, in Ludhiana. The plants in his vertical garden are irrigated using a simple drip system and incredibly, this has lowered the internal temperature of their home by nearly five degrees as Rohit shares, “A vertical garden not only protects it from extreme weather conditions but also helps in lowering the indoor temperature, especially in extremely hot conditions.’Building his garden as a space that connects laws of nature to ancient Vriksha Ayurveda (Tree Ayurveda), Rohit has planted the panchvati, five trees that are considered valuable for their medicinal and environmental benefits. “I have Ashoka, Amla, Bel, Peepal and Bargad (Banyan). These trees are considered sacred and extremely beneficial for their medicinal properties. Apart from that we have planted Rudraksh tree, Kachnar, dragon fruit and many other varieties of native trees.” He is promoting the concept of Panchvati across Punjab through his green initiatives and managed to plant 2000 Panchvatis till date.He also has created a small organic kitchen garden area where he grows vegetables and micro greens. The most striking aspect of his garden is the use of waste, especially plastic waste as garden accessories. “I have used plastic drum as planters and compost beds, huge wooden logs that were hollowed to be used as planters and we also have a vermicompost pit where we create natural manure.” His wife Gitanjali has also popularize the concept of seed balls made from clay, compost and cow dung and the couple have distributed over 20 lakh seed balls pan Punjab in past one year before Covid-19 pandemic.Spending most of his time in his garden whenever visiting Amritsar, Rohit says that his effort to sensitise people about green wealth and its conservation comes from the deep bond he shares with nature. “I feel that trees are our ancestors and we have to co-exist with them with respect. The current pandemic is a wake up call that we cannot win against nature’s fury and so, we need to treat it with care.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/walls-that-breathe-vertical-garden-catches-fancy-of-this-green-couple-134378
01-09-2020||---||3 Canadian cities dedicate Sept 6 to rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra||Amritsar, August 31Mayors of three Canadian cities — Burnaby, New Westminster and Brampton — have signed a proclamation to observe September 6 as “Jaswant Singh Khalra Day” to mark the 25th death anniversary of the human rights activist. He hailed from Khalra village in Tarn Taran district.The proclamation reads “Jaswant Singh Khalra was a strong advocate of democratic and civil rights and a highly respected leader of Sikh community. September 6 is a historically important date recognised by Sikhs and South Asians all across Canada in commemoration of his death in 1995.”Khalra was investigating extra-judicial killings of Sikh political activists in Punjab, when he was kidnapped by the police on September 6, 1995. He had visited Canada during the same year to educate the Indian diaspora and Canadian politicians about human rights violation in Punjab. Khalra had detected more than 2,500 such cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-canadian-cities-dedicate-sept-6-to-rights-activist-jaswant-singh-khalra-134340
