02-09-2020||Amritsar||ASI run over by post office van||Youth stabbed to death, 12 bookedAmritsar: A youth was stabbed to death in the Bhutanpura area falling under the Gate Hakima police station here. The deceased, identified as Ravi Kumar of Dhapai area, succumbed to his injury on Monday. The police have booked around 12 persons for murder and raids are on to arrest the suspects. Among those booked were identified as Rambo and Gaurav of Bhutanpura. Sarvan Kumar, a resident of Prem Nagar, told the police that he, along with his friends including Ravi, had gone to Bhutanpura for celebrating Love Kumar’s birthday. He said Rambo and Gaurav who were armed with sharp weapons came to the spot and started asking for someone from Ravi Kumar. He said he did not tell anything to them. Angered over this, Rambo and his accomplices stabbed him leaving him critically injured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-run-over-by-post-office-van-135157
02-09-2020||Our Correspondent||1 held with 50-gm heroin||Tarn Taran, September 1A team of the anti-narcotic cell, led by ASI Devinder Kumar, arrested Sukhwinder Singh Sonu of Hardoratan village (under Gharinda police station) with 50 gm of heroin from Gandiwind Sarai, a border area village. The Sarai Amanat Khan police have registered a case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-held-with-50-gm-heroin-135156
02-09-2020||Amritsar||Dr PK Kapoor is KCVAS Principal||Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) on Tuesday appointed Dr Pradeep Kumar Kapoor, a renowned veterinary scientist and educationist as Principal of Khalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (KCVAS). Dr Kapoor, who was presently working as Registrar of Bihar Animal Sciences University, Patna, joined the office in KCGC in the presence of secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina and other office-bearers.Chhina, while welcoming Dr Kapoor, said that incumbent Dr SK Nagpal, who was superannuated, will continue working as managing director of the KCVAS. He said the KCVAS was the only college in private sector in the whole region that was successfully running programmes in veterinary sciences and the institution will further gain from the vast experience of Dr Kapoor.A PhD from Hissar Agriculture University, Dr Kapoor has over 200 research papers to his name and won many national and international level awards and accolades apart from many fellows from prestigious institutions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-pk-kapoor-is-kcvas-principal-135155
02-09-2020||---||30 booked for murder bid||Amritsar, September 1Panic gripped Tanana village on Sunday night when around 30 armed persons barged into a house and indulged in firing. They allegedly ransacked the entire house and also decamped with gold and cash.While the complainant narrowly escaped the firing, the police booked the accused for murder bid, criminal trespass and causing grievous hurt. An old enmity is stated to be the cause of attack.Among those booked were identified Manpreet Singh and Kaka of Bhindi Aulakh, Manjit Singh, Bau, Surjit Singh, Kikkar Singh and Manjit Singh of Barlas village.Sukhdip Singh stated to the police that his family was sleeping on Sunday when the suspect created a ruckus outside his house by shouting his name at around 12.30 midnight. He said he went to the rooftop when the accused barged into the house. The accused started ransacking the house and his family fled from the back gate. The accused Manpreet Singh fired at him with .12 bore rifle. He had a narrow escape. He shot another two fires. He said the suspect then entered the house of Amarjit Singh and thrashed his cousin Harjinder Singh.He said meanwhile, hearing the shouts, people started gathering and surrounding the spot. Seeing this, the accused fled away. He said when he searched the house; he found gold ornaments, a bike and cash worth Rs 18,000 cash missing.Sukhjinder Singh, investigating officer said an old enmity seemed to be the cause behind the assault. He said raids were on to nab the suspects. Further investigations are under way.Four booked for murder bid, extortion, criminal conspiracyThe Mohkampura police have booked four persons, including a woman for murder bid and extortion. They were identified as Prince of the Golden Avenue, Mandeep Kumar of Krishna Nagar, Manpreet Kaur and her husband Simrandeep Singh, both residents of Samrala in Ludhiana.Vikas Sharma, the complainant alleged that on August 23, he got a WhatsApp call from a number and the caller identified himself as Prince. He alleged that the accused demanded Rs 10 lakh from him. He said he told him that he was a poor person and refused him to give money. He said two days later, Prince came to his house and asked his mother to arrange cash and threatened to kill him.He said at around 12 noon on Tuesday, Prince and Mandeep came on a bike and demanded the amount from Vikas. He said when he refused, accused fired at him. He said he moved aside and saved himself. He said he raised an alarm following which the accused fled away while threatening.Mohkampura police have registered a case under Section 307, 387, 452, 506, 120-B IPC has been registered in this connection and raids were on to nab the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-booked-for-murder-bid-135154
02-09-2020||---||GNDU to kick off plantation drive on campus||Amritsar, September 1In 2019, GNDU had won the National Swash Bharat Award among multidisciplinary campuses in country for its clean and green campus. Now, pacing up its efforts to add to the green wealth on campus, VC Prof Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu has initiated a plantation drive. This campaign is being organised in collaboration with Surjit Singh Sahota, Divisional Forest Officer, Amritsar, who would provide the resources required for landscaping and planting.Under this campaign, as many as 2,500 plants will be planted in the open spaces of the campus. The inauguration of this campaign will be held on September 2 at 10 am in the presence of Vice Chancellor Prof Sandhu, DFO Sahota and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-kick-off-plantation-drive-on-campus-135153
02-09-2020||Amritsar||Webinar dwells on history of Partition of Bengal, N-E||The last in the series of online sessions in August on the theme of Partition and Independence, titled ‘Aazadi ki chhaon mein’, Majha House held an engaging discussion with five renowned writers and speakers, who talked about the Partition that took place in Bengal and the North East and their representation by the artistic community back then. The panelists included Samrat Chaudhary, an author and journalist; Shalim M Hussain, writer and researcher based in Guwahati; Amrita Gupta, Human rights activist Enakshi Ganguly, and Binayak Dutta, who is an educator. Sunjoy Hazarika, Director CHRI, a writer and an activist, initiated and moderated the session.Samrat, Amrita and Binayak deconstructed the collective history of the North East. Amrita used the images and paintings by Raja Ravi Verma, which depicted Mother India in a strident form, which went on to become the symbol of freedom for millions of India. ‘Many prints were used all over India which was printed in the Ravi Verma Press, the foremost printing establishment in the Bombay region,’ she said. Samrat elaborated on the official documents that were used to divide states and talked about parts of tribal areas that went to Pakistan.Binayak Dutta said he was interested in tracing the history of Partition of North East India from 1972 onwards. Concluding the session was Enakshi Ganguly, founder of Haq and children’s rights activist, who read a prose piece centred around Sylhet. ‘For me Shillong was my home but for others I was the outsider,’ she read from the piece.Gurpratap Khairah, an associate professor, Hindu College, said the session was aimed at arousing empathy in the minds of the people so that they can see the displaced as victims, feel their pain and understand their plight. ‘No one wants to leave their homeland to settle in another foreign place; they are forced to do so by forces bigger than themselves. It is important to hear these voices, as they are our voices,’ he added.Talking about programme, Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said, ‘It is really sad when we talk about Partition only that of Punjab comes to our mind. We are forgetting that two other Partitions took place causing displacement and anguish no lesser than that experienced when Pakistan was carved out of Punjab in 1947.’ — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-dwells-on-history-of-partition-of-bengal-n-e-135152
02-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Mentally challenged woman chained by parents rescued||Tarn Taran, September 1A 24-year-old mentally challenged woman who was tied with chains by her parents was rescued on the intervention of District and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur Randhawa here on Tuesday. A news-item in this regard was published in a daily today.On the orders of District and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur Randhawa, Civil Judge (Senior Division)-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Gurbir Singh and Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Patti, Munish Garg visited Ghariala village and collected information regarding the incident.On the orders of both the judicial officers, the SHO, Sadar Patti police station, got the mentally challenged girl medically examined from the Civil Hospital. The girl was produced in the court of the Ilaka Magistrate who sent her to Mental Hospital, Amritsar, as her parents were not in a position to get her treated.The girl was married three years ago but she lost her mental balance after two months of the marriage. Her in-laws sent her back to her parents. The girl’s father, who is a rickshaw puller, and mother, who is a homemaker, said their daughter used to leave home often and never returned home for days together and it was due to this reason that they tied her with chains to avoid any unpleasant incident.The parents said they had appealed to people for help but in vain. Now after the intervention of the District and Sessions Judge, the woman was sent to hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mentally-challenged-woman-chained-by-parents-rescued-135151
02-09-2020||---||Scholarship scam: AAP workers burn effigies of CM, Dharamsot in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 1Members of the Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday held a protest in front of the District Administrative Complex and demanded the dismissal of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, embroiled in an alleged scam in the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for students.They also burnt effigies of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and raised slogans. The protest was led by senior party leader and deputy leader of the Opposition in assembly Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and MLA Baljinder Kaur, respectively.Local leaders, including Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, Ashok Talwar, Rajinder Plah, Jaspreet Singh, Dr Inderpal Bera, Ravinder Hans and others, were present.Speaking on the occasion, Harpal Singh Cheema accused the Chief Minister of going beyond all moral and administrative boundaries to save his corrupt minister (Dharamsot) who was directly involved in the embezzlement of Rs 63.91 crore granted for providing financial assistance to the Dalit students under the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme.Commenting on handing over the departmental probe into the scholarship scam to two officers by the Union Government, Harpal Singh Cheema said the probe should be carried out by any agency but under the supervision of the sitting judges of the High Court in a time bound manner and the probe period should be extended to the year 2012-13, as the embezzlement of more than Rs 1,200 crore in the scholarship scheme had surfaced during the tenure of the then Badal government.On the occasion, the AAP MLA said in view of the seriousness of the documentary evidence submitted to the government by the Additional Chief Secretary against Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for embezzling Rs 63.91, he should be removed from the Cabinet and a criminal case registered against him.Meanwhile, members of the Lok Insaaf Party also submitted a memorandum to district administration officials demanding action against Dharamsot. They demanded that as the funds for the scheme were sent by the Central Government, the probe must be submitted to the CBI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scholarship-scam-aap-workers-burn-effigies-of-cm-dharamsot-in-amritsar-135148
02-09-2020||Stories that inspire||As artistes go out of work, Gurinder Makna stands out with online short flicks||Manmeet Singh GillTribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 1At a time when the Punjabi entertainment industry is awaiting the green light to get back into action, the local theatre artistes, who earlier got to work in Punjabi movies, are idling away days. But well-known theatre and film artiste Gurinder Makna has his hands full. He has come up with an idea to produce online short films.Makna, a versatile actor, has been a part of 30 Hindi movies, two Hollywood flicks and many Punjabi movies. He has recently casted actors for ‘Departure’, an online short movie directed by Emmanuel Singh, based on the hardships of a migrant worker during the pandemic-triggered times. In another project, he has directed a short movie ‘Fathers’ day’.Before this, he had started online live streaming of plays to keep in touch with the audience. “With more projects in the pipeline we will be able to provide work to more and more local artistes. The featuring of short movies presently is not monetarily very rewarding, but still, it will help artistes a little bit,” he said.A renowned representative of the local theatre grounds in the Punjabi and Hindi movies worlds, Makna claimed, “In my career, so far, I have helped at least 400 local artistes get work in Punjabi and Hindi movies.”Even as the state government had earlier on requests from the industry allowed shootings, Makna said that directors and producers are wary of the threat. “Making of a film is not a nine to five work. The shootings go on day and night. So, despite relaxation, most big producers and directors are not ready to take the risk. He said some song videos were being shot, but not many artistes get to work in these.His take on industry’s current condition evokes a response of pointers for the newbies. “I always tell new artistes to have a side-business apart from acting. Barring a few lucky people in the industry, others cannot expect it to be a full-fledged career. But as the industry is still in its infancy, who knows what rewards would be there when it grows up.” He goes on: “With theatres and small projects off the charts these days, the artistes are facing a huge crisis for which seniors should come to rescue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-artistes-go-out-of-work-gurinder-makna-stands-out-with-online-short-flicks-135134
02-09-2020||Neha Saini||55.42% candidates turn up for first schedule of JEE (Mains) in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 1As many as 107 students out of the listed 209 sat for the JEE (Mains) that was conducted in two shifts in the city on Tuesday.Amid apprehensions, students started queuing up as early as 7 am outside the examination centre, with water bottles and sanitisers in hands and masks in place.The examination started and ended on the scheduled time and social distancing norms were followed stringently as students said alternate seating was done to ensure social distancing.Total 55.42 per cent candidates were present for the exam, as of total 83 candidates, only 46 were present in shift I while for shift II, 61 of 126 candidates were present. The reason for the absence of other candidates could be ascertained to several factors, including health safety concerns amid the pandemic.Suhani a candidate from the city, who appeared for B Arch exam said: “Of course, there was a fear among most of us regarding our health due to Covid-19. We had hoped that the examination would be postponed or cancelled. But once it was announced that it will be held, there was no option but to sit for the exam as I didn’t want my efforts to go waste.”Other students Parth Khanna and Jatin Ahuja, too, said the exam was conducted with no particular issue, but the fear regarding Covid-19 occupied their minds, even while giving the exam.Another big concern for outstation students was transportation. “While we did have fear regarding health and risk of catching the infection as Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise, there was no problem as such in giving the exam. Though, it did have a psychological impact. Also, for a lot of students, transportation and accommodation was an issue, as examinations have been scheduled for two days back-to-back in two shifts. With the evening curfew in place, travelling back to our home became difficult,” said Gurpreet Kapoor, a student from Fazilka, who appeared for the exam.German Singh, who accompanied his daughter for the exam from Ferozepur, too, shared that the government should have provided transportation to students keeping their health safety in mind.“Parents had to accompany kids and drive personal vehicles or hire a taxi to avoid using public transport due to the pandemic. So, that’s an added expense with the cost of accommodation included. Also, with evening curfew in place, it would become difficult to go back after the exam, especially for students in the second shift.”He said the confusion regarding JEE exam dates also added to the stress. “The preparations were affected as kids were under tremendous pressure due to the confusion regarding the exam and Covid-19 threat. If the government agencies keep up with safety guidelines and no lapses occur, only then can parents and students rest assure,” he said.Meanwhile, Anjana Gupta, city coordinator for the exam, said the first day of JEE Mains was completed without any problems. “We are maintaining a strict safety protocol and an isolation room is also prepared for students in case of any medical emergency. The low percentage of turnout can be attributed to the fact that many candidates had appeared for the exam in Jan earlier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/55-42-candidates-turn-up-for-first-schedule-of-jee-mains-in-amritsar-135133
02-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||1,400 released in bid to decongest Amritsar Central Jail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 1The Punjab Government decided to scale down the number of prisoners lodged inside central jails in Punjab in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 1,400 undertrials were released on interim bail from Amritsar Central Jail.A jail official said the central jail here had a prisoners’ strength of around 3,600 which now stands at about 2,200. He said the process was under way to release more prisoners while adding that new inmates were also coming to jail.“No new inmate is coming to jail directly. They were first quarantined in specials jails at Gurdaspur where Covid-19 tests are conducted upon them. When their quarantined period was over, only then they were shifted to the central jail here,” said the official.The step was taken following the recommendations of high powered committee (HPC) headed by a Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge which held its third meeting on July 31. The meeting was held to take urgent steps in order counter the threats emerging out of increasing number of Covid cases among the prisoners in jail.It had observed that ‘decongestion’ was the only effective means for mitigation of pandemic and therefore, it was necessary to bring down the prison population to 50 per cent. The committee had also extended the list of under trials who could be released on an interim bail of six weeks, which was extendable till notification under pandemic diseases act is in force.These include the under-trials facing charges of murder bid and culpable homicide also but with certain exemptions. Inmates facing the NDPS cases and cases of sexual harassment (with certain exemptions) were also considered, said the jail official.The jail authorities procured five tablets for arranging video calls of jail inmates with their family members. He said there was a resentment among the prisoners as they were not allowed to meet their acquaintances due to pandemic. The HPC had recommended installations of video conferencing equipments in jails.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-400-released-in-bid-to-decongest-amritsar-central-jail-135132
02-09-2020||---||Seven more succumb to virus in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 1The district reported the death of seven more persons due to the Covid-19 pandemic, taking the toll to 172 on Tuesday. With 107 fresh cases, the total count of positive cases has risen 4,149 in the district.The deceased have been identified as Jatinder Kaur (36), a resident of Narajanpura (Khalchian), Kamla Bhatia (52) from Jaura Fatak area, Saroj Sethi (70) of Sahibjada Jujhar Singh Avenue, Sudesh Rani (64) from Airport Road, Rakesh Mehra (66), a resident of Lawrence Road, Balwinder Kaur (55) of Shahid Udham Singh Nagar and Harwinder Kaur (69) of Laxmi Niwas Pipli Zazar.Of the fresh cases, 72 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 35 are contacts of positive patients. The ILI cases included the Principal of Government Dental College and Hospital, her husband and two other colleagues. Earlier, three surgeons from the college had also tested positive. The contact cases included three from the police control room, two from the Verka police station and one from Girls’ Hostel in Government Medical College.At present, the district has a total of 796 active cases while the number of recoveries has reached 3,181.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-more-succumb-to-virus-in-amritsar-district-135131
02-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Golden Temple Mail completes 92 yrs of historic run||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 1The Golden Temple Mail, earlier known as the Frontier Mail, completed 92 years of its run as it chugged out of the Amritsar railway station on Tuesday.The then British Indian government had projected it as its glorious achievement for being the longest train link in the Indian subcontinent as it had its inaugural run on this day in 1928.Train was well known for Its punctualityThe Frontier Mail’s punctuality too was something to reckon with. It was generally believed that your Rolex watch might let you down, but not the Frontier Mail. The punctuality of the Frontier Mail was of such crucial importance to the fastidious British bosses that when on one occasion, in August 1929, exactly 11 months after its inauguration, the train arrived 15 minutes late, there was a big uproar among railway circles, with the driver being asked to explain the reasons for this ‘inexcusable’ delay.Earlier, the Bombay Baroda and Central India Railway Company in conjunction with the North Western Railway Company had introduced the Frontier Mail from Bombay to Peshawar via Delhi and Lahore on October 7, 1927.The Frontier Mail was formally renamed as the Golden Temple Mail in September 1996. The Frontier Mail is a mere shadow of its former glory today. Nonetheless, the train has an appeal and charisma that will live on in the hearts of its faithful passengers for a long time to come.SP Singh Bhatia, Heritage Officer of the Ferozepur Division, said initially the train was routed via Bathinda, Ferozepur and Lahore to Peshawar, now in Pakistan. But from March 1, 1930, it was routed through Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar. Since then this train has been running on the same route. After the Partition, the destination of this train was cut short and now the train terminates at Amritsar.“That was the time when the Frontier Mail could lay claim to being India’s fastest long-distance train, a fact that was highlighted in The Times in London in 1930, when it described the Frontier Mail as ‘one of the most famous express trains under the British Empire’.”The Frontier Mail’s punctuality too was something to reckon with. It was generally believed that your Rolex watch might let you down, but not the Frontier Mail. The punctuality of the Frontier Mail was of such crucial importance to the fastidious British bosses that when on one occasion, in August 1929, exactly 11 months after its inauguration, the train arrived 15 minutes late, there was a big uproar among railway circles, with the driver being asked to explain the reasons for this ‘inexcusable’ delay. A blemish indeed on the jewel in the BB & CIR crown. In fact, people used to set their watches with the arrival of this train at the station, said Bhatia.The train’s dining car was cooled by ceiling fans, white damask on the tables coupled with white napkins brought fineness in dining. Silver cutlery and exquisite crockery with crystal fruit platters were placed on each table, along with salt and pepper shakers. The table settings had to be perfect, with different forks and knives for each course.The Frontier Mail was one of the first trains in India to get an air-conditioned car running from 1934. However, he added, the air-conditioning system was basic, nothing like the thermostat-controlled power plants we see today.Elaborating on the air-conditioning system in those days, Bhatia said it used ice blocks, carried in sealed receptacles built beneath the car floor. These were replenished at several halts along the line. A battery-operated blower constantly blew air into these receptacles, and the cold air entered the insulated cars through vents.Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Rajesh Aggarwal said efforts were being made to maintain the high standards of boarding and lodging in the train with the pantry cars serving an array of delicious dishes from the hygienic environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-temple-mail-completes-92-yrs-of-historic-run-135130
