05-09-2020||---||PUBG ban does not go down well with gaming community||Amritsar, September 4PUBG, a popular multiplayer online game, has been banned in the country along with 117 other Chinese apps. The second wave of web-based applications ban by the Ministry of Information and Technology, PUBG that has millions of active users in India has become one of the biggest causalities of the escalating tensions between India and China.While the gaming community is unhappy about the decision that might have direct implications on professional gamers’ careers, there is a segment of players that has already found alternatives for their gaming appetites. “It is disappointing that the game has been banned, but one can still access it through a PC. I feel that the game was like a social media platform where we could connect with others and engage in communication. Then there was the thrill of engaging in battles, different levels of the game. Nonetheless, we do have a few alternative games that would provide for a replacement,” said Yajur Kapoor (18) who is a pro-gamer.Another gamer, Supreet Wadhawa, says, “I do not think that this game will be banned for long as it generates good revenue from India. Surely, the promoters of the game would look for options to sustain their presence. PUBG doesn’t have any Chinese connection as its parent company is USA based.” Meanwhile, a list of variants such as Call of Duty and Free Fire has suddenly found new takers.Apart from parents, who definitely must have found some relief with the ban, not many are pleased with the move. “Banning apps is just a smokescreen so people do not ask the real questions. If the government actually wants to take a firm stance against China, the import duties on products should be increased exponentially so that people automatically switch to other products and leave a dent in the Chinese export revenue. For everyone celebrating the ban on PUBG, it is not the game to blame, it is the simple fact that parents shy away from responsibilities and have found an easy out by handing their kids a smartphone. They will instantly replace this habit with a more toxic one without you knowing it. The same goes for games like Candy Crush or apps such as Instagram, that eat away your time without raising any alarms. The solution is moderation and helping kids realise the potential of technology rather than just handing over extremely powerful devices that allow them to access any piece of information out there,” says Chandan Nagi, a branding and marketing professional and avid gamer.Even experts say that post ban, parents need to be more watchful of their kids’ activities. “Gaming, just like gambling, is a behavioural addiction. It encourages impulsive and compulsive behaviour and now that most of the kids, who were addicted to PUBG, will not be able to access it, will succumb to negative emotions. The sudden stop in their need-based habit can have repercussions and parents need to observe them with care and sensitivity,” says Dr JPS Bhatia, neuro-psychiatrist, who runs Punjab’s first Internet de-addiction centre in city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pubg-ban-does-not-go-down-well-with-gaming-community-136660
05-09-2020||---||71% of registered students take JEE (Main) on Day 4||Amritsar, September 4Continuous rain since morning could not deter the spirit of aspirants of the JEE (Main) as a large number of students turned out at centres for the exam on the fourth day on Friday. Of 295 registered candidates, 210 took the exam.On the first day, only 55.42 per cent of registered students appeared for the examination. The decrease in absenteeism over the past two days has encouraged examination coordinators, who have been facilitating students by maintaining safety protocols and briefing them about safety measures in place before the exam commences.The reporting time for the exam is 7 am while the exam begins at 9 am. “The two-hour window gives us enough time to screen each candidate and brief them about safety protocols. Also, candidates are made to feel at ease by invigilators so that they can focus on the exam amid the pandemic,” said Anjana Gupta, city coordinator for JEE. The exam is being conducted in two shifts – morning and afternoon.The first phase of the examination got over in January this year. “The decrease in absenteeism over the past two days is a good sign. Those students who have already taken the exam in January are the ones choosing to skip this schedule,” said Anjana.As the examination spans over two days, most outstation students had to arrive a day in advance to save them any delay due to weather or other reasons. The exam consists of two papers – Btech and BArch. A total of 1,683 students in the district have registered for the exam being held from September 1 to 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/71-of-registered-students-take-jee-main-on-day-4-136661
05-09-2020||Neha Saini||Job lost, savings dried up, but his stored will didn’t let him down||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 4He might have lost his job to pandemic-triggered lockdown but Prabhpreet Singh’s will to find a way through adversity remains unshakeable.Among the many victims of unemployment during the crisis, Prabhpreet used to work as an employee for a solar panel manufacturing company. “I used to do home visits to install the solar panels. But as the lockdown happened, manufacturing halted and so did people’s income. There was not much scope left in my field of job as people refrained from investing in solar panels. Also, not much service could be provided as people did not let us come to their home due to fear,” he says.Eventually, post-lockdown he found himself without a job with the savings having reached the same stage. Sukhdeep, his wife, then encouraged him to open a retail garment shop. “The pandemic has hit everyone’s income hard. Despite the economical distress, people do spend on food and clothes. So, opening a retail garment shop was safest and easiest way to revive my income,” he tells.The store is in Dhotian village and his spouse assists him with the work. “There is still scope for earning decent money in this line of business. Also, since I did not have much skills other than what I had been doing previously, this is relatively easy to operate,” he says.While the couple is busy from morning till evening, his mother takes care of their two-year-old son. “There is no fixed income in this business but we manage to earn anything between Rs 20,000-30,000 a month,” he adds. The lifting of curbs has allowed pace of the occupation to pick up. He sees a bright future on the horizon. “We hope that we will be able to earn enough and maybe shift to a bigger shop in the coming months,” A hopeful Prabhpreet says.Above all, he is relieved. The fact that his new choice of profession will allow him to operate in the comfort of his shop breaks him into a smile everytime he thinks of it. “Earlier, I used go door-to-door, which was exhausting and had to splurge a lot on fuel. Working from a shop saves money in that context,” he shares.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/job-lost-savings-dried-up-but-his-stored-will-didnt-let-him-down-136662
05-09-2020||---||Construction of overbridge inconveniences commuters||Amritsar, September 4In the absence of service lanes, the commuters have been facing inconvenience at 22 Number Phatak (level crossing) following the undergoing construction of bridge at the site. The commuters witnessed bumpy ride and cross the level crossing with utter inconvenience. The residents complained to MLA Raj Kumar in this regard.On Thursday, MLA Raj Kumar Verka met chairman, officers and contractor of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) and discussed the difficulties being faced by people residing in the surrounding areas.MLA Verka said that he had been receiving complaints from people residing near the 22 number Phatak. They have been facing problems as road is dug for the construction of overbridge. Verka said he was committed to ensure that residents didn’t face any problem.In the meeting with AIT chairman and officials, he stressed to solve these problems. Verka review the ongoing constructions and discussed about the construction of service lane and alternative road for the transportation.Amritsar Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi, Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, AIT Executive Engineer Pradeep Jaswal and AIT law officer Gautam Majithia were also present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/construction-of-overbridge-inconveniences-commuters-136663
05-09-2020||Amritsar||District Shopping Centre traders object to proposed cycle track||Members of the District Shopping Centre Association have objected to the proposed cycle track around Ranjeet Avenue’s district shopping centre.Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, they claimed that it was the busiest commercial area of the city where parking had become an uphill task in these lean days due to Covid-19.The track space is being carved out of the parking lot, which is already insufficient to accommodate all vehicles. As parking space is already insufficient, people have to park their two-wheelers on the footpath. As a result, people squabble and sometimes even resort to brawls over parking space.The association members stated that they were not averse to development activities being undertaken in the area but were concerned over the new activity which would harm the business prospects of establishments which had invested huge funds and efforts to make this complex a success and earn their livelihood.They stated that the cycle track was also not a part of the original master plan of the area on which SCOs were sold to buyers. Rather it was a compulsion being imposed on stakeholders, which is against the law. This would prove to be useful for none in the long run.Sanjay Vasudeva, general secretary of the association, said Amritsar Smart City Corporation Ltd (ASCL) chalked out a pilot project for the construction of the cycle track encircling around the shopping centre, which is a posh and busiest commercial area.“It houses prominent retail businesses, big office establishments, a large number of hotels and restaurants. Once the cycling track becomes operational, it is likely to further congest the stretch and create more problems. The hard-earned money of taxpayers would be wasted if the project was implemented,” he said.The cycle track would hinder the entrance and approach ways to hundreds of offices and showrooms, which are visited daily by hundreds of people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-shopping-centre-traders-object-to-proposed-cycle-track-136664
05-09-2020||Amritsar||Medical store owner seeks police security||Banarsi Lal, a medical store owner and his wife Rajni of Harsha Chhina village, on Thursday urged the police to provide his family security as directed by the Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) on August 28.He told that in July, four unknown persons had entered into his house after pointing pistol on his son. They decamped with Rs 1.10 lakh from the cash box of the shop located adjoining to the house and later shot him in the leg while fleeing. All the accused had come in a car and had their faces covered .The entire incident was recorded in a CCTV camera which was later handed over to the police for investigation. He said even after elapsing of over one and half month, the police failed to make any progress in the case. The police had registered a case against unknown persons at that time. He alleged earlier too unknown persons had snatched over Rs 40,000 from him.Banarasi said in 2017 he had got a ransom call from an unknown person. He said he lodged a complaint with the police . The police later found that the call was made from a stolen mobile phone and nothing came out of it.He alleged he was receiving threats from unknown numbers. He also alleged that movements of suspicious elements usually noticed around his house. Advocate Naresh Gill said on August 28, the PSHRC pointed out that since it was duty of the state to protect the life and liberty of every citizen, the commission directed the SSP (Amritsar rural) to assess the real threat perception in the matter and provide protection to the complainants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/medical-store-owner-seeks-police-security-136665
05-09-2020||Amritsar||Eight more die in Amritsar district,  toll nears 200||The district reported eight more deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic, taking the toll to 190 on Friday. Besides, with 141 new positive cases being reported, the tally has risen to 4,551 in the district.The rising number of cases and casualties in the district has become a cause for concern for the local administration and residents. Even then there was a rush of people in markets and the volume of traffic on roads was considerably high as people preferred to finish their tasks before the commencement of a weekend lockdown from tomorrow.Of the eight deaths, six were women. Manjit Kaur, a 60-year-old resident of Indira Colony in the Mustafabad area, was suffering from Covid pneumonia and hypertension. Manjit Kaur, 45, a resident of Mallian village, was suffering from Covid pneumonia. Rakhsha Verma, 75, a resident of Laxmi Vihar, was suffering from Covid pneumonia.Jasbir kaur, 65, a resident of Golden Avenue, was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Anil Beri, 65, a resident of Tahsilpura, was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Vishal Singh, 20, a resident of Baserke Gillan village (GNDH) and was suffering from TB and Covid pneumonia. Usha, 52, a resident of Anand Vihar on the Chabhal road, was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Surjit Kaur, 60, a resident of the area near the Golden Temple, was suffering from Covid pneumonia.Of the 4,551 cases reported so far, 3,428 have recovered from the disease. The district now has 963 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-more-die-in-amritsar-district-toll-nears-200-136666
05-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Rising veggie prices burn hole in customers’ pocket||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 4Vegetable prices have soared in the district, burning a hole in the common man’s pocket as rates of almost all vegetables have gone up.Damage to crops of fresh vegetables caused by heavy rains in the undergoing monsoon season and curtailing of area by growers discouraged by losses incurred on account of being quoted low prices during the lockdown were said to be the reasons behind rise in prices of fresh farm production.The prices of potato, onions, tomatoes, peas, cauliflower, bottle gourd, coriander, okra, arbi (colocasia) and bitter gourd have also sky-rocketed. Residents are finding it difficult to manage their household expenses.A visit to the vegetable market revealed that the price of tomatoes is presently Rs 50 per kg, which was Rs 40 per kg earlier. The price of capsicum rose from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 80 per kg. Similarly, gourd and bottle gourd are now being sold at Rs 40 per kg, which was earlier available about Rs 30 per kg. The price of capsicum has also increased from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 70 to Rs 80 per kg, depending on the quality.The price of lady finger has increased from Rs 20 to Rs 30 per kg. Cauliflower, which was earlier available at Rs 50 per kg, is now being sold at Rs 60 per kg. Garlic is being sold at Rs 200 per kg and ginger at Rs 60 per kg.Manjeet Kaur, a housewife, said: “High vegetable prices stretched the kitchen budget which was another blow to the families grappling with after effects of Covid-19 and lockdown.” She added that on one hand income had fallen down and on the other expenses were rising.She stated that with growing up children, aged and others staying home increase in the demand of eatables, including, fresh vegetables, was but natural. Charanjit Singh Batra, a leading commission agent, dealing in vegetables, said: “During the lockdown, the prices of vegetables had considerably fallen as only locally grown vegetables were coming to the market. Following this, disenchanted farmers switched over to cultivate other crops.”As if it was not enough, heavy rains damaged the vegetables, creating demand and supply gap in the market. He elaborated that they were getting vegetables at high rates. Many crops such as capsicum, onion, tomato, cauliflower and others were coming from Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra. This is adding to the transportation cost of the produce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-veggie-prices-burn-hole-in-customers-pocket-136668
05-09-2020||Amritsar||Five mobiles seized from jail||AAP burns effigies of CM, DharamsotTarn Taran: Volunteers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday held a protest in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here against the multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam. The protesters burnt effigies of Capt Amarinder Singh and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and raised slogans against the government. They alleged that Capt Amarinder Singh was shielding Cabinet Minister Dharamsot and demanded his dismissal from the Cabinet. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-mobiles-seized-from-jail-136669
05-09-2020||---||Trader, girl robbed of Rs 1.5L and scooter at gunpoint||Amritsar, September 4A trader, identified as Amit Agarwal, was looted by two armed youths in the Dal Mandi area in the walled city area on Wednesday evening. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera.The police registered a case and launched investigation, said the Division D police station authorities.According to information, Amit Agarwal was closing down his shop when two armed youths came and snatched Rs 1.5 lakh at gunpoint. Gurwinder Singh, SHO, Division D police station, said apparently the accused had done a recce of the area before committing the crime. He said investigation was underway to identify the suspects with the help of the CCTV camera footage recovered from the spot. He said the accused would be arrested soon.Meanwhile, in another incident, two armed persons snatched scooter from a girl who was returning from Guru Nanak Dev University after giving her trial for Bachelor of Physical Education admission. The victim, identified as Lovepreet Kaur of Shafipur village, said when he reached near ABS restaurant near Bandala village, two youths came from the rear and pointed a pistol at her.She said the accused had their faces covered. She said the accused snatched her scooter in which she had kept her documents, certificates, Aadhaar card, PAN card and Rs 4,500. The accused fled towards the Tarn Taran side, she told the Jandiala police.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC in this regard.3 held in Ravi murder caseThe police have nabbed three persons in connection with the murder of Ravi Kumar, a resident of Dhapi area, here on August 29. He was stabbed to death in the Bhutanpura area following a dispute.The police had booked several persons, including Amandeep Singh, alias Rambo of Dhapai, Gaurav, alias Gola of Bhutanpura, and Shamsher Singh, alias Shera of Chhota Haripura.In a statement issued here on Friday, the police said the three accused were arrested by the police and were brought on police remand for further interrogation. He said more accused would be identified and arrested in the case.Dayal Chand of the Prem Nagar area told the police that on August 29, when his nephew Ravi Kumar and his brother Sarwan Kumar did not return home, they went to see them in the Bhutanpura area. He said they came to know that Ravi, along with his friends, had come to the Bhutanpura area for celebrating the birthday of their friend. He said he was told that they had a quarrel with the accused who took him to the Shivpuri side.He said when he went there, he saw Rambo and his accomplices thrashing Ravi Kumar and Sarvan Kumar. They stabbed Ravi, killing him on the spot. Sarvan Kumar was also injured in the murderous assault.He said Rambo and his accomplices had a dispute with several persons a few days ago and they suspected that Ravi was connected to the opposite group and was seeking their whereabouts which Ravi had refused to give.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trader-girl-robbed-of-rs-1-5l-and-scooter-at-gunpoint-136671
05-09-2020||---||4 rob PNB branch at gunpoint||Amritsar, September 4Four persons armed with pistols robbed a mini-branch of Punjab National Bank located on the Mehta road here on Thursday. Though the police have registered a case, they are tight-lipped on the identity of robbers.Baljit Kaur, a resident of Udhonangal Khurd village and an employee of the bank, said the bank has the authority to deposit up to Rs 25,000. She said four persons arrived at the bank on Thursday and three of them entered the building. One of them asked his accomplice, Narinder Singh, to take money from the cash box. He also asked his another aide, Gopi, to snatch money from customers in the bank, she said. Baljit said the miscreants took away from her Rs87,000 belonging to the bank and her mobile phone and also snatched a purse containing Rs18,000 from a customer identified as Manish Kumar.The suspects fled towards Batala in a car bearing registration no. PB-02-AF-8512. The case has been registered under Sections 379-B (2), 392, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against them.Baldev Singh, investigating officer in the case, said there was no security guard and no CCTV camera was installed in the bank branch. He said they had some vital clues and were hopeful of nabbing the suspects soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-rob-pnb-branch-at-gunpoint-136673
05-09-2020||Neha Saini||Punjabi folklore researcher & poet Dr Darya dead||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 4Prominent Punjabi folklore research scholar and poet Dr Darya, who was also Head, School of Punjabi Studies, GNDU, passed away here this morning. Dr Darya suffered a heart attack and breathed his last. He is survived by wife Rewa Singh and two daughters.An eminent scholar, Dr Darya was born on August 1, 1971. His father Shingara Ajari was a noted writer and researcher of Punjabi folklore. Ajari was credited with writing about the lost traditions of the tribes of Punjab that receded in numbers due to increased capitalisation. Taking over his father’s legacy, Dr Darya too stayed focused on his research into reviving and writing extensively about Punjab’s erstwhile tribes. His first book, titled ‘Culture of Sansi Tribe’, was awarded by the Punjab Language Department for tracing the journey of the Sansi tribe, which migrated to Punjab from Rajasthan.He did PhD from Guru Nanak Dev University and taught at DAV College, Amritsar, and BUC, Batala College. He had authored 13 books and a large number of research papers on Punjabi literature and folklore.“He had extensively studied about the tribes of Punjab and felt that these communities needed a revival platform. We belonged to the Tapariwaas tribe that finds its variant in the Baazigars of Punjab. Our ancestors migrated from Pakistan and settled in Mohammadpura village and both of us spent our childhood under the influence of literary revolutionaries like Gurbaksh Singh Preetlari. Our father too was a big inspiration for us. To lose him suddenly is a big shock for the family,” shared his elder brother Hira Singh, who is also a writer and educator at Government College in Tarn Taran.Dr Darya took over as head of department (HoD) of School of Punjabi Studies in January 1 this year. Dr Darya’s wife Rewa is a government school teacher. He had named his daughters Leher, aged 14, and Era, aged 10, after rivers.In his condolence message, Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu expressed his deep and heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. He said the contribution of Dr Darya was commendable in the development of the university, especially in the field of Punjabi literature and folklore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-folklore-researcher-poet-dr-darya-dead-136674
05-09-2020||The next academic season has started. Even the bio-monthly tests too have been conducted by the schools concerned. After the completion of tests||Government schools gaining popularity||Online educational competition heldPriyanka of Government High School, Gohalwar, got first position in the online educational competition of the secondary group organised by the Education Department dedicated to the 400th birth celebrations of ninth Sikh master Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib. In the same group Kamaldeep Kaur of GSSSS Rataul bagged second and Devinder Singh of GSSSS Valtoha was third. The students recited poems online dedicated to the life history and preachings of Guru. Meanwhile, in the category of middle standard, Yuvraj Singh (GSSS Mianwind), Navneet Kaur (GGHS Chabal) and Sandeep kaur (GHS Panjwar) bagged first, second and third position, respectively. In the competitions for the elementary group, Manpreet Kaur (GES Fatehbad), Navdeep Kaur (GES Pahuwind) and Guriqbal Singh (GES Rataul) were first, second and third, respectively. Satnam Singh Bath, District Education Officer (secondary), said that in the competition of the specially-aided students Arashdeep kaur of GGSSS Brahampura bagged first position.Member for the Animal Welfare Board nominatedVikas Mahajan, a social activist of the town, has been nominated as the non-government member of the Animal Welfare Board, Punjab. The letter in this regard had been delivered by the Animal Husbandry, Fishery and Dairy Development Department, Punjab. Vikas was the centerpiece of the welfare in the area, especially with a local goshala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-schools-gaining-popularity-136677
05-09-2020||Amritsar||Victim flays RTA over delay in investigation||Harjit Singh, a senior citizen, has flayed the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) for taking a long time in completing the probe behind releasing the same registration number to two vehicles. He said the registration number issued to his scooter that he had procured in 2012 was also issued to an Alto car in 2017.He recently mailed a reminder to the State Transport Commissioner (STC) in which he lamented delay in the completion of the probe.The complainant said he came to know of the error when he had online accessed the status of registration certificate of his scooter (PB-02BS8777) before selling it off. He found that the registration number was allotted to the four-wheeler in 2017.He brought the matter to the notice of the RTA, Amritsar. “After finding no satisfactory response, he approached the STC vide a communiqué in November 2019.”RTA Jyoti Bala said the matter was being investigated at the STC level and all required documents had been dispatched. About the delay in the probe, she said since it was being done at the headquarters level she could not do anything. Ruling out any role of the transport mafia in the mistake, she said it happened due to a clerical mistake. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/victim-flays-rta-over-delay-in-investigation-136679
05-09-2020||---||Rain lashes Amritsar, mercury dips||Amritsar, September 4Moderate rain lashed the city and surrounding areas this morning. The winds were followed by rain resulting in the flattening of paddy crops which were nearing their maturity stage in some areas. Agricultural experts claimed that rain flattened only early sown paddy.Sukhbir Singh, Agricultural Development Officer, said, “The early sown varieties are in grain formation stage while the late sown varieties are in boot stage. The velocity of winds was also not much, so the paddy crop is mostly safe yet. In case humid and cloudy weather prevails, there would be chances of fungal diseases to the crop. However, there are no such signs in the region till date. Farmers should keep a vigil on the crop.”Moreover, residents got some respite as the temperature dipped after rain and the humidity levels were quite high during the last few days.Namrat Kaur, a resident, said, “The mercury has dipped with rain. Residents, who prefer to stay inside during humid weather conditions, enjoyed the day.” The low-lying areas in the city were water-logged.Mintu, a resident of the Kot Khalsa area, said, “Rainwater was accumulated along the road leading to Indira Colony. It is difficult to commute on roads and streets after rain.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-lashes-amritsar-mercury-dips-136680
05-09-2020||Amritsar||SGPC meeting today, no word on agenda||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has called a meeting of its executive body tomorrow. Officials were tight-lipped about the agenda of the meeting, yet the issue of implementation of action on the basis of a report by Akal Takht-appointed probe panel could be the prime agenda.Other issue could be to decide upon the date of annual budget meeting that was overdue. Normally, the budget meeting is held before March 31 every year, but this year it had to be suspended due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown.The SGPC has dismissed and suspended officials who were suspected to be directly or indirectly involved in the misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-meeting-today-no-word-on-agenda-136406
05-09-2020||GS Paul||Willpower helps Amritsar nonagenarian beat the virus||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 4Where there’s a will, there’s a way. Nonagenarian Gurnam Singh, who was tested Covid-positive, proved this proverb right as he emerged victorious in his fight against the infection.“I suffered from fever, chest congestion and breathing issues for 10 days before I was admitted to Medicity Hospital for 18 days. When my Covid test report came out positive, I didn’t lose hope and prepared myself to fight it out. The doctors and volunteers also took good care of me,” says Gurnam Singh, who was born in 1924 in Chabba village, near Amritsar.Was on ventilator supportWhile on ventilator support, I used to do ‘simran’. When my Covid test report came out positive, I didn’t lose hope and prepared myself to fight it out. —Gurnam Singh, Amritsar residentDr Avtar Singh, owner, Medicity Hospital, says more than the medicines, it was Gurnam’s willpower and witty nature that did wonders. “He was admitted to the ICU as his oxygen level was low. He was administered anti-virus drugs, yet we believe that more than the medicines, the miracle of his recovery at such an age was the result of a disciplined lifestyle and, above all, the habit of ‘naam japna’ (continuous chanting of God’s name),” Dr Avtar says.Gurnam Singh reveals the secret of his health. “Till date, I walk 5 km to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple daily. I have been a witness to the makeover of the shrine and its surroundings,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/willpower-helps-amritsar-nonagenarian-beat-the-virus-136410
05-09-2020||---||Four accomplices of Pak intruders nabbed||Amritsar, September 4In a major breakthrough, the Tarn Taran police have arrested four smugglers and alleged accomplices of Pakistani intruders, who were gunned down by the Border Security Force (BSF) near Dall border outpost in Tarn Taran on August 22.Those arrested have been identified as Gurbir Singh and Gurbax Singh, both residents of Dall village, and Yudhvir Singh and Gurpreet Singh of Dhunda village.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said during the forensic examination of the mobiles seized from the Pak intruders, it was found that the accused had interacted with the intruders before they were shot by the BSF jawans.Yudhvir and Gurpreet had talked to the intruders the day the latter were killed while Gurbir had interacted with them a day before.“The four were arrested and produced in the court which has sent them to three-day police remand,” he said. The investigations were under progress to ascertain how many drug consignments were smuggled by them till now.A senior official privy to the investigations said the four used to retrieve the drug consignments from the international border and later handed it over to their links as per the instructions. They used to get Rs 20,000 to Rs 60,000 per consignment, depending on the quantity retrieved, the official said.9-kg heroin seized near Indo-Pak borderAmritsar: The BSF personnel on Friday thwarted another attempt of Pakistani smugglers to sneak contraband inside the Indian territory by seizing around 9 kg of heroin worth Rs45 crore. In a statement issued here, the BSF authorities said a total nine packets, containing 9.630 kg of heroin, wrapped in plastic tapes were recovered during the search operation in morning in the Bachiwind area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-accomplices-of-pak-intruders-nabbed-136418
