11-09-2020||Amritsar||Terrible! 16 deaths in a day in Amritsar||There seems to be no respite from Covid as the district reported 225 new cases and 16 deaths on Thursday, taking the case count to 4,225 and toll to 235.The deceased have been identified Mela Singh ( 81) of Sandhu Colony Chheharta, Meera Mahajan of Beauty Avenue, Bhupinder Kanta (56) of Bankae Bihari Wali Gali, Pinder Singh of Shekh Fattah Gate Nawi Abadi, Inderjit Singh (74) of Tailors Road, Rajeev Singh ( 33) Menia village, Kishori Lal (69) of Ramdass, Jagdev Singh (52) and Rajbir Kaur (42) of Chanan Ke village, Harbans Lal (74) of Shri Ram Avenue, Ashok Sarine (67) of Satnam Avenue, Tilak Raj (75) of Azad Nagar, Sawarn Kaur (65) of Loharan Wali Gali, Jagtar Singh (70) of Guru Ramdas Avenue, Narinder Kumar (75) of Gali Sunyarian Wali in Katra Dall Singh and Rupinder Kaur (50) of Bhittewad village in Ajnala. With the recovery of 151 patients, the total number of recovered patients has reached 4,074. There are 1,338 active cases in the district.Pvt hospitals can conduct rapid testsIn view of the need to strengthen screening of people for timely identification of Covid infection for controlling its spread, private hospitals, clinics and labs have been allowed to conduct rapid antigen testing (RAT) by the district health authorities.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said instructions had been issued by private health institutes to allow rapid antigen tests. The Civil Surgeons would list private hospitals, clinics and labs that could conduct the tests.He said if the kits were provided by the health department, private hospital or labs could charge a maximum of Rs250 for tests. Earlier, private labs, which were using their own kits, were charging Rs700 for rapid antigen testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/terrible-16-deaths-in-a-day-in-amritsar-139626
11-09-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar-based goldsmith shot at, gangster claims responsibility||Sajjan Singh, a city-based goldsmith who was on his way to Shaheed Baba Deep Singh shrine with his wife, was shot at by unknown bike-borne persons her on Thursday morning.Sajjan Singh suffered bullet injuries in his thigh and his condition is stable, said a police official, adding that his statements were being recorded for registration of a case.Soon after the incident took place, gangster Jujhar Ambarsaria, who is lodged in jail, claimed the responsibility for the attack. He claimed that he had an old enmity with the victim. The police authorities said the matter was under investigation and this angle would also be looked into.According to information, Sajjan Singh and his wife used to visit the shrine on a regular basis. On Thursday, they were on way to the shrine on a scooter when around two bikes intercepted them on the main GT road. They fired shots at him, leaving him seriously injured and fled away. His wife escaped unhurt.The police said a case of murder bid has been registered against Jujhar Singh and his two accomplices who had shot at the victim. They said he would be brought on a production warrant for interrogation. The police were analysing footages of CCTV cameras near the spot to identify the suspects. Preliminary investigations had revealed that the suspects had done a recce of the victim’s movement before executing the attack, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-goldsmith-shot-at-gangster-claims-responsibility-139627
11-09-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Day 4 of Jail Bharo: Protesters barge into DAC, court arrest||High drama was witnessed on the fourth day of the ‘Jail Bharo’ agitation being staged by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Thursday when the protesters forcibly entered the complex after scuffling with cops at the gate.A 51-members group of the committee courted arrest but the administration refused to take them into custody. The committee had set up a ‘pakka morcha’ outside the DAC, with its members courting arrest daily to build pressure on the authorities.The protesters raised slogans against the Centre and the state government over their alleged wrong policies. Addressing the gathering, Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the committee, said farmers would not allow the Centre to hand over agriculture markets to the corporate sector which would result in exploitation of farmers. The activists dispersed after the office timing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-4-of-jail-bharo-protesters-barge-into-dac-court-arrest-139628
11-09-2020||---||Six armed persons rob woman||Amritsar, September 10Six armed persons robbed a woman of Bhai Manjh Singh Road in the Sultanwind area here on Thursday. While escaping, the accused indulged in firing that left one person injured. The police managed to find CCTV grab of the suspects and launched further investigations to identify and arrest them.Victim Harbhajan Kaur said they run a small grocery store on the ground floor of the house. They opened the shop at around 7 am. She said six persons came on bikes and four of them gained entry through the shop. She said the accused were armed with sharp weapons and pistol and had covered their faces.Immediately entering through the shop, they thrashed and tried to strangulate her. A 12-year-old girl who was present in the house locked herself in the bathroom and informed all family members and neighbours about this on phone. As the people started gathering, the accused decamped with around Rs 35,000 and four mobile phones, she alleged.Her son Rajinder Singh, who also reached the spot after getting the call, was pushed by the accused who fired while running away. The bullet hit his friend Arshdeep Singh who was accompanying him. Rajinder had gone to the Khalsa Nagar area for some work.SHO Mangal Singh said that the injured was out of danger as the bullet hit his leg. He said that the police were looking into the CCTV cameras in the area to find some clues about the suspects. Further investigations were under progress, he added.Youth booked for raping 16-yr-old married womanA married woman has accused a youth for allegedly raping her. The incident occurred on Tuesday while a complaint was lodged with the police on Wednesday. Following her complaint, the police have registered a case against the accused, identified as Karan, a resident of Kaler Mangat village, while no arrest has been made till now.The 16-year-old victim stated to the police that on Tuesday when she was alone in the house, the accused entered and started vulgar activities. She alleged when she objected, the accused forcibly took her in a room and raped after threatening of dire consequences. She said when she raised the alarm, Karan fled away.In the evening, when her husband and father-in-law returned from work, she narrated the entire incident to them. Initially, they were hesitant of registering FIR due to social insult. However, they later decided to submit a complaint in this connection. On Wednesday, they lodged a complaint with the Majitha police and a case was registered under Sections 376, 506 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO).The police said the medical examination of the victim was being conducted and further investigations were underway. The suspect has been on the run since the registration of case and raids are on to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-armed-persons-rob-woman-139630
11-09-2020||Amritsar||Laid off, this salesman is jobless but not hopeless||When salesman Lovepreet Singh was laid off in June, the whole world came crashing down on him. The sole breadwinner of his family, he was working with an international clothing brand at a local mall.“Initially, the firm imposed a salary cut. Then they started paying only the basic pay and finally I was terminated from the job. I was working with the same firm for the past four years. Losing job was tragic, but I am not hopeless about the future prospects,” said Lovepreet.Unemployed, Lovepreet is looking for a job. He has been making use of online social media platforms to bag a job again. Lovepreet Singh started dealing in online products nowadays. “One of my friends has online business of clothes. I am assisting him for the last a few days. I don’t have much money to invest in any business, so I am trying to gain experience of online work.”“I am not much aware of the labour laws but I had heard that no company can terminate its employees from his job, without prior notice. Even the companies have to provide a salary of six months in advance in case they plan to lay off any employee without prior notice. But on the contrary, a large number of workers in private companies were laid-off without any notice,” said Lovepreet.“I am well aware of the fact that the crisis will not last long. I am also hopeful that the same firm or some other company will offer me job with the onset of the festival season. I am utilising this time to gain experience in something new, which will help me once things turn normal,” he expressed.Lovepreet said, “I am not the only one who lost job in pandemic. I had some savings to keep myself afloat. The government should introduce employment scheme or provide aid to the people who lost their jobs after lockdown. It is unfortunate that skilled and experienced workers are sitting idle at home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/laid-off-this-salesman-is-jobless-but-not-hopeless-139631
11-09-2020||Amritsar||Kashmiri students, Pakistani nationals cross over through Wagah border||Over 200 Indian nationals, a majority of them Kashmiri students studying in Pakistan, and 74 Pakistani nationals stranded in the country due to the Covid-induced lockdown, crossed over to Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP) here on Thursday.The Protocol Officer at the JCP, Arun Kumar, said only those passengers were allowed to cross the border who possessed a Covid-19 negative test report. They were medically screened according to the international health protocol, he said.“We had received a list of 434 persons who have obtained permission, including 354 Indians and 80 Pakistani nationals. Today (on Thursday), only 274 could cross over the border. A majority of them were Kashmiri students and Pakistani nationals who got stuck here due to lockdown,” Kumar said.The Jammu and Kashmir-based students were pursuing professional courses, including engineering, medical, and computer science in Pakistan. They had returned back home after some relaxations in Covid restrictions were given by the two countries. Their academic session is likely to commence from September 15.Sana, a student from Srinagar, said she, along with her fellow students, had come back during the lockdown. “Now as institutions there are opening, we have no choice but to attend classes, so we are going to Pakistan,” she said. Mahira, another student, said she was going back after a gap of five months.Pakistani national Shahana Parveen said she had come to Mumbai from Karachi on March 13 to visit her mother who was not keeping well. “No flight was available due to the lockdown, so I submitted an application, seeking permission to return through the Attari-Wagah border. I am grateful to both the Indian and Pakistan governments for facilitating my return,” she said. Chetan, a resident of Hyderabad in Pakistan, said he had come to India for a treatment at a New Delhi hospital.Meanwhile, 400 Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan were expected to return through the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday but their return has got postponed to September 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kashmiri-students-pakistani-nationals-cross-over-through-wagah-border-139633
11-09-2020||---||Online faculty induction prog begins at GNDU||Amritsar, September 10The UGC-Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC) of Guru Nanak Dev University started with its first online faculty induction programme for newly recruited faculty. This will be 28 days programme as per Gurudakshta guidelines given by the UGC.Dr Manoj Kumar, in-charge (Examinations), presided over the inaugural session. Dr Rajbir Bhatti, Deputy Director, HRDC, briefed about the participants, who are from seven different states including Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura and West Bengal.The HRDC is endeavouring to work towards excellence and utilising the pandemic situation to invite eminent educationists. The first academic session featured a lecture by Padma Shri awardee Prof GD Yadav from Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-faculty-induction-prog-begins-at-gndu-139634
11-09-2020||Amritsar||CBSE award for city teacher||Seized heroin disposed ofAmritsar: The Tarn Taran police on Wednesday disposed of over 14 kg of heroin and a huge quantity of sedative pills seized in various cases in the district at a drug disposal plant in Kapurthala. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, in a statement issued here on Thursday, said a drug disposal committee had been formed for disposal of seized contraband. The committee is chaired by him, while SP (Investigations) JS Walia and SP (Headquarters) Balbir Singh are members. The SSP said the committee disposed of over 14 kg of heroin (seized in 40 cases), 35,177 intoxicating capsules and tablets confiscated in 28 cases and around 8 kg of poppy husk on Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-award-for-city-teacher-139635
11-09-2020||Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1780-1839)||Experience the legacy of Sher-e-Punjab Maharaja Ranjit Singh||Maharaja’s PanoramaThe Panorama, a visual depiction of the important stages of the Maharaja was set up in 2006 at a cost of Rs5 crore by the then Chief Minister Parkash Sigh Badal with his personal interest. A two-storeyed circular building features paintings depicting the six major battles of the Mahraja. It is accompanied by a multimedia representation of the sights and sounds of war.Acquisition of Koh-i-Noor (1814): Right from his childhood, Ranjit Singh had an ambition to acquire the Koh-i-Noor diamond. It was at that time in possession of Shah Shuja, the Durrani monarch, who was later defeated and captured by Ata Md. Khan, the Governor of Kashmir. Ranjit Singh provided asylum to his wife and got Shah Shuja released from Kashmir in lieu of Koh-i-Noor.Victory at Lahore (1798): At a young age (18 years), Ranjit Singh challenged Afghan invader Shah Zaman, the grandson of Ahmad Shah Abdali, with a handful of soldiers and peasants from Musamman Burj on a foggy early January morning in 1798. With the courage and diplomacy of Ranjit Singh, Shah Zaman was driven out of Punjab in January 1799.The Capture of Kangra (1809): Gurkhas, considered as outsiders by Ranjit Singh, had captured the Kangra fort in 1806. Ranjit Singh accompanied by some hilly chiefs and their contingent defeated them in a fierce battle at Ganesh Ghati of Kangra Valley. The total defeat took place in September 1809. Use of small khukries by the Gurkhas compared to long swords, guns and canons by the Sikh army, was the reason behind the failure of the Gurkhas.Victory at Hazro (1813): The fort of Attock traditionally regarded as the sentinel of India on the border with Afghanistan, was recaptured in 1813 from Wazir Fateh Khan and his army marking the liberation of Northern India from Afghans. The battle was won under the overall command of Ranjit Singh with Diwan Mokham Chand in operation accompanied by Hari Singh Nalwa, Mian Gausha and Sardar Dal Singh with a strong Punjabi force.Summer Palace (1819): The summer palace of the legendary Sikh king was built in 1819. The Maharaja used to stay here during his visit to the Golden Temple. It is located in the Chahar Bagh, a quadrilateral garden on the Mughal pattern. The British ruined the garden. It has been under renovation for the past 13 years, but is still incomplete. It has been out of bounds for tourists for years owing to its prolonged conservation work. Started in 2007, the conservation work is still not over.Capture of the Zamzama (1802): The Maharaja acquired the giant cannon ‘Zamzama’ from Mai Sukhan, widow of Bhangi chief, Gulab Singh Bhangi in 1802. Three small cannons were also acquired from them, which are near the giant Zamzama. A big gun — Zamzama — is being hauled up by a good number of Maharaja’s soldiers in front of the Govindgarh Fort of Amritsar.Ranjit Singh’s marriage (1795): The marriage of Maharaja Ranjit Singh with Mehtab Kaur, granddaughter of Kanhaiya Misl chief, is being solemnised in a large decorated Baradari. The matrimonial alliance became a major event in the history of Punjab.The Fall of Multan (1818): Ranjit Singh captured the fort of Multan situated between the Sutlej and Ravi in 1818 from Nawab Muzaffar Khan. The 16-year-old Prince Kharak Singh participated as one of the commanders along with Misr Dewan Chand and 20,000 men. The artillery under the command of Illahi Baksh and big Bhangi gun ‘Zamzama’ played a major role in capturing the fort. The conquest of Multan by Maharaja Ranjit Singh ended the Afghan influence in Punjab.The Ropar Treaty (1831): Maharaja Ranjit Singh, riding an elephant, met William Bentinck, the Governor General of India, at Ropar on the banks of the Sutlej on October 26, 1831. Maharaja is followed by a battery of armed men with artilleries at the far end. A good number of royal canopies and tents of the British camp with senior armed officers can be found on duty. The Maharaja took this opportunity to display the prosperity and power of the kingdom of Lahore.The Conquest of Kashmir (1819): In a fierce fighting on the plain of Shopian, the Sikh army defeated Zabbar Khan, the Afghan ruler and his army, who later fled to Afghanistan, thus leading to the liberation of Kashmir. Prince Kharak Singh, Misr Diwan Chand, Akali Phula Singh with his Nihang troops participated in the battle. The paradise-like Kashmir came under the possession of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in July 1819.Modernisation of Army by the maharaja (1830)Maharaja Ranjit Singh was a great general, who wanted to modernise his army after seeing the superiority of the British troops. He inducted several Europeans to facilitate this. JF Allard and JB Venture, the two French officers, who were inducted by Maharaja Ranjit Singh for modernising his army, had served Napoleon in his campaigns. In the painting, they are seen inspecting an organised infantry on the one side and cavalry on the other. All personnel are in right army outfit. Many of them are carrying long arm guns.Gold plating service at Darbar Sahib (1830): The Maharaja used to go to Harmandir Sahib on every special occasion, especially Diwali and Baisakhi, and present gifts before prayers and the holy dip. The most important offering was the laying of gold plates on the Golden Temple in 1830. Under the supervision of Ranjit Singh, the work of laying gold on the Darbar Sahib is in progress (in the painting).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/experience-the-legacy-of-sher-e-punjab-maharaja-ranjit-singh-139659
