12-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Nailing drug peddlers will be my top priority: Dhruman H Nimbale||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 11Nailing drug-peddlers, freezing their properties and maintaining law and order in the border district of Tarn Taran will be my priorities. This was stated by SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, who joined office during the testing times when the hooch tragedy struck areas of the Majha region claiming over 120 deaths.Tarn Taran was worst-affected with nearly 100 deaths while Amritsar and Batala were two other districts hit by the tragedy.Within a month, the Punjab Police, including Amritsar rural and Batala police, we busted the nexus of bootleggers, truck drivers and dhaba owners. During the crackdown, the police busted three modules operating in Tarn Taran to supply spurious liquor that ultimately led to the tragedy. “We have arrested 44 persons in connection with the tragedy and among those arrested included dhaba owners in Zirakpur and Mohali who, along with truck drivers, used to siphon off ethanol and methanol-based alcohols from trucks besides local suppliers,” said Nimbale. “I joined during challenging times. It was very difficult to convince the family members of the victims for their postmortem. They were not coming forward for the same,” he said.Besides, a concerted drive against bootleggers was launched to nail the suppliers at the local level and hundreds of them were arrested after the tragedy.The region is traditionally known for manufacturing illicit liquor in villages and therefore we have launched awareness drives urging the people to consume certified liquors only if they wanted to, he added.Nimbale said currently he was focusing on nailing drug-peddlers active in the border district. He said a special emphasis was being laid on freezing the properties of the notorious drug traffickers while more peddlers were being identified and the process was on to verify their properties.He said the Tarn Taran police had identified around 500 smugglers active in the border district and their properties details were being verified. At present, the process of freezing the properties of around 182 drug-peddlers was under progress.“For the first time, we have also involved the Income Tax Department with us to nail drug-traffickers by identifying and confiscating the properties and assets disproportionate to their known sources of income,” he said.He said he also strengthened the PCR teams which would also move other major and religious areas likes Khadoor Sahib, Chohla Sahib, Bhikhiwind, Patti, Khemkaran and Tarn Taran city in order to maintain law and order. Earlier, PCR teams were confined to city areas only. Traffic police was also strengthened to main traffic in the major religious destinations in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nailing-drug-peddlers-will-be-my-top-priority-dhruman-h-nimbale-139892
12-09-2020||---||Over 3K aspirants set to take NEET tomorrow||Amritsar, September 11After the JEE (Main), preparations for conduct of NEET in the city on Sunday have been done. A total of 3,091 students are set to appear for the exam at six centres and 515 teachers have been assigned duties to ensure its smooth conduct. Unlike the JEE (Main) that was conducted via an online platform, NEET is a subjective paper of three-hour duration. According to the new guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, students will have to report at examination centres at 11 am, though the exam will begin at 2 pm.Anjana Gupta, city coordinator for the exam, said owing to a large number of candidates taking the exam, students will be allowed to take the exam in slots to avoid overcrowding and ensure social distancing. “To follow the Covid-19 guidelines, we have allowed students to sit for the exam in time slots to maintain social distancing.Students are allowed to take the exam in slots to maintain social distancing. The number of students in each room has also been cut down to half, ie 12. —Anjana Gupta, City exam coordinatorThe number of students in each room has also been cut down to half, ie 12. Also, a medical room has been created at each centre for any emergency, regular sanitisation is being done and staff, too, have been screened before the exam,” she said. In case anyone has a temperature or is asymptomatic, a separate isolation room will be assigned to the student. No student will be allowed to bring any writing material and masks, gloves and face covers will be provided to students and staff at the centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-3k-aspirants-set-to-take-neet-tomorrow-139893
12-09-2020||---||Farmers seek support of arhtiyas, sheller owners||Amritsar, September 11Continuing with their statewide Jail Bharo Andolan, activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Friday staged a massive agitation in front of the Central Jail Amritsar at Fatehpur here. A 51-member jatha from Chogawan area, led by Kulwant Singh and Sahib Singh Kakkar, came forward to be arrested.Interestingly, 4-year-old Avneet Kaur, Veerpal Kaur and 6-year-old Avnoordeep Kaur were also part of the group, who offered to be jailed or repeal the anti-farmer ordinances, policies of the Modi government and save the farming community. The activists raised slogans against the government asking for repealing the agriculture ordinances.Addressing a large gathering, state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, state office secretary Gurbachan Singh Chabba, farmer leaders Lakhwinder Singh Varyamnangal, Ranjit Singh Klerbala and Jarmanjit Singh Bandala said if the government did not arrest them today, they would block the bridge on the Beas on September 14. “The Centre and the Punjab Government will be responsible for the ensuing confrontation,” said Pandher.The farmer leaders claimed that they were getting good support from women and youngsters for the struggle. The unionists called arhtiyas (commission agents), sheller owners, market committee employees and citizens to join the agitation as the implementation of these ordinances would also affect them. They said the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act and the three other agriculture ordinances could not be compared.Workers stage a dharna in front of Patti sub jailTarn Taran: On the fifth day of the ‘Jail Bharo’ agitation launched by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, the 51-member jatha of the organisation, along with hundreds of other workers, moved to the sub jail, Patti, and staged a dharna in front of the jail.The KMSC has launched its agitation at state-level against the ‘wrong’ policies of the Union Government.Sukhwider Singh Sabhra, Harpreet Singh Sidhawan and Satnam Singh Manochahal Kalan were among others who addressed farmers at Patti and called the Union Government to withdraw all the policies framed against the interests of the farmers, labour classes and other sections of the society. However, the administration denied arresting the agitating workers. The leaders said the organisations would take part in the proposed national-level call for September 14 by 250 organisations against the Union Government’s policies. The leaders condemned the administration for not arresting them on genuine demands.A large number of workers of the organisation also attended the ‘Pakka Morcha’ installed outside the local District Administrative Complex (DAC) too. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-seek-support-of-arhtiyas-sheller-owners-139894
12-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||5 fall prey to Covid, 179 new cases in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 11The district reported 179 new cases and five deaths on Friday, taking the case count to 4,404 and toll to 240. Considering the widespread reporting of cases from rural and urban localities, the community spread of the virus is written on the wall, but the authorities have shifted to imposing restrictions in limited areas to avoid further damages to the economy.The deceased have been identified as Manjeet Kaur (76) of Kotli village, Jasmeet Kaur (55) of Gali Arian Wali, Jaggi Lal (54) of Ranjit Avenue Block C, Ram Lubhaya (60) of Krishna Nagar in the Joura Fatak area and Sukhdevraj (52) of Gali Wadda Haripura.Meanwhile, sending a warning to rumour-mongers for issuing misleading statements and circulating videos pertaining to Covid-19 testing on the social media, Commissioner of Police (CP) Sukhchain Singh Gill on Friday stated that various police teams had been constituted to keep a tab on such activities. “The teams will check contents on websites being operated in the district and also on the social media and those spreading misinformation regarding Covid would be brought to book,” said the CP.He said the government was putting in all-out efforts to prevent the spread of the virus, but the activities of some persons of circulating unverified reports were discouraging people to shun testing or seek hospital care. “Such unsubstantiated reports could even lead to the death of Covid patients as they may avoid visiting treatment out of fear being spread by rumour-mongers,” he said.DC, ADC, mC COMMISSIONER get tested for virus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-fall-prey-to-covid-179-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-139895
12-09-2020||ASTORIES THAT INSPIRE||Pearl of a person, an NGO head didn’t let the crisis bring her foundation down||Neha SainiTribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 11It’s not hard to imagine the travails businesses have been going through to survive in these times of crisis. All have been shaken to the very foundation. Even harder has been the episodes for the NGOs. But great are those who have soaked in the tremors of the lockdown and have kept going on as if nothing happened.Pearl Jasra, founder and chief functionary of IVE Children, a non-profit that works to provide education to the underprivileged kids, could be termed as a worthy case in point. While finding replacement for resources and funds has not been easy, she has managed to take care of her ‘kids’.As her name suggests, she indeed is a pearl of a person. Having a few years of experience as an educator, she has taken up freelancing jobs as an online educator. “I have been working for the past three months as a freelance educator, preparing academic schedules and lesson plans for overseas students,” she says. Also, the founder has been part of several online workshops and webinars based on education sector.Her earnings from the new job ensure that her kids continue with their studies. “We are working with a bare minimum. I have four teachers associated with IVE Children, who are imparting tuitions and classes by visiting these kids. Since the children belong to slum areas, they cannot access online education and so the teachers take up five students in each class and make sure that their studies continue,” Pearl explains work these days.She started the organisation 12 years ago here and had been depending on voluntary donations to run operations, including free of cost residential-cum-education programme that it offers. But the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown cut off her primary source of funds. “To sustain our education programme post-lockdown has been a challenge. Since the lockdown hit everyone hard economically, funds and donations dried up and so I had to think of other ways to keep the supply of funds going,” she adds.With time, another challenge had also cropped up. She had to convince the folks of these children to continue with their education. “Parents of most children are labourers. Since the lockdown took their livelihood, they did not want their wards to study. They were hell-bent upon turning them into daily wagers. I had to persuade them to let kids study through evening classes so that it doesn’t hurt their income,” she sharesWith no financial back up or aid, Pearl hopes that the efforts pay off. “My job as an online educator also works as a creative simulation for me as I had never explored my potential in this way. And it solves my purpose of supporting education of these kids.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pearl-of-a-person-an-ngo-head-didnt-let-the-crisis-bring-her-foundation-down-139896
12-09-2020||---||Partition Museum curates online events to allow visitors to sneak a peek into the pages of history||Amritsar, September 11The Partition Museum has remained shut since lockdown was announced in March this year, but it has opened its virtual space for visitors who want to sneak a peek into the pages of history. The one-of-its kind museum in the world has been running several educational programmes since its inception and its archives had only been accessed through visits to the heritage place, until the pandemic stuck. Its virtual galleries and tours have made an attempt to find audience across the globe amid restrictions.The museum had recently hosted first online art exhibition in collaboration with Art Alive Gallery, New Delhi. It showcased 26 exclusive works by 16 eminent and upcoming artists of India. The exhibition was received well and it featured several prominent artists from the time when partition happened.Rajwinder Kaur, curator of the museum, said they had been receiving a great response from visitors on their online platforms, accessing their virtual archives and gallery. “We have been consistently uploading significant audio-visual archives on our Facebook and Instagram pages. We share links to access the virtual tours, specifically curated to focus on individual event or otherwise,” she said. Most of the links to these virtual tours or access to archives is specific in nature and is free for all. The visitors can access its oral history library and artefacts and art work through its official website. It also has videos of eyewitnesses’ accounts.As a long term measure, the museum is also creating a permanent virtual gallery, work on which is under progress, that will have archived images from Partition, train massacre stories, videos, arts, paintings, real oral accounts of eyewitnesses and survivors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partition-museum-curates-online-events-to-allow-visitors-to-sneak-a-peek-into-the-pages-of-history-139897
12-09-2020||---||Landless farm labourers stage protest, demand loan waiver||Amritsar, September 11Activists of several unions under the banner of Pendu Khet Mazdoor Union staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Friday. Activists of Pendu Mazdoor Sabha, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, Pendu Mazdoor Union, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union and Punjab Krantikari Mazdoor Union submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner for Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Labourers from dozens of villages, including women, participated in the demonstration. The protesters demanded waiving off their loans from microfinance companies.The union members demanded to lift the ban on protests and withdrawal of police cases registered against union leaders. The leaders urged the state government to provide ration and cash compensation of Rs 10,000 per month to each working family. “The government should provide Rs 700 daily wage to all poor families throughout the year under MGNREGA. They also demanded waiver of electricity bills and free medical and education facilities to family members,” said Satnam Singh Ajnala, a union activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/landless-farm-labourers-stage-protest-demand-loan-waiver-139898
12-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Patwar union flays govt for ‘indifferent’ attitude||Tarn Taran, September 11Members of the local subdivision unit of the Revenue Patwar Union organised a protest against the state government for its ‘indifferent’ attitude towards their demands. The union after holding a rally submitted a memorandum to SDM Rajnish Arora.Ramandeep Singh Pannu, tehsil president, said the organisation had been demanding reduction in probation period from three years to two for the newly appointed patwaris, restoration of old pension scheme, pay commission report and release of pending DA installments. The protesters also raised slogans against the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patwar-union-flays-govt-for-indifferent-attitude-139899
12-09-2020||---||Civil Hospital gets contactless sink for visitors to wash hands||Amritsar, September 11A foot-operated contactless sink for washing hands was installed at the Civil Hospital on Thursday by the philanthropy wing of Hyatt Regency, Amritsar. District Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh, who was present on the occasion, said such voluntary community welfare efforts must be appreciated to encourage more people to help the needy during the pandemic.The Civil Hospital gets maximum rush of patients during the pandemic. “We believe in communal harmony and that’s the message we want to send across people. Our community initiative Shanti Sewa was launched during the pandemic and we are on the frontline delivering groceries and other items to the vulnerable members within the community during this pandemic. Besides food, other essential commodities such as soaps, sanitisers and fresh linen were also being provided by the organisation.April 2020 was commenced by distributing more than 350 freshly cooked food packets to BPL families in the nearby areas and till date, the organisation has distributed free food ingredients, soaps, sanitisers, face masks and gloves to more than 5,000 persons,” said Kamaljit Singh, GM, Hyatt Regency.Many government and non-governmental organisations supported under the Shanti Sewa initiative during the lockdown were Anganwadi Asha workers, Guru Ram Dass Old Age Home, Swami Vivekananda Govt Drug De-addiction and Treatment Centre, Indian Red Cross Society, All India Pingalwara Charitable society, Vidya Sagar Mental Hospital, Bhai Mohkam Singh Satellite Hospital, Bhai Dharam Singh Satellite Hospital and Government School, Chogawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-hospital-gets-contactless-sink-for-visitors-to-wash-hands-139900
12-09-2020||---||Role of IPRs in global economy cannot be undermined, says Prof||Amritsar, September 11The increasing significance of intangible assets in the global economy is forcing business organisations to actively manage their Intellectual Property as a key driver for building and sustaining their competitive advantage and achieving superior performance. In this backdrop, a one-day webinar on ‘Importance of Intellectual Property in innovation Management for startups’ was organised by Intellectual Property Right Cell, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar in association with PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry and Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India.VC Prof (Dr) Jaspal Singh Sandhu said the need of Intellectual Property Rights in today’s dynamic environment cannot be undermined. RS Sachdeva, Mentor, PHD Chamber of Commerce stressed on the need for registering intellectual creations and using IPR’s for the betterment of country. He explained the importance of IPR protection and how inventions and intellectual creations could help boost economic and technological developments in the country.Advocate Geeta Gulati, Trade Marks & Patent Attorney, was one of the keynote speakers during the session. Gulati delivered her lecture on ‘Overview of IPR’. She presented her view on the current scenario of IPR and the status of India in terms of innovation and filing of IPR. She motivated students to be innovative, vigilant and briefed the audience about patenting system and various statutory provisions in India which focus on patenting in Pharmaceutical and Engineering related Inventions & innovations.Another speaker, Advocate Deepika Divekar from Pune, delivered her keynote speech on Facilitation and Systems of Protection of IPR tools and legalities for startups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/role-of-iprs-in-global-economy-cannot-be-undermined-says-prof-139901
12-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||City Metro bus service sees ridership dip to 6,000 daily||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 11Lockdown imposed by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has badly hit the Metro bus service being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) in the city. The ridership has dipped to a few thousand as all educational institutes are closed and offices are functional with 50 per cent staff.The BRTS authorities revealed that daily ridership dipped to 6,000 after lockdown, which is lowest since start of the service in December 2016.The service of Metro bus was suspended on March 21 with the notification of state government following the Covid-19 lockdown.Before the outbreak of coronavirus, all 84 buses were plying and the daily ridership was between 23,000 and 25,000. Most of the passengers were college, school students. After staying off the road for more than 100 days, the services of Metro buses resumed on July 8 but got a lukewarm response from passengers.Initially, the authorities were plying 40 buses on both routes in July. Now with the relaxation in the night curfew by the state government, the BRTS authorities have been plying 58 buses. The bus timing has also been increased from 7pm to 9 pm.Inderjeet Singh Chawla, CEO, Metro Bus Service, said, “All schools and colleges are closed. Employees of private companies are working from home. So it is the major reason behind less ridership. The Covid-19 has affected the transport sector. Public and private players are the major sufferers. People prefer to travel on their personal vehicles instead of using public transport”.The BRTS authorities assured the workers that they would get their dues.It is worth mentioning here that the BRTS has offered free ride for school children, there is 66 per cent discount for college students and 50 per cent discount for senior citizens and handicapped persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-metro-bus-service-sees-ridership-dip-to-6-000-daily-139902
12-09-2020||Amritsar||Six months on, ex-judge’s money orders are yet to reach destination||A retired judge Ajit Singh Gill has sought action against postal department employees after they failed to pay the money order which he had sent to two persons in Chandigarh even after elapsing of six months. Though, he alleged, he had personally met senior superintendent of post office, Amritsar, 15 days ago in this connection, nothing has been done till now.In his complaint to senior superintendent post office, he said he sent two money orders to Ranbir Singh Dhillon and Jagtar Singh at Chandigarh of Rs 750 each from Ajnala post office on March 2. However, despite the fact that six months have elapsed, the money orders were not delivered to them. He alleged the amount was apparently bungled up.Gill said he filed a written complaint with Kulwant Singh, senior superintendent of post office here on August 26 and demanded a probe besides action against the accused employees for the same. He also sought delivering the money orders at the destination in Chandigarh.Despite repeated calls, officials at the post office could not be contacted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-months-on-ex-judges-money-orders-are-yet-to-reach-destination-139904
12-09-2020||Breathing exercises and daily jogging are the mantra to defeat the deadly virus. I used to jog and do breathing exercises daily which kept my lungs strong. These are important weapons in the fight against the virus. One must not let negative thoughts occupy one’s mind||‘Daily exercise helped me defeat the coronavirus’||“I developed symptoms on August 15 and two days later, I tested positive for the virus. Initially, I had fever and cough but within days, I started suffering from body ache, which persisted for four days. I decided to get myself admitted to a hospital for treatment. I drove my vehicle myself and went to a reputed private hospital in Mohali for treatment.I used to jog and do breathing exercises daily which kept my lungs strong. These are important weapons in the fight against the virus. One must not let negative thoughts occupy one’s mind. One should not panic after contracting the virus and remain within a positive frame of mind. —Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation)“As no family member was allowed into the hospital, I remained in touch with them through video-conferencing. They kept me motivated throughout my treatment.“One should not panic after contracting the virus and remain within a positive frame of mind. After getting discharged from the hospital, I chose to quarantine myself at my home in Jalandhar, before rejoining my duties here 10 days ago.“The quarantine period at home was a blessing in disguise as I used the time to engage myself in reading law books. I read new laws and amendments which, I feel, will come to use in my work,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/daily-exercise-helped-me-defeat-the-coronavirus-139906
12-09-2020||Amritsar||Seven held for illegal mining||Three arrested with 5-kg opiumTarn Taran: Three Rajasthan residents were arrested with 5 kg of opium by a team of the local Narcotic Cell, led by ASI Nirmal Singh, here on Friday. Kamaljit Singh, DSP (Investigation), said on the basis of a tip-off, the police intercepted a truck (registration no RJ-09-GB-0945) on the national highway near Sheron village. On search, the police confiscated 5 kg of opium from the truck. The DSP said the suspects have been identified as Gheesa, Imran Ali and Abad Husain. A case under Sections 18, 25, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered by the Sarhali police in this connection, said the DSP. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-held-for-illegal-mining-139907
12-09-2020||---||After SC nudge, focus back on former SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha||Amritsar, September 11After the Supreme Court expressed shock over long pendency of criminal cases against politicians on September 10, the focus has turned again on over a three-decade-old murder of Dr Sudarshan Trehan in Patti (Tarn Taran).Dr Trehan was gunned down by three persons at his clinic in September 1983 and former SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha was among the accused. Valtoha was never arrested in the case while a challan was presented in the court last year and charges were framed against him in January. At present, the case is under trial in a Tarn Taran court. In February, when summons to witnesses returned unserved, the court ordered Tarn Taran SSP to submit a report regarding the witnesses. However, the proceedings got delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Ex-SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha fined Rs 1.9 lakh for power theftInitially, the police had registered an FIR against unknown persons. A year after the incident, the police had nabbed Hardev Singh. During interrogation, Hardev had revealed that he along with Baldev Singh and Virsa Singh Valtoha had killed Dr Trehan. As a result, the police had named Valtoha as the accused. Hardev Singh and Baldev Singh were acquitted by the court in 1990 and Valtoha was declared proclaimed offender.Valtoha claimed that he was discharged in 1991 as charges were not framed against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-sc-nudge-focus-back-on-former-sad-mla-virsa-singh-valtoha-139963
