21-09-2020||Amritsar||Man booked for culpable homicide||Rape accused held from JalAmritsar: The police have arrested Harmeet Singh Chawla, a resident of the Uttam Nagar area on Tarn Taran Road, who was accused of raping a minor girl. He was arrested from Jalandhar. Investigating Officer Ritu Bala said Chawla was produced before a local court which sent him to judicial custody. Though the incident had occurred in March, a sexual harassment case was registered by the police on August 19. Later, section of rape was added in the FIR on September 4 after the family members expressed their anger against the police for omitting the rape charge.  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-culpable-homicide-144421
21-09-2020||Simple events would provide respite to middle class families||Expensive weddings a social menace, must be rooted out||Simple marriage Events need of hourSpending a large amount of money on wedding ceremonies having a large number of people now seems to be a thing of the past. For the time being, wedding ceremonies have been reduced to a low-key affair, which is good for all, especially middle-class families. Simple marriages will create equality in society. It will improve the economic condition of many landless farmers and other families who have to take loans for their daughters to somehow arrange their weddings. Low-key wedding or other ceremonies are much in demand due to the spread of the virus. Moreover, simple marriages are easier to plan. The pandemic has already been financially devastating for people all over the country. So, the need of the hour is to hold small and simple wedding ceremonies. I believe this must continue even after the virus is over.Khushpreet Kaur Brar QUESTIONThe three agricultural laws, which the Centre claims to be long-pending reforms, are being opposed by farmers. Do you think the farmers are justified and the Centre must have a rethink?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@ tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 24).Wedding industry will be ruinedWeddings are a special gala occasion for most Indians (rich and poor), who spend money lavishly on everything related to the occasion like clothes, decoration, banquet halls, etc. People spare no expenses to turn marriage functions into a big splendid affair. But now the Covid-induced lockdown has taken a massive toll on wedding-related ceremonies. Many have postponed their weddings and others have cancelled big wedding celebrations opting for an intimate wedding in which only the immediate family members are accommodated. Extravagant grand affairs have been replaced by small-gathering functions as people have become conscious of the new normal for celebrating weddings amid the pandemic. The trend is good and should continue even if the pandemic is over. Since social distancing is the need of the hour, weddings on the small scale will give a respite to those Indians who can't spend lavishly on the wedding of their sons and daughters. Rather it has proved to be a boon for the middle and lower middle-class families who lack resources. However, the flipside is that caterers, designers, make-up artists, wedding planners, etc, have been adversely affected. The wedding industry worth crores of rupees has been ruined.Tarsem S BumrahDiscourage expensive wedding ceremoniesIndian weddings are events that bring together people from different professions like wedding planners, technicians, photographers, caterers, artisans and many more. Unfortunately, the pandemic this year has caused a huge loss to the stakeholders involved in this sector. The Covid-induced lockdown has changed the trend of wedding ceremonies. The celebrations, which earlier used to be fancy, big-budget and colourful and elaborate, are now a low-key affair. Even amid the pandemic, splendid wedding ceremonies are still going on as usual with a huge gathering being invited against the government's advisory, thanks to the unholy nexus between politicians, wedding palace owners and administrative officials. Expensive wedding ceremonies are a social menace and it should be uprooted.Gursharan Singh KainthMany lives depend on marriagesSince long our seers, saints and great gurus giving us lessons of simple living and high thinking, which is still relevant. But this lesson should be voluntarily taken, it should not be mandatory. People should be convinced by practical examples by the religious and political leaders about it. Moreover central and state governments should know that local economy in our country depends upon religious festivals and social functions. If they are taken away economy may crash. Now government has imposed a restriction of 50 persons to attend any marriage function. Just yesterday very successfully NEET exams were held for which government deserves all appreciations. In our city in one of the centre there were more than 900 candidates but social distancing norms were strictly observed. In similar way for marriage functions government should allow upto 50 percent invitees out of the full seating capacity of the banquet hall or resorts. Rule of the physical distancing would be easily observed as all invitees are not expected at the same time like NEET exam. Moreover we should not forget the long list of traders and service providers involved with one marriage function. So keeping in view the declining economy and to remove the panic from the minds of the general public, government should allow marriage and other social function with a restrict ing the limit to 50 percent of the capacity.Harsh N Johar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expensive-weddings-a-social-menace-must-be-rooted-out-144420
21-09-2020||Amritsar||Gurjeet Singh Aujla meets Rajnath Singh, seeks NOCs for stalled projects||Taking up matters pertaining to stalled development projects of the city related to the Defence Ministry, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla today met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.Aujla brought to his notice delay in the issuance of no-objection certificates (NOCs) for the construction of a railway overbridge (ROB) at the Vallah railway crossing; development of government senior secondary school, Vallah; repair of Vallah sabzi mandi roads; re-adjustment of barbed fence at the border to facilitate farmers and other defence establishment related issues.The Defence Ministry, vide a notification issued on November 11, 2004, had banned any construction within 1,000 yards of the ammunition dump. Traders uprooted from the old sabji mandi, situated outside the Hall Gate, were allotted space in the new market in 2004 but the majority of them were still operating from the makeshift location. Due to this, the area has been denied basic amenities such as sewerage, roads, etc. A railway crossing passing from the Vallah area also needs a ROB to resolve the problem of traffic jams. A minor section of the ROB comes into the domain of the restricted zone. The MP said the minister assured quick disposal of the issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurjeet-singh-aujla-meets-rajnath-singh-seeks-nocs-for-stalled-projects-144400
21-09-2020||---||Centre favouring corporates, say protesters||Amritsar, September 20Farmers, protesting outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office, on Sunday slammed the Centre for ignoring their concerns and passing two of the three farm Bills in Parliament.They alleged that the Central Government had become a puppet of corporate houses. The government had failed to honour the interest of the farming community already reeling under agrarian stress, the protesters said.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KSMC), said farmers of Haryana should not end the agitation and their brothers in Punjab would support them by launching ‘rail roko’ from Devidas Pura village here on September 24. On the same day, another ‘rail roko’ protest would be launched from Ferozepur’s Basti Tanka Wali area.Agri Bills conspiracy against farmers: VerkaExpressing angst over the passing of farm Bills in Parliament, MLA Raj Kumar Verka on Sunday said the laws were part of a ‘big conspiracy’ of the Centre against farmers and the poor. He said September 20 would be remembered as ‘black day’ in the country’s history.Verka said with the passing the Bills, the Food Security Bill, 2013, would also be hit. “The Food Security Act provided free food to nearly 80-crore blue card holders in the country, but now the purchase of food grains by the government will end and fair price shops will turn empty. How will the poor get free grain?,” he said.Farmers’ body burns effigy of Central govtTarn Taran: Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, on Sunday blocked the National Highway 54 and burnt the effigy of the Central Government. The KMSC has been protesting near the main gate of the local District Administrative Complex (DAC). Addressing the protesters, Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, state leader, KMSC, slammed the Centre for getting passed the controversial Bills in Parliament. He said in a democratic set up the voice of the people should be honoured. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-favouring-corporates-say-protesters-144401
21-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Punjabi TV industry’s doyen still making her presence felt||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Husband: Ni ajj ki banaya?Wife: ZeherH: O Tun khaa laeen, meri roti ajj bahar haiW: Phitte muh tera, eho jehe daRemember these dialogues from Ashiqui Mittran Di, a skit featuring Harbhajan Jabbal and Jatinder Kaur?Actor, activist and feminist Jatinder Kaur made the character immortal. While remembering those days, she said: “Odon lokan nu hor kisam diyan jananiyan vekhan di umeed si. Bholiyan, chup kitiyan, mardan de pairan heth rehan valiyan. Main role kardi si tikkhi, zyada bolan vali te laraaki aurat da. Pind diyan aurtan mennu kehndiyan san tusi sadde dil di gal kar rahe ho, jo asi darde keh nahi sakde” (Back then, people had hopes of seeing other kind of women. Those who were docile, submissive, silent and domineered by their men. I played a woman who was outspoken and feisty. Women in villages would tell me I am saying things of their heart, things that we can’t say out of fear).”In the ’80s and ’90s, TV screens in Punjab’s homes lit up with her commanding presence on DD Jalandhar (then called Jalandhar Doordarshan) as an outspoken wife. Kaur played mother, wife and grand-mother and one-half of the hit DD couple which regaled the Punjabi audience all through the DD’s golden period. Her popular act ushered in an era of a feminism of sorts on the Punjabi television, introducing a woman who told a man his place and prodded women to speak up, thus empowering them.Brought up in a conservative household amid a deeply patriarchal society, Jatinder Kaur went on to win accolades as an actor with her on-screen exuberance and assertive presence. A theatre person at heart, she was mentored onto stage by the legendary socialist playwright Gursharan Singh, lovingly called Bhai Manna Singh.“Apne haq khovo, baaghi hoke inquilaab leaao,” (fight for your rights, be a rebel and bring in the revolution), these words whispered to her by Gursharan Singh altered the path of her life. Taking to acting as a response to the subversion of women, she spent her early years torn by the innuendos and insinuations directed at her by regressive peers. For them, acting was “Kanjaran wale kamm” (a low status profession).Jatinder Kaur says: “Back then, if boys arrived late from the school, no one would say a thing. But if girls got late by even 15 minutes, they would be bombarded with questions. Men were privileged. I often questioned what wrongs had the girls done. Why this discrimination being meted out to us. Mere andar ik saad rehnda hunda si, eh galla main kihnu dassan, kitthe karan (A fire was burning inside me, I didn’t know who do I say these things to and where). Then I met Gursharan bhaji, after which things started changing. I felt I had reached my destination. Before meeting him, I bothered a lot about people. He taught me to live life on my terms, snatch my rights and not accept what people had decided for me.”Kaur says: “I worked with him for 15 years. He actually cared what women felt. On my first village play with him, the audience comprised only men. Bhaji asked them: ‘Where are the women, I have come for them. My real audience is missing.’ I realised someone is there fighting for us, for our honour and our place in the social set up which tries to exclude us. That gave me strength and courage.”Hailing from Amritsar, Kaur has spent 20 years of her life working with Doordarshan Jalandhar. She was among the iconic DD actors who won legendary status, earning a huge popularity among the state populace. She was a part of Doordarshan’s first ever serial, ‘Supne te Parchanve’. Jatinder Kaur and Harbhajan Jabbal were also the iconic couple and indispensable DD entertainers who churned out several hits. Starting with ‘Mennu Sunai Nahi Dinda’, they moved onto series such as ‘Surmai Shaam’, ‘Kach Diyan Mundran’, ‘Rang Birangi’, among others. People wrapped up their work early to get free to watch them on TV in the night. Such was their charisma that to this date, many mistake them for an actual couple. “I actually went to a live interview, carrying a portrait of my real husband to tell them who my husband is. Even now, sometimes people mistake Jabbal as my husband. At a recent film shoot, a board outside my vanity read ‘Madam Jatinder Jabbal’. I asked them who was that lady because my name is Jatinder Kaur,” she shares laughing.Her marriage to Surinder Singh also involved the role of theatre. “I played a courtesan in Gursharan bhaji’s play called ‘Maas Lai Lao Maas’. It was a hard-hitting play, aimed at niche audience of writers, intellectuals, academics, etc, and not everyone would understand it. I asked this guy I liked to watch it. I knew a conservative and narrow-minded man wouldn’t be able to sit through it. So if he got up, I’d know his character. But not only did he sit through it, he appreciated it. I went on to marry that man,” she shares.Though her in-laws never accepted her (they didn’t like her profession) and fiercely opposed the union, her husband has remained a constant support all through her career, backing her art.Tending to her family amid pandemic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-tv-industrys-doyen-still-making-her-presence-felt-144414
21-09-2020||DINESH BASSI||‘Don’t hesitate to seek medical aid’||“On August 4, I felt feverish and started coughing after lunch. A few hours before, I had attended some public meetings. We were inaugurating development works in those days. I couldn’t identify the source of my infection. But as soon as I developed symptoms, I quarantined myself in one of the rooms at my residence,” said Bassi.Next day, Dinesh Bassi and his family members got themselves tested and reports of all male members, his mother and sister came out positive. “Except me, all others were asymptomatic or mild symptoms. For a few days, I only had a mild fever and sore throat. On August 11, I experienced acute pain in throat and my body temperature shot up. Next day, the oxygen level also dipped. It was a panicky situation as we hear bad news related to Covid on a daily basis. But Dr Sehbaaz Singh gave me wise advices me and proper medicine. Home medication also helped my recovery. My mother would prepare ‘joshanda’ with herbal ingredients which helped in a fast recovery of sore throat,” said Bassi. “Gargles and steam helped me a lot and I would advise people suffering from Covid-19 to do this for a fast recovery”, he says.Though Bassi recovered from disease on August 21, he stayed at home for the next seven days. “I joined my office on August 28. The office work had suffered a lot. Several development works got delayed due to my absence,” he said.“I feel Covid is a curable disease and people should go for testing as soon as they develop symptom. They should not hesitate to get medical aid. Early detection of the virus helps control its spread. They should also avoid going out to avoid spreading infection,” Bassi said. “The support of family, friends and public helped me in recovery fast. I am thankful to them all,” he signs off. (As told to Charanjit Singh Teja)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-hesitate-to-seek-medical-aid-144413
21-09-2020||---||Gang of robbers busted, 3 held with sharp weapons||Our Correspondent Tarn Taran, September 20The police have busted a gang of robbers at Bhikhiwind, a border town 35 km from here, with the arrest of three of its members. The Amritsar SSP, Dhruman H Nimbale, said information was received about gangsters, who were going to hold a meeting to plan a robbery in the border area. Acting on the tip-off, a police party led by ASI Jassa Singh laid a naka at Bhikhiwind, the SSP added. On seeing gangsters coming to town in five vehicles the police party signalled to them to stop, but most of them managed to escape from the spot, the SSP said. Three gang members were nabbed by the police party with two vehicles, the SSP added. “Those arrested have been identified as Jobanjit Singh of Kotli Wasava Singh (Valtoha) , Sahil of Manjwala (Makhu in Ferozpur district) and Gurpartap Singh of Assal (Patti),” the SSP said. “Bhagwan Singh of Fatehpiur Sugga, Gurpreet Singh of Lakhna, Bheem Singh of Bhikhiwind, Vicki of Dhunn, all in Tarn Taran district, and Manga and Sagar of Kot Isse Khan (Ferozpur district), have been identified, but they escaped from the spot along with weapons in three vehicles,” the SSP added. Others gang members were yet to be identified, the SSP said. Two vehicles were seized with sharp weapons,including ‘kirpan’, ‘datar’ and ‘chhura’, the SSP added. Some gang members, including Bhagwan Singh and Sahil, had a criminal background, the SSP said. Criminal cases were registered against them, the SSP added. “Gang members have been booked under Sections 399 and 402, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, by the Bhikhiwind police,” the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-3-held-with-sharp-weapons-144412
21-09-2020||---||Two arrested for assaulting cops||Amritsar, September 20Two Gurdaspur residents were arrested by the local police after they assaulted cops at a check point near the Deputy Commissioner’s residence here late last evening. The suspects have been identified as Gurwinder Singh, an NRI, and his brother Gurjit Singh, both residents of Nivan Dhakala in Gurdaspur. One of the accomplices Noor, a resident of Gurdaspur, managed to slip away from the spot.Assistant sub-inspector Harsimranpreet Singh said he along with his team was stationed at a check point near Deputy Commissioner Gurdeep Singh Khehra’s residence on Maqbool Road when they intercepted an SUV coming from the Ranjit Avenue side at around 11.30 pm. The suspects, who were apparently under the influence of liquor, started arguing with the cops when the latter demanded registration certificate of the vehicle from them, he said.He added that when he asked the team to issue a challan, they snatched the challan book and threw it. They entered in a scuffle and tore the uniform of ASI Satpal, head constable Labh Singh and tried to snatch their weapons. He said the police team overpowered the duo, however, the third suspect managed to escape from the spot.Cases under sections 188, 186, 270, 189, 332,353, 382, 511, 34 of the IPC were registered against them. They were produced before a local court which sent them to judicial remand. Investigating officer Karanjit Singh said raids were on to nab the third suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-for-assaulting-cops-144411
21-09-2020||---||9 more deaths, 129 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 20Daily casualties due to Covid continue to gallop in the district as the health authorities reported nine deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 309. Besides, 129 new cases were reported that took the case count to 8,170.Those who fell victim to the virus included Inderjit Kaur (55) of Gali No. 1 of the Kot Mitt Singh area, Kewal Krishan (81) of Dream City on GT Road, Satish Tandon (72) of Gali Dhanna Pandi Bazar Kaseriyan, Raghav (28) of the Raj Cinema locality at Chattiwind Gate, Karar Chand (55) of the Narayangarh area, Amarjit Kaur (67) of Gobind Nagar, Amar Singh (72) and Swaranit (65), both residents of Kashmir Avenue, and Darshan Kaur (65) of the Fatehgarh Churian road locality.Of the 129 fresh cases reported on Sunday, 67 patients were suffering from influenza-like illness and 62 persons were contacts of Covid patients. A total of 201 persons were discharged after recovery on Sunday while the number of active cases stands at 1,730. Schools to stay shut: DCIn a statement issued here on Sunday, District Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said schools and colleges in the holy city would remain shut till September 30. The Centre under the Unlock 4.0 guidelines had suggested reopening of schools from September 21, however, the state government had decided to keep educational institute shut in view of the spike in Covid cases. The DC, however, clarified that online classes would continue as usual.Though educational institutes and coaching centres would be remain closed till further orders, 50 per cent of non-teaching staff could be allowed to come at a time, the DC said. He further clarified that these relaxations were not allowed in containment zones. He said in higher education institutes, only research students and postgraduate students involved in practical works were allowed to work in laboratories. The DC said though open theatres were allowed to open, cinema halls, swimming pools and amusement parks will remain closed. He said these orders would remain in force till September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-more-deaths-129-new-cases-in-amritsar-144410
21-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Fake Covid reports: SIT probe points to lab-hospital nexus||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20The special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the Punjab Government to probe the fake Covid-19 report racket has submitted its progress report to the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The investigations carried out by the SIT have hinted at collusion between doctors of a private laboratory and a private hospital here. The racket was busted by the Vigilance Bureau in June after victims filed a complaint.Many put in isolation wards, infectedPolice Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, who is heading the SIT, said the progress report along with the medical board’s report had been submitted to the court. He, however, refused to divulge details.The court had sought a report from the medical board along with the SIT report in a sealed cover after the accused doctors and hospital owner approached it seeking quashing of the case and grant of bail. The court ordered no coercive action against them till the reports were submitted and also stayed their arrest.The government had announced an SIT probe into the case on July 12. The Vigilance had on June 25 booked five doctors of Tuli Diagnostic Centre and the owner of EMC Hospital on charges of attempt to murder, forgery and corrupt practices.The victims had alleged the laboratory had prepared fake Covid-19 reports to fleece them and put their kin in the isolation ward, as a result of which many contracted the infection.While the four-member medical board constituted in the case opined that “manipulation in the reports of the victims had been done”, the SIT pointed towards an “unholy nexus” between the private laboratory and the hospital, which needed to be probed thoroughly.According to investigations by the SIT so far, hospital owner Pawan Arora and lab owner Robin Tuli made 177 calls in one-and-a-half months from May to June. In contrast, they made just nine phone calls before this period. The SIT also found money transactions to the tune of over Rs 8 lakh from the hospital account to that of the lab during the period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-covid-reports-sit-probe-points-to-lab-hospital-nexus-144098
