22-09-2020||Amritsar||Schools stay shut for students in Amritsar||The government and private schools have refrained from reopening as the Punjab Government has put a blanket ban in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.However, school managements have asked 50 per cent staff to report on duty as directions from the state government are expected soon. Relaxations for teaching and non-teaching staff had been allowed as per standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.DEO Satinderbir Singh Samra said the directions issued by the Department of Secondary Education in this regard were yet to be received by the DEO, Amritsar.He said, “Fifty per cent staff has resumed their duties. We are sanitising school premises in the district and making other arrangements, including reducing desks in each classroom to ensure social distancing.”Management of private schools in the city said though they were prepared to reopen the institutes, but best option would be to continue with online education.Rajiv Kumar Sharma, principal, Springdales School, “So far, schools have managed very well through online mode of education. We will hold mid-term exams through distance mode in the coming week, thus there is no immediate plan to call the students to school. We are fully geared up to switch to physical classes as and when the need is felt. We will take parents into confidence before holding classes in the school.”Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera School, said schools have to reopen for senior students as they have to prepare for board exams. “Online teaching is good in order to complete the syllabus, but students of Class X and XII, need to take regular classes for clearing their doubts and preparing for board exams,” she said.“School managements need to ensure that all precautions are in place and safety of kids is paramount,” she said and added that they had conducted a survey and majority of parents did not agree to send their children to attend classes in school.“City is witnessing surge in Covid-19 cases every day. In the given scenario, parents are not in favour of sending their kids to schools,” she said.Anjana Gupta, principal, DAV International School, said they would reopen the institute whenever they receive directions from the state government. “We have to be ready to reopen schools and continue with online classes. The challenge will be to simultaneously carry on with both alternatives.”The Centre had made it mandatory to have thermal scanners at school gates to monitor temperature of students and staff. Apart from sanitisation, masks were made mandatory and schools had been asked to function at 50 per cent capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-stay-shut-for-students-in-amritsar-144849
22-09-2020||Amritsar||Over 25K students take GNDU’s online exams||The GNDU today conducted its first online exam for exit courses as per the directions of the UGC and the Department of Higher Education, Punjab. The exams for various disciplines of undergraduate and postgraduate courses were conducted in three sessions (two-hour each).On the first day, 25,787 students appeared for the online exam with nearly 13,000 students appearing in the evening session.The varsity will be conducting online exams every day till October 10 and it’s the first time that the university is conducting exams virtually. “The first day of the exam went smoothly without any technical glitch or issue. We have planned the date sheet according to the availability and preference of students. We had practised four days ahead along with the respective principals of affiliated colleges to teach the students as well as invigilators how to upload and download question and answer sheets. Our teams worked out the details including registration of students. We will begin evaluating the answer sheets soon to ensure we declare results on time,” informed Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examination, GNDU.The three sessions were held at 8 am, 11 am and 2 pm. The GNDU had also asked affiliated colleges to register private students in advance and reach out to them through phone or email. “Private students got question papers through the respective colleges where they had got themselves registered. We have ensured that no student is left behind,” said Manoj.He said the data, including answer sheets, would be received by the respective colleges and only approved evaluators would mark them. While expressing satisfaction over the process, Vice Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said the absentees would be given another chance in October-November.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-25k-students-take-gndus-online-exams-144850
22-09-2020||---||4 more succumb to virus, 254 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 21The district health authorities reported that four persons succumbed to the Covid-19 pandemic on Monday, thus taking the toll to 313. Besides 254 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 8,424 in the district.The deceased include Manohar Singh (45), a resident of Gurbaksh Nagar, Rur Singh (73), a resident of Pallah village in Baba Bakala sub-division, Gurmeet Kaur (50) of Gate Hakeema and Suneeta Sareen (80) a resident of Hussainpura.Of new positive cases reported today, 162 patients were suffering from influenza like illnesses (ILI) and 92 were contacts of positive cases. A total of 203 cured patients were discharged from the hospitals. Now, the figure of active cases stands at 1,777.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-more-succumb-to-virus-254-new-cases-in-amritsar-144851
22-09-2020||Amritsar||Guru Nanak Dev University to award doctorate in science, literature & laws||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) would confer the degree in Doctor of Science (D.Sc), Doctor of Literature (D.Litt) and Doctors of Laws (LL.D). The decision was announced in the syndicate meeting at the university, chaired by VC Prof Jaspal Sandhu, today.The VC said that a candidate seeking admission to these programmes must have pursued or pursuing outstanding research in the concerned discipline. He said that every candidate for the award of this degree must have got a PhD three academic years prior to the date of application. “The degree shall be awarded only on published work for which no other degree has been received by the candidate. However, all published works shall have to be submitted clearly indicating those parts for which a degree has been received already,” he added.He said the new courses in BSc-Microbiology (CBEGS) and MSc (USHS) Economics (four-year integrated course) (CBEGS) were approved by the Syndicate.The recommendations to change the nomenclature of MA-International Relations (South Asian Studies) to MA-International Relation; BSc-Agriculture (Hons) (CBEGS) to BSc-Agriculture (Hons) (CBEGS); MSc-Sports Physiology to MSc-Exercise and Sports Physiology, and Master in Social Work to Master of Social Work were also accorded approval. The addition/ amendments to the BPEd Integrated (4 years); BPES (3 years) and BPEd (2 years) courses were also approved.Several other amendments were also approved. As many as 26 PhD degrees were approved as well.Prof Sandhu said MoUs between the GNDU and Dr Avinash Kaur, retired professor, was also approved in which three awards entitled Prof IS Grover Memorial Lectureship Award; Sardarni Darshan Kaur and Sardar Ram Singh Memorial Young Scientist Award in Plant Sciences and Sardarni Kuldip Kaur and Sardar Gurmukh Singh Memorial Young Scientist Award in Environment Sciences, would be instituted. Apart from this, the establishment of Sandeep Singh Bath Memorial Scholarship was also approved in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-to-award-doctorate-in-science-literature-laws-144854
22-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Murder case of 22-yr-old solved; three arrested||The local police claimed to have solved the mystery of blind murder of 22-year-old youth of Muradpur locality, who was found dead a week ago. The body of deceased, identified as Vishal, was recovered from an abandoned plot in a locality. The police had registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC on the statement of Joginder Singh, father of the deceased.DSP Sucha Singh Bal said on Monday that Hari Singh, his son Sandeep Singh Bau and Dhalwinder Singh of the same locality had been arrested, while the fourth suspect, Amrit, is at large.The DSP said the victim under the influence of liquor entered the house of Hari Singh and tried to molest his teenage girl when she was sleeping. The girl woke up and raised the alarm. Meanwhile, Hari Singh and his son Sandeep Singh caught hold of Vishal and mercilessly beat him to death. The accused then threw the body of Vishal on the outskirts of the locality in the abandoned plot. A video related to the incident too had gone viral on social media in which Vishal was shown torturing by some persons which too helped the police to solve the murder case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-case-of-22-yr-old-solved-three-arrested-144855
22-09-2020||Amritsar||Home-produced manure secret behind his lush green wealth||If charity begins at home, it should begin early. When we are teaching others to inculcate eco-friendly ways of lifestyle, then why not adopt the same early in life? This is what Gunbir Singh, an environment lover, has been promoting — producing organic produce, including vegetables and crops.His Dilbir Foundation has been at the forefront of persuading farmers to go natural and grow pesticide and chemical-free food crops for sustaining healthy living.He is now advocating every citizen of the holy city to compost their green waste. He has been practising the same at his home for quite some time now. “Home produced manure is the only secret of my lush green wealth in my balconies and varandah,” he said. “In our household, we ensure that our garbage is recycled into manure, which in turn nourishes our plants and terrace garden. The greens are rain-fed, supplemented only by need-based watering sans wastage,” he pointed out.“I believe if each household recycles green garbage at their homes, our disposal system will get 70 per cent relief. The hard waste of plastic metal and glass is easily picked up and recycled without wastage,” he said, adding that every city park also had the potential of collecting their green waste in vermicomposting pits, thereby rendering themselves self-sufficient and clean. All it takes is being a responsible citizen and mindset where we care for our environment and take pride in our city, he said.In his balcony and verandah, he has planted trees of Tahli (Indian rosewood) and a fig tree in the big potsGunbir, who is also chairman of World Wildlife Fund (WWF) India, Punjab Chapter, for the past 12 years, said he was an ardent nature lover since his childhood. He has also set a kitchen garden on his rooftop. “We are preparing the space for the next season of vegetables at present,” he said.Dilbir Foundation, run by him, has been working with farmers for decades now and inculcating in them natural farm techniques and sensibilities. The #NoMorePoisonInMyFood initiative launched by the foundation brought consumers and farm on our Organic Farmers Market and The Earth Store platforms. It also organises Sunday market, where farm fresh organic vegetables are sold directly to consumers by farmers.He said it had indeed been a satisfying effort, as the need for good healthy, strong immune system and sustainable living had been a challenge during these Covid times.His foundation also ran the Amritsar — My City, My Pride, My Responsibility campaign for five years to establish this feeling among citizens. This has nurtured many organisations and dedicated volunteers, who now run independent movements for responsible citizenship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/home-produced-manure-secret-behind-his-lush-green-wealth-144857
22-09-2020||Amritsar||‘Harassed’ man ends life, wife booked||Two weeks after a man committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance, the local police today booked his estranged wife and in-laws for forcing him to take the extreme step as they reportedly never allowed the deceased to meet his son.Pushpa Rani, mother of the deceased, informed the police that her son Lekh Raj was married to Pooja of Dashmesh Nagar around 11 years ago and they had a son, Krishna. She said her son had marital dispute with Pooja and therefore she was living with her parents. She alleged they were not allowing his son Krishna to meet him so he was very upset with it.She alleged Lekh Raj consumed some poisonous substance on September 4 and his friend Sanjiv Kumar rushed him to a hospital where he died. She said the Mohkampura police at that time took action under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).She said it was later learnt that he committed suicide due to alleged harassment at the hands of his wife and in-laws. The police have registered an abetment of suicide case against his wife Pooja, father-in-law Ramesh Kumar, mother-in-law Suman, all residents of Dashmesh Nagar, and Raghu. No arrest has been made till now as the matter is under investigation, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harassed-man-ends-life-wife-booked-144858
22-09-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Programme on scientific  poultry farming at KVK||A five-day vocational training programme on ‘Integrated Fish-cum-Poultry Farming’ was organised by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh, here in which farmers from Tarn Taran and Amritsar district participated. Scientific knowledge on various aspects of fish-cum- poultry farming was covered under the programme.Dr Balwinder Kumar, Deputy Director (Training), guided the poultry and fish farmers for low-cost feed management by using moringa leaf powder and azolla as a feed ingredient. Field visit was also conducted to demonstrate production techniques of azolla and moringa. Dr Bhanu Prakash, Assistant Professor (Fisheries), explained about importance of integrated farming systems, fish farming and livestock farming systems.He also highlighted on zero feeding technology of fish farming by integrating with different livestock farming systems. Experts from different departments delivered lectures and some of the lectures conducted by online virtual mode. Dr Piverjeet Kaur Dhillon, Assistant Professor (Home Science), Dr Bhanu Prakash, Assistant Professor (Fisheries), were among the others who too addressed on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/programme-on-scientific-poultry-farming-at-kvk-144860
22-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Not satisfied with RAT? Go for RT-PCR||According to the government’s instructions, if people with suspected flu-like symptoms are found to be negative in rapid antigen test, then their RT-PCR test will also be done so that the disease can be tested properly. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-satisfied-with-rat-go-for-rt-pcr-144861
22-09-2020||It took seven years to build the historic Khalsa College in Amritsar||Khalsa College Amritsar:  A heritage marvel||The 126-year-old Khalsa College was conferred the status of a heritage institute by the UGC in 2017. The bird-eye view of the building which is a combination of Mughal, Sikh & Victorian architecture. Several areas and spaces in the main building are reminisce of a bygone era with Italian marble pillars inspired by the Mughal architecture.The college library is rich in its collection with over 6,000 books, including new and old manuscripts. In addition, there are more than 115 artefacts depicting the rich Sikh history, including ancient weapons, pictures of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and a range of paintings at the college.The museum of Sikh history on the campus has several photographs about the history of its founding members and of the time when the college campus turned into a refugee camp during the Partition.The college imparts regular religious guidelines but there is no compulsion for non-Sikhs. Prayers are held at the college gurdwara in the morning and evening and resident members and students are motivated to attend prayers.The over a century-old furniture and benches in a few classrooms have been maintained and preserved since the time of its establishment. The furniture has been re-touched to maintain the overall heritage appeal of the college. The stairway in front of the main entrance to the building is over 120 years old and is carved out in Victorian style of architecture. The main building's restoration work was carried out three years ago, which includes work on the ceiling of the main hall, Italian marble pillars at the entrance and huge French glass frames and rosewood work on the windows.One gains entry to Khalsa College, Amritsar, through this royal Gate No. 1.The 83-year-old British clock installed on top of the main building was repaired recently. It has remained non-functional for more than 13 years now. While the central clock has been restored with its original parts, there are two other vintage clocks that have been kept in the museum and converted into digital clocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-amritsar-a-heritage-marvel-144865
22-09-2020||Amritsar||Car snatched at gunpoint||Pensioners seek perks, protestAmritsar: Members of the Punjab and UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front on Monday accused Capt Amarinder Singh for ignoring their demands. Their chain-hunger strike entered the fourth day. Protesting outside the Deputy Commissioner Office, they raised slogans and sought pension and perks. Convener Gurdeep Singh Bajwa said the government has adopted anti-employee policy by not confirming contractual staff. The sit-in will continue till September 30. TNSProperty worth Rs80 Lakh seizedTarn Taran: The police have seized property worth Rs 80 lakh of a drug peddler. The accused has been identified as Nirvail Singh, a resident of Rajoke village, in Tarn Taran district. The police said they had seized property worth Rs 103 crore of 85 peddlers in the last one year to tighten the grip on drug smugglers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/car-snatched-at-gunpoint-144866
