27-09-2020||---||5 deaths, 139 +ve in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The district death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 352, with five more persons losing their lives on Saturday. The deceased have been identified Satinderjit Singh (63) of Naag Khurd village; Sania (33) of Kot Mangal Singh area on Tarn Taran Road; Gurinder Kaur (45) of Rasoolpur village; Gaurav Bahri of B-Block Ranjit Avenue; and Kishan Chand (84) of Mohindra Colony here.The district also reported 139 new cases in the past 24 hours. The new cases included 92 persons with influenza-like illness and 47 contacts of Covid patients. The total count of positive cases in the district has reached 9,377. The health authorities reported 229 recoveries, taking the total recovery count to 7,540. The number of active cases stands at 1,485.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-deaths-139-ve-in-amritsar-147307
27-09-2020||---||Absconding gangster Gurjant Singh Sunny arrested, pistol seized||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The Amritsar rural police have arrested a gangster, identified as Gurjant Singh, alias Sunny, of Thathia village falling under the Jandiala police station here.He was nabbed late last evening at a checkpoint. On seeing the police naka, he tried to run away but was overpowered by the police team, while his accomplice managed to escape from the spot. He was later identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopy, of the same village. Raids were on to nab him, said the police authorities in a statement issued here.The police said the Jandiala police got a tip-off that Gurjant and his accomplice were coming on Jandial bypass T-point in a car PB-02-CL-2248. When the police team signalled his car to spot, a youth slipped away from it while another youth Gurjant Singh was caught by the police team.During search, the police found a .32 bore pistol with six live cartridges from his possession. A case under the Arms Act was registered against them while raids were on to nab Gurpreet, the police said.Preliminary probe revealed that Gurjant was an absconder wanted in the murder of another gangster Baggi Jatana who was in Mansa in 2016. The police said further interrogation was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/absconding-gangster-gurjant-singh-sunny-arrested-pistol-seized-147308
27-09-2020||Being a doctor||‘Always stay in +ve frame of mind’||More than the disease, it was fear psychosis and stigma attached with it, which troubled us. Two caretakers hired to look after my mother, fled away after they learnt about us being tested positive. After a lot of persuasion, we were able to hire another caretaker. My kids took care of their grandmother. - Dr RS Sethi, District Health and Family Welfare OfficerI tested positive for Covid on July 22 after some doctors in my contact contracted the virus, he said.My only concern was about potentially infecting my family members, including my bed-ridden mother. My wife, too, tested positive."More than the disease, it was fear psychosis and stigma attached with it, which troubled us. Two caretakers hired to look after my mother, fled away after they learnt about us being tested positive. After a lot of persuasion, we were able to hire another caretaker. My kids took care of their grandmother," he said.My elder daughter, who is a doctor, was doing internship and was out of the city.He said, "Me and wife isolated ourselves in a room. We kept motivating each other to keep our minds away from negativity. We listened hymns and performed prayers two times a day, besides doing physical exercise in order to defeat the virus. I also used to read books to stay busy.""It is utmost important to remain in positive frame of mind and keep negative thoughts away," said Dr Sethi.He pointed out he and his wife remained asymptomatic during the 17-day isolation period.Another good thing that happened was that my friends used to call me daily and remained in touch with me.They used to boost our morale. Friends were always there to support us during the testing times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/always-stay-in-ve-frame-of-mind-147311
27-09-2020||---||Illegal liquor vend busted, 1 held||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26A day after the Amritsar rural police busted two illegal liquor vends in the rural belt, another illegal vend was exposed on the basis of a tip-off on late last evening.The police nabbed Sarabjit Singh of Umarpura village who was running an illegal vend in a shop in Budha Theh village.During raid, the police confiscated 61 litres of liquor of different brands. He was booked by the police under the Excise Act and further investigations were underway.In the past two days, the rural police have busted three such vends. Yesterday, the police had arrested two persons for running illegal vends at Mattewal and Jagdev Khurd village. Huge quantity of liquor was seized from the two vends. Those arrested were identified as Sahib Singh of Balara village and Manga of Bala Chak village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-liquor-vend-busted-1-held-147313
27-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||It is no joke! Hurdles were only stepping stones for this comedian||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26He was six, when he lost his mother and nine when he lost his father. Brought up by his paternal uncle amid financial crisis, he had to drop his studies after school education. The story of popular Jalandhar-based comedian Balraj Syal is actually quite a serious one.Before stepping into the TV world and getting popular through his shows including ‘Entertainment ki Raat’, ‘Mujhse shadi karoge’ and ‘Khatron ke Khiladi’, Balraj even had to do a lot many odd jobs here to support his family. “I worked in a pharmaceutical store. I was a salesman at a shop in Wholesale Clothes Market near Company Bagh here. I even sold inverters of Microtek Company. I even remained employed for a company selling engine oil. I took up a job at a general store till my friend Ravish convinced me to at least pursue graduation from a college to get any better employment opportunity. He paid for my fee and got me enrolled at St Soldier College here,” Syal shared.Balraj shared, “We had to deal with the loss of both the parents early in life. The loss caught us off guard. We did not even know how to react. But my uncle brought us up like his own kids. Most of my friends did not even know that they were not my real parents till I shared it in my interviews few years ago.”Sharing his early life in the city, the comedian said, “I studied at Devi Sahai Sanatan Dharam School in Basti Nau and did my Class XII from Parvati Jain School. He also admitted my sister (just a year younger) to HMV College here. Though he never dissuaded me from pursuing higher studies, I could sense that he was financially burdened. He suffered losses in his factory and was alone bearing the burden of raising five children including three of his own.”Balraj then went on to share anecdotes from his college life, “That is where my theatre life began. One of my friends Jassi Kochar pioneered to form a new theatre group in the college. We got a prize at the inter-college level and went on for the inter-zonals. The victory came as a big incentive as I became eligible for fee waiver. I worked hard aned partcipate4d in several extra-curricular activities.Belonging to a relatively lower middle class family, I faced a lot of inferiority complex when I went to participate for the inter-college event at Apeejay College riding with another friend on the same bicycle. Since I was active in theatrical activities, I managed to take admission in Apeejay College in MSc Computer Applications.”The 37-year-old artiste added, “I even met other comedians Kapil Sharma and Bharti in inter-university competitions as we became part of one team of Guru Nanak Dev University. But they were senior to me as I had a gap in my studies. The TV break came my way when I accompanied my friend for MH1 auditions. I was sitting in the waiting lounge when my friend convinced even me to go in for the auditions as there were fewer candidates and I could expect a chance. Days later, I got a call that I had been selected for comedy show Hasde Hasande Ravo.”Balraj says that the project that he enjoyed working for was ‘Entertainment ki raat’. “I spent nights along with the creative team for planning each show of it. Another project which is close to my heart was a music video ‘Shukar kar’ on problems of commoners in pandemic in which we featured Sonu Sood and Prince Narula. The project came on my label ‘Realise Music’ and the female voice in this is of my singer wife Deepti Tuli,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/it-is-no-joke-hurdles-were-only-stepping-stones-for-this-comedian-147318
27-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Cooperative society fraud: Probe shifted to Vigilance||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The Punjab Government has shifted the probe into the alleged bungling of government funds by several cooperative societies here to the Vigilance Department.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa confirmed the development to The Tribune on Saturday.The case “We wanted a detailed probe into the scam perpetrated by Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank officials in connivance with officials of the Audit Department. The bungled amount which was initially pegged at Rs3 crore has now reached Rs19 crore,” he said.Earlier, the probe was being handled by the Amritsar Rural police. Randhawa said the Director of the Vigilance Department had now been asked to conduct a thorough probe into the alleged scamIn February this year, the police registered an FIR into a fraud of Rs3 crore at Tarsikka branch of the bank. The FIR was registered under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Randhawa said the preliminary probe revealed that around Rs90 lakh was bungled in 2009, too. However, the authorities hushed up the matter then.In the FIR registered this year, four persons, including the branch manager of the bank, Rakesh Kumar, and Ram Kishore of Ludhiana were booked. Two of their accomplices, Sukhdev Singh of Sarai village and Sukhbir Singh of Bhatti village (both secretaries of the cooperative societies), were also booked. The police later arrested Rakesh Kumar and Ram Kishore.The police filed a challan in the local court on May 16. According to sources, the police investigations found that Senior Manager, District Manager, bank officials, Deputy Registrars, Assistant Registrars, inspectors of cooperative societies and officials of the Audit Department colluded and misappropriated funds running into crores.The investigation was extended to other branches of the cooperative bank, thereby unearthing a major scam. It was found that frauds were committed at five branches, including Tarsikka, Saidoke Lehal, Bhattike, Chogwan Sadhpur and Kohala, falling under the jurisdiction of the Tarsikka branch of the bank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cooperative-society-fraud-probe-shifted-to-vigilance-147321
27-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||After sales at dhaba plummet, three brothers test new waters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26Balwinder Singh (35), and his two brothers switched over to readymade women apparels business after sales at their two-decade old dhaba plummeted in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.“We got an opportunity after salesman of a local wholesaler approached us with a proposal to purchase material and pay for it after selling the item,” said Balwinder.We got an opportunity after salesman of a local wholesaler approached us with a proposal to purchase material and pay for it after selling the item. This offer looked lucrative as we could have never imagined of starting garment business as it requires high investment. The pandemic has changed the actual situation on the ground and businessmen were compelled to venture into new markets and trades.- Balwinder SinghHe said this offer looked lucrative as they could have never imagined of starting garment business as it requires high investment.The pandemic has changed the actual situation on the ground and businessmen were compelled to venture into new markets and trades, he said. “Footfall of tourists reduced due to the lockdown in Putlighar area. Even after the relaxations were announced by the Centre and the state government, people hesitated to dine out,” said Balwinder.We used to serve kulcha in breakfast, daal makhani and alloo mattar along with tandoori roti and parantha for lunch and dinner, he said.We had no other option than throwing away the cooked food and surge in the Covid cases in the city pushed us to the corner, said Balwinder.His brother, Gurdev Singh said, “Now, we are selling readymade garments, including stitched suits, frocks and gowns. As the circumstances have changed, selling readymade apparels is no longer a cakewalk.”Balwinder’s another brother, Avtar Singh, said thanks to our parents, we own a shop and house. As a result, there is no liability on us, he added.“In the given scenario, we are somehow managing to survive. It’s a daunting task to run three families from one shop,” said Avtar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-sales-at-dhaba-plummet-three-brothers-test-new-waters-147324
27-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Govt announces infra upgrade of Rs60 lakh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26As this year marks the 400th Parkash Purb of Sikh Guru Teg Bahadur, the state government announced to upgrade the infrastructure of narrow winding roads leading to his birthplace Gurdwara Guru Ka Mahal, situated in the walled city, with an investment of Rs 60 lakh.Cabinet Minister OP Soni announced this after paying obeisance at the historic gurdwara and holding a meeting with its management.He elaborated that Rs 10 lakh would be invested to raise a beautiful gate and the rest of the Rs 50 lakh would be utilised to carry out repairs, cleanliness, electrical and other works on the arterial roads leading to the Sikh shrine.He stated the civil work of Rs 72 lakh was already under way from Darshani Deorhi to Chowk Chaurasti Attari, Guru Bazaar, Khoo Bombay Walla and Toba Bhai Sallo Ji. All these roads are situated around the historic Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal.Soni assured that all these works would be completed before December 19, which is the martyrdom day of the Sikh Guru, who is also known as Hind Di Chadar.On the behalf of the gurdwara’s management, Baba Satnam Singh felicitated Soni, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Police Commissioner SS Gill, Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal and Market Committee Chairman Arun Kumar Pappal with Siropas.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu called upon the residents of the area not to park their vehicles on the roads which are already very congested. He said it would obstruct the flow of sangat who would be visiting the shrine in a large number to celebrate the quatercentenary Parkash Purb.It is believed that Guru Ramdas, who had founded the city, used to live at the historic Sikh shrine, which is close to the Golden Temple. Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Hargobind had got married here. Guru Teg Bahadur and Baba Atal Rai were born here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-announces-infra-upgrade-of-rs60-lakh-147325
27-09-2020||Amritsar||DAV College starts eight new vocational courses||DAV College Amritsar has started eight new vocational degrees for students and claimed to became the first college in the state to receive approval for starting eight new courses. The courses are BVoc degree in IT/ Ites/ data science, BVoc degree in electronics equipment: repair and maintenance, BVoc degree in accounting and taxation, BVoc degree in healthcare / pharmaceutical chemistry, BVoc degree in IT/Ites/web designing and development ( IT), BVoc degree in agriculture and greenhouse technology, BVoc degree in financial market management, BVoc degree in IT/Ites/ business process and data analytics. All these vocational courses will provide students with facility to acquire practical skills.On the occasion, Principal Rajesh Kumar said that it was a proud moment for our college to start eight new vocational courses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-college-starts-eight-new-vocational-courses-147326
27-09-2020||Amritsar||Protesters go bare-chested, extend stir||Even as farmer unions decided to suspend protest till October 1, members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KSMC) went bare-chested to show their displeasure at the Centre’s indifference here on Saturday.The blockade of the Amritsar-Delhi railway line continued as more farmers and their families arrived in tractor-trailers, buses, cars and jeeps and on motorcycles to join the protest at Devidyal Pura village, on the outskirts of the city.Taking off their shirts, they raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and lambasted his “anti-farmer” and “pro-corporate” policies.The KSMC has already extended its three-day railway line blockade till September 29.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC, said women protesters would join the railway blockade here tomorrow. On the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, i.e. September 28, youth from the farmers’ families will join them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesters-go-bare-chested-extend-stir-147142
27-09-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar farmer ends life, arhtiya among 2 held||Amid ongoing protests against the agriculture Bills, a farmer committed suicide by hanging himself over alleged harassment by an arhtiya (commission agent) and his aide. The two have been arrested. The victim has been identified as Ranjit Singh (40), a resident of Harsha Chhina village.The police have booked the commission agent, Satinderpal Singh, alias Chhindu, of Vanali village, and Jagroop Singh of Harsha Chhinna village. Satinderpal was a Congress sarpanch and vice-president of the arhtiya union.Before ending his life, the farmer wrote a suicide note and made a video, accusing the two of driving him to suicide. In the video, the farmer alleged the accused had been harassing him and his family by filing false complaints. The police have launched further probe.Victim’s brother Gurjit Singh claimed Ranjit, who had been upset for the past few months, told the family a few days ago that he had taken a loan amounting to several lakhs of rupees from the two and given them certain cheques.In his complaint to the police, he said though Ranjit had returned the money, the accused started harassing him and threatened to get a cheque dishonouring case registered against him. Gurjit said his brother ended his life by hanging himself in the house last night. Rajasansi police station SHO Narinderpal Singh said Satinderpal and Jagroop had been booked for abetting suicide. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-farmer-ends-life-arhtiya-among-2-held-147146
