28-09-2020||---||Paddy procurement begins in Amritsar, but harvesting yet to pick up the pace||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 27With the government advancing commencement of paddy procurement, the district administration has made arrangements for the exercise at 71 grain markets in the district. The procurement was earlier planned to begin on October 1. Special teams constituted to ensure straw managementHowever, the harvesting of paddy crop in the district is yet to pick up the pace. Most of the 1,377 MT of paddy varieties arriving in grain markets in the district has been procured by private players. An official of the Mandi Board said at present, only those farmers who have to sow vegetable crops have started harvesting paddy. “The crop is not fully ripened and there is high moisture content,” he said. While the government procurement guidelines require moisture content to be below 17 percent, private players usually purchase the crop with higher moisture at a lower price.Meanwhile, at a meeting with officials of procurement agencies and the Mandi Board, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has asked them to ensure Covid-19 safety guidelines were followed in grain markets.He also directed the Sub Divisional Magistrates to visit mandis in their respective areas and keep a tab on the procurement. He said the MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal has been fixed for A-grade paddy. Khaira said farmers should bring fully ripened crop with moisture below the permissible limit, so that they do not have to wait for long to sell their produce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paddy-procurement-begins-in-amritsar-but-harvesting-yet-to-pick-up-the-pace-147755
28-09-2020||---||Amritsar MC ready to fight dengue: Mayor||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 27It is a double whammy for residents as along with the Covid-19 pandemic, dengue cases are also being reported in the city. The Municipal Corporation pulled up its socks to curb the breeding of mosquitoes to prevent the spread of dengue.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the health wing of the MC was fully prepared to fight dengue in the city. He said as compared to the previous years, they have more fogging and handy spray machines.The city Mayor said instructions had already been issued to the Health Department officials in a meeting with them and according to the roster, fogging is being done in the wards of the five assembly constituencies every day. The Mayor said everyday, six machines are being operated in six wards and the remaining 10 hand fogging machines are being sent to other wards on the basis of requirement or complaint. At the same time, eight hand spray teams have been working in the inner walled city. Similarly, spraying with hand pumps is also being done in the drains.All the fogging work being conducted in collaboration with the health department teams. Mayor Rintu stated that joint work is also going on with the teams of Health Department. Mayor asked the residents to keep cleanliness.Dos and don’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-ready-to-fight-dengue-mayor-147756
28-09-2020||---||Five deaths, 166 positive cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 27With five deaths reported by the Health Department on Sunday, the district toll reached 357. The deceased have been identified as Vinod Kumar (65) of the Ram Bagh area, Surjit Singh (50) of Ram Tirath road locality, Jagir Singh (60) of Jasraour village, Bachan Singh (59) of Baba Deep Singh colony and Manjit Kaur (75) of Rasoolpur Kalan village.The district also reported 166 new cases, taking the total count of infections to 9,543. The new cases include 84 persons with influenza-like illness cases and 82 contacts of Covid patients. With 212 patients recovering in the past 24 hours, the recovery count has increased to 7,752.The administration had asked all diagnostic labs to report details of patients with Covid-19 symptoms coming for scans as X-ray and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-deaths-166-positive-cases-in-amritsar-147757
28-09-2020||---||Girl among four booked for abduction, rape of 18-yr-old||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 27The Chheharta police have booked four persons, including a girl, for allegedly kidnapping and raping an 18-year-old girl. According to the complainant, the accused took her to some hotel in Chandigarh where the prime accused identified as Akashpreet Singh of Sher Shah Suri road, Chheharta, forcibly made physical relations with her.Besides, Akashpreet, other accused who have been booked in the case are Randhir Singh, Rana and Charanjit Kaur. A case under Sections 365, 376-D, 120-B and 506 of the IPC has been registered against them while no arrest has been made till now.The victim stated to the police that she was a student of Class XII at a private school where the accused also used to study with her. She said Akashpreet proposed to her but she declined her proposal. She said on September 22, she was at her home when the accused knocked at the door in the night. She said when she opened, the accused pushed her into the car. She said the other accused were also in the car.She said the accused took her to a hotel and Akashpreet raped her. She said the next day, she saw her uncle in Chandigarh. She said she somehow managed to escape as on seeing her uncle, the accused fled. The Chheharta police authorities said the medical examination of the girl was conducted while further investigations were under progress. They said efforts were on to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-among-four-booked-for-abduction-rape-of-18-yr-old-147758
28-09-2020||---||PHRO seeks CBI probe into Amritsar cooperative bank scam||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 27Days after the state government shifted investigation into the alleged bungling of government funds by various cooperative societies under the Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) on Sunday sought a CBI probe into the case.The PHRO’s principal investigator, Sarabjit Singh Verka, alleged that even after a lapse of seven months, the authorities could not wind up the probe. No further arrests were made in the case registered in February this year, he said.As per rules, any bank fraud over Rs 25 crore should be transferred to the CBI, he said. Verka pointed out that in the scam, the Amritsar rural police have unearthed bungling of Rs 19 crore by five cooperative societies under the Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank so far. “If a thorough probe is conducted in all cooperative societies in Punjab, the amount bungled would come around hundreds of crores,” he claimed.The fraudIn February this year, the police registered an FIR into a fraud of Rs3 crore at Tarsikka branch of the Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank. Four persons, including the branch manager of the bank, Rakesh Kumar, and Ram Kishore of Ludhiana, two secretaries of cooperative societies identified as Sukhdev Singh of Sarai village and Sukhbir Singh of Bhatti village were booked. Rakesh Kumar and Ram Kishore were arrested.The police filed a challan in the local court on May 16. According to sources, the police investigations found that Senior Manager, District Manager, bank officials, Deputy Registrars, Assistant Registrars, inspectors of cooperative societies and officials of the Audit Department colluded to misappropriate several crores.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phro-seeks-cbi-probe-into-amritsar-cooperative-bank-scam-147759
28-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Sold land to pay back my loan: Farmer||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 27I have sold off 3 acres to pay back a loan of Rs14 lakh, said crestfallen Avtar Singh, who was among the farmers squatting on railway tracks to protest against the farm Bills passed in Parliament.He said all calculations to pay back loan by selling the next crop fall flat as there remains a wide gap between the quoted procurement price and the actual price in the market. Expenditures were increasing but the income had been standstill, he said.The protest called by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on the Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidyal Pura village, situated on the outskirts of the city, entered its fourth day on Sunday.His is not a case in isolation. There are many farmers who were facing heat due to reducing income and the rising tilling cost. Narrating their plight, farmers who are under debt said the three farm laws should be revoked.Wearing kesari ‘chunnis’, women protesters, too, joined the railway blockade. On the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on Monday, youth from the farming community would also join the protest.The KMSC on Monday would hold a meeting at the protest site to chalk out the next course of action. Even as some farmer organisations are lifting their agitations in various parts of the state, the KSMC wants to continue the stir until it reaches a logical conclusion.Protesting farmers raised slogans against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and lambasted his ‘anti-farmer’ and ‘pro-corporate’ policies.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said the Prime Minister continued to flay the Opposition for misguiding farmers on the agriculture laws. It showed Modi thinks farmers were still dependent on political parties to form an opinion on the Bills passed in Parliament, he said.Meanwhile, Giani Harnam Singh Khalsa, the head of Damdami Taksal, has asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to convene an all-party meeting to turn the farm Bills recently passed by Parliament ineffective in the state.Women protesters burn Centre’s effigy in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: On the fourth day of the ‘rail roko’ agitation against the farm Bills, women activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, on Sunday blocked the national highway at Piddi village. The women protesters took out a rally and burnt an effigy of the Union Government. Devinder Kaur, Sukhwant Kaur and Joginder Kaur were among the prominent speakers who addressed on the occasion. They said the government that they would not allow implementation of the farm Bills in the same form, which are against the interest of the farmers and people of the Punjab.The protesters organised a rally near the site of the ‘pakka morcha’ and blocked trains. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sold-land-to-pay-back-my-loan-farmer-147760
28-09-2020||Do you think farmers’ protest is justified and the Centre must have a rethink?||Centre must allay fears of farmers, strengthen MSP system||Centre should clear doubts of farmersSadly, an act which is said to be in favour of farming community is being opposed by beneficiaries. The Centre must think about it, but politicians hardly care to discuss issues, which affect masses. Arhtiyas don’t act as middleman to sell farm produce, but they come forward to help farmers at the time of need. Before getting arhtiyas out of the system, the Centre must provide an alternative to farming community to meet financial requirements. The Centre claims that minimum support price would remain in force and mandi boards would work as usual. Initially, private players may provide lucrative rates, but with passage of time as mandi boards would become a loss making proposition, they would exploit farmers. Farmers would not be able to know and understand hidden clauses in the contract farming. Importance of the Essential Commodity Act would be known only when hoarding takes place in case of a natural calamity. In the past, private players had taken the government land at throwaway prices for educational institutions and hospitals, but they never provided free services to weaker section of the society. The Central Government must act immediately to clear all the doubts of farmers related to the Bills passed recently in Parliament.Harsh N JoharFarm Bills will harm state economyIt is a plan of the Centre to disrupt the entire economy of agrarian states, including Punjab. If the farm Bills become laws than the Food Corporation of India will cease to exist. Then minimum support price (MSP) will not matter. The MSP for maize is Rs 1,850 per quintal, but as the FCI does not purchase maize, it sells for Rs 600 per quintal. Similarly, paddy and wheat would sell for Rs 1,200, which will be way below its MSP. As demonetisation, flawed implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) and the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak brought economy down, the farm Bills will affect the GDP of nation. Farmers in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, among others, will suffer massive loss. Businesses related to clothes, general stores and brick- kilns will come to a standstill.Anjali MidhaCentre’s move to benefit big tradersFarmers are not at all satisfied with the farm Bills passed by Parliament recently. The Centre has failed to justify what reforms the Bills would bring in near future or how it would assist in doubling the income of farming community. What is the benefit of such reforms if farmers are protesting pan India? Arhtiyas and numerous trade unions have joined farmers during these testing times. These Bills will benefit just corporate thus the government should rethink. Laws are made for people and if they are the ones who are protesting then for whose benefit have they been passed? Government should sit farmers and discuss all the issues related to the farm Bills to safeguard the interests of the latter.Rohit Kumar SehdevFarm Bills should have clause on MSPVerbal message holds no value in the court. As a result, farming community cannot approach the courts for fair compensation because Prime Minister Narendra Modi said something on camera, but the same message finds no mention in the farm Bills. According to PM Modi, even demonetisation was a success. A clause stating that corporates cannot purchase below the MSP would have not created this situation in the first place. If the Centre was serious that the Bill was legitimate, they should have gone for proper voting in the Rajya Sabha. Passing the Bills by voice vote shows how desperate the government is to help big traders. A clause related to hoarding by corporates could also have been added. According to RBI survey, farmers prioritise reliable weather forecasts and better storage facilities than removal of intermediaries. Concerns of the states should have been heard as agriculture is a State Subject. The Centre should frame policies after consulting the states concerned.Aakarshan BatishThink about small, marginal farmersFarmers in Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against the farms bills passed by Parliament. The Bills have fuelled protests from farming community, which is getting all the assistance from various trade unions. The Bills aim to open up agricultural sale and marketing outside the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee or APMC mandis for farmers, remove barriers of inter-state trade and provides a framework for electronic trading of agricultural produce. However, it also removes cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities. Some sections fear that this will compromise our food security. They must know that the Food Corporation of India will continue to stock essential commodities, including wheat and rice. While the Opposition has echoed farmers in alleging that the new legislation will benefit only big farmers and hoarders, the government said the provisions will benefit all, including farmers, consumers and traders. Wholesale markets, which play a crucial role in ensuring timely payment to small farmers, would lose their relevance and even gradually disappear if large buyers are allowed to buy directly from growers. Nearly 85 per cent of India’s poor farmers own less than five acres of land and they will find it difficult to directly negotiate with corporates. Without offering an alternative arrangement to small growers, such as private markets or direct-purchase centres, the Bills do not make any sense. The Contract Farming Bill provides for a national framework on farming agreements. A big advantage of contract farming is that investments will come from agri-business firms. How can a small-scale farmer enter into a contract with big companies? The Central Government should think about small farmers.AMARJIT KALSINo guarantee that traders will pay MSPFarmers are called backbone of Indian economy, however, they are treated shabbily as demonstrated by the passage of three contentious farm Bills without much discussion or proper voting mechanism. The Bills are blatantly anti- farmers. Farming community is rightly up in arms against the Bills as they have been imposed upon them in a dictatorial manner. Farmers want profitable sales of their produce in the form of MSP, but the Bills threaten to abolish the same MSP. Farmers contend that the Bills will pave way for monopoly by a section of private players, besides it is going to lead to a replication of old structure outside mandis and will create two market spaces with two sets of rules. Moreover, it is a brazen act of intrusion into states’ jurisdiction which the Centre has initiated under the cover of the Covid-19 outbreak. Farmers are also not in favour of sidelining arhtyias who have been long considered the lifeline of rural economy. They aver that mandis, which are an age-old trusted platform for farmers to sell their produce, will be done away with. Although the Centre asserts that the Bills seek to free agriculture trade from all restrictions, it doesn’t cut much ice with farming community. The plea that the Bills will open the farm sector to more competition, modernisation of supply chain enabling bigger agri business to engage with farmers directly and creating seamless access to fragmented markets , disastrously failed to convince farmers. The Centre must give farmers a patient hearing rather than thrusting its arbitrary will upon them. There is no guarantee that private players will buy farmers’ produce at MSP. The government miserably failed to allay the fears of farmers. To leave them at the mercy of exploitative private firms does not augur well if the government wants to double their income by 2022.Tarsem S BumrahHold talks with stakeholdersOne wonders why the Centre needs to change the well established norms in farming sector and that too at a time when the entire country is battling Covid-19 pandemic. The Central Government has made a mistake of choosing free-market structure from western countries over India’s successful mandi pattern. The move will favour big firms at the cost of public enterprises, farmers and labourers. The farm Bills will adversely affect India’s federal structure and intrude the state government’s jurisdiction. Without rushing for its implementation, the Union Government should talk to the stakeholders. We are moving from democratic nation towards dictatorship– absolute majority is harmful for democracy. Seeds and chemicals are provided by corporates and public sector firms and no action is taken in case they are ineffective or of inferior quality. The real problem is that agriculture sector in India has become a costly affair. The need of the hour is to reduce the cost of production to save farmers from mounting debt. None of the political party discusses the issues affecting farmers.Gursharan Singh KainthIncome of farmers will witness increaseThe reforms in the agriculture sector were long overdue and the proposed farm Bills are a step in the right direction. They aim at increasing the income of farmers. If the free market concept is successful in other sectors of the national economy, why not in the agriculture sector? Farmers are being misled by political parties with vested interest. Big landlords and commission agents keep gullible farmers in their financial shackles to reap rich gains through purchase of their harvests at low throwaway prices. But with passing of these Bills, farmers will be free to sell their products in the pan-India market at higher sale prices and the payments will made in three days. The Bills will free farmers from the clutches of commission agents. The income of famers is bound to rise.Anil VinayakFarmers will Have no bargaining powerAll three Bills are anti-farmer. The one on essential commodities removes all cereals, pulses, oilseeds, potato and onion from trade restrictions and price control which will ultimately benefit only the middlemen and traders but not the farmers. The new Bills have given a free hand to private corporates to exploit farmers. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, aims to open up agricultural marketing outside notified ‘mandis’ for farmers, owing to which private companies will establish private ‘mandis’ which will be outside of government regulation. The provision on dispute resolution does not sufficiently safeguard farmers’ interests. It provides that in case of a dispute arising between a farmer and a trader, the parties may seek a mutually acceptable solution by filing an application to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, who shall refer such dispute to a conciliation board for facilitating the settlement of the dispute. This system is not practical for farmers and can be misused against them. These laws make no mention whatsoever of the minimum support price which is the lifeline of poor farmers. It will throw small farmers before big sharks.Saanya AggarwalQUESTIONAs the tourism industry was one of the first casualties of the Covid pandemic, many livelihoods dependent on it were hit. For the first time, World Tourism Day was celebrated under the Covid shadow on September 27. What steps can be taken to revive tourism in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-must-allay-fears-of-farmers-strengthen-msp-system-147761
28-09-2020||---||Amid protests, SGPC to present its budget today||Amritsar, September 27Amid the Covid-19 threat, the SGPC is all set to present its annual budget for 2020-21 at Teja Singh Samundri Hall tomorrow.The budget session, which was supposed to be held on March 28, was suspended due to restrictions in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The SGPC mainly gets its income through donations that it receives from shrines. With a drastic footfall of devotees, the SGPC’s income has also reduced by around 30 per cent and it is likely to have an impact on the proposed budget too. The last year’s budget was Rs 1,205 crore.Iincome down by 30% during pandemicThe SGPC mainly gets its income through donations that it receives from shrines. With a drastic footfall of devotees during the Covid pandemic, the SGPC’s income has also reduced by around 30 per cent and it is likely to have an impact on the proposed budget too. The last year’s budget was Rs1,205 crore.The SGPC has to commemorate two major occasions: The centenary of the apex body that falls on November 21, 2020, and the 400th centenary of Guru Teg Bahadur on April 18, 2021.It is estimated that total 215 establishments are running under the SGPC, including 120 schools and colleges. The salary bills of the employees, the maintenance of the buildings and expenses of administrative affairs stood still as compulsory. On the other hand, the revenue generated from around 79 gurdwaras was decreased since April.The total collection of donations from all gurdwaras, including the Golden Temple, Takht Kesgarh Sahib and Damdama Sahib, was around Rs 690 crore during 2019-20. The annual expenditure of the Golden Temple community kitchen was Rs 44 crore during the last financial year.On the other hand, activists of radical Sikh organisations have announced intercepting the SGPC members prior to the budget session. Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said the purpose was to awaken their conscience so that they could also question the management about the misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-protests-sgpc-to-present-its-budget-today-147638
28-09-2020||---||Women join farmers’ protest, block railway line in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 27The farmers’ blockade of the Amritsar-Delhi railway line from Devidyal Pura village today received a shot in the arm after women from nearby places joined their protest.Showing solidarity with them, the SGPC today directed all gurdwara managements under it to provide non-stop langar to the agitating farmers and their families.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “Participation of women in any protest gives fillip to its intensity. So we had sought their support and are obliged that hundreds of women from nearby villages turned up to boost our morale.”Taking a jibe at breaking up of the SAD-BJP alliance, he said it became a political compulsion for the SAD to snap ties with the NDA. “Basically, the NDA had created such a situation that SAD had no choice but to call quits in an attempt to save its political ground. Followed by Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation, the SAD’s move to break alliance can be considered as a big win for farmers,” he said.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the Sikh apex body supported the farmers’ interest at the first place.BKU Sidhupur protest enters Day 25Bathinda: The protest by farmers under the banner of the BKU Ekta Sidhupur entered 25th day in Bathinda on Sunday. Union leaders said the administration had assured them their demands would be met, but nothing had been done so far. The union has now given a call for a protest on September 29. BKU Sidhupur leader Kaka Singh Kotra said, “We are protesting the decision to create Mandikalan Nagar Panchayat a gram panchayat and demanding cancelling of cases registered against farmers for stubble-burning.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-join-farmers-protest-block-railway-line-in-amritsar-147628
