29-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar airport records 29.1% rise in passenger footfall in August||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport has recorded a 29.1 per cent rise in passenger footfall in August as compared to July, as per the data tweeted by the Airport Authority of India (AAI).With the government relaxing flying norms, the number of domestic passengers increased to 31,652 in August from 22,389 in July. A marked change in movement of domestic flights was also witnessed ie 266 to 376. Meanwhile, international travels increased from 58 in July to 83 in August but the total number of passengers increased only by a small number from 9,837 to 9,956.The number of international passengers shall probably increase in coming months as Air India and other airlines added more flights, including once a week direct flight to London’s Heathrow and Birmingham airports in the UK. During the month of August, airlines from UAE (Fly Dubai, Air Arabia) and Kuwait (Jazeera) also operated special flights to Amritsar under the temporary air-bubble agreements. These airlines from UAE did not get permission to fly from September onwards to Amritsar.Middle-eastern carriers for many years have been willing to operate to Amritsar but unable to do as the airport is not included in the bilateral air agreements with India.Pleased with the increase in passenger footfall and flights, the global convener of FlyAmritsar initiative, Sameep Singh Gumtala, stated that despite pandemic there was a significant rise. It suggested that there is tremendous potential for more international flights from the airport.After almost 10 years, on August 25 the national carrier Air India operated its first direct flight between London and Amritsar.Gumtala said: “We are thankful to the national carrier and the Ministry of Civil Aviation for continuing these special flights under Vande Bharat Mission till October 24 and have appealed for permanent scheduled flights in future for Heathrow Airport from the SGRDJI Airport.”He also said NRIs of Punjabi origin were disappointed that despite handling the maximum number of 25 special repatriation flights by the Canadian foreign office that flew 7,500 Canadians back home during the lockdown period in April-May, Air India under the current Vande Bharat Mission operated many flights yet the national carrier is not operating any direct flights from Amritsar to Toronto or Vancouver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-airport-records-29-1-rise-in-passenger-footfall-in-august-148292
29-09-2020||Amritsar||15 farmers fined for stubble burning||The district administration has challaned 15 farmers and imposed fine to the tune of Rs55, 000 for burning crop residue.A nodal officer has been deputed to keep a check on the issue. Gurpreet Khehra, Deputy Commissioner, told that satellite imagery has detected 318 places in the district. He said officials of Punjab Pollution Control Board visited around 150 villages and confirmed 54 such instances whereby farmers put the stubble on fire contributing to air pollution. Out of them 15 were challaned on Monday while the process to hit remaining 39 peasants is underway. He said SDMs were visiting villages and advising farmers to refrain from burning the residue. They advocated use of bailer machines for making bundles of the straw. Harpal Singh, executive engineer Punjab Pollution Control Board, said revenue department has been asked to make ‘red entries’ in the record of as many as 29 farmers who have taken to the task.Meanwhile, Amritsar rural police asked SHOs of all police stations and DSPs rank officers to keep an eye on the offenders indulging in the activity in their jurisdiction.Authorities said that every step would be taken to desist the farmers from burning straw. They said SHOs were asked to instruct village police officers to inform senior officials about the farmers involved in the stubble burning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-farmers-fined-for-stubble-burning-148293
29-09-2020||---||Amritsar toll is 364 now as seven more succumb||Amritsar, September 28With seven more deaths reported due to Covid-19 in district, the toll has reached 364. The deceased have been identified as Lakhwinder Kaur (36), a resident of Kot Khalsa, Surinder Singh (70) from Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Ram Nath (79) from Tarsikka, Som Nath (65) from Krishna Kot (Islamabad), Pritpal Singh (70) of Islamabad, Mankirat Singh of Prem Nagar and Harbans Singh (77) of Anand Avenue.With 166 new positive cases reported in the last 24 hours, the infection count has also increased to 9,709. The new cases include 88 influenza like illness cases and 78 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 232 more patients, the recovery count has also increased to 7,984. At present, the district has 1,361 active cases.Meanwhile, the Health Department in Tarn Taran district has started distribution of health kits to home isolated Covid-19 patients. Civil Surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said the kit includes pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, sanitiser, immunity booster syrup, cough syrup, vitamin C and paracetamol, besides other essentials.He added that during home isolation, the patient should stay in a separate room and cover his mouth and nose well with a handkerchief when coughing or sneezing. Regarding the use of pulse oximeter, he said it was important to measure the oxygen saturation level regularly and in case of a drop, the patient must be shifted to the hospital immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-toll-is-364-now-as-seven-more-succumb-148295
29-09-2020||RECOVERING successfully from Covid-19||‘Never hesitate from seeking medical help’||People often ask me how I contracted the infection. I don’t think it is appropriate to ask this. We should stop this blame game. Nobody infects anybody on purpose. It is on us to see whether we are taking enough precautions or not. - Arjun Singh, laboratory assistant at Government Medical College“After my shift at the lab I went home and felt a little uneasy. It was a low grade fever initially. As I had tested negative for Covid a few days ago, I felt it might be typhoid or some other common viral infection,” he said, adding that he consulted a doctor and began his medication.In the next two days, Arjun stated that his fever increased. “It would remain 103 or 104 degrees Fahrenheit. I also talked to one of my friends who had recovered recently to know about the symptoms he had developed. By that time, I had also lost my sense of smell and taste,” he said.Arjun said his decision to get admitted to the hospital helped him in his recovery. “No one had tested positive at my home, but I was still worried about them. Besides, it is not possible to manage a patient with severe symptoms at home. So, I decided to get admitted from where I was discharged after eight days,” he said.Arjun said people should not fear unnecessarily but at the same time, must also not lower their guard. “They tend to panic when someone in their locality tests positive. They must understand that how the virus works. Proper information regarding the symptoms and disease management is must,” he said.He added, “People often ask me how I contracted the infection.I don’t think this is an appropriate to ask. We should stop this blame game. Nobody infects anybody on purpose. It is on us to see whether we are taking enough precautions or not.” Arjun said he would be joining his duty in the next few days.  (As told to Manmeet Singh Gill)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/never-hesitate-from-seeking-medical-help-148297
29-09-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||A communist stalwart, he says his ideology still holds the fort||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28The district boasts of producing communist stalwarts such as Sohan Singh Josh, Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna, Satyapal Dang, Vimla Dang, to name a few. In the current scenario, when the support base of communist parties has been widely eroded and even their ideology seems to have lost its relevance, one of the remaining torch bearers of the ideology, Amarjit Singh Asal of the Communist Party of India feels that the ideology is still relevant and is the only way out for the masses in the current economic and political scenario.The youth has come out to protest in an unprecedented way. Now, it is upon us (communist leadership) to show them the right path and strategy. -  Amarjit Singh AsalWhile a few belonging to the old school as Asal are still holding fort, in an interaction with The Tribune, Asal said he still has hope. “The ideology is far more relevant here as was at any time in the history. The farming community has stood against the fascist forces and the country is going through a crucial time.”Asal added sometimes communist leaders get frustrated as they do not get the desired results. “It happens due to ideological immaturity. Sometimes, even the future generations tend to reap the benefits of this fruit.”Replying to the query regarding communist parties having shortage of committed recruits from the young generation, Asal said, “The youth has come out to protest in an unprecedented way. Now, it is upon us (communist leadership) to show them the right path and strategy.”However, he feels that with the decline of the industry in the border belt, the communist movement was hit hard. “Our party is the party of the labour class. Besides, the middle class which used to be a stronghold of communists has also witnessed several changes.”Born in Asal village near Patti in Tarn Taran district, Amarjit got inclined towards communism while studying in Class VIII. “A teacher delivered a lecture on socialism. Born in a family with limited means, I felt as if the lecture was about us and for us,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-communist-stalwart-he-says-his-ideology-still-holds-the-fort-148298
29-09-2020||---||Small is beautiful for this bonsai enthusiast||PK JaiswarTribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Growing bonsai trees is an art which requires a lot of patience. Not only is it a fascinating, but it also brings a person close to nature.“Though I have been an ardent lover of plants since long, I was introduced to the bonsai art of growing trees in containers and pots during a tip to Mumbai, a few years back,” says Ragini Sharma, director Finance Department in Amritsar College of Engineering. An avid nature lover, she has also grown plants through Kokedama technique, a Japanese gardening technique.At present, she has a collection of around 300 bonsais in her house in Basant Avenue and Bonsai studio which she created in her farm on the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road, near Rajewal village here.“I got trained in cultivating the bonsai from Delhi. Besides, I also learned this art from Internet,” she said. It is a very satisfying hobby, she added.She mainly has Jade or elephant bush, Ficus including Pipal, banyan and varieties of pilkan. She also owns fruit trees such as chiku, gauva and pomegranate as bonsai trees. She said forest style of Christmas trees of bonsai is one of her favourites. She also shaped a couple of palms into beautiful bonsai. Adenium or desert rose plants were also planted in the forest style of bonsai.Like every plant, bonsai also need care, love and your time. “They need re potting and pruning from time to time,” she said.“There are different styles for creating bonsai. These including Penjing, mame, forest, root over rock, literati etc. We create bonsai by pruning and wiring method. Wire is used for support and giving it desired shape,” Ragini said.“Creating a bonsai plant needs patience, knowledge and technique. It can be an expensive affair. Collecting raw material for bonsai is problematic. Copper or Aluminium wires are used for wiring and it not easy to get. We procure it from Delhi while it also needs a special type of bonsai pots which are a bit expensive,” she pointed out. “During the recent lockdown, it became difficult to get the pots. Therefore, I am getting it prepared in the farm itself,” Ragini said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/small-is-beautiful-for-this-bonsai-enthusiast-148299
29-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Not even a word! World Tourism Day passes off silently in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Even as tourism is the mainstay of the city’s finances yet no stress was laid on its importance on the World Tourism Day which passed off lackadaisically on Sunday. Neither the government nor district administration, hard pressed to handle the pandemic, had time to chalk out any programme to lift the sagging morale of tourism industry.The outbreak has had a paralysing effect on the businesses. Those dependent on tourism for their livelihood found themselves cornered losing jobs and finally running out of savings. Gurinder Singh Johal, a senior member of the Amritsar Guide Association had witnessed it all and says the holy city was no exception. “Countless jobs were lost, every country managed it according to interests of all but tourism workmen in India were left at the mercy of God,” he adds.He rues that the state government and tourism department did not do anything to sapre the blushes of the taxi drivers, hotels’ staff etc and those working at the Gobindgarh fort, Sada Pind.“People appointed at these places have been out of work for last six months but neither Tourism Minister nor secretary tourism, did anything for them. They never bothered to take notice of their plight,” he says.He requested the government to compensate these people through policies and plans. Like waiving off their electricity bill, transfer some cash in their accounts or incurring fee expenses of their children.Apart from religious sites like the Golden Temple, Durgiana temple and Ramtirath temple, which is believed to be the hermitage of Bhagwan Valmiki, the city houses numerous fascinating array of sightseeing places like Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, a panorama depicting life of the legendary king, Pul Kanjri — a tourism site associated with the Maharaja, Jallianwala Bagh, Gobindgarh fort, heritage village, war and partition museums among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-even-a-word-world-tourism-day-passes-off-silently-in-amritsar-148300
29-09-2020||Amritsar||KMSC extends ‘rail roko’ protest by three more days||The farmers will extend the railway blockade by three more days, this was announced by Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC). Now, the protest will continue till October 2.To mark the birth anniversary of Shahid Bhagat Singh, agitating farmers wore kesari-coloured turbans and joined the railway blockade at the Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidas Pura village, situated on the outskirts of the city. No rail movement took place in the district today.They raised slogans against the Narendra Modi led government. Even as some farmer organisations have been lifting their agitations in different parts of the state, the KMSC wished to continue the stir until the issue reaches a logical conclusion.Addressing the media, Pandher said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was following the policies of the corporate houses and favouring them at the cost of farmers. He lambasted the ‘anti-farmer’ and ‘pro-corporate’ policies of the government. He hoped that the agitation would soon take a pan-India shape, which will change the discourse of the national politics. He asked Haryana leader Dushayant Chautala to sever ties with the BJP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-extends-rail-roko-protest-by-three-more-days-148301
29-09-2020||---||‘Don’t delay hospital visits due to Covid’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28On the occasion of World Heart Day, Dr Arun Chopra, Interventional Cardiologist and Director, Fortis Escorts Hospital, advised heart patients to seek timely treatment and not ignore their symptoms due to the fear of Covid-19.“The heart patients must be aware that if they have a heart condition that requires monitoring, they must report immediately to a hospital for proper diagnosis and treatment. If the need for stent arises, they must not delay the procedure for the fear of Covid infection, as all multi-specialty hospitals have strict protocols to keep Covid-19 and non-Covid patients separate,” he said.He added that delaying a hospital visit can prove fatal. He added that in the current scenario, it has been seen that patients keep on delaying their visit to the hospital until their condition really worsens. He said in such cases, critical care and intervention becomes necessary.He added that due to Covid, patients are fearful of stepping into hospitals and are seeking treatment on phone or visiting small general clinics which may prove to be risky. “We have seen a steep rise in mechanical complications such as Ventricular Septal Defect (VSD), a rare and serious complication developed when a heart attack is not treated in time. In the last 4-5 months, there have been many more cases of VSD than usual times,” he said.Citing a case, Dr Arun Chopra said a male patient aged 53 from Pathankot reached the hospital with severe breathlessness and chest pain. “It appeared that it was a case of heart attack and Covid both, even though Covid PCR and antigen tests showed negative result,” he said.“He had suffered a heart attack possibly 3-4 days before he came to our hospital and thus treatment was delayed by 3-4 days. We could have simply performed a stent procedure using a Drug Eluting Stent (DES) such as Platinum Chromium stent to improve his condition but since he came very late, we had to perform bypass surgery and the VSD closure,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-delay-hospital-visits-due-to-covid-148302
29-09-2020||Amritsar||Sikh activists stage protest against missing ‘saroops’||Raising the pitch for the resignation of SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, a large number of activists associated with Dal Khalsa and SAD (Amritsar) staged a protest rally outside the SGPC headquarters where annual budget session was held today. Carrying the placards, they asked for the whereabouts of missing 328 saroops.The protest was led by Harpal Singh Cheema and Emaan Singh Mann. Both the leaders asked Longowal to resign on moral grounds as under him the SGPC has failed to disclose the whereabouts of disappeared saroops. They demanded strict punishment for the guilty officials who have been indicted by the probe panel. Protesters were highly critical of SGPC making somersaults on their decisions.Protesters led by Kanwar Pal Singh handed over the questionnaire to SGPC members aimed to awaken their conscience and make them accountable before the Panth. A youth carrying placard stated that 'SGPC is in the wrong hands'. Activists of SAD (Democratic), Akal Federation and Sikh Youth of Punjab also joined the protest.AAP delegation meets Akal Takht JathedarAam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation led by MLA Baljinder Kaur, Jai Kishan Singh Rori and Kulwant Singh met Giani Harpreet Singh, Jathedar of Akal Takht, on Monday and handed over a memorandum demanding strict restraint of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) from misusing gurdwaras and Takht Sahibs for their personal and political purposes.Addressing the media on the occasion, Baljinder Kaur said that there were times when Shiromani Akali Dal used to work for the betterment of Panth, Punjab and Sarbat, but in recent times it is on the verge of political collapse as its present leaders have abandoned its basic features, principles and have started managing the party like a private company. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-activists-stage-protest-against-missing-saroops-148303
29-09-2020||---||2 rape incidents reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 28The holy city witnessed two separate rape incidents in which three persons including a couple was booked by the police. The Ajnala police have booked Gurnam Singh, a resident of Khanwal village, along with his wife for allegedly raping a teenage girl of the area. The victim told police that on Sunday, at around 10am, when she was alone at home Gurnam called and took her to his place. She alleged that the suspect locked the room and raped her while his wife stood outside. All her resistance was muffled. On her complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 376, 120-B of the IPC against the duo while no arrest has been made till now.Meanwhile, Maqboolpura police have booked Sonu of Verka for allegedly raping a girl on the pretext of marrying her. The incident happened around two months ago, the complainant alleged. She told the police that the suspect was her distant relative and were in love with each other. He took her to a relative’s home at Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar and raped her. She further alleged that the accused now wanted to get rid of her. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-rape-incidents-reported-in-amritsar-148304
29-09-2020||---||‘Theatre-Wallahs’ organise online workshop||Amritsar, September 28Theatre-Wallahs, a local theatre group, organised an online workshop titled, ‘Theatre in the Time of Covid-19’ in collaboration with Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Dr Devinder Singh, Registrar, Khalsa College, Amritsar and Mushtaq Kak, director of over 100 plays and recipient of the prestigious Sangeek Natak Academi Award participated in the workshop. The attendees were certified with an e certificate by the Theatre-Wallahs and GNDU. The workshop has been organised to encourage theatre artists to adapt to covid-19 and help digitise theatre until it’’s safer to have a large number of people together.Sandhya Sikka, media head of theater group, stated that ‘Theatre-Wallahs’ is an Amritsar based not for profit society that promotes talents of non-professionals through the mediums of theatre and short films. With over 500 members, Theatre Wallahs aims at reviving the culture for stage and theatre in Amritsar. They have managed to produce several short films along with a campaign titled Theatre for Mental Health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theatre-wallahs-organise-online-workshop-148306
29-09-2020||---||Hockey Olympian working on another book||Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Step into his house at Radio Colony and you will feel like having entered a nice photo gallery. Preserved and arranged in a tasteful manner, hockey Olympian Col Balbir Singh Kular (76) has put up photographs and memorabilia of his yesteryears along the two long parallel walls of the lobby area.His memorabiliaAll photographs have been mounted on highlighted background. The prominent ones include a group photograph of the Indian hockey team that won the Asian gold medal in Bangkok in 1966 and his picture with former President Zakir Hussain while receiving the Arjuna Award at a young age as a cadet.In fact, the gallery has his pictures with six former Presidents — S Radha Krishnan, VV Giri, Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, Giani Zail Singh and Shankar Dyal Sharma. The gallery also has his picture with hockey wizard Dhyan Chand, dating back to December 1971.Besides, he has all his medals and badges put up on a glass-covered box, a group picture “The Balbirs” portraying him with three other namesake hockey Olympians and a special commemorative stamp and first day cover released by the India Post in December 1966, featuring him along with other players of the 1966 Asian Games.Pointing to a family picture on the same wall in which he, his son-in-law and son are seen in the Army uniform, Col Balbir shares, “It has been now four generations and 118 years that our family has given to the Indian Army. My grandfather was a part of the World War-I and my father fought in the WW-II. My father was a hockey player too. He played in the nationals and I learnt a lot from him.”Colonel Balbir recalled his experiences of the 1968 Olympics where he had scored three goals and his team brought home the bronze medal. “Owing to tearing of ligaments around my knee during a game, I had to retire early in the 1970s. But I have never had any regrets. I was soon taken as a coach of the Indian hockey team and later the women’s team. I also remained a selector for a long time,” he says.“Penning books has been my favourite pastime. I have already written a book, ‘The Colonel’s Deadly Scoop’, which is more like a coffee table book with many full page exclusive photographs that I had managed to collect over a period of four-five decades,” he shares.“I am now working on another untitled book, which will be based on my tryst with Saragarhi. I too was a part of the 36 Sikh Battalion and the book will have photographs and memorable events related to the place where the historical battle was fought,” he says, showing some notes, handouts and historical pieces that he collected.On a lighter note, he adds: “I studied at the local Cantonment Board High School where the teaching of English language started in Class VI. Thanks to the global exposure and my wife who has been a teacher of English, I am able to follow my passion of writing books. I have slowed down a bit due to the ongoing pandemic, but I think it is time to restart again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hockey-olympian-working-on-another-book-148307
29-09-2020||---||An eye-opening discussion on child trafficking||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Phulkari, a leading women’s organisation in Amritsar held an online session based on the book ‘Jennifer’ in collaboration with the Majha House. Author of the book Nandita Puri was in conversation with Enakshi Ganguly, Co-Founder of Haq Centre for Child Rights, New Delhi, and Phulkari executive members Shireen Kumar, Preeti Gill, and Anuradha Bhatia.The conversation focused on the real life story of a young girl Jennifer, a victim of illegal child trafficking which thrust her into the nightmarish world of sexual abuse, drugs and crime. Through Jennifer’s story, the larger picture of child trafficking and its ramifications were discussed.Deepa Swani, President of Phulkari, said, “Phulkari aims to bring about reforms through meaningful discussion. This session closely looked at the ugly truth of child trafficking and made it more hard hitting for the viewers.”Preeti Gill said, “The session came alive for the audience with many of the real life persons who are in the book actually coming up with intricacies of the problem.”Phulkari is considered the premier think tank for women of the city. It is engaged in several philanthropic programmes, including cancer awareness, education for the lesser privileged and environmental awareness. It provides a space for meaningful exchange of ideas.The Majha House is a unique platform for literature, culture, arts and ideas in Amritsar which is inclusive and encourages all shades of opinions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-eye-opening-discussion-on-child-trafficking-148308
29-09-2020||Amritsar||Police bust gang of vehicle lifters||Traders seek 2% waiver in GSTAmritsar: The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) asked the Union Government to forego 2% of the GST to help traders financially to overcome the crisis borne out of the Covid-19 pandemic. Piara Lal Seth, president of the PPBM, said 1.75 crore traders were on the brink of closure. The domestic retail trade recorded a downfall of Rs 19 lakh crore and Punjabi traders did not remain unscathed from this steep downfall in the economy. He said, this way, the government would have to forgo Rs 2,000 crore every month, which would infuse a new lease of life into the trade. He said this arrangement would remain applicable for the next four years. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-bust-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-148310
29-09-2020||Amritsar||Amid uproar, SGPC passes Rs 981-cr budget||Amid uproar by some members over the ‘saroop’ issue, the SGPC passed its annual budget of Rs 981 crore for 2020-2021 today.The reduction in income in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic showed its impact on the budget that was cut by 18.5 per cent. In 2019-2020, it was Rs 1,205 crore. There has been a reduction of at least 30 per cent revenue due to the drop in the footfall of devotees.Against Rs 714 crore last year, only Rs 577 crore has been allocated for the management of gurdwaras in 2020-2021. The budget was bifurcated into three parts — general board fund, trust funds and education funds. For 2020-2021, the general board funds have been curtailed from Rs 75 crore to Rs 57 crore, a reduction of 28 per cent, the trust funds from Rs 55.33 crore to Rs 37.61 crore, a decrease of 32 per cent, and the education fund from Rs 37.70 crore to Rs 28.44 crore. However, for printing presses where saroops and Sikh religious literature is printed, a total of Rs 8.20 crore was spared to be spent on four printing presses. — TNSSaroop row: SGPC chief seeks apologyDuring the budget session, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal sought apology from the Sikh Panth for the misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib “saroops”. He said the greed of some SGPC officials and staffers had put the SGPC in a worrisome situation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-uproar-sgpc-passes-rs-981-cr-budget-148011
29-09-2020||Amritsar||Make MSP a legal right: Congress to Centre||Terming the three agriculture laws a grave mistake by the Central Government, two senior Congress leaders Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo today demanded that the MSP be made a legal right to prevent private corporations from purchasing agricultural goods below this price.Partap Singh Bajwa, Congress MP‘Can’t trust NDA’How can we tust the NDA government when they have even refused to pay the state almost Rs 7,000 crore in GST compensation. Urging all to unite for the repeal of the “draconian laws” against farmers, they said: “Today is the 113th birth anniversary of great martyr Shaheed Bhagat Singh and on this day we believe it is important to reiterate our support for our protesting farmers who were braving the heat and the Covid-19 pandemic.” They added: “The farmers of Punjab and Haryana have ensured India became the food surplus nation. The Centre has forgotten their sacrifices.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/make-msp-a-legal-right-congress-to-centre-147967
29-09-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh trying to defame Punjab farmers’ struggle: SAD||Amritsar/Chandigarh, September 28Addressing a gathering of farmers and party workers at Gurdaspur and Amritsar, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal called upon the BJP’s Punjab unit and other political parties to join hands to put up a united fight for the farming community.He dared Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to issue an ordinance to declare Punjab a notified principal market area meant for establishing agriculture mandi to thwart the implementation of the farm Acts.Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD President‘Should have declared state market yard’Before going to Khatkar Kalan, Captain should have issued an ordinance declaring the state an agricultural market to render the Centre’s Acts invalid. Taking a dig at the CM’s apprehension over farmers’ struggle in Punjab turning violent and weakening the peaceful movement, Badal said, “His statement defamed the farmers’ struggle. If he is honest about his concerns, he should call in his Advocate General and prepare the draft of the ordinance to declare the state a notified principal market area.We have been demanding it for so long.”He also asked the CM to immediately convene a special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act implemented in 2017 during the Congress regime. “The APMC Act enacted by the Congress government provides provision for open market for private players, identical to what the Centre’s farm Acts described. This state Act must be scrapped,” he said.Members asked to quit posts held in Delhi civic bodiesNew Delhi: The SAD has now asked its members to resign from the posts held by them in the three municipal corporations (MC) of Delhi, ruled by its former ally. The party has decided to give up all posts it jointly held with the BJP in any organisation, including the MCs, the president of the Delhi unit of SAD, Harmeet Singh Kalka, said at a press conference on Monday. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/capt-amarinder-singh-trying-to-defame-punjab-farmers-struggle-sad-147981
