01-10-2021||---||Chandigarh's Harnaaz Sandhu crowned winner of LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021||Mumbai, October 1Model Harnaaz Sandhu from Chandigarh has emerged as the winner of LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021 and will represent India at the global pageant of Miss Universe 2021 to be held in December in Israel.Pune-based Ritika Khatani has been crowned LIVA Miss Diva Supranational 2021 and will be India's face at the international Miss Supranational 2021 competition. Sonal Kukreja from Jaipur is the first runner.The winners were picked by jury comprising Bollywood star Kriti Sanon, singer Kanika Kapoor, billiards and snooker player Pankaj Advani, actor-model Angad Bedi, fashion desigers Shivan & Narresh and filmmaker Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari late on Thursday.The star-studded finale saw performances by actor Malaika Arora and singers Sukriti and Prakriti Kakar.The beauty pageant was hosted virtually owing to COVID-19 safety guidelines. Title Sponsor was fabric brand LIVA, while the event was co-powered by short video platform MX TakaTak.The finale will air on October 16 at 7pm on MTV channel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chandigarhs-harnaaz-sandhu-crowned-winner-of-liva-miss-diva-universe-2021-318777
01-10-2021||Ravneet Singh||Provide necessary facilities to dairy farmers before shifting them, CM Channi tells Patiala admn||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 1Milk dairies of Patiala city will now be shifted to the new dairy shifting site of Ablowal village only after all necessary facilities as per the Municipal Corporation act are provided. The directions were issued by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to the Patiala Deputy Commissioner in a late-night development on Thursday after a meeting with dairy farmers of the city in Chandigarh.The dairy farmers, as per orders of the Municipal Corporation, Patiala, were supposed to shift to the new site by September 30. The Corporation was also devising a plan to ensure compliance of its orders after over a month-long spree of issuing challans to them for various violations, including dumping waste into the city’s sewerage lines and others.In a video, the Chief Minister can be heard directing an official on the phone that the dairy farmers be shifted to the new site only after the access road and internal roads are proper along with facilities, including water supply and others.On the request of the dairy farmers, he said, “The Patiala mayor says the dairies will be evicted forcibly, but that should not be allowed. The needs of the dairy farmers should be taken into account,” he said.When contacted, Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said he had received the verbal order from the Chief Minister in a late-night phone call. “We have been directed to provide all basic facilities to the dairy farmers at the site before shifting them. As such, all facilities will be provided to the dairy farmers as per the Municipal Corporation act.”The Deputy Commissioner also held a meeting with the dairy farmers on Friday morning. He said, “A meeting with officials concerned with the project will be held soon and lapses, if any, will be dealt with.”The project: Apart from being a necessary project of the city to ensure proper clearance of the city’s sewerage system that remains clogged during rains, the dairy shifting project is also twined with political turns of Patiala. It has been hanging fire since 2004 after it was first announced by then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. It was cleared during the government of Shiromani Akali Dal in 2016, but was mooted after the local government department decided to make amendments to the plan after the Congress came to power in 2017.  The work at the site started only in 2020. While the roads and sewerage connections have been provided, other facilities as per devised plan of the Corporation are yet to be completed. Local SAD leaders recently raised questions on alleged lapses on part of the Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/provide-necessary-facilities-to-dairy-farmers-before-shifting-them-cm-channi-tells-patiala-admn-318736
01-10-2021||---||Punjab, Haryana among states that record double digit growth in GST collection in Sept as compared to same month last year||New Delhi, October 1The gross GST revenue collected in September was Rs 1.17 lakh crore that was 23 per cent higher in the same month last year.Punjab and Haryana were among the states that recorded a double digit growth in GST collection in September this year as compared to the same month last year. Punjab’s share in GST collection was 17 per cent higher and that of Haryana 18 per cent higher during the period.The average monthly gross GST collection for the second quarter of the current year has been Rs 1.15 lakh crore, which is 5 per cent higher than the average monthly collection of Rs 1.1 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year.The rise in collections was modest when compared to 1.12 lakh crore in August (for sales in July) this year but this was the third successive month that the accrual has been above the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark.The Union Finance Ministry said in a statement that these figures indicated that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The growth has also been due to anti-evasion activities, especially action against fake billers. The government expects the positive trend in the revenues to continue in the second half of the year.The higher growth in September has been mainly fuelled by 30 per cent higher accruals from imports and 20 per cent hike in domestic transactions, including an import component.The Centre had also released GST compensation of Rs 22,000 crore to states to meet their GST revenue gap.Of the total collections, CGST is Rs 20,578 crore, SGST Rs 26,767 crore, IGST Rs 60,911 crore (including Rs 29,555 crore collected from imports) and cess is Rs 8,754 crore (including Rs 623 crore from imports).The total revenue of Centre and the states after regular settlements in September 2021 is Rs. 49,390 crore for CGST and Rs 50,907 crore for the SGST. Growth in Sept ’21 over Sept ’20State                                 Sept ’20   Sept ’21 Increase(in Rs)Haryana                            4,712        5,577     18 per centPunjab                              1,194         1,402     17 per cent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-among-states-that-record-double-digit-growth-in-gst-collection-in-sept-as-compared-to-same-month-last-year-318732
01-10-2021||Muktsar||Watch: Punjab Transport Minister Raja Warring takes jam-packed PRTC bus||Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring again traveled in a bus.  On Thursday, he traveled in a jam-packed PRTC ordinary bus from Bhallaiana village in Muktsar district to Bathinda.Also read: Go after transporters evading tax: Raja WarringLike his Chief Minister, Warring too is trying to create an image of an “aam aadmi”. He interacted with the people in the bus and asked them about the problem they faced and also took their feedback.Yesterday, also, he had travelled in a bus. He has asked the transport department to ensure that all bus stands across the state are encroachment-free in the next 48 hours. In his first meeting with the officials of the department after taking over the Transport minister, he said the encroachments at the bus stands are not only creating inconvenience to the masses but also causing a huge loss to the state exchequer, according to a government statement. He directed the officials to remove the encroachments in 48 hours.Every encroachment, whether big or small, has to be removed else strict action will be taken, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-punjab-transport-minister-raja-warring-takes-jam-packed-prtc-bus-318720
01-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Balachaur couple on forest clean-up mission||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30In a bid to protect the forests of Nawanshahr from waste dumping and littering, Aman Verma and Dr Sunita have been carrying out drives to rid the forests of garbage for the past eight years. The Nawanshahr-based couple runs a hospital at Balachaur and is known for its philanthropy.Regularly visiting the jungles and also feeding animals there, Aman’s concern about the forests grew about eight years ago when he noticed that people were dumping tons of waste there.Speaking to The Tribune Aman Verma (43) says: “The forest is 17 km from the place where I live. I had been visiting it daily since I was a kid and feed animals. I had been an avid observer of the problems being faced in the jungle since then and what bothered me was the increasing plastic wastes in the jungle for years. So, about eight years ago we started the work of personally picking up trash from the jungles.”Verma says: “Plastic doesn’t decompose and the increasing presence of huge stashes of plastic in the forests is a big biodiversity issue, which cause imbalance in forests, upsets flora and fauna and threatens delicate eco sensitive zones. Our work has gained momentum, many people have joined us and under the umbrella of Bheer Society many of us have pitched in to save Nawanshahr forests.”In his pursuit to free forests of garbage, Verma has picked up wastes from vast stretches of forests, including those in Kalar, Bhaddi, Rail Majra (near site of the Banda Bahadur caves) among other areas.He is currently working on a project to rid a site which saw a dharna few days ago, which he and his workers found riddled with used plastic cups and plates.He says, “A recent dharna site was heavily littered with cups. We have been picking up wastes for two days and still there is more left. Some people deliberately dump their refuse in forests. I saw a dump of used clothes which someone had intentionally thrown in the middle of the forest. Besides this, people visiting the forest or feeding animals for religious purposes also leave behind plastic wrappers, polythene and packaging in the jungles creating huge piles of waste.”The couple hires a pick-up truck for Rs2,500 to Rs3,000 which they take to the jungle every Sunday and employ four to five labourers to pick up the trash as well.The couple has also been extending medical care to the needy. Many people in medical emergencies who are unable to pay for treatment have been helped by the couple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balachaur-couple-on-forest-clean-up-mission-318663
01-10-2021||The Bungas have a special significance in Sikh history. Whenever Sikh devotees and Maharajas (emperors) came to pay obeisance in Amritsar||Amritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinction||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranIn pictures: A spiritual voyage through the Holy city of AmritsarDens of belief: Akharas of AmritsarBungas, a string of residential accommodations around the Golden Temple Complex, had a special significance in Sikh history as they provided space to Sikh warriors, traditional educationists, musicians, medicine practitioners (vaids) and other religious practices during the 18th and 19th centuries. Though the Bungas started coming up during Guru Period, Misl chiefs and royals of Khalsa Raj contributed a lot to raise Bungas around Darbar Sahib. A large number of Bungas belong to saints, sangat of some particular area, clergy of Darbar Sahib and head of seminaries, scholars and medical petitioners (Vaids). There were some Bungas which were built by caste-based communities such as Ramgharia (carpenters) and Bungha Mahzabian or jharukashan (sweepers). These were 84 (number varies in various sources) Bungas built along the circumambience of the Darbar Sahib complex.Lack of care for the traditional architecture and buildings amid modern institutions, most of the historic Bungas around Darbar Sahib did not survive. However, a few Bungas still exist and the rest lie buried in the past. Most of the Bungas were demolished by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for widening the circumambient or taking control from rival groups or traditional sects. However, the destruction was started during British era, when they proposed to establish churches and built the clock tower by demolishing two royal Bungas — Bunga Naunihal and a portion of Bunga Sarkar.Akal BungaA building over Akal Takht (throne of timeless), in front of the Golden Temple, is known as Akal Bunga. The throne was established by the sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind Sahib in 1606. Later, the building was constructed for the purpose of religious congregations, performance of war poets and martial arts. The Akal Bunga was developed as the political centre of Sikh nation. The Sikhs used to gather twice in a year on the festivals of Baisakhi and Diwali to take decisions on contemporary issues.Two royal bungas demolishedTwo royal Bungas — Bunga Sarkar and Bunga Naunihal (son of Ranjit Singh) — were demolished by the British. These Bungas were like royal palaces and attracted several foreigner painters, who painted these buildings. Bunga Naunihal was demolished soon after the annexation of Punjab and a clock tower was constructed on the site. A portion of Bunga Sarkar was demolished by the SGPC in 1943.Ramgarhia BungaThe only residential Bunga, which was protected by the community, is Ramgarhia Bunga. It was established by Maharaja Jassa Singh Ramgarhia in 1796. A portion of the building was demolished during the Army action in 1984 and later volunteers of the Kar Sewa sect also amended its original structure.However, the basement, the main building and the minarets are intact. Twin tower on the back corners of the Ramgarhian Bunga has become the identity of Bungas and every Sikh prays for the long life of Sikh flags and minarets in his daily prayer “Jhande Bunge Jugo Jug Atal”. The SGPC had conducted restoration of towers in 1998 and constructed the dome-shaped gumbads on its top.Jhanda BungaTwo saffron flags (Nishan Sahib) were established in front yard of Akal Takht. The building behind the Nishan Sahib is called Jhanda Bunga. The Udasi Sadhu of Brahm Butta Akhara had established a flag (jhanda) in 1775 there and constructed the building alongside. In 1841, the flag established by Udasi Sadhu had collapsed in heavy rain and storm. One of the Nishan Sahibs (the taller one) was installed by Maharaja Sher Singh, son of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and the other by Desa Singh Majithia, then custodian of Amritsar. Both Nishans (Khalsa Flags) are covered with copper and gold sheets. The original building of Jhanda Bunga had been demolished in 1923 while widening the front yard of Akal Takht and Parikarma. Later it had been reconstructed soon.Bunga GianiaIt was built in 1778 and established a Sikh seminary to teach the language and religious scripts. Giani Sant Singh was a famous scholar, who was greatly influenced by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The five-storey Bunga was demolished in 1988 during the Galiara project of the Central Government. During recent diggings, the structures of Bunga were found and construction activity was stopped to protect the structures.Basements and tunnelsMost of the Bungas had basements and a few of these still exist. Experts claimed that the basements were built from the perspective of military in Bungas of chiefs and royals. They also believed to not sit above the Guru so they dug basements. The historians claimed that there were some tunnels to connect the Bunga with Qila Gobindgarh and the summer palace. The curved Nanakshahi brick roofs, ventilation and brick and red stone art on the pillars are common in the buildings of Bungas.Interiors of BungasMost of the Bungas were used as rest houses and equipped with all basic facilities such as a well, kitchen, bathroom and a small gurdwara. In case the bunga belonged to some Sikh Chief, he would establish a marbel chair to listen to people during Diwan-i-Aam during his visit. Such a chair is still intact in Bunga Ramgharia.Crown of Mughal emperorsDuring their raid led by Sikh warrior Jassa Singh Ramgarhia, the Sikhs removed the slab from Takht-a-Taus, where Mughal coronation ceremonies were used to be held. They pulled it with the horses and threw in the pits near Akal Takht. Later, it was placed on the ground floor of the Bunga Ramgharia, where it is still lying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-bungas-on-the-brink-of-extinction-318659
01-10-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Extramarital relations: Wife, 2 paramours held for man's murder in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 30Extramarital relations of a migrant woman with two of her neighbours allegedly led to murder of her husband some 10 days ago, which was initially considered as a natural death. However, after intensive investigation, the police cracked the case and the woman and her two paramours have been arrested and charged under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC for killing Ram Lagan (32), resident of Lamti Okraha, under Manakpur police station, Gonda district, Uttar Pradesh.Giving details, Joint Commissioner of Police (Rural) Dr Sachin Gupta said the accused were identified as Manisha, a migrant from Uttar Pradesh and presently residing in Dholewal, her paramours Ramesh, also a migrant from Uttar Pradesh and presently residing in Kot Mangal Singh, Shimlapuri, and Barfat Ansari, a migrant from Bihar and presently residing in Shimlapuri.Preliminary interrogation of Manisha and other persons had revealed that the woman, mother of three children (two sons and a daughter), had developed illicit relations with Ramesh and Ansari, who were living in the neighbourhood, and about seven months ago, she had left her house along with her children to live with one of the two paramours.“Though Manisha had come back home but she was not happy with her husband, who suspected her fidelity and used to admonish her. All three accused persons hatched a conspiracy and on September 20 at around 8.30 pm Ramesh and Ansari consumed liquor with Ram Lagan and thereafter took him to a canal, where Ram Lagan was hacked to death with a knife. Ramesh and Ansari threw the body in the adjoining bushes and his bicycle into the canal,” said police officials.On September 22, Sandeep, also a migrant from Uttar Pradesh and presently residing on Gill Road here and cousin of deceased Ram Lagan, intimated the police that they had discovered Ram Lagan’s body in a mutilated condition from near the canal. At that time, the police initiated proceedings under Section 174 (natural death) of the IPC and after post-mortem the body was handed over to the family.However, on another complaint received from Bechan Ram, brother of Ram Lagan, who suspected foul play in the death of his brother, the police launched investigation and ultimately nabbed the trio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extramarital-relations-wife-2-paramours-held-for-mans-murder-in-ludhiana-318574
01-10-2021||---||Jallianwala row: Dharna lifted after meeting fixed with CM Channi for Oct 13||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30The Naujwan Bharat Sabha and the Punjab Students’ Union, which had been holding a protest outside the Jallianwala Bagh from September 28, lifted their dharna late on Wednesday after their meeting was fixed with CM Charanjit Singh Channi for October 13.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampThe protesters were up in arms against changing the original character of the Jallianwala Bagh in the name of renovation by the PM Narendra Modi-led government. They sought its restoration to its old character.Rupinder Singh, chief of the Naujwan Bharat Sabha, said following the protest, the administration had to cover the statue of Shaheed Udham Singh, which did not depict the martyr.Ranvir Singh of the PSU said the administration has assured to remove the ticket counters from the Jallianwala Bagh. Nevertheless, both the organisations said if the government fails to restore the original character, the agitation would be launched again.ADCP Harpal Singh informed the protesters about the fixing of the meeting with the Chief Minister from the stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-row-dharna-lifted-after-meeting-fixed-with-cm-channi-for-oct-13-318641
01-10-2021||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Resisting relocation, Shillong Sikhs allege HC order violated||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 30A fresh wave of anxiety has gripped the Sikh residents of Meghalaya capital Shillong’s Harijan Colony in the wake of the high-level committee on the relocation of the community members submitting its report to Chief Minister Conrad Sangma on Tuesday.The committee, under the chairmanship of Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong, was constituted in June 2018 to look into the demand by the local Khasi outfits for shifting the Sikhs, who have been living in the area for generations. There was communal violence in the area in 2018, which had paralysed life in Shillong for weeks.Gurjit Singh, Harijan Panchayat Committee chief, said handing over the report at this juncture was violation of the Meghalaya High Court order pronounced on April 9 this year. “We will again have to move the HC as the committee is indifferent to the court’s order,” Gurjit told The Tribune over phone from Shillong.He also demanded that the Meghalaya Government provide the Harijan Panchayat a copy of the report as the Sikhs were stakeholders in the matter.According to the panchayat committee, the government panel was appointed for examination of records and for making recommendations regarding relocation of the Sikhs. “But the panel went beyond its mandate and has taken decisions regarding evicting the Harijan Colony residents,” it said.In the April 9 order, Justice Ranjit More acknowledged the fear of panchayat committee as “justified” and asked for status quo to be maintained with regard to Harijan Colony.The CM refused to divulge the content of the report. “It will be discussed by the Cabinet,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resisting-relocation-shillong-sikhs-allege-hc-order-violated-318450
01-10-2021||Mohali||Farmers gherao MLA NK Sharma’s office in Zirakpur||Hundreds of farmers today laid siege to the office of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma four hours demanding an apology from the MLA and his followers for allegedly using unparliamentary language against the protesting farmers during the recent Bharat Bandh.The protesting farmers, led by Karam Singh of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), Karam Singh Karkaur of Kisan Union (Rajjewal) and Lakhvinder Singh Lakhi of the Kisan Union (Kadian), demanded that the MLA, along with his supporters Tony Rana and his accomplices, must tender an unconditional apology for using unparliamentary language against farmers.Karam Singh of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) said Tony Rana and his accomplices passed remarks against women farmers in Mubarakpur. Sharma and his supporters must tender an unconditional apology or they will not allow any public gatherings of the MLA in the Dera Bassi constituency in future, he said.The farmers blocked the entry-exit points of Sharma’s office for over four hours and did not allow the movement of traffic. Hundreds of farmers first broke the barricades set up by the police near a dhaba to stop them from moving towards Sharma’s office. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gherao-mla-nk-sharmas-office-in-zirakpur-318542
01-10-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh: No intention of staying in Congress, but will not join BJP||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 30Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he was quitting the Congress but would not join the BJP. “I have no intention of continuing in the Congress. I will resign,” said the veteran, who met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval a day after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah.CWC meeting soon, says cong leaderAICC general secretary and media chief Randeep Surjewala said a Congress Working Committee meeting would be held soon and party chief Sonia Gandhi had indicated the same before leaving for Shimla recently on a short vacation. ‘Planned’ hooliganism irks G-23 leadersSeveral Congress leaders of the “Group of 23”, who had written to party chief Sonia Gandhi demanding an organisational overhaul, have termed the attack on Kapil Sibal’s house as “orchestrated hooliganism”. Anand Sharma sought action against the miscreants.Captain said he had flagged the security situation in Punjab where Pakistan was fomenting trouble by sending weapons through drones. “The Congress is going downhill with senior leaders completely ignored. I will leave the Congress where I have been ‘utterly humiliated’ and was not trusted. I will not be treated in this manner. I will not take such insults,” the 79-year-old leader said.The former CM said he was still thinking through his options and that Punjab’s security was his top priority. “The 2022 elections will be very different with AAP, SAD, Congress and may be another force in the fray. But historically, Punjab has voted for one party,” he observed, claiming that AAP had gained ground and the Congress had gone down “ever since Navjot Sidhu became PCC chief.” On farmers’ issues, he said: “I have suggested to the Home Minister to resolve the matter at the earliest and as a long-term solution recommended a compensation package for Punjab to encourage crop diversification. With such a package, the state can pay MSP for other crops too,” he said, indicating that he may emerge as the face of the farm issue resolution with BJP’s support.On the Punjab crisis, Captain warned that misgovernance would give Pakistan a chance to create further disturbances. “CM Charanjit Channi is an intelligent leader, provided Navjot Sidhu lets him function,” he said, describing Sidhu a mere crowd puller “who can’t take his team along.”Condemning the attack on party leader Kapil Sibal’s house by some Congress workers, he said: “Seniors are being ignored. This is not good for the party.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-no-intention-of-staying-in-congress-but-will-not-join-bjp-318436
01-10-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||He will float party, says Capt Amarinder Singh aide||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30With former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announcing he was quitting the Congress, Punjab may see the formation of a new political party ahead of the Assembly polls. Sources claimed an announcement in this regard was expected within a fortnight.Captain and the BJP leadership have been on the same page regarding several issues, especially those concerning national security. Therefore, an alliance or a tacit understanding between them is a possibility. A senior BJP leader observed: “Captain is nearly 80.He cannot join the BJP which has decided against administrative posts for those aged above 75. Also, there are no indications that Captain is being backed by any big Congress leader. ”Pointing out that the BJP did not have a strong base in Punjab, one of Captain’s aides said: “He is on his way to forming a party, and going by the current state of affairs in the Punjab Congress, certain leaders are expected to join him.There could be a post-poll alliance. Even if the new party wins 40 seats, the political equations will change. A fractured mandate could lead to President’s rule”.Farmers’ leader Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said Captain might mediate between the farmers and the BJP in an attempt to end their movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/he-will-float-party-says-capt-amarinder-singh-aide-318437
01-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu has his way, to be part of decision-making||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30A three-member panel comprising CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu and AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs will resolve the impasse over official appointments and induction of “tainted” ministers. This decision was taken at a meeting between the CM, Sidhu and senior Congress leader Harish Chaudhary here today. The meeting lasted more than two hours.Don’t undermine CM: Sunil JakharPut an end to attempts to undermine the authority of CM. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG and DGP is actually questioning the integrity of CM and Home Minister... — Sunil Jakhar, Former PCC ChiefWith Capt Amarinder Singh announcing that he would not be joining the BJP, the Congress high command appears to have decided on keeping Sidhu in the loop while picking a replacement for Advocate-General APS Deol. A panel of names has been sent to the UPSC for appointment of a new DGP. Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota is holding the additional charge of DGP for now. Sources said Sidhu was keen on getting Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, who headed the SIT probing drug charges against a senior police official.The three-member panel would meet at least once a week to discuss key government decisions and appointments, indicating that Sidhu would be involved in the decision-making exercise. There was no consensus on replacing ‘tainted’ ministers. Sidhu was reported to be keen on inducting MLA Surjit Dhiman in the Cabinet. Sidhu later consulted his aides, including Pargat Singh, Dr Raj Kumar Verka and Kuljit Nagra.Channi has called meeting of his Council of Ministers on October 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-has-his-way-to-be-part-of-decision-making-318439
01-10-2021||---||Go after transporters evading tax: Raja Warring||Bathinda/Muktsar, Sept 30Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today directed senior officials of the department to initiate action against operators plying buses without permit and indulging in tax evasion.Addressing mediapersons during his visit to Bathinda today, Warring said the department officials must discharge their duties without getting influenced by big players and rein in defaulters in the transport sector. Earlier, he received a warm welcome by department officials and Congress workers.Rides in bus to know ground realityVows regular jobsWarring said: “Officials must not act under any sort of fear and impound all those buses plying without permit, including those indulging in tax evasion.” He said the department was taking steps to renovate the Bathinda city bus stand soon. “All other bus stands in the state will also be renovated soon and congenial and safe atmosphere will be created. Transporters have been indulging in tax evasion deliberately and all outstanding taxes will be recovered by the government now. Buses of those not paying tax will be stopped. There will be changes in the timing slots of buses soon,” he added.Meanwhile, during a visit to his Gidderbaha Assembly constituency in Muktsar, Warring today received the guard of honour from the Punjab Police, but also faced farmers’ ire at Chhattiana village.Upon being questioned, he told farmers to give their queries in writing so that he could ask the Agriculture Minister and officers concerned before holding a debate.Warring also questioned the farmers protesting against him. “The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has asked all farmer unions to lodge protest against BJP leaders and question politicians of other parties. Then why are you lodging a protest against me?” he said.Addressing the media, Warring said he would end the transport mafia within 15 days. “The timetable of buses had not been made in past almost 15 years. I assure you that the PRTC, Punbus and Punjab Roadways will make profit in the coming days,” he said.He said the contract employees in the transport department would be regularised soon as per the Supreme Court guidelines. Warring also directed officers of his department to impound the buses running without mandatory permit or not fulfilling the norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/go-after-transporters-evading-tax-raja-warring-318353
01-10-2021||---||Process on to trim Punjab CM Channi’s security||Chandigarh, September 30The Punjab Police today began the tricky exercise to prune the security of new CM Charanjit Singh Channi besides reviewing security of other categories, including VVIPs, heads of religious bodies, deras and political persons.A meeting of state Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and ADGP-provisioning and security Naresh Arora took place to look on how many security persons can be withdrawn from Channi. The CM has currently 1,016 persons of the Punjab Police on his guard. Other categories have 5,300 cops providing them cover.Home minister meets officiating DGPA meeting of state Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, ADGP (Provisioning and Security) Naresh Arora took place to look on how many security persons can be withdrawn from Channi. The CM has currently 1,016 persons of the Punjab Police on his guard. Other categories have 5,300 cops providing them cover.Channi’s son at official meeting?The last major pruning of security cover of these persons took place when Capt Amarinder Singh had taken over as the Chief Minister in March 2017. Like Channi, he wanted to thin down his cover arguing he wanted to end the VIP culture. From 1,392 cops on his security, the cover was pruned to 1,016. Similarly, nearly 1,500 men from the security of other categories were also withdrawn.As the Punjab Police has recently seen a rising trend of discovery of tiffin bombs, sources said the security cover of the CM and the other protected ones was important. However, as Channi was insisting on reducing his to bare necessity, the Punjab Police will have to prune the number of guards protecting him. Today’s meeting took stock of the current situation and the threat perception of the CM. A decision is likely tomorrow.For other categories, each case will have to be studied. The security is given as per the status and threat perception of the person concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/process-on-to-trim-punjab-cm-channis-security-318354
01-10-2021||---||Don’t undermine CM: Sunil Jakhar hits out at Navjot Sidhu||Chandigarh, September 30In what is being seen as a rebuke to PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, his predecessor and senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar came down heavily on the former, alleging that he was trying to “undermine” the authority of a Chief Minister and urged the party high command to “put its foot down and clear the air”.Jakhar took to Twitter to lash out at Sidhu. “Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of A-G and DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of CM and Home Minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air (sic),” he tweeted.The statement came just after Sidhu tweeted that he would be meeting CM Channi. Jakhar has been vocal in his criticism of Sidhu during the recent crisis, which saw the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister. Sidhu had resigned as PCC chief on Tuesday, precipitating the crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-undermine-cm-sunil-jakhar-hits-out-at-navjot-sidhu-318355
01-10-2021||---||Now, Kejriwal promises free healthcare in govt hospitals in Punjab||Ludhiana, September 30After vowing 300 units of free electricity to all domestic consumers, AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday made another poll promise of free healthcare services to all in Punjab.Editorial: Competitive freebiesAddressing mediapersons, Kejriwal said if AAP came to power, every person in the state would get a health card, which would contain his/her entire medical record, and access to best healthcare services, including free medicines, tests and operations. Besides the revamp of government hospitals, 16,000 ‘pind’ clinics in villages and ward clinics in cities would be set up on the lines of mohalla clinics of Delhi.Bhagwant mann younger brotherBhagwant Mann is my younger brother. There is nothing true whatever some reports are being printed against him. —Arvind Kejrwal, AAP convenerHe said the health infrastructure in Punjab was in a shambles due to inadequate number of doctors and nurses, insufficient medicines and non-operational machines, forcing patients to visit private hospitals, which charged exorbitantly.Kejriwal said: “Seven years ago, health services in Delhi, too, were in a same condition. But, we are now giving free and best treatment in Delhi. Costliest medicines and injections are free. We will change the face of health services in Punjab also.“Road accident victims will be provided free treatment. Even if a surgery costs Rs 20 lakh, it will be done for free at government hospitals. We will ramp up infrastructure in the government hospitals and set up new ones on a grand scale.”On being asked about the financial burden of extending the free health facilities, Kejriwal said: “We turned a deficit budget into one of profit within four years in Delhi. Money is wasted when there is corruption. We wiped out corruption and everything else followed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-kejriwal-promises-free-healthcare-in-govt-hospitals-in-punjab-318356
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Track drone movements: Punjab DGP Sahota to SSPs||Officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Thursday directed all border district SSPs to start ‘night domination' operations along the India-Pakistan international border from 9 pm to 4 am. The border districts include Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Batala, Amritsar (Rural), Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka.The DGP asked the SSPs to give special attention to drone movements and suspicious persons moving in vulnerable areas. Healso ordered SSPs to utilise all PCR/RRPS vehicles and bullet proof material to cover vulnerable places, besides activating all control rooms.Sahota said additional nakas should be put-up on ancillary roads for checking of vehicles. “Inter-state nakas, especially on the J&K border should also be strengthened and all vehicles coming from Jammu & Kashmir should be thoroughly checked,” directed the DGP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/track-drone-movements-punjab-dgp-sahota-to-ssps-318357
01-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Kejriwal chooses to wait and watch||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30Is the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), in its overconfidence, repeating the mistake made in the 2017 Assembly elections by not announcing its Chief Ministerial candidate, or is it a political strategy to avoid going in for a divisive politics?While these questions are being asked by political observers, the party high command has maintained a stoic silence on the issue. The two-day visit of AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal to Ludhiana in the Malwa belt, which has 69 Assembly segments, had all necessary symbolism for a party targeting to capture power. But without a “ Punjabi general” to lead the party in the political battle, that too with just four months to go for the election, the party’s chances could be dented, especially when its vote percentage in Punjab has been sliding - from 20 per cent in 2017 to 7 per cent in the 2019 general election.CM face: Changed equations behind delayThe change in the Congress leadership is bound to create reverse polarisation of votes among Jat Sikhs and Hindus. That is why the party is again assessing the choices it has for a CM face,” says a party MLA.Senior party leaders in Punjab say that though they feel an undercurrent in favour of the party, especially when the people seem disillusioned with other parties, they are at a serious disadvantage in the wake of vacuum in the leadership for the top post.“The party leadership is relying only in its own surveys and Delhi-based observers/in-charges. But it is high time the party capitalise on the disillusionment of voters with other players and announce a clear line of leadership,” a senior party leader and sitting MLA told The Tribune.“By choosing a Dalit as its CM, the Congress is targeting consolidation of the 33 per cent Dalit voters. So far, AAP has announced schemes that are at the heart of every citizen-free power and free healthcare — and does not target a particular section of voters. The party has done well on these issues in Delhi and has the Delhi model to show to Punjab voters,” another sitting party MLA told The Tribune.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-chooses-to-wait-and-watch-318358
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal is lying on Delhi model: Sukhbir Badal||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was lying on the health sector achievements in Delhi while the RTI queries clearly revealed that health facilities in Delhi were the worst in the country.The SAD president was addressing mediapersons at a function held to induct former MP Varinder Singh Bajwa back into the party from the Congress. He announced the latter’s appointment as senior vice-president in the party.Quoting information sought under the RTI, Sukhbir said the AAP government in Delhi had not added a single new hospital from 2015 to 2019. Similarly, no new beds were added to existing hospitals during this time frame. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-is-lying-on-delhi-model-sukhbir-badal-318359
01-10-2021||Archit Watts||CM Channi lone postgraduate in new Punjab Cabinet||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 30The one-third ministers in the present state government are not even graduates. A perusal of the affidavits filed by the leaders while contesting the Assembly elections in 2017 shows that of the total 18 ministers, one is under-Matric, three are matriculates, one has studied up to Class XII and one dropped out after BA-I.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is the lone masters degree holder among all. He has done BA-LLB from Panjab University and MBA from Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar. Further, Manpreet Singh Badal is the lone minister to have studied abroad. He has done LLB (Hons) from London in 1987.Further, four out of seven new ministers inducted in the Cabinet are not even graduates — Sangat Singh Gilzian, (studied up to Class IX), Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Rana Gurjeet Singh (matriculates) and Raj Kumar Verka (dropped out after BA-I).Similarly, among the 11 old faces in the Cabinet, two are not graduates. Razia Sultana is a matriculate and Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni has studied up to Class XII. Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria has done BSc (non-medical) and Vijay Inder Singla has done BE (computer science). The other ministers — Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Brahm Mohindra, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Pargat Singh, Randeep Singh and Gurkirat Singh Kotli — are graduates.A political expert said apart from the capabilities of the MLAs, their educational qualification, too, should be considered while being appointed as ministers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-channi-lone-postgraduate-in-new-punjab-cabinet-318360
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panel for Punjab DGP post sent to UPSC, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya in the race||In a race against time to accommodate the candidature of Siddharth Chattopadhyaya for the post of Punjab DGP, the state government today sent a panel of nine police officers to the UPSC.As Chattopadhyaya’s retirement date is March 31, 2022, Thursday was the last day of eligibility to be considered for the post. The UPSC was authorised to form a panel of three officers based on the candidate’s length of service, record and range of service. The SC had in March 2019 revised the orders saying officers with six months of service can be empanelled. Earlier, it was two years of residual service. The Supreme Court had in 2018 laid down the procedure of the appointment of the DGP of the state. It said a state government has to send a panel of five or more officers to the UPSC, three months before the retirement of the incumbent DGP.Sources said the PCC chief and a section of Congress leaders were backing Chattopadhyaya’s candidature but the Chief Minister, along with deputy CM-cum-Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, had rallied behind Officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. The nine officers, sources said, have been included in the list as per the seniority list. The UPSC will short-list three of them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-for-punjab-dgp-post-sent-to-upsc-siddharth-chattopadhyaya-in-the-race-318361
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt namesake goalie ‘upset’ at being trolled||Amrinder Singh, goalkeeper of Indian football team, is sick of being wrongly tagged in tweets meant for Capt Amarinder Singh, former Punjab chief minister, who is in the news nowadays following his resignation from the CM’s post.Addressing the mediapersons and others, the young goalkeeper has tweeted, “Dear News Media, Journalists, I am Amrinder Singh, Goalkeeper of Indian Football Team and not the Former Chief Minister of the State Punjab. Please stop tagging me. Reacting to his tweet, Capt Amarinder Singh said, “I empathise with you, my young friend. Good luck for your games ahead.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-namesake-goalie-upset-at-being-trolled-318362
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdas Maan gets interim anticipatory bail||The Punjab and Haryana HC today confirmed the interim anticipatory bail granted to Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan in a case registered against him on August 26 for allegedly hurting religious feelings of the Sikh community. The Bench, at the same time, granted the investigating officer the liberty to make Maan join the probe through video-conferencing as he was down with Covid.“As no custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required, the interim bail granted on September 15 is made absolute. Let the petitioner join the investigation within five weeks from today. In the meantime, the investigating officer may join petitioner through video-conference,” Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdas-maan-gets-interim-anticipatory-bail-318363
01-10-2021||---||9 patwaris booked for Rs 1.62-cr scam in Bhawanigarh||Sangrur, September 30The police have reigstered FIR against nine patwaris (revenue officers) and a private bank’s development officer for sanctioning loan amounting to Rs 1.62 crore to fake land owners by tampering fard records. Of the total sanctioned loan, the accused managed to get Rs 1.17 crore released.Fake land ownersIn his complaint to the police, bank’s Bhawanigarh branch manager Rahul Bansal alleged his development officer Gurinder Singh tampered with the land records of various farmers from 2015 to 2017 and sanctioned Kisan Credit Card ( KCC) loans to fake persons. “We started through investigations and it turned out to be a big scam”, said SSP Swapan Sharma.The SSP said during probe it came to light that Gurinder colluded with patwari Manjit Singh and sanctioned a loan of Rs 13,17,600 to one Simrandeep Singh against the land of Nahar Singh. Another patwari, Darshan Singh, sanctioned Rs 10,84,000 to fake owner Ajaib Singh. Similarly, other patwaris, including Karamjit Singh, Darshan Singh and Roop Singh, colluded with the bank officer to help him sanction loans to fake land owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-patwaris-booked-for-rs-1-62-cr-scam-in-bhawanigarh-318364
01-10-2021||---||Farmers defer stir on Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s appeal||Chandigarh, September 30Acceding to the appeal made by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, farmers have postponed the proposed agitation.The Deputy CM had held a detailed discussion with farmers on Wednesday. He had reiterated the commitment of the government to safeguard the interests of farmers.They have postponed the agitation till October 30 subject to a review meeting with the CM. Randhawa assured them that some pending issues would be resolved soon and a meeting with the CM would also be materialised soon.Demands acceptedThe govt has agreed to most of their demands, including the withdrawal of 60 of the 105 cases and the rest will also be withdrawn soon as those were registered by the Railway Police. — Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, DY CMExhorting them to refrain from resorting to the agitational path, the Deputy CM said the government had agreed to most of their demands, including the withdrawal of 60 of the 105 cases and the rest would also be withdrawn soon as they were registered by the Railway Police. He also assured them that family members of the farmers losing their lives in the ongoing agitation would get jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-defer-stir-on-dy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawas-appeal-318365
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre puts off paddy procurement from Punjab, Haryana till Oct 11||The government has decided to postpone paddy procurement from Punjab and Haryana till October 11, following high moisture content in the crop because of the recent spell of heavy rainfall in the region. The procurement was to begin in Punjab from October 1.Also read: Allow purchase from today, Punjab CM Channi urges PM ModiEarly variety of produce arrives in Jalandhar mandiIn a letter to the state government, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, said because of the recent rain, the maturity of paddy had been delayed and moisture content in the fresh arrival was beyond the permissible limit. “So to avoid any inconvenience to farmers, it has been decided that the procurement under the MSP will commence from October 11,” it said. The state governments have been advised to dry the paddy that has already arrived in mandis. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-puts-off-paddy-procurement-from-punjab-haryana-till-oct-11-318366
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||12,000 bags of rice seized in Kapurthala||Even as the department seized 12,000 bags of rice illegally stored at a sheller in Kapurthala today, Food Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said anyone found involved in the act would be dealt with as per law. The minister also directed the department to increase vigil. A department team had raided Gopal Rice Mill, Kapurthala, and seized 12,000 bags of rice worth Rs 2 crore, he said, adding that it was likely to be passed off as shelled rice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-000-bags-of-rice-seized-in-kapurthala-318367
01-10-2021||Abohar||Bidding norms violated: Abohar cotton growers||Alleging anomalies in the purchase of cotton here, farmers today staged a sit-in at the grain market, accusing the employees of the market committee of having a nexus with some cotton ginning and pressing factories. The protesters alleged the staff was causing loss to the exchequer by sending cotton-laden trolleys directly to factories without following the auction process.The farmers took out a protest march near the mandi. They alleged cotton-laden tractor-trolleys were being sent directly to the factories at low rates without bidding in the market. Market committee chairman Surinder Bishnoi pacified them. The farmer leaders handed over a demand letter to him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bidding-norms-violated-abohar-cotton-growers-318368
01-10-2021||Bathinda/Muktsar||Two debt-ridden farmers end life in Bathinda, Muktsar||After suffering damage due to the pink bollworm attack, a 46-year-old farmer from Mehma Sarkari village of Bathinda allegedly died by suicide early this morning.The deceased was identified as Rup Singh, who reportedly was under stress due to the mounting debt.Sukhraj Singh, elder brother of the deceased, said, “Rup Singh had taken a loan of around Rs 12 lakh which he could not repay. He had also sown cotton in four acres but due to the pink bollworm attack, his crop got damaged. He had been under stress for the past few weeks. He went to the tubewell room in the fields and ended his life by hanging himself.”Meanwhile, a 28-year-old farmer from Rattakhera Vadda village in Lambi of Muktsar allegedly died by suicide by consuming some poisonous substance on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Manipal Singh, who owned around six acres. Sukhjinder Singh, cousin of the deceased, said Manipal’s land was waterlogged and he owned some animals as well, but could not overcome financial burden. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-debt-ridden-farmers-end-life-in-bathinda-muktsar-318369
01-10-2021||Sangrur||Malerkotla farmers protest BJP Minority Morcha chief’s visit||Farmers today protested against the visit of president of BJP’s Minority Morcha to Malerkotla and raised slogans against them. The protesters pushed cops aside to reach at the front of a local BJP leader’s house, where some locals had converged to have tea with a BJP leader.“Jamal Siddiqui, who is the national president of the Minority Morcha of the BJP, had come to the city to visit a local idgah. I had made arrangements of tea for him at my house. But some locals misinformed farmers about a meeting at my house. Farmers protested in front of my residence for around three hours but they lifted their protest after I clarified that there was no meeting at my house,” said Aman Thapar, BJP Malerkotla president. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malerkotla-farmers-protest-bjp-minority-morcha-chiefs-visit-318370
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Expedite job process for farmers’ kin, Punjab minister tells officials at review meet||Punjab Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Minister Aruna Chaudhary, presiding over a maiden review meeting of top officials today, directed them to finalise the process for providing job to the family members of the farmers died during farm struggle.“Complying with the instructions of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to accelerate the functioning of the government and complete the work in a transparent and time-bound manner, we have to work in tandem and live up to the expectations of the people,” said Chaudhary.She directed Financial Commissioner Revenue (FCR) Ravneet Kaur, Secretary, Revenue, Manvesh Singh Sidhu, Special Secretary Keshav Hingonia, Special Secretary Babita, Additional Secretary Capt Karnail Singh and Sunita Thakur, Project Manager, Punjab Land Record Society, to take action at the earliest to fill more vacancies of patwaris in addition to the ongoing recruitment process of 1,090 patwaris, besides giving promotions to all officers and employees of the department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expedite-job-process-for-farmers-kin-punjab-minister-tells-officials-at-review-meet-318371
01-10-2021||---||Supreme Court clears Sandeep Moudgil’s name for Punjab and Haryana HC Judge||Chandigarh, September 30The Supreme Court collegium has cleared the name of advocate Sandeep Moudgil for elevation as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. With this, all five names, recommended by the High Court collegium for elevation in August last year, have been cleared by the apex court.Initially, the names of five advocates, including Vikas Suri, Vinod Sharma Bhardwaj, Pankaj Jain and Jasjit Singh Bedi, were finalised and forwarded. These were further forwarded by the Centre to the Supreme Court as late as in April this year. While Moudgil’s name was pending, the other names were cleared by the SC collegium at its meeting held on September 1.The number of Judges with their elevation will go up to 50 against the sanctioned of 85. It may eventually increase to 51 as the High Court is slated to get three more judges, including two from the Himachal Pradesh High Court, following Supreme Court recommendations on their transfers. Two High Court’s senior judges are to be transferred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-clears-sandeep-moudgils-name-for-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judge-318372
01-10-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Woman ASI held for graft||‘Gang war’: Assailants’ car recovered from SirsaMuktsar: A day after a man was shot dead and his brother left injured by some masked men on the Goniana road here in a suspected gang rivalry, the police on Thursday claimed to have recovered the car, which the assailants had stolen on the Malout road to escape, from Ganga village in Sirsa district of Haryana. TNSNewborn, mom die in hospitalFatehgarh Sahib: A woman and her newborn died at Aman Hospital in Mandi Gobindgarh allegedly due to doctor’s negligence. Her family staged a protest outside the hospital. Apprehending the threat to her life, Dr Rajinder Kaur, who conducted the delivery, escaped. Sources say she was not qualified. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-asi-held-for-graft-318373
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Allow purchase from today, Punjab CM Channi urges PM Modi||Taking prompt cognisance of the Centre’s letter regarding postponement of paddy procurement, CM Charanjit Singh Channi today sought the personal intervention of PM Narendra Modi to advise the Ministry to withdraw its letter forthwith, allowing the state to start procurement from October 1.Also read: Centre puts off paddy procurement from Punjab, Haryana till Oct 11Will cause resentmentThe fresh instructions will unnecessarily create confusion and uncertainty. Such a decision at the eleventh hour will further lead to resentment among farmers. —Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinisterThe CM said the new instructions would unnecessarily create confusion and uncertainty in the minds of farmers. He said Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had already reviewed the arrangements for procurement. Channi also mentioned that he had personally reviewed the preparedness for procurement yesterday to ensure smooth and hassle-free purchase and was satisfied with the arrangements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-purchase-from-today-punjab-cm-channi-urges-pm-modi-318375
01-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress crisis: 3-member panel set up to sort out differences||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30A three-member panel comprising CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu and AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs will resolve the impasse over official appointments and induction of "tainted" ministers. A decision in this regard was taken after a more than two hours meeting between the CM, Sidhu and senior Congress leader Harish Chaudhary here this evening.With Capt Amarinder Singh announcing that he would not be joining the BJP, the Congress high command appears to have decided on keeping Sidhu in the loop while picking a replacement for Advocate-General APS Deol.  A panel of names has been sent to the UPSC for appointment of a new DGP. Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota is holding the additional charge of DGP for now. Sources said Sidhu was keen on getting Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, who headed the SIT probing drug charges against a senior police official.The three-member panel would meet at least once a week to discuss key government decisions and appointments, indicating that Sidhu would be involved in the decision-making exercise. There was no consensus on replacing 'tainted' ministers. Sidhu was reported to be keen on inducting MLA Surjit Dhiman in the Cabinet. Sidhu later consulted his aides, including Pargat Singh, Dr Raj Kumar Verka and Kuljit Nagra. Channi has called meeting of his Council of Ministers on October 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-crisis-3-member-panel-set-up-to-sort-out-differences-318352
