04-10-2021||Amritsar||SGPC delegation to go to Lakhimpur Kheri||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday said she has decided to send an SGPC delegation to Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh to meet the family of victim farmers.“A delegation is being sent by the SGPC to Uttar Pradesh to enquire into the matter and get the details of the case from the families of the victims. The delegation will submit its report to the Akal Takht,” she said here.Kaur said the delegation would include SGPC’s executive committee members Ajmer Singh Khera and Amrik Singh Shahpur, among others.Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit by UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya.Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister.The violence had erupted after one of the cars of the convoy of BJP supporters turned turtle at the farmers’ protest site, killing two of the protesting farmers on the spot. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-delegation-to-go-to-lakhimpur-kheri-320102
04-10-2021||Amritsar||Man jumps into canal with two children in Amritsar||A 30-year-old man, along with his two children, ended his life by jumping into a canal in the Tarawala Pul area here, police said on Monday.Mandeep Singh was disturbed over some family issue, police said.His two sons were identified as Gurpreet Singh (7) and Robin (2).Police said the bodies were fished out from the canal. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-jumps-into-canal-with-two-children-in-amritsar-320101
04-10-2021||Amritsar||Punjab CM Channi visits Dera Radha Soami sect chief||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with his cabinet colleagues, visited Dera Radha Soami sect chief Gurinder Singh Dhillon here on Monday.A sect official said Channi and his cabinet colleagues spent over an hour with the sect chief and discussed the current political scenario in Punjab with regard to the Assembly polls due early next year.Prominent among those who accompanied Channi were Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and minister Aruna Chaudhary.Dera Radha Soami, also known as Dera Baba Jaimal Singh, is located at Beas town, nearly 45 km from Amritsar city. It has a large number of followers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-visits-dera-radha-soami-sect-chief-320082
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Unconditional repeal of agriculture laws only way out for Centre: Ex-Cabinet Minister Baldev Singh Maan||Condemning the Centre and Uttar Pradesh’s BJP government over Sunday’s violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, former Punjab food and supplies minister Baldev Singh Maan lashed out at the BJP on Monday."The tragic mishap in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri yesterday has evoked a massive wave of anger towards the indifferent, arrogant and incompetent working of the BJP in UP and also in the Centre,” he said, a day after the violence that left eight people dead.Maan further spoke about how the government's ill-treatment of farmers is directly tantamount to insulting every Indian."This country was built and is still being built by the blood, sweat and tears of the farmer. The Centre is busy catering to crony capitalists and this has already gone too far. They sold public properties, they sold off the dreams and aspirations of the youth, and now they are selling the very soul of India,” Mann, a core member of the Shiromani Akali Dal, a party that was formerly allied with the BJP, said.“This cannot be allowed to go on. This country belongs to its farmers. Give them their due, repeal the Farm Laws unconditionally, and that too with gratitude for what the farmers have done for this nation," he said, calling for the resignations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Adityanath. "If the farmer is not safe, our annadata is being humiliated and killed, what moral authority do these people have left to continue in office."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unconditional-repeal-of-agriculture-laws-only-way-out-for-centre-ex-cabinet-minister-baldev-singh-maan-320076
04-10-2021||---||Punjab Chief Minister hosts top investors, calls for leveraging state's rising investment potential||Chandigarh, October 4Underlining the state's immense  investment potential, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday asked the private investors to invest more aggressively in the state to fully explore and leverage the existing opportunities in various sectors including Agro processing, Pharmaceuticals, Iron & Steel, Health,  Education and manufacturing.The state government was focusing on streamlining  hassle-free industrial development with sole aim to make Punjab an industry-friendly state, the Chief Minister told a galaxy of top industrialists including Chairman Trident Group Rajinder Gupta,  Sachit Jain Vice Chairman & MD Vardhman Group,  Onkar Singh Pahwa from Avon Cycles, lCEO HMEL Prabh Das, Chairman & MD Hero Cycles Pankaj Munjal, Vice Chairman International Tractors A S Mittal, and CEO Swaraj Mahindra Harish Chavan and others whom he hosted over a luncheon this afternoon.Assuring the industry of every possible support in carrying out their business ventures, the Chief Minister said that the industrial sphere should Centre its energies on developing cottage and, small scale industries and also involve the farming community in the process. "If you are empowered then Punjab would be strengthened", said Channi adding that agro based industry occupies the most vital spot after agriculture and there would be no shortage of skilled manpower as a Skill University is coming up at Sri Chamkaur Sahib.Flanked by Cabinet Ministers, Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari along with top administrative brass, the Chief Minister invited all the Industry bigwigs of the country for the 4th edition of the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit which he announced would be held this year on October 26 and 27. The showpiece event would articulate Punjab's unique business proposition model by highlighting the conducive investment environment and the robust connectivity and logistics network it offers, the Chief Minister averred during the high-table meeting.He further assured the industry leaders that his government will walk up to the industry and sit with them to make appropriate policies/interventions. To make Punjab regain its pristine glory and rightful place, we need to create gainful employment opportunities through industry for our youth, he pointed out adding that for achieving sustainable growth we need to utilise the technical expertise and know how of industrial ventures set up outside Punjab too.Underscoring the need to proactively engage with Punjab based industry, the Chief Minister disclosed that opening day of the Summit will be held virtually with pan India industry leaders adding that this time a special State Session will be held in the Summit in the industrial capital of the state at Ludhiana on October 27. Punjab ranks 2nd in the logistics ranking in the country, he pointed out urging the business leaders to make Punjab their next investment destination. He assured that the industry will get a very robust and peaceful industrial ecosystem and a disruption free environment in the state.Assuring them of proactive government assistance, the Chief Minister said his government would leave no stone unturned to attract maximum investment as it is the most efficacious way to ensure all round and sustainable growth mechanism for future generations. He assured the industry that his doors are always open for them and he would like to engage with industry pro-actively and make policies as suited to the industry.Lauding the Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion (PBIP), the Chief Minister said the Bureau has played a pivotal role in promoting Punjab as a leading investment destination. The bureau has been adjudged the Top Performer (highest category) in the rankings of Investment Promotion Agencies across 20 states in the country announced by Invest India and IFC (World Bank). He further announced that Invest Punjab will be given more powers in the coming times so that industry can totally rely on this single agency for all their approvals.Speaking on the occasion, the Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal assured the industrial captains that they would have direct access to the State bureaucracy and the political class thus ensuring no difficulty in ease of doing business in Punjab. He further said that Patti - Makhu rail link is our top priority besides developing focal points. The stress is on living up to the faith that the old investors have exhibited in the State apart from going for new investors, said Finance Minister.Welcoming the captains of industry to Punjab, the Industries and Commerce Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli said that the upcoming investor summit would be a perfect opportunity for holding interactions with the leading players of the industry so as to make them equal contributors in the growth story of Punjab.The Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari mooted the idea of creating industrial regions in the State besides emphasizing exploring possibilities in the petro-chemical sector in Bathinda. The State Government is also focusing on encouraging small scale food industry in Punjab, added the Chief Secretary.Sachit Jain from Vardhman Group while lauding the work culture in Punjab, said that the power cost must be reasonable in the State apart from better road connectivity to the industrial concerns. He specifically asked for improvement in the civic infrastructure in Ludhiana which is an industrial hub of the State. Pankaj Munjal emphasized e-cycles as the futuristic concept besides giving fillip to the Research and Development in the State while Anup Vector from Cremica Group sought a separate policy to boost the Food processing industry in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-hosts-top-investors-calls-for-leveraging-states-rising-investment-potential-320066
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta gets new posting||Former Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta on Monday got a new posting. The Punjab government has posted him as Chairman of Punjab Police Housing Corporation.The government had on September 25 appointed 1988-batch IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the officiating head of the state police force, relieving DGP Dinkar Gupta of the charge.According to the orders issued by the state government, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota would also continue to hold the charge of Special DGP, Armed Battalion, Punjab.Gupta, who had two years and seven months’ tenure as the state police chief, had sought permission for a central deputation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-police-chief-dinkar-gupta-gets-new-posting-320065
04-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab polls: SAD announces five more candidates||Shiromani Akali Dal has announced five more candidates for next year’s assembly polls.“Sukhbir Singh Badal announced five more candidates for assembly polls. They are Heera S Gabhria from Ldh South, Vir S Lopoke from Raja Sansi, Mohinderpal Rinwa from Abohar, Dr Nishan S from Budhlada & Hav. Baldev S Manuke from Nihal S Wala,” Akali leader Daljeet Cheema said in a tweet.Punjab’s assembly elections are due early next year. Badal’s SAD will fight the elections in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party.S Sukhbir Singh Badal announced five more candidates for assembly polls. They are Heera S Gabhria from Ldh South, Vir S Lopoke from Raja Sansi, Mohinderpal Rinwa from Abohar, Dr Nishan S from Budhlada & Hav. Baldev S Manuke from Nihal S Wala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-sad-announces-five-more-candidates-320061
04-10-2021||---||UP denies permission to Punjab CM Charanjit Channi and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa to visit Lakhimpur Kheri||Chandigarh, October 4The UP government on Monday denies permission to Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to visit Lakhimpur Kheri.In a reply to persistent requests by the Punjab Government, the UP Home Department said that due to the prevailing law and order situation, the visits could not be allowed.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violence in the UP district on Sunday.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi along with his Cabinet colleagues to submit memorandum to Punjab Governor on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident at 6:30 pm.Earlier in the day, Navjot Singh Sidhu along with MLAs and other party leaders protested outside the Punjab Raj Bhavan, against the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, before being taken in preventive custody by Chandigarh Police.Later Sidhu along with other party leaders was released by police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/up-denies-permission-to-punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-and-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-320022
04-10-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu, other Congress MLAs protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Chandigarh, October 4Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and some legislators of his party held a protest outside the Punjab governor's residence in Chandigarh on Monday, and demanded the arrest of the Union minister's son in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Raising slogans against the BJP, they also condemned the detention of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in UP.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he would visit Lakhimpur Kheri to stand in solidarity with the families of farmers who lost their lives in the violence during a protest a day earlier.Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and a few party legislators, including Kulbir Singh Zira, Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Gurpreet Singh GP, were supposed to go to Uttar Pradesh by road.Punjab opposition parties, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal, also announced that they would be sending delegations to UP.Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers.Channi took to Twitter to announce that he would go to Lakhimpur Kheri and that he had sought permission from the UP government for the visit."Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, I'm leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri to be with my brothers and sisters in this hour of grief. I've also sought permission from UP government to allow landing/taking off of chopper at the site," he tweeted.The Punjab civil aviation department on Monday urged the Uttar Pradesh government to allow Channi's chopper to land so that he can go on the visit."As you are aware that due to the situation arising out of the incident and deaths of peacefully protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri of Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister wants to visit the families concerned to be with them in this hour of grief," the director of the Department of Civil Aviation, Punjab, wrote to UP Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi."It is requested that permission may be granted for landing and taking off of the chopper of CM. It is also requested that adequate arrangements may be made so that the chief minister may meet with the families concerned," it added.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of the Punjab deputy CM, who announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, in view of the violence that erupted there.Strongly condemning the Uttar Pradesh administration for this, Randhawa said he would go by road along with a few party legislators. "If they (UP authorities) want to arrest us then they can do so," he added.The AAP's Punjab unit said it would send a delegation led by MLA Harpal Singh Cheema to Lakhimpur Kheri. The delegation will comprise the party's Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha, state legislators Kultar Sandhwan and Baljinder Kaur.Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party would also send a delegation led by Prem Singh Chandumajra to UP.The party has also convened its emergency core committee meeting on October 5 in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Badal has postponed his programmes in Jalandhar as well, said party leader Daljit Singh Cheema. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-other-congress-mlas-protest-against-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-319985
04-10-2021||Peshawar||Cops clueless on Satnam Singh’s killers, says family||The family of Sardar Satnam Singh (Khalsa) has said the police are still clueless about the assailants who managed to escape after killing the well-known Sikh 'hakeem' in Pakistan's northwestern city of Peshawar.Satnam Singh, 45, who practised Unani medicine, was at his clinic on Thursday when some unidentified gunmen barged into his cabin and opened fire, killing him on the spot, the police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-clueless-on-satnam-singhs-killers-says-family-319957
04-10-2021||Punjab needs a comprehensive crop diversification plan at the micro level||Groundwater conservation: Three-pronged strategy for crop diversification||Surinder S KukalThe fast depletion of water resources, especially groundwater, coupled with changing climatic conditions and deteriorating water quality, is becoming a major challenge for sustaining agricultural production. Industrial growth and improved living standards of people demand higher amounts of water in industrial and domestic sectors as well. Thus, increasing water demand in all sectors and decreasing surface waters are taking a toll on groundwater resources. Latest reports indicate that against groundwater availability of 20.6 billion cubic metres (BCM) in Punjab, about 33.8 BCM is extracted annually, thereby leading to average stage of water extraction to the extent of 164%. Of the 150 blocks in the state, 117 are overexploited, six are critical and 10 are semi-critical, whereas 17 blocks are safe. The state has 57 blocks with groundwater extraction of more than 200%. The water table in the state is falling at an average rate of 65-70 cm every year. The water table depth (WTD) in almost half of the state is expected to go below 100 feet by 2040 if the groundwater extraction goes unabated at the present rate. Further, about 8% and 19% of the area is expected to have WTD below 150 feet by 2030 and 2040, respectively.The ever-increasing area under paddy (more than 30 lakh hectares) is wreaking havoc on groundwater resources of the state. On an average, farmers use 3,800-4,000 litres of water to produce 1 kg of rice, compared to 600-700 litres to produce 1 kg of summer maize or any other upland crop. Even the direct-seeding of rice (DSR), advocated as a water-saving practice, actually consumes similar or higher amount of water due to the tendency of the farmers to let water stagnate in the fields. Farmers in the potato belt and other vegetable-growing areas prefer to go for spring maize, another water-guzzling crop. The spring maize has similar or slightly higher water requirement in terms of evapo-transpiration as that of paddy. Farmers are applying 4,000 to 4,500 litres to produce 1 kg of spring maize grain. To sustain groundwater resources, there is a dire need to shift area under paddy and spring maize to less water-consuming crops in a phased manner, for which planning has to be done at the lowest geographical unit level — a block or a cluster of blocks.Crop diversification has long been advocated for sustaining agricultural production and water resources. It was initially suggested to shift 10 lakh hectares from paddy to maize, the figure later revised to 17 lakh hectares as per estimates made by scientists of Punjab Agricultural University. However, it is easier said than done. The general concept of replacing area under paddy with maize has no takers due to its availability from other states at sufficiently lower prices than the minimum support price. Also, the requirement of maize is only 0.5-1 million tonnes for its domestic consumption. We need to find a suitable and equally profitable alternative crop to replace spring maize. Further, the area under wheat also needs to be diverted to oilseeds, pulses or other crops.Crop diversification needs to be implemented in a phased manner, starting with the priority areas, based on the severity of groundwater depletion.A three-pronged strategy needs to be formulated for preparing a comprehensive crop diversification plan for the state at the micro level, involving a block or a cluster of blocks with similar conditions. The plan needs to be based on (i) water availability, (ii) niche crops and (iii) related marketing facilities in that particular geographical unit.Water availabilityThe water resources in a particular geographical unit may include groundwater or canal water or both, apart from rain/runoff water and treated wastewater. The water balance of each unit needs to be worked out so as to ascertain the water availability for agriculture and other sectors against the available supplies. Based on the water availability and its quality, some blocks may need to diversify from paddy/wheat, whereas others may not. Those units with highest level of negative water balance could be chosen for the crop diversification plan on priority basis. For example, estimates indicate that five blocks in Sangrur, two each in Barnala and Jalandhar and one each in Patiala, Hoshiarpur and Moga are expected to have the water table below 165 feet by 2030. These blocks need to be taken up first for crop diversification based on this strategy. Further, these assessments will also determine the extent of area in each block to be diversified from paddy/wheat and/or spring maize for sustained use of groundwater.Niche cropsThe blind recommendation of replacing paddy with maize may not be a good option for crop diversification across the state. Several geographical units have been growing alternative crops in smaller pockets over the years — peas in Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran, moong bean in Jagraon (Ludhiana), celery (Amritsar), kinnow (Fazilka and Hoshiarpur) etc. with well-established markets. The area under cotton, another important crop in southwest Punjab, has been declining due to cultural and marketing issues. The area under these niche crops can be expanded further by providing improved cultural practices including high- yielding cultivars, value addition techniques and further strengthening of the prevailing marketing facilities. Also, some traditional crops of certain regions — bajra, jowar, guar — could be revisited keeping in mind their growing demand in the market. Arhar, an important pulse crop with huge demand in the country and being imported every year, could find a place in the state with improved harvesting varieties being developed by PAU.Value additionThe area under these niche/alternate crops has to be increased at the cost of paddy. To compete with paddy, these crops have to be equally remunerative or even better. This can be possible not only by developing high-yielding cultivars but also developing the cultivars suitable for post-harvesting value addition. The government has taken initiatives to take the farmers out of the crop-based income system and encourage them for value addition. Thus, creating infrastructure facilities for value addition is the need of the hour. For example, kinnow juice extraction facility could be created in such units to process the fruit instead of selling it at throwaway prices. The same could be true for potato and other crops.A comprehensive crop diversification plan must be spread over 5-10 years for its implementation, prioritising the areas to be brought under the plan each year on the basis of severity of water scarcity. This is expected to be a win-win situation for conserving our natural resources as well as sustaining agricultural productivity and farmers’ income.The author is Member, Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/groundwater-conservation-three-pronged-strategy-for-crop-diversification-319933
04-10-2021||---||Time management important to succeed, Punjab CM Channi tells students||Mohali, October 3Time management is of utmost important for students to succeed in life. The students should keep their goals high and work hard to achieve these.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi stated this while addressing the 2nd day of the FAP National Awards – 2021, hosted by Chandigarh University, Gharuan.Channi said: “The government will issue concessional bus passes to students of private schools of Punjab. The government is also planning to post teachers near their hometown. The three-year condition for teachers to work in the border areas must be abolished so that they can focus on teaching and provide quality education to students”.Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, Chandigarh University, said: “Honouring the teachers of private schools of 16 states of the country is a commendable initiative taken by the Federation of Private Schools and Associations of Punjab”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/time-management-important-to-succeed-punjab-cm-channi-tells-students-319784
04-10-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda locals protest ‘poor’ drainage system||Residents of the Kamla Nehru Colony protested against the Municipal Corporation (MC) over “poor” sewerage and rainwater drainage system in the area.Members of the rainwater drainage and sewerage action committee rued that owing to poor measures, the situation worsens even after mild rain.They alleged that MC officials had been misleading residents as the latter were not ready to move a proposal for a drainage scheme. They warned that if a permanent solution is not devised, they will intensify the stir.Santosh Rishi, a committee member, said: “The MC does not have any scheme for rainwater drainage and even sewers overflow after mild rain.”MC Commissioner Bikramjit Singh said: “This colony is low-lying so the water takes time to drain. We are bringing a project soon wherein it’ll be possible to drain out rainwater at a faster pace.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-locals-protest-poor-drainage-system-319674
04-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Intelligence officer’s death in Jammu due to negligence: Probe panel||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 3The deployment of homoeopathic doctors — instead of allopathic — in the emergency wing of a private hospital in J&K’s Jammu has allegedly resulted in the death of an intelligence officer.A resident of Patiala, the deceased officer of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) — Himanshu Sharma — was posted in Jammu.It has been learnt that on the complaint of the father of the deceased, the Director, Health Services, Jammu, had formed a panel to find out the cause of the death. The said panel found that the staff at the hospital, especially the homoeopathic doctor, were not qualified enough to handle such a medical emergency. Consequently, the treatment protocol was not followed in a professional manner, the panel added.Himanshu accompanied by his father Vinay Sharma reached a private hospital in Jammu on July 7, 2021, with a complaint of stomach ache. The officer — as per the report — allegedly died within a few minutes after the initial treatment given by the emergency staff therein. The report, however, reveals that an additional team of experts reached the emergency, but the condition of the deceased had already deteriorated. The panel pointed out that the specialists were called only after the patient had suffered irreversible damage.Meanwhile, Vinay Sharma, father of the deceased, said he had been making rounds of the police station so that a case could be registered against the doctor and hospital authorities. He said, “Though the inquiry panel has already found negligence by the hospital authorities, the police have not registered the case so far.” Vinay further said he gave a written complaint to the Jammu SSP for lodging an FIR into the case last month, but to no avail.Meanwhile, the Jammu police did not respond to queries until the filing of the report.Patiala native had stomach acheOn July 7, 2021, Patiala resident Himanshu Sharma, intelligence officer posted in J&K, reached a private hospital in Jammu with a complaint of stomach ache. He was accompanied by his father Vinay Sharma. The officer allegedly died within a few minutes after the initial treatment given by the emergency staff of the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/intelligence-officers-death-in-jammu-due-to-negligence-probe-panel-319675
04-10-2021||---||3 Faridkot jailers booked for graft||Faridkot, October 3Three officials have been booked for receiving Rs 1,63,000 bribe from an inmate in Faridkot Central Jail. They have been identified as Deputy Jail Superintendent Gurjit Singh Brar, warder Gurtej Singh and warrant officer Tarsem Pal.A case was registered after a video of inmates went viral from the jail, accusing the officials of collecting bribe from them in lieu of providing them with drugs and mobile phones.Taking cognisance, the state government has ordered a probe to be conducted by a DSP-rank officer in Faridkot.In the video that has gone viral on the social media, some inmates had claimed drugs and mobile phones were being made available in the jail at exorbitant prices. They said while a smart phone could be procured for Rs 25,000, a keypad phone was available for Rs 5,000.The police have declined to share the details of the investigation, but said the accused had taken Rs 1,63,000 from an inmate, Vishal Kumar.Last year, an Assistant Jail Superintendent in the prison was booked for allegedly receiving Rs 15,000-bribe from an inmate for use of a mobile phone.Mobile phone seizures from Faridkot jail inmates have been continuing unabated for the past two years. On an average, 12-15 phones are seized from inmates here every month. The police and jail authorities claim to have started an investigation to look into the details of calls made from the seized phones to probe the links between inmates and outsiders but all such ‘investigations’ have remained inconclusive.Though a large number of phones have been seized, sources claim many are still available inside the jail. In the past one year, over 150 mobile phones were recovered from the jail, which houses over 2,200 inmates, including 12 gangsters.Pak smuggler held with 6-kg heroinAmritsar: The BSF on Sunday nabbed a Pakistan smuggler — Kashi Ali of Maniala village in Lahore — and seized 6.3-kg heroin from him, during an operation conducted near the border here. He was trying to intrude into Indian territory via the International Border. The accused was carrying six packets of heroin in a jute bag bearing the name of Lahore-based Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, established by Pakistan PM Imran Khan and run by a Trust chaired by him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-faridkot-jailers-booked-for-graft-319676
04-10-2021||Abohar||240-kg poppy husk seized in Abohar||Action against nagar councilSangrur: Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes member Chandreshwar Singh Mohi visited Dhuri to inquire into a complaint of alleged discrimination with SC families in ward number 7 and 8 and directed the police to book a Nagar Council employee for the same. TNSStaffer held for theftMansa: The police arrested a factory employee, Vicky, for Rs3.8-lakh theft in Mansa city. SSP Narinder Bhargav said: “Victim Vishal Goyal submitted a complaint and he suspected Vicky. Within five hours, the police traced and nabbed Vicky.” TNSCarjack bid at gunpointMuktsar: A youth, in an inebriated condition, allegedly tried to steal a car from a woman at gunpoint on the outskirts of Malout town on Sunday. A case has been registered against Rishabh of Panjkosi village in Fazilka district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/240-kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-abohar-319677
04-10-2021||Abohar||Three held for property fraud in Abohar||After a year-long investigation, the police have arrested three persons for alleged fraud in property in a colony developed by the Improvement Trust here.Chunawadh police station incharge Parmeshwar Suthar said Gian Chand Arora of Setia Farm had on September 21 last year complained that some persons in connivance with Improvement Trust staff allegedly got his residential plot transferred in their favour and constructed a house also. When he approached the Trust office, he was told that ownership documents were missing.During probe, it surfaced that a gang had hired two persons to fake witnesses and were paid Rs1,500 each. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-for-property-fraud-in-abohar-319679
04-10-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu adamant, wants APS Deol, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota replaced||Chandigarh, October 3Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today reiterated his demand for rolling back the appointments of Advocate General APS Deol and police chief Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota saying the party would otherwise “suffer a loss of face”.Hours later, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the names of 10 IPS officers had already been sent to the Centre for the police chief’s post. Keeping mum on the Advocate General’s appointment, Channi said the Centre would shortlist three names for the DGP’s post. “The name of the police chief will be finalised in consultation with Sidhu, ministers and MLAs once the Centre sends us the three names (for the selection of a regular DGP),” he said.The CM said Sidhu had already been informed about the procedure. “As far as running the government is concerned, everyone is being taken along. The party affairs are being managed by Sidhu. We have to work in coordination. If any issues remain, they can be resolved at the party forum,” he said. Channi dismissed reports of the party’s image being dented after Sidhu tendered his resignation as the PPCC chief.“The demand for justice in sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our government in 2017… and due to his failure, people removed the last CM. Now, AG & DGP appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have no face (sic),” Sidhu said in a tweet. The development comes three days after Sidhu and Channi held a meeting, following which it was decided to set up a coordination panel for prior consultation on all major decisions of the state government.Will consult PPCC chief on DGP postThe name of the police chief will be finalised in consultation with Sidhu, ministers and MLAs once the Centre sends us three names. Charanjit Channi, CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-adamant-wants-aps-deol-iqbal-preet-singh-sahota-replaced-319759
04-10-2021||Faridkot||Gurlal Singh Pehalwan murder case: Given clean chit, Faridkot youth nabbed again||Two days after getting the custody of two youths of Delhi and Haryana in the murder case of Congress leader Gurlal Singh Pehalwan, the Faridkot police today nabbed a local youth, Harpreet Singh, in connection with the case.He was produced before the duty magistrate and the court sentenced him to one-day police remand. Harpreet was rounded up seven months ago as well, but was released after being given a clean chit.However, after questioning Amit alias Chhotu and Rajan Jatta from Delhi and Rajasthan, the police claimed that Harpreet, too, was involved in hatching the conspiracy to kill District Youth Congress president Pehalwan on February 18. Earlier, the Faridkot police had nominated Harpreet as an accused in the case after two inmates in a Haryana jail had named him and Kapil Pehalwan as the accused.It is alleged that Pehalwan had beaten up Harpreet’s brother Pardeep in the public. While Pardeep left for abroad, Harpreet allegedly planned to kill Pehalwan to avenge his brother’s public insult. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurlal-singh-pehalwan-murder-case-given-clean-chit-faridkot-youth-nabbed-again-319680
04-10-2021||---||After cheating complaints, Punjab police scrap sub-inspector exam||Chandigarh, October 3The Punjab Police have scrapped the examination conducted to fill 560 posts of sub-inspector (SI). The common computer-based tests to recruit SIs in four cadres/wings (Investigation, District, Armed Police and Intelligence) were held from August 17 to 24 at different centres in the state.The official spokesperson on Sunday said dates to conduct fresh examination would be notified soon. The Recruitment Board constituted for hiring had recommended scrapping of the examination following reports of cheating and use of malpractices.A report in this regard was received by the DGP’s office on September 27 and the DGP on October 2 gave approval to the board recommendations.The spokesperson said on the basis of complaints regarding cheating and malpractices, the police have already registered three FIRs, including in SAS Nagar, Patiala and Khanna districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-cheating-complaints-punjab-police-scrap-sub-inspector-exam-319681
04-10-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Told to collect 1,000 kg plastic, Sangrur teachers fume||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 3Already racing against time to complete their syllabus, which is lagging behind schedule due to Covid-induced lockdown, teachers and students have another task at hand.They have been directed by the Sangrur authorities to collect 1,000 kg disposal (plastic) this month from the district under the “Clean India Programme” of the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.Teachers have been told to file action-taken report mentioning the date, name of block, quantity of waste collected and special comment.Teachers claim they have already banned the use of plastic bags in schools and launched special campaigns against plastic at their own level, it would be a tough task for them to look for such kind of waste now.“Almost all schools are using steel utensils for mid-day meals, while students have strictly been told not to use any plastic item. When no plastic is being used, from where will we collect such huge quantity of disposal?” said a primary school teacher on the condition of anonymity.“Teachers and students are already under pressure as Covid has badly affected studies. But the recent order to collect 1,000 kg disposal from Sangrur district is surprising,” said Balbir Longowal, Sangrur president of Democratic Teachers Front.District Education Officer (Elementary) Dharmpal Singla said it was a voluntary exercise, not mandatory. “The administration has set a target of collecting 1,000 kg disposal from the district. Teachers and students can collect the waste from anywhere, including their houses. Its main purpose is to clean our surroundings and teachers and students should take it positively,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/told-to-collect-1-000-kg-plastic-sangrur-teachers-fume-319682
04-10-2021||---||In Kapurthala, local MLAs skip Rana Gurjeet Singh’s welcome event||Jalandhar, October 3After his return to Kapurthala on Saturday was delayed due to farmers’ protest, Cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh today arrived in the town amidst much fanfare. However, none of the Congress MLAs from his neighbourhood who had raised objections to his Cabinet appointment, was present to welcome him.Also read: Kapurthala: Rana Gurjeet Singh’s Rs 2-cr swanky SUV talk of the townOf the six Doaba MLAs who had raised objections, three were from Rana’s neighbouring constituencies in Kapurthala district. They included Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, Bholath legislator Sukhpal Khaira and Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal. Their absence yet again exposed fault lines within the Congress in Doaba.Interestingly, while Jalandhar Cantt MLA and Cabinet minister Pargat Singh’s return to Jalandhar was also attended poorly by MLAs, his welcome saw the presence of at least two legislators — Rajinder Beri and Bawa Henry.Upon his return to Kapurthala, Rana Gurjeet was welcomed by traders at the Katra Bazaar. A guard of honour was presented to him by a police contingent at the Rest House, where Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal and SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh received him.Also present were Kapurthala mayor Kulwant Kaur, Additional Deputy Commissioner SP Angra, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Aditya Uppal among others. As many as 37 councillors of the Kapurthala Municipal Corporation were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-kapurthala-local-mlas-skip-rana-gurjeet-singhs-welcome-event-319683
04-10-2021||---||Back on stage after hiatus, Parkash Singh Badal targets Congress||Bathinda, October 3Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today returned to the political stage when he addressed his first rally in the state after over two years at the Thermal Ground in Bathinda. The rally was held to protest the damage to cotton crops due to pink bollworm attacks and seek compensation from the state government for the affected farmers in the Malwa region.Stand by farmers firmlyThe SAD stands rock solid behind the kisan unions despite all accusations. We will not flinch in this fight to secure justice… I am ready to make the supreme sacrifices. Parkash Singh Badal, SAD patronThe SAD patron invoked the 1984 Sikh riots and attack on Golden Temple to target the Congress and Gandhi family. Terming the allegation of laxity over sacrilege incidents against the SAD as propaganda, he said: “Those who accuse us have no idea what sin they are committing by casting aspersions on devout Sikhs themselves. The attack on Golden Temple was the third Ghalughara done by the Congress, which led to killing of many Sikhs.“At the time of 1984 riots, both Giani Zail Singh and Buta Singh were President and Home Minister, respectively, but they did not quit, whereas Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet over the three farm laws.”He said all Opposition MPs, including the Congress, walked out of Parliament during the voting on the farm Bills, which indirectly cleared the way for legislation; only two MPs of SAD — Sukhbir and Harsimrat — voted against those.Speaking on the damaged cotton crop, he said: “Cotton farmers have been hit hard by pink worm, but the state government is fighting for their seats. We are today putting pressure on the government to announce compensation for the damaged crop”.Indicating that he might get proactive in the coming days, Badal said: “Age or health considerations notwithstanding, I am ready to make the supreme sacrifices in defending the interests of Punjabis in general and the farmers in particular.”Sukhbir and Harsimrat gave an ultimatum to the government to announce compensation cotton farmers within a week, or else the SAD would gehrao the house of Chief Minister.The 93-year-old SAD patron made a gaffe at the start of his speech, when he accidentally referred to SAD-BJP workers, instead of SAD-BSP. The SAD broke ranks with the BJP last year over the three controversial agriculture laws. The Akalis are allying with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for next year’s Assembly elections.Badal, who has kept a low profile since the 2019 General Elections, cited his poor health for his long absence from the political scene. He made his first political appearance after a hiatus of over one and half years last month at a rally organised by the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) in Jind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-on-stage-after-hiatus-parkash-singh-badal-targets-congress-319685
04-10-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||35 lakh households get AAP certificates assuring free power in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3In a massive exercise to reach out to people ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has claimed to have delivered “bill guarantee certificates” for free and regular power to 35 lakh households in the state.The development comes following AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement during his June 28 state visit that 300 units of free power would be given to every household in Punjab. The number of households reached out by AAP is substantial going by the fact that the state has approximately 55.13 lakh registered households, as per the 2011 Census.All segments coveredA team of 1,500 persons under the leadership of 500 halqa incharges contacted people directly in all 117 constituencies between August 3 and September 10. — AAP leaderTalking to The Tribune, a senior party functionary, claimed: “We carried out the exercise of contacting people directly at their homes, in all 117 constituencies, between August 3 and September 10. We prepared a list of all persons in the state contacted by our team (of approximately 1,500 persons) under the leadership of 500 halqa incharges.”A senior party functionary and a former Deputy Commissioner of Police, Balkar Singh, who carried out the campaign in Kapurthala district, said: “We did not follow any specific list while visiting the households. Choosing to avoid the houses of political leaders, for obvious reasons, we went to people from different strata of society. We convinced them that we will deliver our promises on the same lines of Delhi.”AAP leader Harmeet Singh Pathanmajra reportedly topped in distribution of the guarantee certificates with 37,502 cards in Sanaur, followed by Balkar Singh (33,760) in Kapurthala, Naresh Kataria (24,757) in Zira, Neena Mittal (23,017) in Rajpura and Laljit Singh Bhullar (23,375) in Patti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/35-lakh-households-get-aap-certificates-assuring-free-power-in-punjab-319686
04-10-2021||---||No extension to staff beyond 58 years in Punjab||Morinda, October 3Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today announced that government employees would not be given extension in service after attaining 58 years of age. The move will enable youth to get government jobs.Addressing a public gathering at a state-level function here to hand over debt relief certificates to farm labourers and landless farmers, besides launching a pilot project of using drone technology to digitally map rural properties within the Chamkaur Sahib Assembly segment under Mission Lal Lakir, the CM said the government had already decided to waive loans amounting to Rs 520 crore of 2.85 lakh farm labourers and landless farmers with respect to the principal amount against their cooperative loans as on July 31, 2017, and the interest on the amount till March 6, 2019.He further announced a slew of development projects for the region, including a bridge at a cost of Rs 114 crore over the Sutlej, connecting Bela-Paniali road to National Highway 344-A, two sports stadia at Raipur and Tripari it is, besides upgrade of the Civil Hospital at Chamkaur Sahib.Later, talking to mediapersons, Channi claimed the name of Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) was yet to be finalised. His reaction came after fresh objections were raised by PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, who recently quit his post over the appointment of DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and Advocate General APS Deol.He said after the tenure of former DGP Dinkar Gupta got over, the names of all senior police officials who had completed 30 years of service were sent to the Centre as per the rules. “The Centre will pick three names from the list of officers who had completed 30 years of service. From these, the name of the new DGP will be finalised, that too after due consultations with the PCC chief as well as ministers and MLAs,” said the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-extension-to-staff-beyond-58-years-in-punjab-319687
04-10-2021||Aman Sood||Week’s coal stock left: Punjab CM’s SOS to Centre||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 3Power rates at the national exchange have shot up following low availability of coal, leaving Punjab and many other states staring at another crisis with various thermal plants, both private and state-owned, left with less than a week’s stock now.To ensure timely supply, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has written to the union power ministry.The dwindling coal stock at all thermal plants across the country is leading to increase in power purchase prices through power exchanges manifold. However, the demand in Punjab is gradually coming down following less demand in fields, so the state is managing with the limited coal stock.According to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials, the demand in the state has dipped after the paddy season but is still around 8,600 MW, down from the earlier peak demand of 15,500 MW.The thermal generation in Punjab is about 780 lakh units, which is 40 per cent of the total demand of about 1,920 lakh units. As against the 30-day coal stocks, majority of the plants are facing acute shortage of coal due to poor supplies.In Punjab, the coal stock at all three private thermal plants is in critical condition.The Rajpura plant has little over four days of coal stock, Talwandi Sabo power project three days and Goindwal Sahib power plan has two days’ coal stock left. The state thermal plants of Lehra Mohabatt and Ropar have seven and nine days of coal stock left, respectively.As per officials, all five thermal plants in the state are currently running with two units each of all the three private sector plants, while in state sector two units of Ropar plant and three units of Lehra Mohabatt plant are providing power.“Across India, the overall power demand has increased but coal stocks in more than half of the thermal plants have become very critical, resulting in no generation at more than 34 plants. Meanwhile, 38 thermal plants have less than three days of coal stock,” said VK Gupta of All India Power Engineers’ Federation (AIPEF).“The installed capacity of thermal plants in India is about 50 per cent of the total installed capacity. Even in Punjab, the surge in power demand, which started in August, led to the depletion of coal stock across the country. To cope with the coal shortage, the supply to those having stock of 15 days was stopped for a week,” he said.PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad told The Tribune that the coal “stocks were on lower side”. “The CM has written a demi-official letter to the Power Minister. But our demand has also reduced as paddy season is over now,” he added.Meeting to pick PPSC chief heldChandigarh: The CM held a meeting with Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh and Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema to select the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) Chairman. Sources say the three candidates under consideration are BK Uppal, Chief Director, State Vigilance Bureau; Lt Gen IS Ghuman (retd), former Army Commander; and JS Powar, former DG, National Academy of Audits and Accounts.Channi to keep 1 of 4 CM bungalows||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/weeks-coal-stock-left-punjab-cms-sos-to-centre-319688
04-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Following in brother’s footsteps||Public outreachDera Baba Nanak: Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was accorded a warm welcome in his home seat of Dera Baba Nanak on Sunday. The Deputy CM zig-zagged his way through the area in a 30-car cavalcade. Unlike leaders in other parts of Punjab, Randhawa has strictly instructed his drivers to halt the vehicle in which he is travelling if anybody signals it to stop. Thus, a journey of three hours got extended to six hours as the young and the old tried to outmanoeuvre each other in an attempt to talk to the dignitary after making his car stop.Grounded approachChandigarh: Apart from battling adversaries within the Punjab Congress, CM Charanjit Singh Channi is walking the extra mile to shun the tag of “inaccessible and inactive CM” associated with his predecessor. In fact, he is ensuring his actions on the ground are well-publicised. Ever since taking over the office, Channi has been seen interacting with the common man, besides announcing decisions such as trimming security cover to suggest he is accessible to all. So much so that he recently flew in the economy class from Delhi to Chandigarh, after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The pictures with fellow passengers were circulated widely by the Congress. People are waiting to see whether Channi’s ‘aam aadmi’ approach will improve the life of the common man or is it just an act of symbolism!Cadre in dilemmaPatiala: While leaders from across the state have been dropping in at the Yadavindra Colony residence of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who recently quit the post following differences over key appointments, the local Congress unit has been maintaining distance from Sidhu. Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, who was till recently openly supporting Sidhu seeking Capt Amarinder Singh’s removal as CM, is nowhere to be seen now. While Sidhu is adamant on removal of the incumbent DGP and Advocate General, the cadre across the state is in a fix whether to support Sidhu or not, fearing “backlash”.Contributed by Surinder Bhardwaj, Ravi Dhaliwal, Rajmeet Singh and Aman Sood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/following-in-brothers-footsteps-319689
04-10-2021||---||Hold all-party meet on agriculture issues, says Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, October 3State Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann has urged Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to convene an all-party meeting immediately on the issues of agriculture. He said an all-party delegation should meet the Prime Minister by raising a united voice in favour of the farmers and press for repeal of the central farm laws.Mann said if the PM withdrew the three laws on agriculture, his prestige wouldn’t diminsh as decisions could be changed in the public interest.The state AAP chief said the Centre was harassing Punjab and farmers.“The cash credit limit (CCL) is rejected before the purchase of crops. The Rural Development Fund to Punjab for gram mandis and link roads has been discontinued. The supply of bags, urea and DAP fertiliser is suspended. Moisture and discoloration conditions are tightened for procurement,” he said. All such issues should be raised with PM Modi by all parties in unison, Mann added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-all-party-meet-on-agriculture-issues-says-bhagwant-mann-319690
04-10-2021||Ludhiana||In Ludhiana, 40 illegal private buses impounded||Following the directions of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, officials of the Regional Transport Authority, Ludhiana, and the police jointly impounded 40 illegal tourist buses near Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Stand here.These buses have been plying from Ludhiana to other states for a long period.Time to end mafiaThis is the beginning of the transport mafia’s end from the state. Every bus plying in the state without a permit and indulging in tax evasion will be impounded. Raja Warring, Transport MinisterThe Transport Minister visited the city bus stand on Sunday morning to participate in a cleanliness drive. He then visited the site where the illegal buses were parked and ordered the officials concerned to take action against the violations. Raja Warring said such violations would not be tolerated at any cost and added that those flouting the rules would face the music.The minister said the directions had been issued to all transport authorities to take action against the illegal operation of buses in the state.He said a probe would be carried out and the officials found helping illegal transporters would be dealt with an iron hand. He further said all officials must discharge their duties without getting influenced by anyone and rein in defaulters in the transport sector. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-ludhiana-40-illegal-private-buses-impounded-319691
04-10-2021||---||UP violence: Maintain peace, urges Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Chandigarh, October 3Even as senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM rushed to Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, they have appealed to the farmers to maintain peace at all costs and not get provoked.Probe neededThorough probe needed... Justice must be ensured for the victims of the violence. Violence or provocation of violence is no solution to any problem. — Capt Amarinder Singh, former CMSeveral farmers were killed afte allegedly being run over by vehicles of the kin and supporters of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra. Farmers were protesting against the BJP for enacting the three farm laws.Book minister’s sonAll perpetrators, including the Minister of State for Home’s son, should be booked for murder. Anything less than that would be a gross miscarriage of justice. — Partap Singh Bajwa, Cong MPSKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said this was a well-planned attack, and not an act of rage at the spur of the moment. “Two days back, we had received an audio recording, where Mimister Mishra was heard saying if the farmers tried to protest during his visit, he would fight them out. But not scared of the threat, the protesting farmers occupied the helipad where the minister was supposed to land. In the protest, the minister's son and his close aides came in cars and mowed down farmers,” he alleged.The BKU leader said their message to the farmers was clear — the BJP is not with us, but we are with our country. “We are asking them not to take law in their own hands. We demand that an FIR on charges of homicide be registered against the minister and his aides and a sitting judge of the Supreme Court conduct an investigation into the incident. The minister should be immediately sacked by the BJP government,” he demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/up-violence-maintain-peace-urges-samyukt-kisan-morcha-319692
04-10-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar: Cotton-laden canter from Maharashtra sent back||The arrival of a cotton-laden canter from Maharashtra triggered a controversy here on Saturday.However, it was sent back after a strong objection from the farmers, who reported the matter to the police after they saw the canter in the local grain market.Nirmal Singh Jasseana, a farmer leader, said, “Cotton is fetching high price here thus a local commission agent had brought the produce from Maharashtra for sale here. We demand action against him.”Meanwhile, Tejinder Bansal, president, Arhtiya Association, said no agent would be allowed to bring cotton from other states. Notably, two days ago, some farmers had stopped a basmati-laden truck coming from Haryana. Though the Malout market committee officials had termed it legal, saying that the basmati crop was not purchased by the government thus anyone could sell it anywhere. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-cotton-laden-canter-from-maharashtra-sent-back-319693
04-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Fazilka: 2 grain trucks from Rajasthan intercepted||Fazilka, October 3Two paddy-laden trucks coming from Rajasthan were stopped by the farmers at the Theh Kalandar toll plaza on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway, where they had been protesting for the past over one year against the three contentious central agricultural laws.Sources said the trucks were coming from Hanumangarh district and were going to Jalalabad rice mills.Harish Nadha, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakuanda), said paddy from outside state won’t be allowed for sale in this border district. The sources further said the Punjab Mandi Board had imposed a penalty of Rs 39,540 on each truck for bringing paddy into the state and the vehicles had been returned to their respective areas in Rajasthan.Notably, the parmal variety of paddy is being purchased by some traders at cheaper rate from the neighbouring state and is sold at a higher price than the minimum support price (MSP) in Punjab to amass financial profits.Meanwhile, keeping in view the infiltration of paddy, the Fazilka police have laid 24 nakas in different parts of the state, which shares the boundary with Rajasthan.SSP Deepak Hilori said 24 such nakas, including four major barriers at Gumjal, Rajpura, Seeto Guno and Bkainwala, from where the maximum possibility of infiltration of paddy was reported had been laid.He claimed that nearly 150 police personnel had been deployed to stop the unethical practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-2-grain-trucks-from-rajasthan-intercepted-319694
04-10-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh in touch with farm union leaders||Chandigarh, October 3Ahead of forming new political outfit, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh is said to be in touch with farmer leaders on finding a solution to the controversial central farm laws.Show the proofDo you have any proof (on alliance with the BJP)? People of Punjab know me. I always have and will stand by the farmers. I expect honesty from a former Indian hockey captain. Capt Amarinder Singh, former CMSources in the Chief Minister’s camp did not rule out the former CM playing a key role of an interlocutor in ending the farmers’ struggle, as he was expected to again visit the national capital for some crucial meetings.Pargat Singh, MinisterEx-CM likely to have poll pact with BJPCapt Amarinder’s party will ultimately be supported by the BJP. He has also met Home Minister Amit Shah. It is possible they may form an alliance before the 2022 elections.To assess the core issues, especially the farmers’ agitation, the former CM is reportedly also ascertaining his popularity in different pockets of Punjab. An announcement on the formation of new a political outfit by the former CM was expected within a fortnight.The former CM has already clarified he would quit the Congress, but not join the BJP. He had also said he would field a strong candidate in the state elections next year against Sidhu, whose opposition led to his ouster. There are indications that former CM, after being instrumental in solving the farmers agitation, could go for a post-poll alliance with the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-in-touch-with-farm-union-leaders-319684
04-10-2021||Morinda||Punjab CM orders prompt payment to farmers||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said payment to farmers would be made the same day against paddy purchase.Channi, who formally launched the paddy procurement process across the state from the grain market here, said all necessary arrangements for smooth, prompt and seamless purchase, lifting and storage of produce had been made by the state government.This comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Channi’s request, allowed the state to undertake paddy procurement from October 3, instead of October 11.Channi said every single grain of the farmers’ produce would be lifted from the market and prescribed norms for timely payment would be ensured. He urged farmers to bring their produce within the specifications of moisture content laid down by the Centre.He directed Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies Department, to ensure hassle-free procurement during the current kharif marketing season. Others present include Special Principal Secretary to CM Rahul Tiwari, Ropar DC Sonali Giri and SSP Vivek Sheel Soni. — TNSFlays Lakhimpur kheri IncidentChandigarh: Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday expressed deep anguish at the tragic incident at Lakhimpur Kheri District in UP. “This ghastly and inhuman act must be condemned by one and all in the strongest possible words,” said the Chief Minister. He urged his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath to bring the culprits to book so as to ensure justice to the deceased farmers, who were protesting peacefully against the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-orders-prompt-payment-to-farmers-319678
04-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Day 1: Paddy procurement brisk in Punjab mandis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3The procurement of paddy began across Punjab on Sunday, even as the stock arriving in some mandis is stated to be having higher than permissible moisture content.However, farmers, commission agents and state government officials insisted that the moisture content is just marginally higher than the permissible limit of 17%. By simply spreading the paddy under sun for a day, the crop would lose excess moisture, they say.Driers put in placeFarmers are drying the crop before bringing it to mandis. Millers have also set up driers. Amarjit Singh, farmer, Kalal Majra villageMohinder Kishan Chand Arora, a commission agent in Rajpura, said the moisture content was just one point higher at 18%. “It was a bright sunny day and farmers just spread the paddy, which was completely dry by the evening,” he added. He said 7,000 metric tonnes (MT) of paddy had arrived in the Rajpura mandi to date.In Khanna, the biggest grain market in Asia, Amarjit Singh of Kalal Majra village said the crop yield was good this year. “In some places, rains led to higher than permissible moisture in paddy. But farmers who had grown the early maturing varieties, are drying the crop in the village before bringing it here for sale. Some rice millers have also set up driers, which are being used by farmers for their crops,” he added.Harbans Singh Rosha, a leading commission agent in Khanna, said 7,000 tonnes of paddy arrived on Sunday and most of it was as per the specifications. “The payment will be made in the accounts of farmers directly,” he added.The Centre had initially advanced the date of paddy procurement by 10 days but in the wake of an uproar by farmers, it backed off and announced that the process would begin from Sunday.Meanwhile in Tarn Taran, sudden rainfall on Saturday damaged the harvested paddy, but Karnail Singh, president of the Arhtiya Association there, insisted that the standing crop does not have high moisture content. “The crop has to be harvested at the right time or we yield losses. The entire crop that has arrived here during the past week was as per the specifications and is now being purchased,” he told The Tribune.Notably, being the last major crop procurement during the current regime, ensuring a hassle-free process is high on the Congress’agenda. The government also has to ensure Rs 42,000 crore (cost of procurement) is injected to the state’s economy. That is why smooth procurement is foremost on the minds of the government.FIRST DAY PROCEEDS53,516 MT arrival23,797 MT procuredProtest threatened over lack of facilities Sangrur: Farmers have announced more district-level protests, if the authorities fail to make required arrangements for paddy procurement. “If the Punjab Government fails to make required arrangements for procurement, we will launch indefinite agitation against it,” said Surjit Singh, a protesting farmer at Sangrur.Jagsir Singh, another farmer, said at several markets, the authorities had not made adequate arrangements for water and sanitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-1-paddy-procurement-brisk-in-punjab-mandis-319695
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu stands firm; wants Advocate General Deol, DGP Sahota replaced||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has once again demanded that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s government in Punjab rollback its decisions to appoint the state’s Advocate General APS Deol and the Director General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota—a development that comes even as the status of his resignation from the Punjab chief’s position remains unclear.In a tweet that came two days after attempts at rapprochement with CM Channi’s state government, Sidhu said: “Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG/DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face”.Political analysts say Sidhu’s giving clear indications that, with state Assembly elections drawing close, he’s unwilling to compromise on his stand on the issues of sacrilege and drug trade.Sidhu resigned as Punjab Congress chief last week—a development that came two months after he took over the state unit after a prolonged power tussle with the then chief minister, Amarinder Singh. He attributed his decision to step down to some recent appointments made in the state, among them the appointment of Advocate General Amar Preet Singh Deol.In a tweet on Saturday, Sidhu said that he would not back down from his demands and that he would stand by both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, “post or no post”.Sidhu’s statement comes at a time when Congress leadership appears to be keen on retaining him as head of the party’s Punjab unit despite strong opposition from some quarters within the party.  Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG / DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face !! pic.twitter.com/Bdczzv2vgz||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-stands-firm-wants-advocate-general-deol-dgp-sahota-replaced-319598
