05-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 deaths, 19 fresh virus cases in Punjab||Three more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Tuesday as 19 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 6,01,752, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the infection has claimed 16,525 lives in the state.The fresh deaths were reported from Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and Ludhiana.Jalandhar and Ludhiana reported three cases each, followed by two each in Sangrur and Mohali. The number of active cases dropped to 261 from 272 on Monday. Twenty-six people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,966, as per the bulletin. Chandigarh reported four cases, taking the total count of coronavirus cases to 65,247.With the death of a 38-year-old woman, the toll figure reached 820. The number of active cases in the city was 38 while the number of cured persons was 64,389. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-deaths-19-fresh-virus-cases-in-punjab-320562
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri: AAP’s Raghav Chadha, Harpal Singh Cheema and Punjab MLAs detained in UP||A delegation of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on its way to Lakhimpur Kheri to offer condolences to the families of the four farmers killed in Sunday’s violence was stopped and detained by the Uttar Pradesh police, the party said on Tuesday.The delegation, led by AAP Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, included MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Baljinder Kaur, and Amarjit Singh Sandoa, a press release from the party said.Sandhwan was stopped at a checkpoint at Atariya village in Sitapur district when he was on his way to Lakhimpur Kheri from Lucknow. The rest of the delegation was stopped at checkpost set up by Nighasan police station about 10 km from the village, the press note said. They were detained after Chadha and his party leaders got into an argument with the police, the press note said.“We have read in the pages of history that under dictator Adolf Hitler’s rule in Germany, the people were put to death in a gas chamber by releasing poisonous gas. Similarly, today in the country, the attempt to crush and trample the farmers was done by the Bharatiya Janata Party and its leaders,” Chadha said, demanding the immediate arrest of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish and the union minister’s resignation.AAP delegation is now being taken to an undisclosed location. They are not letting us meet the family. We are just 15kms away from the bereaved family.If only this much police was deployed to apprehend the prime accused. pic.twitter.com/KNeDTTI78H||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-kheri-aaps-raghav-chadha-harpal-singh-cheema-and-punjab-mlas-detained-in-up-320537
05-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Release Priyanka, arrest minister's son, or we march to Lakhimpur Kheri, warns Navjot Singh Sidhu||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu warned on Tuesday that his party would march towards Lakhimpur Kheri unless Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is released and Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish is arrested over the killings of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.“If, by tomorrow, the Union Minister’s son behind the brutal murder of Farmers is not arrested, and our leader @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri,” he said in a tweet.Vadra and some other party leaders were detained on Monday when they were going to meet the victims of the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri a day earlier.Eight people were killed as violence erupted during a farmers' protest on Sunday. The violence, which came ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, killed farmers and some BJP workers.Several Congress leaders including P Chidambaram have questioned the detention, calling it "totally illegal" and "unconstitutional".If, by tomorrow, the Union Minister’s son behind the brutal murder of Farmers is not arrested, and our leader @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri ! @INCIndia @INCPunjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-priyanka-arrest-ministers-son-or-we-march-to-lakhimpur-kheri-warns-navjot-singh-sidhu-320510
05-10-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi meets Shah, flags Lakhimpur incident, reiterates repeal of farm laws||New Delhi, October 5Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah here at his residence and flagged the issue of violent incident that took place in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight people lost their lives.This was Channi’s first formal meeting with the Union Home Minister after taking over as the Chief Minister of Punjab.Seeking the Home Minister’s personal indulgence in resolving the nearly year-long farmers’ imbroglio, Channi urged him to repeal the farm laws at the earliest.Read also:Plans afoot for joint opposition action on Lakhimpur, Sanjay Raut to meet Rahul Gandhi later todayChanni, according to an official released by the office of the Chief Minister, expressed his deep anguish over the tragic Lakhimpur Kheri incident and told the Home Minister that “such barbaric acts would not be tolerated”.Priyanka Gandhi asks PM Modi to see video clip showing SUV mowing down farmersThe others were BJP workers and their driver who Charanjit Channi. PTI file photowere allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched. Two cars were set on fire.Channi alleged that the “killing” of the farmers was “intentional”.Local journalist among 8 killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceSlamming the BJP government at the Centre, he said it should not force the country's youth to look at martyrs like Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and Shahid Udham Singh for again “restoring” democracy in the country.Channi said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident was “painful” and demanded that the three controversial farm laws should be repealed immediately.Punjab-origin MPs from Canada, UK condemn Lakhimpur Kheri violenceLater, while talking to reporters after the meeting, the Chief Minister said, he also “condemned” the manner in which their leaders were arrested.“They were on their way to meet the victim families of this unfortunate incident and this system must be stopped,” he said, adding that he hoped of a positive outcome of the discussions held in congenial atmosphere.Moreover, the Chief Minister also raised the issue of illegal trafficking of drugs and weapons from across the border into Punjab. He said, “I sought personal intervention of the Union Home Minister to ensure sealing of the border, which will help the State in breaking the supply chain of drugs.”Raising the demand for re-opening of Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, the Chief Minister impressed upon Shah to take an early decision in this regard so as to enable the devotees to pay their obeisance at the sacred place. To this issue, Shah assured the Chief Minister that they would soon take a decision to open the corridor after detailed deliberations, the official release noted.Channi earlier alleged that a BJP leader had earlier told farmers that they would not be spared. “And then they (farmers) were killed intentionally. It was brutal.” He said the incident reminded of the Jallianwala Bagh tragedy wherein General Dyer had ordered his troops to fire at peaceful civilians.“Today, the same has been done with the farmers,” he added.“It is necessary to recognise the voice of people. The governments in democracy should work according to the will of the people,” Channi said.“Today farmers are upset and they are dying. Considering this, these (farm) laws should be repealed immediately,” he said.He said incidents like in Lakhimpur Kheri should be stopped.“(Narendra) Modi ji should stop his BJP people and the RSS. It will not work in the country,” he said.On the issue of detention of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Uttar Pradesh, Channi said, “This is too much. It is unacceptable”."Today, the blood of all the countrymen is boiling,” he said. — With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-meets-shah-flags-lakhimpur-incident-reiterates-repeal-of-farm-laws-320506
05-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab-origin MPs from Canada, UK condemn Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 5Punjab-origin MPs from Canada and UK have condemned the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in UP where eight people, including, four farmers, were killed on Sunday.Editorial: Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Shocking reminder of outcome of letting a wound turn septicCanadian MP Tim Uppal tweeted, “Shocked to learn about the brazen attack on protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri which killed 4 farmers and injured many others. Those responsible must be brought to justice.”Shocked to learn about the brazen attack on protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri which killed 4 farmers and injured many others. Those responsible must be brought to justice. #FarmersProtest  Also read: Have you seen this video Modi ji? Video clip shows SUV mowing down farmers, Priyanka Gandhi tells PMUK MP Preet Kaur Gill tweeted. “This is deeply disturbing and there must be an investigation into the deaths of the 4 farmers who were peacefully protesting.1. Gurwinder Singh, 192. Lovepreet Singh, 203. Daljeet Singh, 354. Nachatar Singh, 60This is deeply disturbing and there must be an investigation into the deaths of the 4 farmers who were peacefully protesting. 1. Gurwinder Singh, 192. Lovepreet Singh, 203. Daljeet Singh, 354. Nachatar Singh, 60#FarmersProtest https://t.co/B2Az2ONWhB  Canadian MP Ruby Sahota tweeted, “I’m heartbroken to learn about the violence directed at protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, India. My heartfelt condolences to the families of those who were killed or injured. I add my voice to the growing calls for justice and accountability.”I’m heartbroken to learn about the violence directed at protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheir, India.My heartfelt condolences to the families of those who were killed or injured, I add my voice to the growing calls for justice and accountability.  Also read: UP cops detain Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder RandhawaUK MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi tweeted, “Devastating to learn about the trampling to death of peaceful #FarmersProtest activists and others in #LakhimpurKheri India. My heartfelt condolences to the families for their immense loss. Hope the authorities and media will treat them fairly, because they deserve justice now.”Devastating to learn about the trampling to death of peaceful #FarmersProtest activists and others in #LakhimpurKheri India.My heartfelt condolences to the families for their immense loss.Hope the authorities and media will treat them fairly, because they deserve justice now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-origin-mps-from-canada-uk-condemn-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-320457
05-10-2021||---||Issue advisory on ‘bad air’ days, citizens’ body writes to Punjab Deputy Chief Minister, OP Soni||Ludhiana, October 4Members of Clean Air Punjab, a citizens’ collective of individuals and organisations concerned working on the issue of air pollution, have written to the Punjab Deputy Chief Minister, OP Soni, who also heads the Health Ministry, urging him to lead by example by taking up the issue of air pollution prominently.The demand made by citizens, primarily mirrored their right to clean air and the right to breathe, underlining the reality that Punjab was home to some of India’s most polluted towns, including Ludhiana, Khanna, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amritsar, Jalandhar, and Patiala.To make sure people stay alert about deteriorating air quality, Clean Air Punjab has also urged the Health Minister to direct all the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to mandatorily issue timely health advisories publicly on ‘bad air’ days, which will help save vulnerable groups from severe health impacts of air pollution.Punjab has a total of nine non-attainment/million-plus cities under the National Clean Air Action Plan (NCAP). A non-attainment city is one that does not meet the prescribed air quality standards set by the Union Environment Ministry.Supreet Kaur, president of EcoSikh, said, “The issue of air pollution is just not limited to the Environment Ministry and it’s time for the Health Ministry to step in as well. It’s a well-known fact that air pollution poses severe risks to health. Recently, a first pan-India study conducted by scientists in India found that areas with poor air quality and higher emissions of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 are more likely to have Covid infections and related deaths.”“The menace of air pollution can only be tackled by coordinated efforts of all stakeholders. The government being the apex body to frame policy guidelines and ensuring its successful implementation must pay attention to the issue of air pollution,” she added.Ranjit Powar, member of Clean Air Punjab, said, “Clean air is crucial to health and performance. Each of us has a right to clean air and also an obligation to work for keeping the air clean. Most of all, the government, as the policymaker and regulating authority for keeping the environment pollution free, must own its responsibility to harness sources of air pollution.”“What will people do with higher incomes and material progress that might come through the smoke-belching industry and units that diffuse poisonous gasses for miles around, choking their lungs and poisoning their innards? Let us safeguard our air and life,” he added.The recent Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) released by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC) for 2019 revealed that air pollution was likely to reduce the life expectancy of about 40 per cent of citizens by more than nine years.“With over 4.2 million deaths per year, ambient air pollution continues to be the ninth leading cause of cardiopulmonary deaths in the world. In India, indoor air pollution also poses a threat accounting for over two million deaths, 44 per cent due to pneumonia, 54 per cent due to COPD and two per cent due to lung cancer. Children, adolescents, women and elderly are the vulnerable group for respiratory morbidity and mortality,” said Dr Zafar Ahmad, senior consultant, Department of Pulmonology, Sleep and Critical Care Medicine, Fortis Hospital.Even during the lockdown under the second wave, when most industries were shut and movement halted, Ludhiana noted an average air quality index (AQI) of 135 whereas the good AQI is 0-50 and moderate is 51- 100.Even Fazilka and Ropar, which were considered some of the greener regions in Punjab, noted an average AQI of 113 and 129, respectively. This alarming data focuses on the immediate need for an intervention and promoting actions to reduce the prevalent severe air pollution.The air quality in Punjab continues to get worse. Air pollution accounts for almost one in 10 deaths in children under five years of age. It makes children vulnerable to the risk of chronic lung and cardiovascular disease, cystic fibrosis and increases the chances of hospitalisation and ICU admissions.The WHO estimates that in 2016, six lakh children died from acute lower respiratory infections caused by polluted air. These children were innocent bystander victims of the public’s misadventures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/issue-advisory-on-bad-air-days-citizens-body-writes-to-punjab-deputy-chief-minister-op-soni-320175
05-10-2021||---||Amritsar-Jammu flight from October 10||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4SpiceJet is set to introduce its fifth flight between Amritsar and Jammu from October 10 from the Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport. It is likely to boost domestic connectivity from the local airport.The SG3725 flight will take off from the local airport at 10:40 am and land at Jammu airport at 11:35 am. The return flight will reach the local airport at 1:05 after taking off from Jammu airport at 12:05 pm. A ticket from Amritsar to Jammu will cost around Rs2,500 and back to Amritsar nearly Rs2,000.Over 210-km distance, between Amritsar and Jammu, takes over four hours to commute by road. By air, the travel will be completed in 55 minutes.Well-equipped with rail, road and air infrastructure and owing to its geographical location, the city already falls in the tourist circuits of mountain tourism of both Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Hoteliers, tour and travel experts are of the view that the proposed flight will consolidate the presence of the holy city with the tourist circuit of Jammu and Kashmir.A large number of visitors and local travel to Vaishno Devi cave shrine, nestled in the Trikuta hills, about 50 km, from Jammu. Initiating the flight during the navratris, the airline aims to cash in on the festive rush.SpiceJet is already operating Amritsar-Mumbai, Amritsar-Jaipur, Amritsar-Ahmedabad and Amritsar-Delhi flights. Before the pandemic, it used to operate Amritsar-Srinagar-Amritsar flight, which is yet to resume.Starting flight during navratris, SpiceJet aims to cash in on festive rush||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-jammu-flight-from-october-10-320394
05-10-2021||---||Amritsar man jumps into canal with 2 children||Amritsar, October 4A shockwave engulfed the Khandwala area, when a man jumped into the Upper Bari Doab Canal with his two children late on Sunday evening.Their bodies were recovered on Monday afternoon.The deceased have been identified as Mandeep Singh, a resident of New Model Town locality in Khandwala area, Gurpreet Singh (7) and one-and-a-half-year old Robindeep Singh. The police found no suicide note from the spot, while it took the bodies into possession and sent these for autopsy.Ranjit Singh Dhaliwal, SHO Maqboolpura police station, said the incident came to light when the family members of the deceased informed the police about them being missing after they failed to return home late last evening.According to the police, Mandeep tied his two children with his body with the help of his turban and later took the extreme step by jumping into the canal at Taran Wala Pul.Avtar Singh, father of the deceased, who is a retired cop, said Mandeep took the two children along for having ice-cream near Guru Nanak Dev University in the evening. However, when they failed to return, they called on his mobile, which was switched off. He said when repeated calls failed to evince any response, they submitted a report with the police. The police found their last location near Taran Wala Pul.When the police team along with the family members reached the spot, they found his bike and mobile phone from near the bridge. Their worst fears come true, when the divers recovered their bodies from near Sultanwind village canal.Dhaliwal said no suicide note was found from the spot and they were yet to ascertain the motive behind this unfortunate incident. He said the family members said there was no dispute in the family.“We are still not aware why he ended his life,” said Dhaliwal, adding that further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-man-jumps-into-canal-with-2-children-320392
05-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Farm activists protest outside Chandigarh DC office||Chandigarh, October 4As many as 200 people from City Beautiful staged a protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) violence.On a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, members of various organisations, including the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, Pendu Sangharsh Committee and Lawyers for Humanity, and student unions like SFS, ASA and PSU (Lalkaar) staged a three-hour protest near the DC office, Sector 17.Signed by over 200 people, a memorandum was handed over to the ADC, who visited the protest site and collected the charter of demands, addressed to the Prime Minister, from the activists.The protesters also expressed dismay over Haryana CM’s speech which went viral yesterday.Prem Singh Bhangu, convener, legal cell, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said: “We have listed a total of four demands in our memorandum — the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, UP, Ajay Mishra Teni, be removed from the post and a probe ordered against him, an FIR be registered against Teni’s son under Section 302 of the IPC, a judicial inquiry be ordered into the incident by a High Court sitting judge and the Haryana CM be removed for his ‘violence-inciting speech’.”Amrit, a student of Panjab University, shared: “I couldn’t hold myself from coming here and protesting, especially after alleged killings in UP where even a 19-year-old wasn’t spared.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farm-activists-protest-outside-chandigarh-dc-office-320315
05-10-2021||---||Rejig: New DCs in 7 Punjab districts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4In a major administrative reshuffle days after new CM Charanjit Singh Channi took charge, the Punjab Government today transferred 24 IAS and 12 PCS officers, with at least seven districts getting new Deputy Commissioners.Sandeep Hans has been appointed DC, Patiala. He replaces Kumar Amit, who remained on the post during Capt Amarinder Singh’s entire tenure as CM. Babita has been appointed Deputy Commissioner of Fazilka, Arvind Pal Sandhu Bathinda, Harish Nayar Moga, Kumar Saurabh Raj Barnala, Harpreet Singh Sudan Muktsar and Vishesh Sarangal of Nawanshahr.Krishan Kumar, Secretary, School Education, has been replaced by Ajoy Sharma. KAP Sinha, who as Principal Secretary, Finance, had sent a proposal on how the government could scrap the power purchase agreements with independent power producers, has been given the additional charge of Power.Anurag Aggarwal has been made Additional Chief Secretary, Taxation, relieving A Venu Prasad of the charge, who will continue to work as Chairman/MD of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited.Puneet Goyal, who was transferred out of the Local Bodies Department last week, is back as Director, Local Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rejig-new-dcs-in-7-punjab-districts-320247
05-10-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI OPD patient count sees 50% jump in week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The PGI today saw a total of 7,971 registrations, an increase of 50 per cent from the 5,288 registrations recorded at the institute seven days ago. The daily walk-in registrations also increased to over 6,500 in the past one week.The institute had opened walk-in registrations for outpatient departments (OPDs) last Monday. On the first day, 3,942 patients had turned up for physical registration, while 1,345 patients got themselves registered through tele-consultation.Dr Naveen Pandey, incharge of the OPD administration, PGI, said, “There is a huge rush and the number of registrations has almost reached the pre-pandemic level. The situation will be reviewed soon in view of a possible third wave and the festival season.”The online registration for physical visit to all OPDs had increased to 50 for all departments and 100 for ophthalmology, hepatology and internal medicine. The registration for tele-consultation in the new OPD is being done from 8 am to 9 am. Registration of walk-in patients for physical visit to the new OPD is being done from 9.15 am to 11 am at the respective registration counters.Six cases in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Monday reported six cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Two patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSOne more Covid death in MohaliMohali: The district reported one more death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 1,068. Meanwhile, one new case surfaced till Monday evening, taking the tally to 68,747, while six patients were cured of the disease. The only case that surfaced in the district came from the Gharuan area whereas no case was reported from Mohali, Dera Bassi, Kharar, Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Kurali, Lalru and Banur. — TNSJust one case in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district reported just one Covid case on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,739. The toll remained at 377. While 30,357 people have recovered from the disease so far, five cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pgi-opd-patient-count-sees-50-jump-in-week-320310
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-DGP Dinkar Gupta police housing corp chief||Amid fresh confrontation within the Congress over the Punjab DGP’s post, the state government today formally removed DGP Dinkar Gupta from the position and appointed him Chairman, Punjab Police Housing Corporation.The transfer orders of Gupta also said officiating Punjab DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota would continue on the post till a regular tenure police chief was appointed.Step up vigil, Sahota tells copsPradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had on Sunday reiterated his demand for removal of Sahota from the DGP’s post.Earlier, Sahota was made officiating DGP till Gupta was on leave. Sahota was posted last week after Gupta had gone on one-month leave when Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the new CM.The transfer of Gupta also facilitates the appointment of the regular state police chief through the UPSC. The government has already sent a panel of nine officers to the UPSC for short-listing three names for the top post in the Police Department.The government has also posted DGP MK Tiwari as Managing Director, Punjab Police Housing Corporation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-dgp-dinkar-gupta-police-housing-corp-chief-320250
05-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||2nd extension: Day after Punjab CM diktat, 2 ex-officials hired||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The Water Resources Department today announced re-employment of two retired engineers in violation of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s orders issued yesterday that no person would be given an extension in government service beyond the age of superannuation at 58 years.The orders for re-employment of the two superintending engineers — Jasinder Singh Bhandari in Ludhiana and Manjit Singh in Amritsar — have been issued by Sarvjit Singh, Principal Secretary, Water Resources Department.Ensuring continuity of workThe re-employment was necessitated to ensure continuity in the work assigned to them. Also, there is 50% shortage of persons who can fill the posts of superintending engineers as well as executive engineers. We have to get the work done, so these officers have been re-employed. —Sarvjit Singh, Principal secy, Water resources deptThe two officers had earlier been re-employed in April for a period of six months, till September 30. The orders issued now, a copy of which is with The Tribune, say that their re-employment is for a period of another six months till March 2022. This has created a furore in the department, as the junior officers feel that their promotion avenues are being stifled by the successive re-employment of the two officers.These recruitments are in violation of the orders of the Finance Department (Punjab Civil Services First Amendment Rules) as well as in contravention of the announcement made in the Budget-2020 where the retirement age of all employees was fixed at 58, and it was decided to withdraw the practice of giving extension in service, except in the rarest of rare cases.The rules state that all Group A, B and C employees will retire at 58 and Group-D at 60, except in cases where the government feels it’s necessary to grant extension in public interest.The system to re-employ superannuated officers was started by the Akali-BJP government to put off the “burden of clearing dues” of retiring employees for two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-extension-day-after-punjab-cm-diktat-2-ex-officials-hired-320255
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Form expert panels, Pargat Singh tells 4 depts||Minister for School Education, Higher Education, Sports and NRI Affairs Pargat Singh today directed formation of expert panels to advise on smooth functioning of departments as per ground realities.Pargat said a committee of educationists and teachers had been constituted for the School Education Department, prominent writers along with educationists for the Higher Education and Languages Department, renowned sportspersons for the Sports department and top notch NRIs for the NRI Affairs department. He said eminent professionals’ far-sightedness and experience would be effectively utilised and the departments would be run in line with the opinion of the experts. He said as all departments were interconnected, coordination should be further improved. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/form-expert-panels-pargat-singh-tells-4-depts-320256
05-10-2021||---||At 3,800, Punjab’s dengue tally doubles in a week||Chandigarh, October 4Dengue seems to have become a new challenge as the number of cases are increasing at rapid pace and have doubled in just a week.Till September 24, the number of cases was around 1,900. But in just eight days they have doubled to around 3,800.In view of the rising number of dengue cases in Punjab, Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni (Minister for Health and Family Welfare) has issued orders to top officials of the health department to expedite anti-dengue activities.Giving information regarding dengue cases, Soni said till date, the department had conducted test of total 13,532 suspected patients and found 3,760 positive cases of dengue and at present 39 laboratories in the state are carrying out free testing of dengue and a large number of dengue testing kits are available at state government hospitals.Soni appealed to the state residents that the health department was observing every Friday as a “Dry Day” and any accumulated water should be poured out of coolers, pots or other utensils in or around their houses on that day.Experts say that prolonged monsoon can further worsen the situation as it provides conducive atmosphere for mosquito breeding. Last year, the state had reported 8,435 cases and 22 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-3-800-punjabs-dengue-tally-doubles-in-a-week-320298
05-10-2021||---||Punjab denies violation of NGT orders in Sangrur||Chandigarh, October 4Just about a fortnight after a petition was filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging the carrying out of unsanctioned public works, constructions, and uprooting of very old trees in Sangrur, the state of Punjab has denied the allegations.In a reply submitted to the High Court on behalf of the state and two other respondents, Sangrur executive engineer Navin Mittal denied that the order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had been violated or a developmental project implemented without sanction/permission.Mittal added in the reply that there was no evidence in the petition to support the allegations that the “whole project” was “wasteful expenditure”. The petitioners had, in fact, failed to show that the sanctioned public works, including widening and beautification, of a stretch of a road had violated any orders of the NGT. Rather, the work had been carried out after following due process of law and obtaining all necessary clearances. The reply will come up for consideration during the hearing of the petition on Tuesday by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli.In their petition, Jasinder Sekhon and two other petitioners had earlier alleged that the process was being implemented without the sanctioned plans of the municipal committee which was the authorised authority. “The expenditure is wasteful to the extent that when civil hospital and the schools are crying for attention, public funds are being used for complete beautification purpose, which itself makes the city ugly,” senior advocate Bains had submitted on their behalf.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-denies-violation-of-ngt-orders-in-sangrur-320303
05-10-2021||GS Paul||5K spectators allowed at Attari Retreat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4Amid drop in Covid-19 cases, the Border Security Force (BSF) will now allow 5,000 spectators to watch the Beating Retreat ceremony at Attari-Wagah joint check-post (JCP). Earlier, only 300 persons were allowed in the gallery.As per an advisory of the Union Ministry of Health, the entry of spectators at the Attari-Wagah border was suspended on March 7, 2020.Since September 17, 2021, only 300 persons, who procured passes from BSF’s Khasa headquarters in advance, were allowed access to the spectators’ gallery.25,000 seating capacityThough the limit has been extended up to 5,000, the spectators’ gallery has the seating capacity of 25,000. At the ceremony, spectators watch the flag-lowering ceremony conducted by the BSF and Pak Rangers at Zero Line of the border. The only condition is that every visitor, barring those below 18 years, should have been administered double dose of Covid-19 vaccination.A BSF official said, “No passes are required to gain entry to the gallery, but it’s on first-come, first-served basis. It would be mandatory for every visitor to possess vaccination certification, either digital or a hard copy.” The rest of the Covid guidelines such as thermal scanning, social distancing and face mask are mandatory.As per the new protocols, the state government has allowed gathering subject to the upper limit of 50 per cent of the capacity of the places such as stadiums, sports complexes, gyms, halls and zoosDespite restrictions, more than 2,000 visitors visit Attari daily and their number reaches 3,500-4,000 on weekends. However, most return without watching the flag-lowering ceremony. “We followed the state Covid guidelines to decide upon the number of guests to be allowed in the gallery. Earlier, the administration had allowed 300 persons, so we proceeded accordingly. If we go by the revised guidelines of allowing occupancy of 50 per cent of the capacity, it would go beyond 10,000. On a safer side, initially we have decided to allow a batch of 5,000 visitors only,” he said.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said 5,000 persons could easily be seated at the gallery while maintaining social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5k-spectators-allowed-at-attari-retreat-320304
05-10-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Cross-border heroin smuggling bid foiled||Three suspects from Ferozepur district have been arrested in Sriganganagar near the India-Pakistan border. They had reportedly come to carry a consignment of heroin from across the border but were nabbed by the Border Security Force (BSF) when they could not establish contact with the Pak smugglers.The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act on the report of BSF border Kohli outpost incharge Assistant Commandant Gurvinder Singh. Police sources said Amarjit Singh Ambu (32) of Dona Telumal village, Mamdot, Gurjant Singh Janta (25) and Nirvail Singh Raja (19) of Basti Kishan Singhwala, Ferozepur, have been arrested with a car. Three mobile phones, each with reportedly two SIM cards, have also been seized from their possession. Nothing suspicious was found in the car during a search.The trio will be questioned at the Joint Centre of the Intelligence Agencies (JIC). Sources said the suspects reached Chak 1-X village near Kohli border post of the BSF by a car on Saturday-Sunday night. The place is close to the wire fence on the international border. A consignment of 5-kg heroin was expected from across the border but contact could not be established with the smugglers. At 3.30 am, when the suspects were returning empty-handed, a farmer in a nearby field noticed them and informed the BSF personnel. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cross-border-heroin-smuggling-bid-foiled-320305
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis announce five more candidates for Assembly poll||Under mounting debt, Ferozepur farmer ends lifeFerozepur: A farmer of Khunder Hithar village in Guruharsahai allegedly ended his life by suicide by hanging himself at his residence. Sources said Harmesh Singh (32) owned around 4 acre while he owed lakhs to commission agents and banks which he was unable to repay. The Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee sought financial aid of Rs 5 lakh for the deceased farmer’s family. OCFlying squads to keep tabs on illegal paddy inflowPatiala: Following the orders issued by the Punjab Government to keep a check on “recycling” of paddy and bogus billing, the administration has constituted nine flying squads to check the inflow of unauthorised paddy or rice from other states. Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said the flying squads would submit daily report regarding unauthorised paddy and trucks’ seizure. TNSIllegal mining: DSP gets noticeMoga: SSP Dhruman H Nimbale has marked an inquiry into illegal mining on the Sutlej basin in Moga. He asked SP (D) Jagatpreet Singh to look into the reports. A notice has also been served upon Dharamkot DSP Subeg Singh. He has been told to file a reply on the corrective measures being taken. TNS30-yr-old dies of ‘drug overdose’Bathinda: Gurjit Singh, 30, of Muktsar died of suspected drug overdose here on Monday. Some passersby alerted a city-based NGO, who reached the old tehsil area and found Gurjit in an unconscious state at a secluded place. A syringe was reportedly found near him and his arm was bleeding. He was shifted to the Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. TNSSarpanch, panches join SADMoga: The Congress suffered a set-back in Moga Assembly segment as a sitting sarpanch and a few panches along with local residents of the Singhawala village joined the Shiromani Akali Dal on Sunday. Youth Akali leader Barjinder Singh Brar, younger son of veteran Akali leader Jathedar Tota Singh, welcomed them into the party. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-announce-five-more-candidates-for-assembly-poll-320307
05-10-2021||Tribune reporters||Lakhimpur violence: Outraged, farmers lay siege to DC offices in Punjab||Chandigarh, October 4On the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) and other unions, farmers in large numbers protested outside the offices of deputy commissioners and submitted memoranda to the President, demanding action against the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Two-minute silence was also oberserved at almost all protest sites to mourn the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. Union leaders urged farmers to maintain peace at all costs and continue to fight for their rights and against the laws.BJP’s narang, chugh face protesters’ ireIn Bathinda, a memorandum was handed over to the President through the DC, demanding removal of Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra Teni and a case against him for inciting violence and the arrest of son and his gangster accomplices under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, besides removal of the Yogi Adityanath government in UP and Manohar Lal Khattar as CM in Haryana.Can’t scare us with such tacticsThe BJP-led governments want to scare us, but such tactics will only make us firm in our resolve. We will not end our protest until the farm laws are repealed. —Gobinder Singh, BKU (Ugrahan) Sangrur presidentAddressing protesters, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district president Shingara Singh Mann said the attack exposed the deep conspiracy of the UP Government and the Centre against farmers. Statements made by Mishra and Khattar asking BJP workers to violently attack farmers were a sign of the BJP’s frustration. The saffron party hadn’t succeeded in its ploy to end the agitation, he ended.In Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib, protesters gheraoed the office of district magistrates and blocked roads. Hundreds of farmers belonging to various unions assembled outside the DC offices and raised slogans against the Yogi government and Centre.Demanding registration of a murder case and immediate arrest and resignation of the Union Minister, they said the BJP-led governments were behaving like dictators. They declared till the laws are not repealed their agitation will continue. Meanwhile, Congress workers in Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib burnt the effigies of PM Narendra Modi, CM Yogi Adityanath and the Kheri MP. The District Bar Association, Fatehgarh Sahib, suspended the work in solidarity with farmers.In Sangrur, farmers blocked both gates of the Deputy Commissioner’s office and raised slogans against the central government. They warned government authorities of serious consequences if no action was taken against the culprits. A similar protest was held in Muktsar.— With inputs from Bathinda, Patiala, Sangrur & Muktsar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-violence-outraged-farmers-lay-siege-to-dc-offices-in-punjab-320232
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||UP cops detain Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa||The UP Police today detained a delegation of Punjab ministers and MLAs led by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa in Saharanpur when they were trying to enter the state for visiting the families of the farmers killed at Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday.Earlier, officials of both states exchanged several letters over permission to state’s chopper to land near Lakhimpur and allow Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi to visit the families. Four farmers were mowed down by a car allegedly driven by son of a minister at Lakhimpur Kheri.Randhawa and others were forcibly removed from their vehicles, said a spokesperson for the Punjab Government. PCC working president-cum-MLA Kuljit Nagra and legislators Parminder Singh Pinky, Barinder Singh Pahra, Kuldeep Vaid, Kulbir Singh Zira and Angad Singh, who were accompanying Randhawa, were also detained. All of them had taken the land route after the UP Government denied permission to land their helicopter. A spokesperson for the CMO said the UP Government had said in view of the imposition of Section 144, CrPC, it had denied the permission to the Punjab CM and Deputy CM to visit Lakhimpur Kehri. — TNSSidhu held, let offPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu along with party MLAs on Monday staged a protest outside Punjab Raj Bhavan. They were taken into preventive custody by the police before being let off. Sidhu demanded strict action against the killers of farmers and removal of the Union Minister. He also demanded a sedition case against Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar for making provocative remarks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/up-cops-detain-punjab-deputy-chief-minister-sukhjinder-randhawa-320234
05-10-2021||---||Ensure justice to kin of victims, Punjab CM Charanjit Channi urges PM Modi||Chandigarh, October 4Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi along with Cabinet colleagues on Monday submitted to Governor Banwarilal Purohit a memorandum, addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on vital farmers’ issues, urging the Centre to impress upon the Uttar Pradesh Government to take firm steps in ensuring justice to the families of victims of yesterday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.The Chief Minister reiterated the need for urgent review and repeal of the three farm laws, which had caused resentment amongst farmers.Channi said the recent violence in Uttar Pradesh had shaken the conscience of one and all. “It was all the more painful that our ‘annadatas’ (farmers) have lost lives in this unfortunate act while protesting peacefully against the farm laws,” he observed.Seeking Prime Minister’s personal intervention, Channi said the faces of real culprits behind the “barbaric act should be exposed, howsoever influential or well-connected they may be”. He urged the Prime Minister for expeditious justice to the families of farmers who had lost their lives in the incident.The Chief Minister was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni besides Cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Vijay Inder Singla, Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli.Cabinet pays tributeThe Channi-led Cabinet on Monday observed a two-minute silence to pay homage to farmers killed at Lakhimpur Kheri. The Council of Ministers resolved that justice be delivered to the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-justice-to-kin-of-victims-punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-urges-pm-modi-320236
05-10-2021||Ludhiana||Conduct judicial inquiry into Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said a high-level delegation of the party, led by Prem Singh Chandumajra, would visit Lakhimpur Kheri on a fact-finding mission into yesterday’s violence against protesting farmers. He also demanded a judicial probe into the attack on farmers.Talking to mediapersons here, Sukhbir said the delegation had already left for UP and the party would hold an emergency meeting of its core committee on Tuesday to finalise its next course of action after going through the report of the delegation.Don’t shield guiltyThe UP Government should not try to protect the guilty. BJP leaders accused of violence should be arrested immediately. —Sukhbir Badal, SAD chiefThe SAD chief urged the UP Government to take stern action against the culprits, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son.Sukhbir also called for a free and fair judicial probe into the incident, saying “it seems inflammatory speeches were made by the minister the same day to incite people. Action should be taken on this issue separately”.He also condemned the restrictions imposed by the administration at Lakhimpur Kheri. “Freedom of movement is a fundamental right of every citizen and the UP Government cannot restrict access to any part of the state,” he said.Sukhbir asked PM Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws. “The PM should respect the sentiments of farmers,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conduct-judicial-inquiry-into-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-sad-320238
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP condemns violence at Lakhimpur Kheri||The AAP state unit today condemned the killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri, saying just as the British and maharajas used to trample the common man under elephants, BJP governments both at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh were doing the same to its people.Heights of oppressionNo one is being allowed to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. The sealing of the spot and suspension of Internet is the heights of oppression. —Bhagwant MannPunjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha along with Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said an AAP delegation would visit Lakhimpur Kheri to take stock of the situation.Cheema condemned the incident saying it was a “black day” in the history of the BJP government.The Yogi government had created an emergency-like situation in Uttar Pradesh, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-condemns-violence-at-lakhimpur-kheri-320239
05-10-2021||Amritsar||SGPC team to visit Lakhimpur Kheri||Taking cognisance of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has sought unbiased probe and directed the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to send a team to the spot to monitor the situation.“It is the responsibility of the Union Government to conduct the probe. The culprits should be given exemplary punishment,” he said.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur too condemned the killing of protesting farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-team-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-320240
05-10-2021||Balwant Garg||MGNREGA Scam: Dead ‘come alive’ to reap rural job largesse||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 4Amarjit Kaur of Pakhi Kalan village in Faridkot reportedly worked for 18 days under MGNREGA in November 2019 and was paid Rs 4,338 on February 26, 2020. But, she had died on April 19, 2019, as per the death certificate issued by the Chief Registrar, Births and Deaths.Vidya, wife of Jeet Singh, had died on November 17, 2018, but was paid the wages in lieu of work under MGNREGA in January 2020.Villager moves HC as dept ‘fails to act’Pakhi Kalan’s cases are not alone. Dead persons have allegedly come alive to draw wages from accounts under the MGNREGA in some villages of Faridkot.On the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat has conducted an inquiry and it has indicted the Pakhi Kalan village sarpanch and two officials of the department for paying wages to Amarjit.While the Director of the department has placed the sarpanch under suspension, proceedings to initiate departmental action against the department officials have also been started.For the past over one year, there are allegations of embezzlement of MGNREGA funds in many villages of Faridkot. The authorities have received several complaints in this regard. But after the authorities allegedly did not take any serious note of the complaints, Deepinder Singh, a resident of Pakhi Kalan, had approached the High Court in January this year.On April 27, the High Court had issued directions to the department to conduct an inquiry. Earlier, in September, 2020, the Union Rural Development Ministry had ordered an inquiry into the embezzlement of funds and a five-member MGNREGA team from New Delhi had visited four villages of Faridkot to probe the allegations of irregularities and misuse of funds.It is alleged that some dead people still figure on the muster rolls and wage remuneration was being drawn against their names.Not only money was fraudulently drawn against the dead, but there have also been rampant misuse of funds by way of enlisting ghost beneficiaries and fake muster rolls, it is alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mgnrega-scam-dead-come-alive-to-reap-rural-job-largesse-320244
05-10-2021||Raj SadoshAbohar||Punjab-born Shree Saini first Indo-American to represent America at Miss World contest||Punjab-born Shree Saini will be the first Indo-American to represent America at Miss World contest. She was yesterday elected Miss World America 2021.Her maternal grandparents Vijay Luxmi, a retired school teacher, and TR Sachdeva, a progressive farmer in Abohar, said “a dream has come true. We are proud of her”.Shree Saini’s Miss World America 2021 Crowning Ceremony was held at Los Angeles. She was crowned by Diana Hayden, Miss World 2017, and Tanya Memme, Miss World Canada 2013.A post shared by Shree Saini👑Miss World America (@shreesaini)Shree, who is currently Miss World America Washington, also holds the prestigious position of “MWA National Beauty with a Purpose Ambassador”, a position she earned by working tirelessly to help those less fortunate and in need. Her work has been recognised by UNICEF, Doctors without Borders, Susan G Komen, and many others.The pageant organisers said, “We are certain Shree will continue to immaculately embody ‘Beauty with a Purpose’, and no doubt will be successful in raising awareness and attention to the Miss World America mission. Stay tuned and follow the Miss World America 2021 journey!”“We would like to also take this opportunity to give our heartfelt gratitude to Alissa Anderegg for her outstanding role as Miss World America 2020. Alissa has filled her one-year reign with incredible work in raising awareness for Alzheimer’s and related dementias,” the organisers added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-born-shree-saini-first-indo-american-to-represent-america-at-miss-world-contest-320046
05-10-2021||Satya Prakash||'Why protest when matter is in court', Supreme Court asks farmers||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 4A day after eight people were killed in Lakhimpur in Uttar Pradesh, the Supreme Court on Monday questioned the rationale behind farmers' protest against the three farm laws, saying it had already stayed the laws in question."We have stayed the farm laws. There is nothing to be implemented. What are the farmers' protesting about? No one other than the court can decide the validity of the farm laws. When that is so, and when farmers are in court challenging the laws, why protest on street?" a Bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar wondered."When you have already filed a petition before a court challenging the Acts or action of the Executive, how can you then protest? Who are you protesting against? How can the Executive allow these protests? What is the validity of these protests?" the top court asked the farmer unions.The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat seeking directions to the Centre, Delhi Lt. Governor and Delhi Police Commissioner to allow it to stage ‘satyagraha’ at Jantar Mantar in the national capital. "We are on principle, once you go to court and challenge an Executive action, how can the same party say that matter is before court, nevertheless I will still protest?" noted the Bench which had on October 1 pulled up farmers' unions for blocking of roads even after approaching the top court and had reminded them that citizens had equal rights to move freely without fear.While ordering transfer of petitions against farm laws pending in Rajasthan High Court, the Bench asked the Centre to respond to it and posted the matter for further hearing on October 21.The top court will also examine whether right to protest is an absolute right and whether farmers can continue to exercise their right to protest when the petitions challenging the validity of the three farm laws are already pending before it.As Attorney General KK Venugopal mentioned that an unfortunate incident" happened at Lakhimpur on Sunday, Justice Khanwilkar said, "Nobody takes responsibility when such events happen."``Once matter is subjudice how will protest go on on same issue?" the Bench noted after Venugopal said that a large other petitions had also been filed. "Once matter is before highest constitutional court, no one should be on roads," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. The counsel for petitioner Kisan Mahapanchayat said the farmers' body has challenged the farm laws on constitutional grounds."It's still intriguing, there’s no Act in place... at moment the Act is stayed by court... The government has assured they won’t give effect to it. The protest is for what? We will transfer your petition here itself and hear it. You’ve asserted you’ve challenged validity of Acts... we will decide the validity first, where’s question of protest?... What’s the point in protesting at Jantar Mantar?" it wondered.As the farmers' body counsel said they have challenged the farm laws, the Bench said, " Then you come to law. You can’t do both -- challenge a law and then go on to protest. Either you come to court or go to Parliament or go to roads...."Amid protests against the three farm laws by farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Western UP, the top court had on January 12 this year stayed the implementation of the Farmers (Empowerment & Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance & Farm Services Act 2020, Farmers Produce Trade & Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act & Amendment to Essential Commodities Act.It had constituted a four-member panel comprising Pramod Kumar Joshi (Director South Asia international Food Policy), Shetkari Sanghatana President Anil Ghanwat and agriculture-economist and former Chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) Ashok Gulati to hear the various stakeholders’ views on and report back to it. The fourth panel member Bhartiya Kisan Union President Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself. The panel submitted its report to the court in March.At the outset of the hearing on Monday, Kisan Mahapanchayat counsel Ajay Choudhary said the petitioner has filed an affidavit to the effect that the farmers' body wasn't involved in blockades and that they had parted ways from other farmer unions after the January 26 violence.During the hearing, the Bench repeatedly said once a party approached the court challenging validity of an Act, there was no question of holding protest."Your Lordships is right. You can’t go to two houses at same time. He has chosen his forum (top court)," the Attorney General said. The farmers protesting against farm laws had received a rap on the knuckles on October 1 from the Supreme Court which questioned the rationale behind blocking of roads even after approaching the judiciary and reminded them that citizens have equal rights to move freely without fear. "You have strangulated the entire city, now you want to come inside the city and start protesting again here… The residents around.. are they happy with the protest? This business should stop. You are obstructing security and defence personnel. This was in the media. All this should stop…There has to be a balanced approach,” it had told the counsel for ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’.“There is no point in protest once you come to the court challenging the laws", the told the farmers’ body during hearing on its petition seeking permission to stage ‘satyagraha’ at Jantar Mantar in the national capital. “Are you protesting against the judicial system? Once you have approached the judicial system, have faith in the court. You pursue that matter for urgent hearing instead of protesting again,” the Bench had told the counsel for Kisan Mahapanchayat who said the farmers’ body did have faith in the court.The petitioner had denied blocking roads and had sought to shift the blame on the police. On September 30, another Bench led by Justice SK Kaul had wondered how highways can be blocked perpetually. “The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end?” it had asked and said it’s the duty of the executive to implement the law laid down by it. Maintaining that farmers had the right to protest, the top court had emphasised that citizens also enjoyed equal right to move freely and without fear. “Their (citizens’) properties are being damaged. Do you take permission from the residents around whether they are happy with your protest… This coaxing business should stop,” it said. Citing media reports, the Bench had pointed out that even security personnel were obstructed, stopped and heckled during the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-protest-when-matter-is-in-court-supreme-court-asks-farmers-320013
05-10-2021||---||Punjab transfers 6 deputy commissioners, 18 other IAS officers||Chandigarh, October 4In a major administrative reshuffle, Punjab has transferred six deputy commissioners among 24 IAS officers.Patiala DC Kumar Amit, who was appointed to the post in 2017 just after formation of the Congress government, was transferred in the late-night reshuffle order and will be replaced by Moga DC Sandeep Hans.He remained Patiala DC for over four years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-transfers-6-deputy-commissioners-18-other-ias-officers-320010
05-10-2021||---||Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa detained by police in UP's Saharanpur||Chandigarh, October 4The Uttar Pradesh police have detained a delegation of Punjab ministers and MLAs led by Deputy CM and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa at Saharanpur, a government spokesperson said. They were detained to prevent their entry into UP post Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed on Sunday during a farmers’ protest.“We have been detained at Shahjahanpur Chowk,” Randhawa told The Tribune over phone.Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government requested the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of the Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and the Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who had announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, in view of the violence that erupted there.Also read: Lakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka, Deepender Hooda detained; Akhilesh, BSP's SC Mishra stopped in LucknowUP violence: Maintain peace, urges Samyukt Kisan MorchaRakesh Tikait reaches violence-hit Lakhimpur KheriEight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya."After the incident in Lakhimpur, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders there to maintain law and order. It is requested that you should not allow Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM at the CCS Airport in Lucknow," Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said in a letter dated October 3 to the Airport Authority of India.Baghel and Randhawa had announced that they would visit Lakhimpur on Monday. Meanwhile, Baghel targeted the Uttar Pradesh government, asking if civil rights had been suspended in the state."Uttar Pradesh government is issuing 'farmaan (diktat)' to me for not coming to the state. Have civil rights been suspended in UP? If Section 144 is imposed in Lakhimpur, then why is the dictatorial government stopping me from landing in Lucknow?" Baghel asked in a tweet in Hindi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-detained-by-police-in-ups-saharanpur-319971
