06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab still to dispose of over 2.32 lakh kg of poppy husk, other drugs despite orders from SC, Centre||More than 2.32 lakh kg of poppy husk and other drugs are still to be disposed of by the State of Punjab despite earlier directions issued by the Supreme Court and the Government of India on disposal of contraband seized by the police in various cases but no longer required as a case property in ongoing trials.Information on the quantity of contraband as on July 31 was provided to the Punjab and Haryana High Court in response to a Court query to Punjab Additional Director-General of Police, STF, Harpreet Singh Sidhu. Taking a note of the response, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed Punjab Additional Chief Secretary, Home, to file his own affidavit, stating why directions were not being complied with and as to why proceedings under the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against the officers concerned, if the Bench found there was actually a violation of an undertaking before the Court.The Bench was hearing a bunch of petitions filed against the State of Punjab by Prince and other petitioners through counsel Ishan Gupta. Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted Additional Chief Secretary (Home)/ ADGP (STF), /IGP (STF) filed an affidavit in another petition that came up for hearing before the High Court two or three years ago. It was stated that contraband was being disposed of timely in terms of the directions of the Supreme Court/the Government of India. It was added that committees headed by the Commissioners of each revenue division, were constituted and entrusted with the responsibility of such disposalJustice Amol Rattan Singh added the Additional Chief Secretary would also be required to obtain data regarding 2, 32,810.84 kg poppy husk. He would give drug-wise break-up of all other contraband still not disposed of.It would also be stated when such drug/contraband was seized in different cases and when was the contraband last disposed of under the supervision of different committees. “If the affidavit, at least answering the first question as to why the contraband is not being disposed of in a timely manner as per the directions already issued by the Supreme Court/the Government of India and the undertaking given before this court in another such case is not filed, the Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Government of Punjab, would be directed to be personally present in court’ the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-still-to-dispose-of-over-2-32-lakh-kg-of-poppy-husk-other-drugs-despite-orders-from-sc-centre-321047
06-10-2021||Ludhiana||Stones thrown at Shatabdi Express in Punjab, 3 passengers injured||Three passengers were injured after some unidentified people threw stones at Amritsar bound Shatabdi Express train near Khanna railway station, officials said on Wednesday.Deputy Superintendent of Police Karnail Singh, who is investigating the matter, said the incident took place around 8 pm on Tuesday when Shatabdi Express, coming from Delhi, was about to enter Khanna railway station, 45 km from here.Sanjeev Kalra, Director General of Punjab Railway Police, said two women -- Suman and Sujata -- were among the injured.Both are residents of Amritsar. First medical aid was provided to the injured at Ludhiana railway station, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stones-thrown-at-shatabdi-express-in-punjab-3-passengers-injured-321042
06-10-2021||New Delhi||2.87 lakh tonnes paddy procured till October 5||The Centre said on Wednesday that 2,87,552 tonnes of paddy have been procured in the Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2021-22 till  October 5, benefiting 29,907 farmers with MSP value of Rs 563.60 crore. Of the total quantity, 1,46,509 tonnes were procured in Haryana and 1,41,043 tonnes in Punjab, according to an official statement by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.Officials said paddy procurement in Kharif 2020-21 “has almost concluded with the purchase of 894.24 LMT (including Kharif crop 718.09 LMT and Rabi 176.15 LMT) up to October 5 against the last year’s corresponding purchase of 768.70 LMT.About 131.14 lakh farmers benefited from KMS 2020-21 procurement operations with an MSP value of Rs 1,68,832.78 crore, they said adding that paddy procurement reached an all-time high level, surpassing the previous high of 770.93 LMT in KMS 2019-20.“In RMS 2021-22, 433.44 LMT wheat was procured, an all-time high, benefitting about 49.20 lakh farmers with MSP value of Rs.85,603.57 crore,” they also added.Acceding to farmers’ demand, the Centre last week decided to begin paddy procurement for KMS 2021-22 in Punjab and Haryana from October 3.It had earlier decided to delay the procurement of paddy under MSP to October 11 in Punjab and Haryana in “overall interest of farmers and consumers as well as to accept paddy stock as per FAQ”, leading to widespread protests in the two states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-87-lakh-tonnes-paddy-procured-till-october-5-321031
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||DGP orders all Punjab Police personnel to report back to their parent district||Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Wednesday ordered all the police officers in districts or units to send unauthorised police personnel back to their parent district immediately.In its order issued to all heads of police offices in Punjab and all officers posted out of Punjab Police Department, the DGP stated that it has been observed that some police officers on their transfer from one district or unit to another take some police officials in their personal staff or otherwise from their previous place of posting to the new station/unit after their transfer.“This practice leads to a number of administrative problems and it needs to be discontinued in the interest of professional propriety,” the order— which came on the directions of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa—directing that all officials who have taken police officers of various with them without proper authorisation at the time of their posting or transfer(s) to direct all such police personnel, except their security, to report back to their respective parent districts immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dgp-orders-all-punjab-police-personnel-to-report-back-to-their-parent-district-321017
06-10-2021||Lakhimpur Kheri (UP)||Lakhimpur Kheri violence hits local Sikh community hard||The spot near Tikonia village where violence erupted on Sunday during a farmers’ protest is amid an area linked to the life of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism.Granthi Baljeet Singh from Kaudiyawala Ghat Gurdwara says the Guru came here in 1554 and cured a person of “kodh”, or leprosy. The shrine gets its name from there.The devout believe that a dip in the ‘sarovar’ of the gurdwara, located close to the spot where eight people were killed, can cure people of skin diseases.Lakhimpur Kheri district and the adjoining areas in the Terai have been home to Sikh farmers for generations – including those who came during the time of the Awadh nawabs, migrants from undivided Punjab and the more recent settlers.On Sunday, Sikh farmers formed a sizeable number of those protesting over the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. And all the four dead farmers had Punjabi names.They were allegedly mowed down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. The other four victims included two BJP workers, allegedly lynched by angry protesters.Many farmers from Lakhimpur Kheri and the neighbouring areas in the Terai have been actively involved in the protests against the agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre last year.Many have made trips to the protest sites on Delhi’s borders – dominated by farmers from Punjab and Haryana—where the agitation has been on for months now. They also attended the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar last month.Bahraich, Shahjahanpur and Pilibhit are among the other Uttar Pradesh districts with a significant population of Sikh farmers.Largest in area among the 75 UP districts, Lakhimpur Kheri is known for sugarcane cultivation, and there are nine sugar mills in the district.Sarjit Singh, a retired sports teacher at a government school in Bahraich, says Sikh farmers from Punjab started buying forestland in the Terai districts because the same amount of money would get them bigger pieces of land than back home.“Some sold their five bighas of land in Punjab and bought 25 bigha in Bahraich near the forests,” he says.But there have been settlers earlier as well.Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, who has been a minister in UP and at the Centre, said Sikhs came to Lakhimpur Kheri from undivided Punjab in the 1940s.Earlier, the nawabs of Awadh encouraged members of the community to settle in the area, and many bought land, he tells PTI.“The first chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Govind Ballabh Pant, too had encouraged Sikhs to buy land in this area,” says Ramoowalia, now a member of the UP legislative council from Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party.According to an elderly Pyara Singh, there are three or four lakh Sikhs in Lakhimpur Kheri. Most farmers from the community are based in Palia, Nighasan and Gola tehsils in the district.In Bahraich district, Nihinaurwa, Mihipurwa and Bichiiya areas have a significant concentration of Sikhs in Bahraich district.Of the four farmers killed on Sunday, Lovepreet Singh and Nachatar Singh hailed from Lakhimpur Kheri. Gurvinder Singh and Daljeet Singh were from Bahraich.The community is represented in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet by Baldev Singh Aulakh. Ramoowalia was a minister during the SP term.Lakhimpur farmers say they were angry with Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over a “provocative” speech he made after being shown black flags during his public meeting in his Kheri Lok Sabha constituency.He said he could discipline such people in “two minutes”, the farmers say. Ashish Mishra, the minister’s son, is named in an FIR registered over the farmers’ deaths.But he claims he was nowhere near the trouble spot when the violence took place. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-hits-local-sikh-community-hard-321014
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri: Police use water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to lay siege to Punjab Governor’s house||Police used water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to lay siege to the Punjab governor’s house here on Wednesday over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh.The police had put up barricades near the MLA hostel here to stop protesters from going towards the Punjab Raj Bhavan.When the AAP workers, led by party MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke, tried to break the barricades and march towards the governor’s residence, the Chandigarh Police used a water cannon to disperse them.Meanwhile, another group of AAP protesters and the party’s Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh were detained near the UT guest house.They sat on the road and raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre. The police forcibly removed them from the protest site and took them to a nearby police station.Singh demanded the arrest of all those who were behind the killing of farmers.Four of the eight people who died in Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel.While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers’ protest against Maurya’s visit to Ajay Mishra’s native place.The UP Police have lodged a case against Ajay Mishra’s son but no arrest has been made so far. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-kheri-police-use-water-cannon-to-disperse-aap-workers-trying-to-lay-siege-to-punjab-governors-house-320995
06-10-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Old video of Vinod Khanna surfaces where he speaks about the need for sex even before he had joined Osho||Chandigarh, October 6Actor, villain, sanyasi and politician, Vinod Khanna was the debonair Bollywood actor of his time. Being one of the most handsome, his charms and amazing confidence to act in movies could have made him one of greatest leading actors in the industry had he not left it all to explore spirituality with Osho.Born on October 6 in 1946, Vinod was brought up in a rural area of Gurdaspur in Punjab. The late actor was a graduate from Mumbai-based Sydenham College. Despite being well-educated, Khanna kept his degree aside and joined films. On April 27, 2017, Vinod died after battling cancer for years. The bold and charming actor never shied away from talking about his views on sex even before he joined Osho.An old video of Vinod’s, in which he aired his views on sex and how he “needs it” as much as anyone else, has surfaced on social media. He says people should not object to him being with women.A post shared by Bollywoodirect (@bollywoodirect)  In the video, Vinod says, “Well, I was a bachelor and I am no saint as far as women are concerned. I need sex as much as anybody else does. Without women we won’t be here, without sex we won’t be here, so why should anybody object to my being with women.”He started his career in films as a villain with Sunil Dutt’s ‘Man Ka Meet’ in 1968 and worked in ‘Amar Akbar Anthony’, ‘Muqaddar Ka Sikandar’ and ‘The Burning Train’, which were big hits. In the late seventies, he joined Osho. In 1997, Vinod joined the BJP. A winning MP from Punjab and Minister of State portfolios in the Culture and Tourism and External Affairs ministries were some of the highlights of his political career.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/old-video-of-vinod-khanna-surfaces-where-he-speaks-about-the-need-for-sex-even-before-he-had-joined-osho-320978
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu slams UP police for detaining Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday slammed Uttar Pradesh Police for detaining party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and accused it of violating the spirit of the Constitution.His remark came a day after he warned that the party's state unit would march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if Gandhi was not released and Union minister Ajay Mishra's son not held in connection with the violence.Gandhi was detained in Sitapur on Monday while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, died during a protest over Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit on Sunday.“54 hours passed !! @priyankagandhi Ji has not been produced before any Court … unlawful detention beyond 24 hours is a clear violation of the fundamental rights. BJP & UP Police :- You are violating the spirit of the Constitution, impinging on our basic human rights !!,”  Sidhu said in a tweet. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-slams-up-police-for-detaining-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-320960
06-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab-origin MPs from Canada, UK heartbroken after seeing images of ‘brutal killings of farmers' in Lakhimpur Kheri||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 5More Punjab-origin MPs from Canada and UK have condemned the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in UP where eight people, including, four farmers, were killed on Sunday.Editorial: Mowing down protest: If video clip is genuine, Centre should act nowAlso read: Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish fired, his vehicle rammed into farmers: FIRCanadian MP Maninder Sidhu has also tweeted in favour of farmers.Thinking of the families of those who have been killed and injured during the farmers protest in Lakhimpur Kheri. Many constituents have reached out to express their concerns over this senseless act of violence and the demand for justice. Violence should never be the answer.  He tweeted "Thinking of the families of those who have been killed and injured during the farmers protest in Lakhimpur Kheri.  Many constituents have reached out to express their concerns over this senseless act of violence and the demand for justice. Violence should never be the answer".Also read: ‘Rush, I’m dying’: Victim Lovepreet Singh’s last words haunt fatherCanadian MLA from BC Rachna Singh tweeted: "I am completely devastated by the news of the brutal killings of four farmers in #Lakhimpur_Kheri India. Farmers have a right to peacefully protest for their rights. They deserve respect and not such barbarity. My condolences to the loved ones of those who lost their lives".I am completely devastated by the news of the brutal killings of four farmers in #Lakhimpur_Kheri India. Farmers have a right to peacefully protest for their rights. They deserve respect and not such barbarity. My condolences to the loved ones of those who lost their lives.  Horrified that eight people, including four farmers, were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a #FarmersProtest in #LakhimpurKheri. It is with a heavy heart that I extend my deepest condolences to the victim’s families. May those responsible be brought to justice.  Canadian MP Randeep S Sarai tweeted: Horrified that eight people, including four farmers, were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a #FarmersProtest in #LakhimpurKheri. It is with a heavy heart that I extend my deepest condolences to the victim’s families. May those responsible be brought to justice".Canadian MP Sonia Sidhu tweeted: “I am left heartbroken after seeing images of the brutal attack at the #FarmersProtest in Lakhimpur Kheri. My constituents are expressing deep concern about the attack and the senseless loss of life. I join Bramptonians’ calls that those responsible are brought to justice”.I am left heartbroken after seeing images of the brutal attack at the #FarmersProtest in Lakhimpur Kheri. My constituents are expressing deep concern about the attack and the senseless loss of life. I join Bramptonians’ calls that those responsible are brought to justice.  UK Punjab MP Tanmanjeet Singh has released a video stating: "Saddened, but also incensed, by deliberate mowing down of peaceful #FarmersProtest activists in #LakhimpurKheri by a convoy of vehicles. Rather than misrepresenting farmers, Indian media needs to treat them fairly and the authorities must deliver justice."Saddened, but also incensed, by deliberate mowing down of peaceful #FarmersProtest activists in #LakhimpurKheri by a convoy of vehicles.Rather than misrepresenting farmers, Indian media needs to treat them fairly and the authorities must deliver justice.English video version: pic.twitter.com/QHH4SOFqbO  British MP Debbie Abrahams has also tweeted in favour of farmers by retweeting MP Tanmanjeet Singh's tweet.Another Canadian MP Iqwinder Singh Gaheer tweeted: "I’m deeply saddened to learn about the senseless violence directed at protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Peaceful protestors should not be targeted. I join those who call on all parties to engage in meaningful dialogue."This is dreadful. Peaceful protest is an important right for all. #humanrightsforall https://t.co/tVwmzptAkn  I’m deeply saddened to learn about the senseless violence directed at protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri.Peaceful protestors should not be targeted. I join those who call on all parties to engage in meaningful dialogue.  Canadian MP Jasraj Singh Hallan tweeted: "Heartbroken at the news of 4 farmers killed and others injured in Lakhimpur Kheri who were peacefully protesting. Those responsible must be brought to justice #FarmersProtest"Heartbroken at the news of 4 farmers killed and others injured in Lakhimpur Kheri who were peacefully protesting. Those responsible must be brought to justice. #FarmersProtest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-origin-mps-from-canada-uk-heartbroken-after-seeing-images-of-brutal-killings-of-farmers-in-lakhimpur-kheri-320942
06-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar-based actor to don B-Town Jersey||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Vaibhav Sharma, a city-based model and actor, will soon be seen sharing screen with Shahid Kapoor, Mrunal Thakur and Pankaj Kapoor in ‘Jersey’.A resident of Guru Nank Pura (West), Vaibhav (28) has been trying his luck in the entertainment industry for the last five years. Prior to that, he has appeared in several web series, TV commercials, songs and movies.Playing a role of a cricketer in the movie, the actor still remembers the day he left the city, to chase his passion.“I had no Idea that I would pursue acting. I used to play cricket, so sports was on the priority list. However, as its rightly said, everything is written in the destiny, I started developing fascination towards acting during my teens,” said Sharma.“Subsequently, by the time I started pursuing graduation, I began to associate myself with drama and modelling. During third year, I moved to Mumbai to check how the industry worked. I came back and prepared myself. To survive in the industry, I even worked at a call centre. I was a bit lucky, as I got a chance to do modelling within a month, followed by advertisements,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-based-actor-to-don-b-town-jersey-320918
06-10-2021||---||FIR against Deep Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5The City Police Commissionerate on Tuesday registered an FIR against actor Deep Sidhu for hurting religious sentiments of the Valmiki and Ravidas communities.The case was registered following a complaint by Jassi Talhan, head of the Guru Ravidas Tiger Force.Deep Sidhu had allegedly used derogatory words against the Valmiki and Ravidas communities in a video. The video was posted by the actor on his Facebook profile and it went viral on social media. Jassi Talhan and other community members have demanded immediate arrest of Deep Sidhu.Based on the statements of the complainants, cops at the Baradari police station have started investigation after registering a case under Section 3 (1) SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the IT Act among other sections against Sidhu. Deep Sidhu gained prominence after Republic Day violence this year during ‘farmers’ protest’. Deep Siddhu was born and brought up in Muktar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fir-against-deep-sidhu-320909
06-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Shifting loyalties: Feeling isolated, those close to Capt quitting Cong||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Loyalists of ex-Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Jalandhar have certainly started feeling isolated and insecure since the reins moved away from his hand. While ex-MLA Jagbir Brar was the first to realise this and quickly joined hands with the Akali Dal, who even announced him the candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment, it was ex-Jalandhar DCC (rural) chief and ex-Milkfed Chairman Capt Harminder Singh who quit the Congress today and went the SAD way.Capt Harminder (69), whose son Karanvir served as the OSD to Capt Amarinder Singh till his tenure as CM, was also today announced as the Akali candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi. His closeness with Capt Amarinder Singh was known in the Congress circuit as he also used to visit his place at Urban Estate here.Spelling out the reason for quitting Congress, he said: “We saw the way the Congress humiliated Capt Amarinder and forced him to resign. A leader of his stature did not deserve such kind of maltreatment. Ever since he left, we too had the feeling that if this could happen to a tall leader like him, no one will take care of us. The party is in utter turmoil at the moment and the leaders and workers are in complete confusion over its fate. Hence getting the offer to contest from Sultanpur Lodhi, I and my son left the Congress today to join Akali Dal.”Capt Harminder says that he was settled in Jalandhar because of his businesses, which his son Karanvir runs now, but his roots are from Naseerpur village of Sultanpur Lodhi. “I have always maintained my connection with the people there which will be of help now,” he said.Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Sultanpur Lodhi Navtej Cheema has started terming him an outsider. “Like his Aam Aadmi Party counterpart Sajjan Singh Cheema, even Capt Harminder is from Jalandhar. I will be the only local candidate who is available to people 24x7 and it certainly matters,” he said.Meanwhile, the change of leadership in the Congress continues to have an impact even in terms of appointments. While the party had changed two Improvement Trust Chairmen at Amritsar and Batala, who did not go along with PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu, another head rolled on Tuesday.Today was the turn of Rana Randhawa, who was the Chairman of Kartarpur Improvement Trust. He has been unceremoniously replaced by Vijay Bhushan Aggarwal, that too just three months ahead of the likely announcement of next elections.As a Congress leader, Randhawa had been eyeing Jalandhar Cantonment seat represented by MLA Pargat Singh. He too was termed as a staunch Capt Amarinder Singh loyalist and had even got hoardings put in Cantt in his favour at the time when Pargat was waging a war for his ouster from the CM’s post. Interestingly, Aggarwal was a close aide of Randhawa during his stint as the Trust Chairman.Randhawa’s supporters alleged that Pargat alongwith Kartarpur MLA Surinder Chaudhary paved the way for his ouster. Paying the price for being ex-CM loyalistThe Trust had a balance amount of Rs70 lakh when I had joined. I worked hard and raised its kitty to Rs6 crore. This should not have been the way to treat someone who was pushy. I was also in good terms with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, but I it seems that he is not getting his say in the party. I really wish that he does not remain a dummy CM, the chances of which are quite likely. — Rana Randhawa, ousted Chairman of Kartarpur Improvement TrustFormer Akali minister Upinderjit not happy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shifting-loyalties-feeling-isolated-those-close-to-capt-quitting-cong-320905
06-10-2021||---||SKM seeks arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, son Ashish Mishra, aides||Karnal, October 5After another video showing an SUV mowing down the farmers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday went viral, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday reiterated its demand to the arrest Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, son Ashish Mishra Teni and his accomplices.They also demanded the dismissal of the Union Minister and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Referring the farmers who died in the incident as martyrs, union leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shiv Kumar Sharma, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav, in a joint statement, said their last rites would be performed after receiving their autopsy reports. In Gurvinder Singh’s case, the autopsy will be performed again.Meanwhile, the leaders also condemned the Rajasthan Government’s lathicharge on protesting farmers, demanding the procurement of their crops on the MSP.“After the brutal UP killings, questions were raised on protesters and their violent behaviour. It was only a matter of time that the reality of the incident had to emerge, which happened after a video came to light, which cleared that the explanation given by Ajay Mishra and his son was false,” they alleged.Meanwhile, SKM leader Tajinder Virk, who was grievously injured in the incident, was operated upon at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram and is reported to be out of danger now.The SKM also condemned the arrest and detention of Gurnam Singh Charuni by the UP Government.Cong condemns Lakhimpur killingsPalwal: Congress leaders and workers held a meeting here on Tuesday to condemn the deaths of farmers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district, saying the incident was “brutal” and “unacceptable”. Led by ex- MLA and senior Congress leader Karan Singh Dalal, the protesters demanded immediate arrest of all accused and stepping down of the BJP government for its “failure to prevent the incident”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-seeks-arrest-of-union-minister-ajay-mishra-son-ashish-mishra-aides-320882
06-10-2021||---||UP violence: Punjab CM Charanjit Channi flags Lakhimpur, asks Amit Shah to repeal laws||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, Oct 5Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence in the national capital and flagged the issue of the violent incident that took place in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight persons lost their lives.Curb smugglingThe CM raised the issue of illegal trafficking of drugs and weapons from across the border. “I sought Home Minister’s intervention to ensure sealing of the border so as to break the supply chain.”Reopen corridorThe CM urged Shah to take an early decision on re-opening of Kartarpur Corridor. Shah assured the CM they would soon take a decision after detailed deliberations, an official release notedThis was Channi’s first formal meeting with the Union Home Minister after taking over as the CM of Punjab.Seeking the Home Minister’s personal indulgence in resolving the nearly a year-long farmers’ imbroglio, Channi urged him to repeal the farm laws at the earliest.Channi, according to an official released by the Chief Minister’s Office, expressed his deep anguish over the tragic Lakhimpur Kheri incident and told the Home Minister that “such barbaric acts would not be tolerated”.While talking to mediapersons after the meeting, the Chief Minister said he also “condemned” the manner in which their leaders were arrested. “They were on their way to meet the victim families of this unfortunate incident and this system must stop,” he said, adding he hoped for a positive outcome of the discussions held in congenial atmosphere.Before leaving for Delhi, Channi condemned the incident and asked the BJP to respect the democratic values rather perpetrating the rule of coercion to stifle the voice of people. Staging a silent protest in front of a bust of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Samark Bhawan, Chandigarh, the CM accompanied by his Cabinet colleagues, MLAs and party workers resolved not to succumb to the alleged excesses of the BJP-led government at the Centre and states.Equating the Lakhimpur Kheri incident with the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, he said the recent incident was pre-planned against protesting farmers. He slammed the UP Government for arresting Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi who had planned to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. Channi appealed to the Centre to immediately repeal the farm. He also joined the dharna staged by the Chandigarh Youth Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/up-violence-punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-flags-lakhimpur-asks-amit-shah-to-repeal-laws-320629
06-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Singh Sidhu, Charanjit Singh Channi not on same page||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5The Punjab Congress seems to be in disarray. Even as uncertainty prevails over the resignation tendered by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the cricketer-turned-politician are not on the same page, as is evident from lack of coordination between the two over political events in the past few days.Two power centres, leaders confusedSidhu and Channi are appearing like two power centres, each acting their own way. This is leaving party leaders confused as elections are round the corner. Senior cong leaderTake back resignation: Top brass to SidhuIn a clear message, party’s top brass is learnt to have asked Navjot Singh Sidhu to fall in line and not embarrass his own government led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The PCC president has been asked to withdraw his resignation or the party leadership will take a call.PCC chief plans march to UP on Oct 7A day after Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa along with six MLAs was detained at Saharanpur, UP, on way to Lakhimpur Kehri, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu on Tuesday announced a Congress march to the site of violence on October 7.Yesterday, Sidhu along with some legislators went to Punjab Raj Bhavan to lodge a protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. In the evening, CM Channi along with his Cabinet colleagues handed over a memorandum to Governor Banwarilal Purohit over the same issue.Today, CM Channi along with some of his ministers and MLAs went to the Gandhi Smarak Bhawan here, as a mark protest over the UP violence. Sidhu was conspicuous by his absence, though, sources said, he was in Chandigarh. “Instead of the CM, the party president along with MLAs should have been present there,” said a party legislator at the event.Party leaders point out the very issue of two power centres that had emerged after Sidhu’s elevation as PCC chief and lack of coordination with former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, before the latter resigned, stares the party high command in the face again.Talking to told mediapersons a few days ago, Channi in reply to Sidhu’s demand for replacing the DGP and Advocate General, had said: “We should work in coordination and, if any issues remain, these could be resolved at the party platform,” as he dismissed reports of party’s image being dented after Sidhu tendered his resignation as the PCC chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-charanjit-singh-channi-not-on-same-page-320630
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur killings: Act fast against guilty, Sukhbir Badal tells Centre||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said the central government should not allow any delay in proceeding against the murderers of innocent farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri.Scrap actsThe Centre should repeal the farm laws as quickly as possible. It is needed to contain unrest and ensure no more lives are lost. — Sukhbir Badal, SAD ChiefThe party expressed the resolve after a meeting of its core committee here which was presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who again urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the three agriculture laws immediately.The core committee mourned the death of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri by observing a two-minute silence as a mark of respect. It expressed shock that no concrete action had been initiated against those responsible for the Lakhimpur incident. It also demanded a judicial probe into the entire incident, including inflammatory speeches by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra. It also condemned the Uttar Pradesh Government for stopping a SAD delegation from proceeding towards Lakhimpur Kheri. The core committee also accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi of interfering in the internal affairs of the Sikh community. It alleged the AAP government was preventing the constitution of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on one ground or another despite the fact that the SAD had won an absolute majority.He said it was shocking how a ground was prepared to deny the co-option of Manjinder Singh Sirsa to the DSGMC as a nominee of the Shiromani Committee. He said the party would not tolerate this direct interference. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-killings-act-fast-against-guilty-sukhbir-badal-tells-centre-320631
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP delegation detained in UP||An Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation on its way to Lakhimpur Kheri to offer condolences to the families of the deceased farmers was stopped and detained by the Uttar Pradesh Police at Nighasan check post. The delegation, led by AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, included MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Prof Baljinder Kaur and Amarjit Singh Sandoa. Sandhwan was detained on his departure from Lucknow.The delegation was to reach the house of the deceased in Banwaripur village first, but was stopped at the check post about 10 km from the village, where Chadha and other leaders were detained. Chadha said: “The video that has surfaced clears the slightest of doubt in the minds of people for the BJP. The Punjab unit of AAP has demanded that the culprits should be immediately arrested by the UP Police.The AAP demanded Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra should be sacked with immediate effect for a fair investigation. The AAP also sought that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should visit the aggrieved families and apologise to them, along with repealing the farm laws and announcing the guarantee of MSP on all crops from there.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged the BJP was resorting to violence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-delegation-detained-in-up-320632
06-10-2021||Raikot||‘Upset’ at Lakhimpur killings, farmer ends life||A farmer of Dhaliwal Patti of Sudhar village here allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself with a tree near a Canal on Monday evening. Paramjit Singh (50) was reportedly upset over the brutal mowing down of farmers who were protesting at Lakhimpur Kheri in UP.Though a slip purported to be a suicide note was found from the pocket of Paramjit, the aggrieved family did not want a case registered on the basis of it. The Sudhar police conducted inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC and handed over the body to the family after conducting a postmortem.The suicide note, genuineness of which was yet to be ascertained, consisted of three lines in the vernacular language, stating he was ending his life as he was upset over Lakhimpur incident and the government’s attitude towards the demand for repeal of the three farm laws. He is survived by three children and his wife.SHO Sudhar Jasvir Singh Buttar said the police had initiated inquest proceedings into the incident. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upset-at-lakhimpur-killings-farmer-ends-life-320633
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||147 job letters issued to farm stir victims’ kin||The Department of Agriculture today issued 147 appointment letters to the family members of farmers who died during the ongoing agitation. Agriculture Minister Randeep Nabha said the letters were handed over to Cabinet ministers, who would further take them to every household and personally hand them over to the victim families.It was the promise of the state government to give jobs to the family members of farmers who lost their lives in the agitation. The Department of Agriculture issued appointment letters in tandem with the Departments of Revenue, Education and Health. “‘One cannot compensate for the precious lives which have been lost but still the dependents of the deceased must be compensated,” he said.Nabha said for the past more than a year, farmers had been protesting at the Delhi borders against the three farm laws. The Punjab Government had already passed a resolution against these in the Assembly, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/147-job-letters-issued-to-farm-stir-victims-kin-320634
06-10-2021||---||Punjab CM reaches out to disgruntled leaders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Wary of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s move to poach disgruntled party MLAs and former ministers denied berth in the recent Cabinet expansion, CM Charanjit Singh Channi has stepped up efforts to mollify them.Wary of Capt moveLate last evening, Channi and Finance Minister Manpreet Badal called on former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in a bid to placate him. He along with former Revenue Minister Gurpreet Kangar had openly expressed annoyance over being denied a Cabinet berth, when other ministers were re-inducted. It could not be ascertained whether AICC observer Harish Chaudhary accompanied Channi to Balbir’s house.Party sources said the Channi camp sprung into action after getting reports that some of the party MLAs — who do not see any future prospects in the party with Channi in the saddle — were in touch with Captain Amarinder. The former CM is learnt to have hosted a lunch for close associates, including some party MLAs, yesterday.At a silent protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s bust at Gandhi Smarak Bhawan here today, former minister Kangar and Qadian MLA Fatehjang Singh Bajwa were also seen. In the past few days, MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, who had earlier been supporting Capt Amarinder against Navjot Sidhu, has been seen regularly with Channi recently.In the evening, Channi flew with Bittu and PCC working president Kuljit Nagra in a private jet to Delhi, giving rise to speculation of both leaders vying for the post of PCC chief in the event of the party high command accepting Sidhu’s resignation. Bittu and Nagra later flew back to Chandigarh around 9 pm. The travel with the CM has raised many an eyebrow.Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa met Channi at Kapurthala House in Delhi on the CM’s invite.A senior AICC leader, however, denied reports of Sidhu’s resignation having been accepted. Channi, who met Home Minister Amit Shah, was accompanied by Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari and Principal Secretary to CM Hussan Lal. Chaudhary, who has been camping in the city, has been interacting with party MLAs to ensure the party’s flock remains together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-reaches-out-to-disgruntled-leaders-320635
06-10-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Channi-Gehlot meet off||The maiden meeting between CM Charanjit Channi and his Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot this afternoon was cancelled following outrage over farmers’ killings at Lakhimpur Kheri.Sources said Channi’s helicopter was to land at Jaipur around 11 am and Gehlot had reportedly invited some Cabinet members for lunch with his Punjab counterpart. They were expected to discuss bilateral issues, including those related to the canal water. But the meeting was cancelled due to the aftermath of the UP incident.The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti said the CMs were expected to take up long-pending issues of renovating the Ferozepur-Rajasthan feeder canal, maintenance of Ganga canal to check about 400 cusecs of water losses between Ferozepur and Sriganganagar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-gehlot-meet-off-320636
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leader Capt Harminder Singh joins SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today replaced its Sultanpur Lodhi candidate Upinderjit Kaur with ex-Congress leader and former Milkfed chairman Capt Harminder Singh, who joined the Akalis today in the presence of its president Sukhbir Singh Badal here.Capt Harminder Singh’s son Karanvir was an OSD with ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Karanvir was not present at the joining ceremony.Capt Harminder Singh joined the SAD along with a large number of Congressmen. While welcoming him into the party fold, the SAD president announced he would contest the forthcoming Assembly elections from the Sultanpur Lodhi Assembly constituency.Sukhbir said Capt Harminder Singh had emerged as the consensus candidate of the SAD with the entire rank and file of the party reposing faith in him. He also praised the work done by former Finance Minister Upinderjit Kaur, who has been representing the party in Sultanpur Lodhi. He said the veteran leader had informed him she would not be able to contest election due to old age.Capt Harminder said, “It is an honour to contest the elections from the ‘nagri’ of Guru Nanak and I am confident I will win the forthcoming elections with a record margin.” He also said he had resigned from the Congress due to open division in the party and the fact that the ordinary person was suffering due to intense wrangling for the top post in the Punjab Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leader-capt-harminder-singh-joins-sad-320637
06-10-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab state economy may take hit as coal stock dwindles||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 5Worsening arrival of coal and dwindling supply is triggering a power crisis in Punjab that can hit the state economy. Over 10,000 industrial units have already been closed due to Covid in the state and any outage is likely to worsen the situation.Demand falling, will manageWe hope to manage with the available stock as the power demand is decreasing. However, we are keeping tabs on the coal position in the state. As of now, we are managing things. A Venu Prasad, PSPCL CMDPunjab’s coal-fired power stations are now left with less than three-day stock. With demand expected to go down after October 10, the state still faces power crisis, if the coal situation does not improve in the coming week.Supplies to power plants are currently short following prolonged rains that have drenched coal pits as unusually heavy rain last month in major coal mining centres have worsened the situation.At present, the power demand is around 9,924 MW, out of which central sector contributes 5,010 MW, private plants 2,510 MW, two state-owned plants 1,091 MW, while state-owned hyrdo projects supply 392 MW and solar and biomass 291 MW.As per Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, private plants have less than three-day stock and if run at low capacity, it will last for a few more days. While Talwandi Sabo has 2.5 days’ stock, Rajpura Thermal has 2.9 days and Goindwal Sahib has 1.9 days of coal availability. Meanwhile, the state-owned two thermal plants have coal stock of 5.9 and 7.8 days, respectively.“A majority of our plants are running at less than half their capacity, as shutting and then restarting a unit costs lakhs of rupees,” said a PSPCL officer.“The industry has finally started operating after the Covid-induced lockdown and any power pangs now will hit the state’s economy hard,” he said, adding that the government had been apprised of the matter. India’s power sector is the largest consumer of coal in the country, with state-run Coal India Limited (CIL) being the largest miner of the fossil fuel.Coal stocks are low at power projects due to an unprecedented increase in electricity demand with India’s economy revival, heavy rains in September impacting coal production and dispatch, a spike in imported coal prices, resulting in lower electricity generation, among others.Power experts confirmed that not building up adequate coal stocks before monsoon resulted in inadequate supplies. “The CIL has already said if thermal power generation plants had maintained 22-day fuel stocks prescribed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the low coal situation at thermal power projects could have been averted,” said a former chief engineer with PSPCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-state-economy-may-take-hit-as-coal-stock-dwindles-320638
06-10-2021||Abohar||9-hour power cut in Abohar||After heavy rain, Nai Abadi and other adjoining areas here plunged into darkness at 4.30 pm yesterday. The power supply was restored at 1.45 am today.PSPCL officials said a fault in the 220KV main grid led to the blackout. The areas were dependent on the 66KV grid station, which was upgraded at a cost of Rs 24.5 crore special grants from the Centre. Sources said substandard wires were used in 2016 and there was no check on quality even after 2017. They said the staff switched off the supply as and when it rained. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-hour-power-cut-in-abohar-320639
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to get 250 new buses by Oct-end: Raja Warring||Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today said 842 more buses would be added to the fleet of government buses to strengthen the public transport service. The first consignment of 250 buses would reach the state by the end of the month while 592 buses would be delivered by the end of November.After presiding over a weekly performance review meeting of RTA secretaries and general managers of bus depots, Raja Warring said the tender for procuring 842 buses had already been floated.He asked the authorities to ensure cleanliness at the bus stands fortnightly. “Complaints of negligence by contractors have been received during the recent visits to the bus stands. So, the general manager will issue show-cause notices to such contractors who were found violating the terms and conditions of the cleaning manual and impose penalty for repeating violations,” he said, directing that action should also be taken to remove illegal encroachments outside bus stands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-get-250-new-buses-by-oct-end-raja-warring-320640
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Over 2 cr jabbed in Punjab so far: Dy CM OP Soni||The state has administered over two crore doses of Covid vaccine so far. Saying this here today, Deputy CM Om Parkash Soni said so far 1.48 crore people in the state had received the first dose of the vaccine, while 52 lakh got both the doses.Soni, who also holds the Health portfolio, said 2.16 lakh people got vaccinated on Tuesday alone. “Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Patiala are the top five districts in immunisation so far,” he said, adding that 1.77 crore doses of Covishield and 23 lakh doses of Covaxin had been administered in the state so far.Meanwhile, he also flagged off 30 new ambulances for the Zigitza Healthcare Ltd, in the presence of MLAs and Health and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Alok Shekhar and PHSC managing director Amit Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-cr-jabbed-in-punjab-so-far-dy-cm-op-soni-320641
06-10-2021||Muktsar||Bollworm: Farmers protest near Manpreet’s house at Badal village||A large number of farmers and farm labourers of five districts – Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka, Faridkot – today started an indefinite protest near the residence of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal at Badal village here, demanding immediate compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre for farmers and Rs 30,000 per family for farm labourers for the loss to the cotton crop due to pink bollworm attack.Farmers said not just the pink bollworm, the untimely rain, too, has caused damage to their crop this time. “The state government should give us compensation and initate action against those who sold spurious seeds and pesticides,” said Gurbhagat Singh Bhallaiana, chief, BKU (Ugrahan), Muktsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bollworm-farmers-protest-near-manpreets-house-at-badal-village-320642
06-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||After bumper crop, Punjab set to procure 20 LMT excess paddy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5The paddy procurement in the ongoing Kharif Marketing Season is set to be much higher than the earlier estimates. As per advance estimates of the Agriculture Department, the yield is good and the state is set to procure almost 20 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) more than the original estimates of 170 LMT.Massive crackdown on smugglersThis may lead to some tussle between the state and the BJP-led Centre. For, the latter has accused Punjab of procuring excess grain than what it produces, and passing it on to the Centre to avail MSP. It is thus that the Centre has pushed aside Punjab’s claim of procuring 190 LMT paddy and said the procurement from the state would be only 170 LMT.“Not that the practice is not prevalent (of buying cheaper rice from outside state and passing it to FCI on MSP), but the state has launched a massive crackdown on such unscrupulous people who have been indulging in these malpractices. It is for the first time to stop the continuous maligning of Punjab and its farmers that I got the physical verification done for stocks lying in each rice mill in the state before the procurement season began. We now have the list of exact stocks in the mills, which will be matched with the results of physical verification to be conducted at the end of the procurement season,” Punjab Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said.He said this time, he had ensured that a posse of cops was stationed at every entry and exit point in Punjab, to check that there was no smuggling of paddy from outside the state, and no rice (usually meant for PDS) from other states was smuggled into Punjab by the rice millers.“An ADGP-level officer has been put on duty just to ensure that this smuggling is stopped,” he said, adding that they had also set up flying squads to check any malpractices at the market committee level, besides intelligence gathering from truckers and using Guardians of Governance for the purpose.Ashu, while talking of excess paddy being procured last year (203 LMT — 25 per cent higher than the paddy procurement in 2019, which led to the accusations of bogus billing), said it was because farmers from Haryana started selling paddy in Punjab mandis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-bumper-crop-punjab-set-to-procure-20-lmt-excess-paddy-320643
06-10-2021||Bathinda/Muktsar||Rain damages paddy, cotton crops in Bathinda, Mansa districts||Heavy rain coupled with strong winds on Monday late evening flattened the ripened paddy in the fields and also damaged cotton crop in Bathinda and Mansa districts.Farmers said they were already suffering due to the pink bollworm attack and the bad weather would hit them further as the harvest would be delayed. They are worried as Combine Harvesters are not suited to harvest flattened crop.The higher moisture content in the crop, too, is another cause for concern for the farmers now. The untimely rain will delay wheat-sowing as well. Kulwant Singh, a farmer from Sivian village, said: “Paddy crop in our village has suffered extensive damage The flattened crop will lead to increase in the cost of harvest, besides causing discolouration of grains.”Natha Singh, farmer in Bathinda, said: “Earlier cotton crop was damaged by pink bollworm and now the rain has affected fluffs that were in full bloom and set for picking. It will cause quality issue and discolouration.”Agricultural experts claim rain at this juncture would affect the quality of cotton bolls and paddy. Cotton harvest would be stalled for around five days.In Muktsar district, too, the thunderstorm flattened the paddy crop in some parts. The rain also damaged cotton crop in some pockets. Some cotton growers even took their produce back from the mandis to dry it.Jaswinder Singh, a farmer from Burj Sidhwan village, said, “I have grown paddy crop in seven acres, which has almost flattened due to strong winds and rain.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-damages-paddy-cotton-crops-in-bathinda-mansa-districts-320644
06-10-2021||---||EC appoints three top Punjab state poll officers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Punjab Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju today said on the recommendations of the Election Commission (EC) of India, IAS officer Amit Kumar has been appointed Additional Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, while PCS officers Amarbir Singh and Inder Pal have been appointed Joint CEOs.Raju said the appointments had been made as per the instructions of the EC for which the Punjab Government had sent a panel of three officers for the posts each through the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab.He said the Election Commission had also consulted the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, to finalise these names.Chief Electoral Officer Raju also said preparations were being carried out to conduct upcoming Assembly elections on a war-footing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-appoints-three-top-punjab-state-poll-officers-320645
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pact on agri tech inked with Maharashtra||Punjab and Maharashtra today signed an agreement for exchange of technology in horticulture. Maharashtra Horticulture Minister Sandipan Bhumre held a meeting with his Punjab counterpart Rana Gurjeet Singh and senior officials of the department at Punjab Bhavan today in which both states agreed on the exchange of technology being used to increase the production of fruit and vegetables.Rana Gurjeet said only agricultural diversification could get farmers out of the current economic stress. He said by producing fruit and vegetables, this crisis could be mitigated. He said there was ample supply of foodgrain in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pact-on-agri-tech-inked-with-maharashtra-320646
06-10-2021||Fazilka||Rain exposes poor facilities at Fazilka||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-exposes-poor-facilities-at-fazilka-320647
06-10-2021||Mansa||Truck with paddy from Rajasthan seized||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/truck-with-paddy-from-rajasthan-seized-320648
06-10-2021||Muktsar||Cotton worth Rs 1.5 cr gutted in Gidderbaha||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-worth-rs-1-5-cr-gutted-in-gidderbaha-320649
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Report action on graft, VB told||Raising a red flag over corruption in registration of property documents, the Vigilance Commission asked the Vigilance Bureau SSPs and state Vigilance Bureau to report the action taken to curb it.Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd), who was appointed Vigilance Commission Chairman by ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh, told officials to report to him the measures taken to curb corruption, which affected public directly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/report-action-on-graft-vb-told-320650
06-10-2021||Morinda||Jobless teachers end dharna||PG courses get NMC recognitionFaridkot: As it could not physically inspect all medical colleges to granting recognition to PG courses due to the pandemic, the National Medical Commission (NMC) on Tuesday provisionally recognised all PG courses in all medical colleges for one year. tnsSGPC submits report to TakhtAmritsar: The SGPC submitted the inquiry report on the incident of women dancing to music beats on gurdwara premises near Ropar to the Akal Takht Secretariat on Tuesday. Davinder Singh Bajwa, president, Baba Gajidas Club, was reportedly held responsible for it. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-end-dharna-320651
06-10-2021||GS Paul||Suspected Taliban men vandalise Kabul gurdwara||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 5A group of unidentified heavily armed men, suspected to be Taliban officials, entered Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul forcefully and vandalised it on the pretext of conducting search in the complex.Puneet Singh Chandhok, president, India World Forum, said security guards of the gurdwara were handcuffed and CCTV cameras damaged. Later, the men left the place. “They not only abused the sanctity of the holy place but also vandalised it,” he said.Gurnam Singh, president, gurdwara committee, spoke to Taliban intelligence officials over the incident.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said the persons who entered the gurdwara pretended to be Taliban officials, whereas Taliban leaders in the Afghan government had denied any link with the assailants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspected-taliban-men-vandalise-kabul-gurdwara-320712
06-10-2021||---||HC advances Punjab drugs case hearing by a month||Chandigarh, October 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court today advanced the hearing of Punjab drugs menace case by almost a month.The suo motu or “court on its own motion case” against the state of Punjab, earlier scheduled to be heard on November 15, will now be taken up for hearing by the newly constituted Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma on October 13, just before the High Court closes down for the Dasehra break. The direction came after counsel for the parties, including the state, said they had no objection to advancing the date. Justice Masih was a member of the Bench that initially took suo motu cognisance of a letter forwarded to the High Court by retired IPS officer Shashi Kant way back in September 2013, underscoring drug menace in Punjab and requesting for judicial scrutiny.Kant was assisting the Bench of then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice Masih in another petition by Tarlochan Singh and other petitioners on the specific issue of drug menace in the jails of Punjab.The suo motu case came up for hearing on a regular basis till March last year, but came to a standstill after the High Court went into restrictive functioning mode following Covid outbreak, compelling advocate Navkiran Singh to file an application for advancing the date of hearing in the case.Appearing on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International, counsel Navkiran Singh also prayed that the Bench “may open” a report lying in a sealed cover. He had contended the matter related to drug mafia operating in Punjab that had international tentacles.“The sealed reports, which have been filed by Niranjan Singh, the then Deputy Director, Enforcement Directorate, and the Special Task Force, as well as the state of Punjab, need to be opened and considered by this court, Navkiran submitted.Delayed by Covid||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-advances-punjab-drugs-case-hearing-by-a-month-320710
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 1,887-cr bonanza for pensioners in Punjab, 3L to benefit||In a bonanza for retired Punjab Government employees, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today directed the Finance Department to pay revised pension with effect from July 1, 2021, to over 3 lakh pensioners.The move is in line with the 6th Punjab Pay Commission recommendations and will incur an additional expenditure of Rs 1,887 crore during the current fiscal.Channi also directed that the revised pension be released to the pensioners in one go, a spokesperson said.The Chief Minister also approved paying retirement benefits, including leave encashment and gratuity, worth around Rs 915 crore to 42,600 pensioners having retired between January 1, 2016, and June 30, 2021, in one go instead of the earlier decision to pay in instalments.The spokesperson said both the decisions entailed an expenditure of around Rs 2,802 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-1-887-cr-bonanza-for-pensioners-in-punjab-3l-to-benefit-320709
06-10-2021||Aditi Tandon||‘Rush, I’m dying’: Victim Lovepreet Singh’s last words haunt father||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 5Satnam Singh (60) has not been able to sleep since Sunday. The flailing voice of his son Lovepreet (20), one of the four farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, haunts him.Also read:Opposition turns up heat with Lakhimpur Kheri videosMinister’s son fired, his vehicle rammed into farmers: FIR“It was just like any other day. Lovepreet had attended several protests on farmers’ issues over the past months. This one was no different. Who knew it would turn fatal? I can never forget his last words. He called me up after being hit by a vehicle along the main road and asked me to rush to the hospital. His breath was shaky. He said he was dying,” says Singh.While on the way to the hospital, Singh got the news that Lovepreet was no more.“He died on the way. He never reached the hospital,” said Singh, his voice choking on tears. “We just want justice. We don’t want any compensation or help,” said a distraught Amanpreet Kaur, victim’s sister. The family claimed that Lovepreet had been shot after being mowed down by an SUV “driven by Minister of Home Ajay Mishra’s son”.Also read: Punjab-origin MPs from Canada, UK heartbroken after seeing images of ‘brutal killings of farmers' in Lakhimpur KheriThree of the four deceased farmers cremated today were Lovepreet Singh, Nachhatar Singh (60) and Daljit Singh (35).On the insistence of the family and farm leaders, the UP administration constituted a fresh medical board to conduct a second postmortem on Gurwinder Singh (19), who allegedly died of gunshot wounds. No compensation, want only justiceMy brother was killed brutally... We don’t want any monetary compensation. Justice is all we demand. — Amanpreet Kaur, Lovepreet’s sister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rush-im-dying-victim-lovepreet-singhs-last-words-haunt-father-320708
06-10-2021||---||3 lakh Punjab pensioners to get revised pension, arrears||Chandigarh, October 5In a bonanza to the pensioners across the state, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday directed the Finance Department to pay the revised pension with effect from July 1, 2021 to over 3 lakh pensioners involving an additional expenditure of Rs 1,887 crore during the current fiscal year in line with the recommendations of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission.Further, he also directed that the revised pension should be released to the pensioners in one go.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, Channi cleared the file to this effect this morning. Likewise, he also gave his nod to pay retirement benefits including leave encashment and gratuity, around Rs 915 crore to approximately 42,600 pensioners who have retired between January 1, 2016 and June 30, 2021 as per 6th Punjab Pay Commission in one go instead of the earlier decision to pay in instalments.The spokesperson said that this decision will have an impact of around Rs 2,802 crore on the state exchequer during this fiscal year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-lakh-punjab-pensioners-to-get-revised-pension-arrears-320530
06-10-2021||Aditi Tandon||Lakhimpur violence: TMC leaders first to meet victims’ kin, question post mortems at night||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 5At a time when top opposition leaders are struggling to reach Lakhimpur Kheri, a Trinamool Congress delegation arrived at the epicentre of Sunday’s violence and met the families of deceased farmers.Speaking to The Tribune on phone, senior TMC leaders and MPs Kakoli Ghosh and Sushmita Dev said the families of the four deceased farmers were distraught over the turn of events and had claimed that gun shots were also fired at the victims.Read also:“Why were the post mortems done yesterday night? That is illegal. You cannot conduct post mortem at night. That shows they have something to hide. When we met the family of Lovepreet Singh, a 20-year-old victim, today they said they did not want to cremate their child and wanted to see the post mortem report first. They also lamented that the son of junior home minister had not been arrested yet,” Ghosh said moments before Lovepreet was cremated after UP administration and families of three deceased farmers reached an agreement to conduct the last rites.Only one farmer’s body –19-year-old Gurwinder Singh—will be sent for a second post mortem to determine gunshot injuries.Meanwhile, TMC’s Sushmita Dev told TNS that all families of deceased farmers said they wanted justice and not compensation.“The families, all Sikhs, also want the state administration to apologise for calling their kin anti-nationals and to recognise them as genuine farmers. The families are aghast that the post mortems did not speak of gunshot wounds which they said several eyewitnesses corroborated. Lovepreet’s family also told us they wanted a post mortem outside of UP preferably in Punjab,” Sushmita said asking why the junior home minister had not stepped down yet and what justice could anyone expect with the MoS Home in his chair considering police coming under him.The TMC MPs visiting the area include Dola Sen and Pratima Mandal. The visit comes at a time when the TMC is in talks with the Akhilesh Yadav led Samajwadi Party for an alliance for the 2022 UP elections.Asked how they managed to come to the victims when several other leaders were still in detention, Sushmita Dev said they reached the area last night and headed for Lakhimpur early morning Tuesday, sure that the entire state machinery and police would be busy with the Prime Minister’s Lucknow visit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-violence-tmc-leaders-first-to-meet-victims-kin-question-post-mortems-at-night-320521
06-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab drugs menace: HC advances case hearing by a month to October 13||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday advanced the hearing of Punjab drugs menace case by almost a month.The suo motu or “court on its own motion case” against the State of Punjab, earlier scheduled to be heard on November 15, will now be taken up for hearing by the newly-constituted Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma on October 13, just before the High Court closes down for the Dussehra break.The direction came after counsel for the parties, including the State, said they had no objection to advancing of the date. Justice Masih was a member of the Bench that initially took suo motu cognizance of a letter forwarded to the High Court by retired IPS officer Shashi Kant way back in September 2013 underscoring drug menace in Punjab and requesting for judicial scrutiny.Kant was assisting the Bench of then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice Masih in another petition by Tarlochan Singh and other petitioners on the specific issue of drug menace in the jails of Punjab.The suo motu case came up for hearing on a regular basis till March last year, but came to a standstill after the High Court went into restrictive functioning mode following Covid outbreak, compelling advocate Navkiran Singh to file an application for advancing the date of hearing in the case.Appearing on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International, counsel Navkiran Singh also prayed that the Bench “may open” a report lying in a sealed cover in the case. He had contended the matter related to drug mafia operating in Punjab and was having international tentacles. It was required to be dealt with on an urgent basis as it affected the lives of the Punjabi youth.Taking up the plea, the special Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Ajay Tewari made clear its intent to examine the inquiry reports submitted during the past couple of year in the case before proceeding further in the matter.The Bench also directed High Court Registrar (Judicial) to produce the reports in the chambers before the next date of hearing in August end. The Bench, at that time, observed that it had been recently constituted, while the various inquiry reports were submitted two to three years back and were required to be perused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-drugs-menace-hc-advances-case-hearing-by-a-month-to-october-13-320515
