07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 24 fresh Covid-19 cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 24 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed its tally to 6,01,805, according to a medical bulletin.No fresh fatalities were reported. The death toll stands at 16,526.Of the fresh cases, eight were reported from Pathankot, three from Hoshiarpur and two each from Faridkot, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Tarn Taran, the bulletin stated.There are 259 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, it said.Twenty-eight more patients recovered from the disease, taking the number of recoveries to 5,85,020, it added.Chandigarh’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 65,268 as six more people tested positive for the disease, the bulletin said.The tally also includes 10 cases that were not reported earlier, it said.The death toll remained unchanged at 820.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh stands at 40, while 64,408 people have recovered from the disease so far, the bulletin said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-logs-24-fresh-covid-19-cases-321501
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Harsimrat, Majithia among 5-member SAD delegation to visit Lakhimpur Kheri||A delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri on Thursday to meet the families of farmers who were killed while protesting peacefully against the three farm laws.Also read: Another video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedDisclosing this here, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the delegation will also meet Uttar Pradesh government representatives and impress upon them to arrest the perpetrators of this ghastly act immediately. “The SAD is very clear. All those responsible for this massacre should be put behind bars immediately, however high they may be”.Badal said the five-member delegation leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri included Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bibi Jagir Kaur and Bikram Singh Majithia.Also read: Lakhimpur Kheri violence hits local Sikh community hard Lakhimpur killings another blow to Punjab BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-majithia-among-5-member-sad-delegation-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-321425
07-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab’s border districts up ante against drone flights||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 7The border police districts of Gurdaspur, Batala and Pathankot have upped their ante keeping in view of the increasing regularity of Pakistan propelled Drones being seen near the International Border (IB).Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh confirmed that two drones were sighted on Tuesday night over Dorangla and Kalanaur townships.In all, BSF sources claimed there were three violations of Indian air space on Tuesday night. Apart from the double drone sighting made in Guraspur police district, one such machine was spotted in the BSF area of responsibility which extends till Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. Before this the last such sighting was made by the BSF on September 18 in Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur police district.A police officer, preferring anonymity, said that the flights of these machines, which are controlled by the Pakistan officials on their side of the IB, had increased ever since the drone attack on the Jammu Air Force station in June. Two explosions had rocked the high security technical area on the intervening night of June 26 and 27 following which two Air Force personnel had sustained injuries. Police officers claim the central government has instructed all border districts of Punjab to keep a strict vigil.Many shipments of arms and drugs dropped by Pakistani intelligence agencies have been recovered in the past following combing operations launched by the police and the BSF. “These are done with an intention to destabalise the country,” said an officer.Tuesday’s intrusions were followed by visits of BSF officers to the affected areas.SSP Nanak Singh said that regular alerts were issued by the police force to keep and check and subsequently thwart such intrusions.IG (Border) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar said that the police force was fully active to deal with any sort of a situation. “Sometimes Pakistan sends Drones for reconnaissance purposes and sometimes to drop drugs, arms and ammunition. We are well prepared to handle the situation in both cases,” he said.SSP Pathankot Surendra Lamba said he had formed Village Defense Committees to ensure better coordination with the police force.Tuesday’s sightings were the 16th in this calendar year in the Gurdaspur sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-border-districts-up-ante-against-drone-flights-321422
07-10-2021||Meerut (Uttar Pradesh)||Moga extortion case: NIA team searches UP village for suspects||A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached a village in Meerut district to search for two men, who are suspected to have supplied illegal arms for an extortion racket that was busted in Punjab's Moga in May this year.The gang is allegedly being run by Khalistan separatists settled abroad.The NIA team handed over notices to the families of the two suspects on Wednesday and asked them to appear at their office in Chandigarh for questioning.The first case in the alleged extortion racket was registered in Moga on May 22 this year. And after the names of separatists came up, the NIA took over the probe in the case on June 10.In July, it had arrested an alleged arms trafficker from Meerut.The NIA had said in a statement then, that "Gagandeep Singh was involved in smuggling of weapons on the directions of Arshdeep, one of the main accused in the case and a close aide of Hardeep Singh Nijjar, the chief of Khalistan Tiger Force." According to sources, the homes of Jalish Ahmad and Mohd Khilafat in the Radhna village were raided by the NIA team.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-extortion-case-nia-team-searches-up-village-for-suspects-321399
07-10-2021||Houston||Houston post office renamed after slain Sikh cop||A post office in west Houston has been renamed after Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal, in a fitting tribute to the trailblazing Indian-American Sikh police officer who died after being shot multiple times from behind while on duty in the US state of Texas in 2019.Dhaliwal, the 42-year-old Harris County Sheriff's Deputy and a father of three, was gunned down during a traffic stop on September 27. Dhaliwal made national headlines in 2015 when he became the first police officer in Texas to serve while keeping his Sikh articles of faith, including a turban and beard."Our fallen brother Deputy Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal was honoured by renaming a postal office in west Harris County in his memory. We are grateful to the Texas delegation, Harris County Commissioners Court, United States Postal Office, & the Sikh community for honouring him,” Harris County Sheriff's Office said in a tweet on Wednesday. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/houston-post-office-renamed-after-slain-sikh-cop-321377
07-10-2021||---||Farmers going to Lakhimpur Kheri stopped at UP border||Karnal, October 6Scores of farmers who were heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri from Singhu border were stopped on Haryana-UP border by the UP Police on Wednesday.Also read: Another video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedA large number of farmers from Karnal district were also part of the farmers’ group. The farmers alleged that the UP Police have parked truck and dumpers on the bridge on Yamuna canal at the state border and are not allowing anyone to cross over.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member of BKU (Charuni), farmer leader Rampal Chehal, Bhadur Singh Mehla, district IT cell in-charge of BKU, were in the group of farmers from Karnal.Also read: UP govt appoints retired Allahabad HC judge to probe Lakhimpur Kheri violence“We were going to Lakhimpur Kheri to join the last rites of a farmer who was killed on Sunday,” said Chehal, adding that the UP Police did not allow them to do so.Meanwhile, the SKM reiterated its demand for the arrest of Ashish Mishra, sacking of minister Ajay Mishra from the Union Government and resignation of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The SKM also served an ultimatum to the UP and Union Governments that if these demands are not met by the ‘antim ardaas’ day of the deceased farmers, a “big programme” will be announced.In a joint statement, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav, said, “We will not step back from the struggle for justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri farmers’ massacre.”The SKM also condemned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the events at Lakhimpur Kheri even though he visited Uttar Pradesh yesterday.Give ultimatum to UP Govt, centreThe SKM gave an ultimatum to the UP and Union Governments, saying that if minister Ajay Mishra is not sacked and his son Ashish is not arrested by the ‘antim ardaas’ day of the deceased farmers, a ‘big programme’ would be announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-going-to-lakhimpur-kheri-stopped-at-up-border-321112
07-10-2021||Moga||Farm activists acquitted  in 2015 rail blockade case||Brothers accused of sacrilege seek DGP’s replacementFaridkot: Two brothers of Panjgrain Khurd village here, who were arrested and allegedly tortured by the police in Oct 2015, are approaching Cabinet ministers, seeking DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota’s removal. Saying Sahota’s appointment was like “rubbing salt into their wounds”, Rupinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh said they had approached many Congress leaders. tnsProtest near FM’s houseMuktsar: Farmers and farm labourers continued to protest near Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s residence at Badal village, demanding compensation of Rs60,000 per acre for farmers and Rs30,000 for each family of farm labourers for the loss to the cotton crop. The farmers have pitched a tent on the road leading to Manpreet’s house and refused to budge until demand met. tnsBJP dist vice-president diesFatehgarh Sahib: BJP district vice-president-cum-industrialist Gagandeep Jain died, while two of his companions got seriously injured in a road accident on Tuesday night near Nandpur Kalour area of Bassi Pathana sub-division. He was coming from Chandigarh side when a car hit his vehicle. Gagandeep was referred to PGI but he succumbed to his injuries on the way. ocNew voter registration driveChandigarh: Punjab Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju has launched a new voter registration campaign for the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections. The campaign has been launched as per the instructions of the Election Commissioner. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-activists-acquitted-in-2015-rail-blockade-case-321266
07-10-2021||Abohar||Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda, aides booked for fraud||The police have registered a case against liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda and others for a Rs 6-crore fraud on the statement of Asha Rani, a retired government school headmistress.After DSP Avtar Singh conducted investigation, a case was registered under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 506 and 120B of the IPC with the approval of the district police chief, official sources said.Besides Doda, Mohinder Pratap, alias Kali Bathla, district president of SAD Traders’ Wing; Rajiv Chugh, manager of Doda family’s Ridhi Sidhi Colony; and Prabh Dayal of Alamgarh village; have been named in the FIR. Doda is in jail as he was sentenced to life imprisonment in connection with murder of his former employee Bhim Tank. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-baron-shiv-lal-doda-aides-booked-for-fraud-321265
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||15 private buses seized by Punjab Transport Department; new time table soon||The Transport Department on Wednesday impounded 15 buses of private companies for plying without paying tax in the state. Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring said during raids in Faridkot, Bathinda, Amritsar and Ludhiana, 15 buses were impounded.The minister promised a transparent bus time table and tax relief for transporters soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15-private-buses-seized-by-punjab-transport-department-new-time-table-soon-321262
07-10-2021||Fazilka||Under debt, Fazilka farmer ends life||A 60-year-old farmer, Ram Singh, of Kawanwali village here ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance on Wednesday.The deceased’s son, Chand Singh, said his father owed over Rs 10 lakh to a bank and some arhtiyas for over three years and was unable to repay it. Under stress he committed suicide.DSP Jasvir Singh said Ram Singh was also suffering from some ailment. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/under-debt-fazilka-farmer-ends-life-321261
07-10-2021||---||Rival groups clash in Faridkot district court, several hurt||Faridkot, October 6Members of two rival groups clashed at Bakshi Khana in the district court complex here today. While many of them sustained injuries, the police authorities are silent on the issue.Around 20 members of two rival groups were brought from Central Jail, Faridkot, to Bakshi Khana for their production before the court of Judicial Magistrate-First Class in a murder case.The case relates to the death of a 26-year-old youth who was killed in crossfire between two groups in the Rishi Nagar area of Kotkapura town in June this year.While there were five members of one group, the number of other groups’ members was 15. During the clash, the members of both the groups used drinking water tanks and utensils to attack each other. Senior police officers rushed to the court complex and the inmates were shifted to the jail.Bakshi Khana is a temporary judicial lockup in the court complex where the inmates and prisoners are shifted from the jail for their production before the court on the day of the hearing in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rival-groups-clash-in-faridkot-district-court-several-hurt-321260
07-10-2021||Morinda||Contract workers block Sirhind road in Morinda||Contract workers of various departments, sitting at a dharna for the past few weeks, under the banner of Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, blocked the Sirhind road here today.They raised slogans against the government, demanding regular jobs. Union leaders Varinder Singh Momi, Jagrup Lehra, Gurwinder Pannu and Parminder Singh said the Congress-led government of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and his incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi failed to fulfil their pre-poll promise of regularising their jobs.Momi said contract workers had been rendering services in various government departments for the past 15-20 years but were forced to work at low salary. He said Capt Amarinder had promised to regularise their services. “During his four-and-a-half-year tenure , he didn’t bother to be true to his words though we staged a 15-day dharna along with our children near his residence in Patiala recently. Now, even after the change of guard, the new CM is oblivious to our plight,” he added.The protesters, however, lifted the blockade and shifted their dharna to road side after SDM Ravinder Singh’s assurance that their demand was being considered sympathetically by the higher authorities and a meeting in this regard would be held shortly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contract-workers-block-sirhind-road-in-morinda-321259
07-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Law can’t compel anyone to do impossible||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the law does not compel a man to do that which he cannot possibly perform. A Division Bench also made it clear that an act or proceedings required to be executed or initiated on a certain day or within a specified time would be deemed to have carried out or set off, if done immediately on the day of reopening after being closed on that particular day. It was applicable in case of a court or an office.The ruling by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came in a case where a successful bidder could not submit the requisites within the stipulated time because of the weekend followed by a national holiday. The Bench was hearing a petition by A-Square Media against the state of Punjab and other respondents for quashing the highest bid by Vishal Steels. The successful bidder was required to submit the requisites within two working days on receipt of the letter of acceptance as per a clause of the tender documents. But it admittedly failed to comply with the tender conditions.The respondent, on the other hand, submitted that it received the letter of acceptance on March 26, when nationwide shutdown was observed by the farmers. The next two days were Saturday and Sunday and March 29 was Holi, a gazetted holiday. Dismissing the petition, the Bench said it was not the petitioner’s case that the respondent could furnish the requisites before March 30. If that was the case, none — leave alone the respondent — could be expected to perform the impossible. “We are reminded, at this stage, of the maxim, ‘lex non cogit ad impossibillia’, the law does not compel a man to do that which he cannot possibly perform”.Bidder unable to file papers in timeThe ruling came in a case where a successful bidder could not submit the requisites within the stipulated time because of the weekend followed by a national holiday||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-law-cant-compel-anyone-to-do-impossible-321258
07-10-2021||Archit Watts||No funds, Muktsar schools threaten to stop mid-day meal||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 6Government school heads in Muktsar have urged Education Department officials to release cooking cost for the mid-day meal being served to students from Class I-VIII or they would not be able to continue the practice from next week.The school heads have reportedly not received the cooking cost for the past two months and as per rules, it has to be provided in advance.The schools get wheat and rice from the government, but have to buy pulses, grocery, etc. on their own. The government has fixed cooking cost for this purpose at Rs 4.97 per student per day.A government school teacher said: “We have given our representation to senior officers in the department, saying that if the cooking cost is not given by October 10, we will not be able to serve mid-day meal any further. We have already paid money from our pockets for August and September.”He said the mid-day meal of a school costs around Rs 20,000-Rs 25,000 per month.Sukhdarshan Singh Bedi, Deputy District Education Officer, Muktsar, said: “We have sought funds from the head office. The situation is same across the state. We are hopeful that the cooking cost will be released soon.”Cooking cost may be released soonWe have sought funds from the head office. The situation is same across the state. We are hopeful that the cooking cost will be released soon. — Sukhdarshan Singh Bedi, Deputy District Education Officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-funds-muktsar-schools-threaten-to-stop-mid-day-meal-321257
07-10-2021||Jalandhar||Scholarship scheme: Punjab Government to urge colleges to accept 40% arrears||Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Raj Kumar Verka today said he would try to convince the colleges to accept 40 per cent payment of pending dues of SC Post-Matric Scholarship amount of Rs 1,549 crore for the three previous academic sessions.Verka said the amount had been due for years 2017-20 and the Centre, which was earlier paying 90 per cent share, had refused to pay any amount. “We have told the colleges that we will pay up to 40 per cent of the amount for final settlement of the issue. We hope that they will concede to our request and accept our proposal. I have reviewed the scheme today. All those colleges which had unduly collected the scholarship amount will be moved against soon and their owners would have to face the jail. A progress on all these issues would be seen in the next 10 days,” he said.The minister agreed that PCC chief Navjot Sidhu had shown “hurriedness” in tendering his resignation to the Congress high command. “But everything has been sorted out now and tomorrow he will be go to UP in a cavalcade of over 10,000 cars to protest against the BJP-led UP Government,” he said. He added that Sidhu and other leaders were all geared up to fulfil its all promises, including ensuring punishment for those responsible for the sacrilege cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scholarship-scheme-punjab-government-to-urge-colleges-to-accept-40-arrears-321256
07-10-2021||---||Over 2L kg drugs yet to be disposed of by Punjab||Chandigarh, October 6More than 2.32 lakh kg poppy husk and other drugs are still to be disposed of by the state of Punjab despite earlier directions issued by the Supreme Court and the Government of India on disposal of contraband seized by the police in various cases but no longer required as a case property in ongoing trials.Information on the quantity of contraband as on July 31 was provided to the Punjab and Haryana High Court in response to a court query to Punjab Additional Director-General of Police, STF, Harpreet Singh Sidhu. Taking note of the response, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed Punjab Additional Chief Secretary, Home, to file his affidavit, stating why directions were not being complied with and as to why proceedings under the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against the officers concerned, if the Bench found there was actually a violation of an undertaking before the court.The Bench was hearing a bunch of petitions filed against the state by Prince and other petitioners through counsel Ishan Gupta. Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted Additional Chief Secretary (Home)/ ADGP (STF),/IGP (STF) filed an affidavit in another petition that came up for hearing before the High Court two or three years ago. It was stated that contraband was being disposed of timely in terms of the directions of the Supreme Court/Government of India. It was added that committees headed by the commissioners of each revenue division, were constituted and entrusted with the responsibility of such disposal. Justice Amol Rattan Singh added the Additional Chief Secretary would also be required to obtain data regarding 2,32,810.84 kg poppy husk. He would give drug-wise break-up of all other contraband still not disposed of.It would also be stated when such drug/contraband was seized in different cases and when was the contraband last disposed of under the supervision of different committees. “If the affidavit, at least answering the first question as to why the contraband is not being disposed of in a timely manner as per the directions already issued by the Supreme Court/Government of India and the undertaking given before this court in another such case is not filed, the Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Punjab, would be directed to be personally present in court,” the Bench concluded.  Disclose STF report: Cong leaderPunjab Congress leader Dharamvir Phillaur has demanded that the envelope of STF report, which has all details of the state’s drug menace, be opened forthwith, and those who are part of the drug mafia be put behind bars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2l-kg-drugs-yet-to-be-disposed-of-by-punjab-321255
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||12 IAS, five PCS officers shifted by Punjab government||In a major administrative reshuffle, the state government today transferred 12 IAS and five PCS officers.Ravneet Kaur has been posted as new Special Chief Secretary, Labour, and also given additional charge of Special Chief Secretary, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries. Vijay Kumar Janjua is the new Special Chief Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner Revenue and Rehabilitation.A Venu Prasad has been posted as Additional Chief Secretary, Parliamentary Affairs, in addition Chairman-cum-Managing Director, PSPCL, and Chairman-cum-MD, Punjab State Transmission Corporation Ltd.Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary Medical Education & Research, has been relieved from the charge of Health & Family Welfare. Veerendra Kumar Meena has been posted as Secretary, Defence Services Welfare, in addition Secretary, Home Affairs, Justice and Jails; Vikas Garg, Secretary, Health & Family Welfare and Arun Sekhri as Registrar of Cooperative Societies.Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has been posted as Director, Social Security, Women & Child Development and in addition Special Secretary of the department. Vinay Bublani has been posted as Chief Administrator, Punjab Urban Planning & Development Authority, SAS Nagar, and in addition Director, Town & Country Planning.Sanjay Popli has been posted as Chief Executive Officer, Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board and B Srinivasan as the Director General, School Education. Uma Shankar Gupta will join as the Additional CEO, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion, and Additional MD, Punjab Information and Communication Technology Corporation Ltd. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-ias-five-pcs-officers-shifted-by-punjab-government-321217
07-10-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab ex-minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan passes away at 71||Former SAD minister and AAP leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan, 71, passed away at his Mohali residence today after prolonged illness.His close aide, Manjit Singh Dala, confirmed that Sekhwan had been indisposed for the past month. “He was diagnosed with a liver ailment and was being treated by top doctors,” said Dala. He is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters.When Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal visited his residence to formally induct him in the AAP last month, it was with much difficulty that Sekhwan met him. He was one of the founding members of SAD (Taksali). He remained a two-time MLA from the erstwhile Assembly seat of Kahnuwan falling in this district.Sekhwan served as education, revenue, rehabilitation and PR minister at various times in the Parkash Singh Badal Cabinet from 2007 till 2017. In 2009, he contested the bypoll from the Kahnuwan seat and was later inducted as a Cabinet minister.He worked as a government teacher for 14 years before entering politics after his father, Ujagar Singh Sekhwan, died in 1990. He was a serving SGPC member. He was once even tipped to head the body. He also remained chairman of the Punjab Technical Board. A senior leader said he enjoyed a good relationship with Parkash Singh Badal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-minister-sewa-singh-sekhwan-passes-away-at-71-321210
07-10-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu to lead Punjab Congress march to Lakhimpur violence site||Chandigarh, October 6As Congress leader Rahul Gandhi along with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other Congress leaders headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri, Punjab Congress led by Navjot Singh Sidhu announced to take a protest march on Thursday to the spot over the issue of killing of farmers.Earlier in the day, the PCC president slammed the Uttar Pradesh Police for detaining party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and accused it of violating the spirit of the Constitution.The march will begin from airport light point in Mohali, said PCC working president Kuljit Nagra. Sources said leaders in each Assembly segment had been asked to bring at least 100 vehicles each (over 10,000 from across the state) to give the protest march a shape of a large procession.In connection with the rally, Sidhu today meet AICC observer Harish Chaudhary and senior party leader Krishan Allavaru. Sidhu had on Tuesday had said the party’s state unit would march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son is not held in connection with the violence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-to-lead-punjab-congress-march-to-lakhimpur-violence-site-321209
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AAP leaders meet victims’ kin in Lakhimpur Kheri||After being detained by the UP Police for about 18 hours, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab delegation was released on Wednesday and allowed to meet the families of farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri.The delegation, led by AAP Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, first visited the house of Nachhatar Singh at Dhaurahra village in Lakhimpur Kheri. It also shared grief with the family of slain local journalist Raman Kashyap. Chadha said he made the family members of the victim talk to AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on the phone.“CM Arvind Kejriwal has assured all possible legal and financial assistance to all aggrieved farming families,” Chadha said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-aap-leaders-meet-victims-kin-in-lakhimpur-kheri-321208
07-10-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Lakhimpur killings another blow to Punjab BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6Already firefighting the widespread anger against anti-farm laws, the state BJP has been hit hard by the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Talking to The Tribune, senior BJP leaders in the state conceded that the party had once again gone on the back foot. Low on morale, the party had given up on its public meetings following public opposition to leaders which climaxed with the physical assault on party’s Abohar MLA Arun Narang on March 27.Cadre’s morale hit: Madan Mohan MittalThe morale of our workers has been affected adversely by the UP incident. We were slowly crawling back to normal with smaller programmes. — Madan Mohan Mittal, state BJP ex-presidentAlso read: Another video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedState BJP former president Madan Mohan Mittal said: “Yes, the morale of our workers has been affected adversely. After the attack on MLA Narang, the party high command had asked us to avoid big public meetings. We were slowly crawling back to normal with smaller programmes. But the Lakhimpur Kheri incident has once again come as a body blow and stopped our party activities.”Another former president, requesting anonymity, said: “Things are getting from bad to worse for our workers on the ground. I fail to understand why the Centre is dithering over removal of the Cabinet Minister and the arrest of his son. I am getting calls from our party workers saying they have once against started facing hostility.”State BJP president Ashwani Sharma said: “What happened in UP’s Lakhimpur is very unfortunate. The issue needs to be probed thoroughly and the guilty punished. Our programmes have not stopped, only the format has changed. We know it is not farmers but anti-nationals who are disturbing the peace. We are fully geared to meeting the challenge of guarding against terrorists in the garb of farmers.”Bring guilty to book: Ashwani SharmaWhat happened in UP’s Lakhimpur is unfortunate. The issue needs to be probed thoroughly and the guilty punished. Party events have not stopped. — Ashwani Sharma, state BJP chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-killings-another-blow-to-punjab-bjp-321207
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Finish girdawari before Diwali: Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to officials||Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa directed completion of work of the special girdawari immediately to assess the actual damage to the cotton crop affected by the pink bollworm infestation.He directed the Financial Commissioner (Development) to ensure that affected farmers be compensated before Diwali after completion of the special girdawari. In a press communiqué released here today, the Deputy CM said after the attack of pink locust on the cotton crop in the Malwa belt, the affected areas were visited. After this, he and Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha called a meeting with the farmers’ leaders and issued special girdawari orders.Nabha said from the next season, ‘mating disruption technology’ would be introduced. High incidence of pink bollworm was reported on BG11 variety in Malwa, which had adversely affected the yield. Most of the farmers had uprooted the crop and demanded compensation. He directed all officials to introduce the mating disruption technology, which was considered the gold standard in crop protection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finish-girdawari-before-diwali-punjab-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-to-officials-321206
07-10-2021||Sameer Singh||Cotton growers fall prey to ‘middlemen’ in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 6Buying cotton way above the MSP, private players are calling the shots at grain markets in Malwa. As a result, the Cotton Corporation of India — government-authorised agency for procurement — has not been able to enter the market this season so far.With only private players left in the market now, it is the middleman (without licence to purchase cotton) who has started making hay by purchasing cotton directly from farmers on low price, citing high moisture content and other quality parameters, and then re-selling it to cotton factories or bigger players on higher rates.Sources said these “middlemen” were also dodging market fee (1 per cent of purchased cotton) while working in connivance with senior market committee officials in mandis. “This illegal purchase does not even feature in the stock register of the market committee, causing huge loss to the state exchequer,” a source said.Talking to The Tribune, a market committee official in Goniana block of Bathinda said: “After private players started buying cotton on rates above MSP, middlemen became active. In connivance with the market committee officials, they are directly purchasing cotton from farmers illegally and then reselling it on higher rates to factories in and outside the district. Shockingly, they are dodging the market fee of one per cent of the purchase and even entry of purchase is also not being done for the transaction.” He said these middlemen did not have licence to buy cotton, but some market committee officials were helping them.Gurvinder Singh, secretary of market committee, Bathinda and Goniana mandis, said: “Farmers are happy that they are fetching good price for their produce as private players have been procuring it at above-MSP price.” On middlemen buying cotton directly from farmers, he said: “It’s not much. Selling small quantity of cotton via them does not make much difference.”Preet Kanwar Singh Brar, District Mandi Officer, said: “It is not possible as even middleman would be selling it to private players. But if somebody is indulging in any illegal activity, we will get it probed.”Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, president, BKU Ekta Ugrahan, said: “With barely any check, such illegal practices are on for years. It is mostly the marginal farmers who get fleeced.”No entry on registerNarma variety to fetch record Rs7,350/quintal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-growers-fall-prey-to-middlemen-in-punjab-321204
07-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Govt to file FIR in SC scholarship scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6With the change of guard in the Congress government in Punjab, the state’s Department of Social Justice has initiated the process to lodge an FIR in the multi-crore scam pertaining to the disbursal of funds under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.Multi-crore fraudThe scam surfaced in 2019 during the tenure of former Social Justice Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government. After the scam surfaced, then Additional Chief Secretary (Social Justice) Kirpa Shankar Saroj in a report submitted on August 24, 2020, to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan had questioned the role of Dharamsot in “shielding” those involved in the scam. However, a second probe by Mahajan-led team gave a clean chit to the minister while Saroj was shunted out of the department.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is already probing the scam. Sources in the government said the Department of Social Justice would be initiating criminal proceedings against its officials for wrongfully releasing Rs 16.91 crore to nine educational institutions.The role of a deputy director of the department who allegedly enjoyed the patronage of the previous minister is under lens. Besides him, action is being initiated against five other department officials for being involved in the illegal disbursal of funds.Talking to the Tribune, Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Raj Kumar Verka said the required action in the matter had been initiated.In his report, Saroj had alleged a scam amounting to Rs 55.71 crore in disbursal of SC scholarships. It was disclosed that nearly Rs 39 crore was disbursed to “ghost” institutes and Rs 16.91 crore was wrongfully disbursed to private institutes. The second committee, however, had concluded that Rs 39 crore didn’t go to ghost accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-file-fir-in-sc-scholarship-scam-321080
07-10-2021||---||Former Punjab minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan passes away||Gurdaspur, October 6Former SAD minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan passed away at his Mohali residence on Wednesday evening after prolonged illness.His close aide, Manjit Singh Dala, confirmed that Sekhwan had been indisposed for the last one month. “He was diagnosed with a liver ailment and was being treated by top doctors,” said Dala.He is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters.When Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal visited his residence to formally induct him in AAP last month, it was with much difficulty that Sekhwan met him. Kejriwal had to make his way to the Akali leader’s bedroom to confabulate with him.He was one of the founding members of SAD (Taksali). He remained a two-time MLA from the erstwhile assembly seat of Kahnuwan falling in this district.Sekhwan served as Education, Revenue, Rehabilitation and PR minister at various times in the Parkash Singh Badal Cabinet from 2007 till 2017. In 2009, he contested the by-poll from the Kahnuwan seat and was later inducted as a Cabinet minister.He worked as a government teacher for 14 years before entering politics after his father, Ujagar Singh Sekhwan, died in 1990.He was a serving SGPC member and was once even tipped to head the body. He also remained Chairman of the Punjab Technical Board.A senior leader said Sekhwan enjoyed a good relationship with Parkash Singh Badal but was not on good terms with SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.His son, Jagrup Singh Sekhwan, has been made the AAP Halqa Incharge of Qadian assembly seat.Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa expressed sympathies with the bereaved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-minister-sewa-singh-sekhwan-passes-away-321037
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||12 IAS officers, 5 PCS officers transferred in major reshuffle in Punjab||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Punjab Government issued transfer and posting orders of 12 IAS officers and five PCS officers on Wednesday.Here’s a list of the latest transfers:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-ias-officers-5-pcs-officers-transferred-in-major-reshuffle-in-punjab-320994
07-10-2021||---||Punjab and Chhattisgarh governments announce Rs 50 lakh each for families of farmers, journalist killed in Lakhimpur violence||New Delhi, October 6Both Punjab and Chhattisgarh governments on Wednesday announced a financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh each to families of four farmers and a journalist killed in the violence that broke out in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.The chief ministers of the two Congress-ruled states, along with party leader Rahul Gandhi, have arrived in Lucknow, from where they intend to go to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the victims.शुक्रिया @bhupeshbaghel जी व @CHARANJITCHANNI जी।भाजपा जीप के टायर के नीचे किसानों व पत्रकार को कुचलेगी और छत्तीसगढ़ व पंजाब सरकारों ने घावों पर मरहम लगाने के लिए 1 करोड़ (50 लाख प्रति सरकार) हर किसान-पत्रकार परिवार को देने का निर्णय किया।यही फ़र्क़ है।#LakhimpurMassacrePunjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Lakhimpur violence reminded him of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919.He said the UP government has made a “mockery” of democracy.“Our government will provide Rs 50 lakh each to families of farmers and the journalist killed in the Lakhimpur violence,” he told reporters in Lucknow.Echoing the same sentiments, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said his government will also give Rs 50 lakh to the families of the farmers and the journalist.Four of the eight people who died in Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel.While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers’ protest against Maurya’s visit to Ajay Mishra’s native place.The UP Police has lodged a case against Ajay Mishra’s son but no arrest has been made so far. — with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-chhattisgarh-governments-announce-rs-50-lakh-each-for-families-of-farmers-journalist-killed-in-lakhimpur-violence-320992
