08-10-2021||New Delhi||Punjab will be free from stubble burning if AAP comes to power in state: Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday said Punjab, which generates around 20 million tonnes of paddy straw annually, will become free from stubble burning if the Aam Aadmi Party forms government in the state.Assembly election in Punjab is slated for early next year.Rai said Delhi has provided a solution to the problem of stubble burning in the form of microbial solution Pusa bio-decomposer and it will be distributed for free in all Punjab districts like the AAP government has been doing here.“Punjab will become free from stubble burning if AAP forms a government in the state. We will rope in the district administrations in Punjab and spray Pusa bio-decomposer in fields for free like we have been doing in Delhi,” Rai told PTI.“It’s not so tough (spraying bio-decomposer on lakhs of acres of land). You only need the willpower to do it. We will do it positively,” he asserted.This won’t be as expensive as other measures being taken for crop residue management, the minister added. Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15 as farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue before cultivating wheat and potato.It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting paddy and sowing wheat. The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn stubble.On October 5, the Delhi government started spraying Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution that can turn stubble into manure, over 4,300 acres belonging to 844 farmers in Delhi. Last year, 310 farmers had used it on 1,935 acres of land.In Punjab, paddy is cultivated on 2.814 million hectares of land.According to officials, UP is using the bio-decomposer in 10 lakh acres of area, Punjab in five lakh acres and Haryana in one lakh acre of land. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-will-be-free-from-stubble-burning-if-aap-comes-to-power-in-state-gopal-rai-321920
08-10-2021||Vibha Sharma||Paddy straw generated in Punjab, Haryana and UP expected to come down significantly this year||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 8The good news is that the attempts to reduce paddy straw generation are yielding positive results. The Centre on Friday said the paddy straw generated in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh is expected to come down significantly this year as the crop diversification measures and moving away from PUSA-44 variety to short-duration high-yielding varieties by states as part of the framework and action plan for control of stubble-burning are showing heartening results.Burning of paddy straw from the non-basmati variety of crops is the prime concern. The Environment Ministry said the steps taken towards reduction in paddy straw generation are yielding positive results and total paddy straw generation from the non-basmati variety is likely to be reduced by 12.42 per cent during the current year as compared to the previous year."The total paddy area in Haryana, Punjab and eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh has come down by 7.72 per cent during the current year as compared to last year.Similarly, total paddy straw generation from the non-basmati variety is likely to be reduced by 12.42 per cent during the current year as compared to the previous year," it said. The Ministry said both central and state governments of Haryana, Punjab and UP have been taking measures to diversify crops as well as to reduce the use of PUSA-44 variety of paddy. As per data received from the governments of Haryana, Punjab and UP, the total amount of paddy straw generated will come down this year. "The total paddy straw generation is likely to come down by 1.31 million tonnes (from 20.05 million tonnes in 2020 to 18.74 million tonnes in 2021) in Punjab; by 0.8 million tonnes (from 7.6 million tonnes in 2020 to 6.8 million tonnes in 2021) in Haryana; and by 0.09 million tonnes (from 0.75 million tonnes in 2020 to 0.67 million tonnes in 2021) in the eight NCR districts of UP this year."The total quantity of straw generated by the respective states was 28.4 million tonnes in 2020 which is now expected to come down to 26.21 million tonnes in 2021," it said. The decrease in non-basmati variety is expected to be even higher. Paddy straw generation specifically from the non-basmati variety of crops is expected to decrease from 17.82 million tonnes in 2020 to 16.07 million tonnes in 2021 in Punjab and from 3.5 million tonnes in 2020 to 2.9 million tonnes in 2021 in Haryana.Officials said CAQM had directed the respective state governments to promote short duration and early maturing varieties of crops since they can be managed quite efficiently and provide a much wider window for paddy straw management as per recommendations of the Ministry of Agriculture. Apart from this, the Crop Diversification Programmes are also being implemented in Punjab and Haryana along with the NCR districts of UP to divert the area of water-guzzling paddy to alternative crops, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-straw-generated-in-punjab-haryana-and-up-expected-to-come-down-significantly-this-year-321882
08-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri: Punjab Congress MLAs meet injured farmers; Sidhu, others reaching Lakhimpur Kheri||Chandigarh, October 8Punjab Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa, Balwinder Laddi and Hardyal Kamboj on Friday met the injured farmers at Rudarpur in Uttar Pradesh.Meanwhile, another team of Punjab Congress leaders Navjot Singh Sidhu, Vijay Inder Singla, Madan Lal Jalalpur and Raj Kumar Chabbewal are going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the affected families.Eight people had died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-kheri-punjab-congress-mlas-meet-injured-farmers-sidhu-others-reaching-lakhimpur-kheri-321870
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: SAD delegation demands MoS Home be sacked||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday demanded Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra be sacked and the accused immediately arrested for ensuring justice to farmers' families in the Lakhimpur violence case."We demanded immediate dismissal of the minister and arrest of the accused for giving justice to the families of farmers who died in Lakhimpur," SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur told reporters outside Chaudhury Charan Singh Airport here.A delegation of the party landed here to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of farmers, who had died in the violence on October 3. "We are going to share their grief and will help them in whatever way we can," she said.On BJP's allegation that the opposition was going to Lakhimpur for "photo opportunity", the former Union minister said, "I resigned from the Central cabinet for raising the voice of farmers. They can also call this a photo opportunity."  Kaur said measures should be taken to check such violence while demanding the arrest of the accused.On October 3, eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-violence-sad-delegation-demands-mos-home-be-sacked-321869
08-10-2021||---||IAF unit in Punjab’s Adampur, 2 others get citation for LAC role||New Delhi, October 8  Indian Air Force units that were in the forefront during the crisis with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and also during the air strike in Balakot in February 2019 have been decorated with ‘unit citation’ by Indian Air Force Chief  Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari on Air Force day on Friday.  Those awarded include a unit of the MiG 29 jets based at Adampur, Punjab, an attack helicopter unit based at Jodhpur and an air defence missile unit based in Kashmir.  The 47 Squadron of the IAF that flies the MiG-29 Upgrade aircraft has been awarded for its twin roles. First, for its air defence deployments after the pre-emptive strikes by the IAF on Balakot in February 19. “The Squadron flew extensively and maintained a constant vigil to ensure that there were no misadventures by our adversaries,” said the citation.Second, MiG29s were deployed  to target ground operations in the northern sector in May 2020 and carried out extensive operations at high altitude.The 116 Helicopter Unit that flies the Advanced Light Helicopter Rudra was deployed in forward bases along the border with Pakistan to counter threats of slow-moving aerial platforms – UAVs. In May 2020, after the Galwan skirmish, the unit was deployed for offensive operations at a high-altitude airfield in the Ladakh area. “The Unit quickly established the first-ever high-altitude attack helicopter detachment in the region and executed day-and-night operations,” read the citation.The last unit to be awarded is surface-to-air guided weapon firing unit. The ‘2255 Squadron’ is a frontline IAF unit located in the AOR with the role of ensuring Air Defence in Kashmir and Ladakh sectors. The Squadron was mobilised for Air Defence activation in Ladakh in response to the Galwan standoff in the last week of June. “The Squadron has undertaken various innovations to sustain serviceability and reliability of its equipment. This has enabled it to maintain its operational readiness in harsh climatic conditions, even through the harsh winter of Ladakh,’ read the citation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iaf-unit-in-punjabs-adampur-2-others-get-citation-for-lac-role-321858
08-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur violence: Navjot Sidhu, MLAs head to Lakhimpur after detention||Chandigarh, October 7Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Cabinet ministers Pargat Singh, Vijay Inder Singla and Amrinder Raja Warring, and 15 party MLAs were detained at the Sarsawa police station in Saharanpur, after being taken into custody by the Uttar Pradesh Police on the Haryana border. A group of 25 was later allowed to proceed further with police escort.Threatens fastIf police do not arrest Union Minister’s son till Friday or he does not join probe, I will go on hunger strike. — Navjot Sidhu, PCC ChiefThe leaders were part of the convoy led by Sidhu on way to UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the farmers who died during the recent violence.Another group of 40 leaders, including minister Trip Rajinder Bajwa and several MLAs, was left behind at Shahjahanpur police station, located near the Haryana border. While the UP administration asked Sidhu to take along only five persons, the PCC chief insisted on marching on with all ministers, MLAs and MPs to Lakhimpur Kehri.The administration then allowed Sidhu along with two dozen MLAs, including three ministers and MP Jasbir Singh Gill, to proceed towards Lakhimpur Kehri in private vehicles with UP Police escort. While minister Raja Warring returned home, the protesters were joined by his Cabinet colleague Gurkirat Singh Kotli.Ahead of his detention, Sidhu was seen arguing with policemen as Congress leaders tried to push through the barricading at the border. “The fight is for our farmers. If UP Police do not arrest the Union Minister’s son till tomorrow (Friday) or he does not join investigation, I will go on hunger strike. It is my promise,” claimed Sidhu, as he called party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “saviours of democracy”.Earlier, nearly 5,000 Congress men, including ministers, legislators and workers, assembled at Mohali before leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri in their vehicles. As the convoy moved ahead, nearly 1,200 party leaders and workers made it to the Haryana-UP border.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi joined Sidhu briefly at the start of the march. Instead of party flags, Sidhu and other leaders were seen holding flags associated with the farmers’ agitation as slogans of ‘kisan-mazdoor ekta zindabad’ were raised.Interestingly, as Sidhu was on his way from Patiala to Mohali before the start of the march, protesting farmers surrounded his cavalcade at Dhareri Jattan toll barrier and waved black flags at him. It was after much persuasion by Sidhu that the farmers allowed him to pass through.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-violence-navjot-sidhu-mlas-head-to-lakhimpur-after-detention-321548
08-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Charanjit Channi, Navjot Sidhu put up joint show||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7After days of unease between CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, party’s national call to take on the BJP-led government over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident today brought the two leaders on a common stage at Mohali, the take-off point for the protest march to UP.CM scampers through crowdAs CM arrived at the venue, his convoy halted short of Sidhu’s tractor-trailer owing to the crowd. Sidhu, who was addressing party men, suddenly asked them to begin the march, prompting Channi to scamper through the crowd to join him and flag off the marchFour ministers join eventWhile at least four ministers — Raja Warring, Vijay Inder Singla, Pargat Singh and Aruna Chaudhary — showed up at the Mohali venue, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa, citing pre-engagement, joined the march briefly at Airport chowkPutting up a joint front, CM Channi took out time from a pre-wedding function of his elder son at Morinda to reach Mohali. After having returned from UP early this morning, Channi flew in the state helicopter from Morinda to the Mohali international airport, located a short distance from the rally venue.Both leaders raised slogans in favour of farmers, holding flags associated with farmers’ agitation before Channi flagged of the march.After a clear message to Sidhu from party leader Rahul Gandhi, who made it a point to take CM Channi along last night to meet the families of farmers who died during the UP violence, Sidhu seemed keen on bouncing back. After lying low following his opposition to the appointment of APS Deol as Advocate General and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as DGP, besides re-induction of some ministers in the Channi Cabinet, Sidhu took centre stage today following party’s call to take out the protest march.The presence of CM Channi with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi during their UP visit was a clear message to Sidhu to fall in line. “The issues raised by Sidhu hold ground. But the timing was wrong. The protest rally has given the much-needed push to bring the dissenting voices in Punjab Congress on one platform,” said a party insider.A senior leader said efforts by AICC observer Harish Chaudhary to rein in Sidhu, without giving him much headway as far as decisions being taken by CM Channi were concerned, seem to have yielded result. Though Sidhu has so far not withdrawn his resignation, he has for the past three days increased his field activity.Meanwhile, under flak over frequent use of state helicopter, Channi again raised many an eyebrow when he took the chopper to shuttle between his family function at Morinda and the march venue in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-channi-navjot-sidhu-put-up-joint-show-321549
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vocal against farmers, BJP’s Harjeet Grewal gets key role||BJP leader Harjeet Grewal, who has remained at loggerheads with farmer organisations over the issue of the three agriculture laws, has been rewarded with a key post by the party.Nothing to do with farmers’ movementThe new role does not have anything to do with the farmers’ movement. I have been in the national executive for 18 years. — Harjeet Grewal, BJP LeaderResponsibility for Other state leadersAvinash Rai Khanna - Himachal Pradesh inchargeTarun Chugh - National general secretaryAs per the list of national office-bearers released today, Grewal has been inducted as special invitee to the national executive of the party.Apart from him, the other leaders from Punjab who have been inducted to the national executive are Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and Som Parkash. Besides, some other leaders from Punjab have become members of the national executive by virtue of their post, including Ashwani Sharma and Dinesh Kumar, being state president and state general secretary, respectively. Also, Avinash Rai Khanna has been inducted as the incharge of Himachal Pradesh and Tarun Chugh as the national general secretary.Initially, Grewal was trying to mediate between the Centre and farmers’ organisations over the issue of farm laws. But he came in the line of fire after the talks derailed.Grewal made some controversial statements, prompting farmers to give a call for his social boycott. Some farmer organisations even prevented cultivation on his ancestral land leased out to a farmer at Dhanaula village in Barnala district.On his part, Grewal said his new role did not have anything to do with the farmers’ movement. “I have been in national executive consistently for 18 years,” he said. Before Grewal, BJP’s national leadership had appointed Iqbal Singh Lalpura as the Chairman, National Commission for Minorities. Lalpura had also been vocal against farmer organisations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vocal-against-farmers-bjps-harjeet-grewal-gets-key-role-321550
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis to meet kin of victims in Lakhimpur Kheri today||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today decided to send a five-member delegation, led by former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, to Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow.Delegation members Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bibi Jagir Kaur and Bikram Singh Majithia, besides Harsimrat, reached the national capital by road today. They are likely to fly to Lucknow tomorrow. A similar party delegation led by former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra tried to reach Lakhimpur Kheri on October 4, but was not allowed. They met some injured farmers in a Gurgaon hospital to express their concern.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the delegation would also meet UP Government representatives and urge them to arrest the perpetrators of this ghastly act immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-to-meet-kin-of-victims-in-lakhimpur-kheri-today-321551
08-10-2021||---||Cotton growers gherao Manpreet’s house in Badal village, demand Rs 60k/acre relief||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 7A large number of protesting farmers today broke police barricades and reached Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here today. They gheraoed the residence for two hours. Under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), farmers from five districts — Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Faridkot — had been holding a sit-in near Manpreet’s residence since Monday, demaning Rs 60,000 per acre compensation for themselves and Rs 30,000 for each farm labourer’s family for the damage to their cotton crop due to pink bollworm. Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said: “We had been protesting since Monday, but none came to talk to us. We today marched ahead and reached outside Manpreet’s residence. Later, the Gidderbaha SDM assured us of a meeting with the government on Friday. Thereafter, we returned to our protest site, located a few metres away from Manpreet’s residence.”Some farmers said the state government was mum on the crop damage. “The quality of cotton seeds and pesticides should be inspected. A strict action is required,” they added.Meanwhile, the protesters appealed to other farmers to come in large numbers tomorrow. The situation was peaceful, but a large number of police personnel were present in the village. Besides, anti-riot vehicles, were stationed in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-growers-gherao-manpreets-house-in-badal-village-demand-rs-60k-acre-relief-321552
08-10-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Men busy in fields, women protesters keep up ante||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 7With farmers back in fields for paddy harvest, women have taken the responsibility of keeping the numbers up at protest sites. Women’s presence has started increasing at the sites as they want to keep the protest alive.“My husband is busy in paddy harvest these days. He will be in the fields for a week or more. I and my daughter are attending the protest to keep up the ante against the central government,” said Jaswinder Kaur, a protester at Sangrur.Gurjot Kaur,14, said her father, grandfather and two brothers were back in fields, so she along with her mother and grandmother had been attending the protest.“My mother and aunt come on rotation here, while my grandmother comes regularly. Since we have engaged labourers to complete the paddy harvest at the earliest, someone has to be at home to prepare the food for all,” she said.Another elderly woman, Narinder Kaur, said once the paddy season got over, the number would swell again at the protest sites.Rajpal Singh Mangwal, a BKU Ugrahan leader, said women had always played a big role in the protests. At many places, the number of women had increased after men got busy in the harvest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/men-busy-in-fields-women-protesters-keep-up-ante-321553
08-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Punjab's Doaba farmers lead by example, shun stubble fire||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 7For the past three years, Lallian Khurd village in Jalandhar has not burnt any stubble. This year as well, the village, which has 400 to 500 acres under paddy cultivation and around 60 farmers, has decided to shun the practice.Produce is better, soil more fertileWe have found not burning stubble is a profitable exercise. The produce is better, the soil is more fertile and of course the pollution caused due to stubble fires isn’t there. Jagjit Singh, lallian khurd sarpanchWhile the village stands staunchly in solidarity with protesting farmers, at the same time it stays resolute on its decision not to burn stubble. Harjinder Singh Sodhi from the Paramjitpur village in Kapurthala is setting a similar example. Two to three farmers of their village have decided not to set afire the stubble despite the fact that their neighbours do so.At Lallian Khurd, there are three farming societies to attend to the needs of farmers. The village has 50 to 60 farmers, about 20 of whom have small landholdings. However, that hasn’t deterred the village to discontinue the practice.Jagjit Singh, Sarpanch of the village, says, “We started it for the betterment of our coming generations. We have found not burning stubble a very profitable exercise. The produce is better, the soil is more fertile and of course the pollution caused due to stubble fires isn’t there. I use the same technique in my 80 to 90 acres. The marginal farmers who can’t afford mulchers hire them from well-off farmers. We have continued this for years now and neighbouring villages are also following suit.” Villages like Chittian, Lalian Kalan and Rampur in the neighbourhood are also shunning stubble burning. Jagjit Singh adds, “I had discussions with farm unions on the issue. I stick to my practice and at the same time I agree with them that until alternatives to stubble burning are subsidised, poor farmers can’t afford it. We have the machines so we use them. When you have the equipment, you realise the benefits outweigh the costs.”Harjinder Singh Sodhi from Paramjitour village in Kapurthala says, “My neighbour set afire the stubble but I won’t. We owe cleaner air to our future generations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-doaba-farmers-lead-by-example-shun-stubble-fire-321554
08-10-2021||Faridkot||Avoid burning crop residue, Education Department tells employees||The Education Department has conveyed all its employees to ensure that none of them (working in government and private schools) burns crop residue after harvesting paddy.Suitable action would be taken against the employees who would violate the ban, reads the letter, sent by the department to all District Education Officers.Rather, the department should educate students on adverse effects of stubble burning on human and soil health, its mentioned further.The department has issued the letter after getting a direction from the Department of Science Technology and Environment.A senior official of the department said, “In the present scenario when there’s little hope of check on farm fires, the department has conveyed all government departments, boards and corporations, to warn their employees against indulging in stubble burning. As a large number of employees are farmers as well, this message will bring some relief.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/avoid-burning-crop-residue-education-department-tells-employees-321555
08-10-2021||Amritsar||Seek justice for Lakhimpur Kheri vicitms jointly: Sikh clergy to Opposition||Strongly condemning the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the five high priests of Takhts have asked all opposition parties to join hands to ensure exemplary punishment to the culprits.The clergy, who attended the meeting at Akal Takht Secratariat, included Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, Takht Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Giani Raghbir Singh and Head Priest of Akal Takht Giani Malkit Singh. Takht Hazur Sahib Jathedar Giani Kulwant Singh participated from Nanded online.Terming the incident unfortunate, Giani Harpreet Singh said said it was the responsibility of the central government to take action against the culprits.“It was unfortunate to politicise the death of innocent farmers who were contesting for their rights. We ask all politicians across the party line to unite so that the culprits are punished”, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seek-justice-for-lakhimpur-kheri-vicitms-jointly-sikh-clergy-to-opposition-321556
08-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Drones sighted, vigil up along border||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 7The border police districts of Gurdaspur, Batala and Pathankot have upped their ante keeping in view the increasing regularity of Pakistan-propelled drones being sighted near the International Border (IB).Fully preparedSometimes Pakistan sends drones for reconnaissance purposes and sometimes to drop arms and ammunition. We are well prepared to handle the situation in both cases. — Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, IG (border)Committee formedPathankot Senior Superintendent of Police Surendra Lamba said he had formed a village defence committee to ensure better coordination with the police force. Tuesday’s sightings were the 16th in this calendar year in the Gurdaspur sector.Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh said two drones were sighted on Tuesday night over Dorangla and Kalanaur townships. In all, BSF sources claimed there were three violations of the Indian air space on Tuesday night. Apart from the double drone sighting made in Gurdaspur district, one such machine was spotted in the BSF area of responsibility which extends till Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. Before this, the last such sighting was made by the BSF on September 18 in Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur.A police officer, preferring anonymity, said the flights of these machines, which were controlled by Pakistan officials on their side of the IB, had increased ever since the drone attack on the Jammu Air Force Station in June. Two explosions had rocked the high security technical area on the intervening night of June 26 and 27 following which two air force personnel had sustained injuries. Police officers claimthe central governmenthad instructed allborder districts of Punjab to keep a strict vigil.Many shipments of arms and drugs dropped by Pakistani intelligence agencies have been recovered in the past following combing operations launched by the police and the BSF. “These are done with an intention to destabalise the country,” said an officer. Tuesday’s intrusions were followed by visits of BSF officersto the affected areas.SSP Nanak Singh said regular alerts were issued by the police force to keep a check and subsequently thwart such intrusions.IG (Border) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar said the police force was fully active to deal with any sort of a situation. “Sometimes Pakistan sends drones for reconnaissance purposes and sometimes to drop drugs, arms and ammunition. We are well prepared to handle the situation in both cases,” he said.SSP Pathankot Surendra Lamba said he had formed a village defence committee to ensure better coordination with the police force. Tuesday’s sightings were the 16th in thiscalendar year in theGurdaspur sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drones-sighted-vigil-up-along-border-321557
08-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Land record of 80% farmers integrated for procurement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7The Punjab Government has integrated land records of 80 per cent of the farmers for the foodgrain procurement process, even as the paddy purchase is yet to pick up.Jalalabad farmers fume at delay in purchaseThis process has also led to a revelation that only 35 per cent of owners in the state are tilling their own land. The rest is being cultivated by lessee farmers or through contract farming.Records accessed by The Tribune show that of the 8.37 lakh farmers in the state, the land records of 6.70 lakh have been integrated for the purpose of procurement. This is significant considering the widespread opposition among farmers for the integration, amid fears that the lessee farmers or tillers would be left out from the procurement process as they are neither land owners nor do the owners let their names be registered as cultivators in the ‘jamabandis’.Official sources in the Punjab Mandi Board contended that faced with a scenario where farmers opposed integration and the Centre made it mandatory for payment of the MSP for paddy, it had been a Herculean task. “We did not seek the land records from the farmers, as we risked facing their ire. So we used the J-forms submitted by the farmers and arhtiyas, the available land revenue records and details on the Anaj Kharid portal, to map all farmers,” said Ravi Bhagat, Secretary, Punjab Mandi Board.He said the back end integration was helping in ensuring a hassle-free procurement from farmers during the ongoing paddy procurement season.Till date, 3.9 lakh MT of paddy has arrived in the mandis, of which 3.52 lakh MT has been purchased and payment worth Rs 286 crore has been released.The next step for the government is to go in for e-girdawari of land, where the land ownership and its cultivation will be recorded on a real-time basis, so as to bring a complete transparency in the food procurement system. There are more than 2.21 crore khasras in Punjab and the process of data entry was started in August.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/land-record-of-80-farmers-integrated-for-procurement-321558
08-10-2021||Amritsar||Those behind scholarship scam to face action: Verka||Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Raj Kumar Verka today said those involved in the multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam would face action soon.Verka, who represents the West constituency, arrived at his hometown for the first time after getting appointed as a Cabinet minister. Verka conducted a roadshow and was accorded a warm welcome by his supporters. He paid obeisance at a temple and later announced Rs 21 lakh to the temple management.Talking to the media, he said either the colleges who had indulged in bungling of SC scholarship funds deposit back the amount or face legal action. “I give a week’s time to these college managements to return the amount that was misappropriated at their end. Otherwise, we are going to take legal action. Anyone, whether a political or administrative official, involved in it will be taken to task,” he said.The Department of Social Justice has initiated the process to lodge an FIR in the scam which is already being probed by the CBI. The scam surfaced in 2019 during the tenure of ex-minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. An amount of Rs 16 crore was allegedly disbursed wrongfully to nine institutes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/those-behind-scholarship-scam-to-face-action-verka-321559
08-10-2021||Patiala||PSPCL terminates pacts with 4 more private plants||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has served notices of termination of power purchase agreements (PPAs) to four private power plants working under the aegis of Damodar Valley Corporation. The PSPCL “will not buy power from these plants with effect from October 31”.Shortage of coalAt present, the power demand is around 9,924 MW, among which central sector contributes 5,010 MW and private plants 2,510 MW. According to the PSPCL, private plants have less than two-day stock and if run at a low capacity, it will last for a few more days.The plants served recent notices are Damodar Valley Corporation’s Durgapur (200 MW share), Raghunathpur (300MW share), Bokaro (200MW share) and Meja Urja Power Project (85 MW share). The scrapping came following the PSERC ruling saying the power was costly from the generating stations of Damodar Valley Corporation, Kolkata; Pragati Power Corporation Limited; and Meja Urja Nigam Power Private Limited, aggregating to 885 MW.In June, the government begun the process to terminate/re-negotiate five PPAs. The high cost of power supplied by private entities and other trading entities to the now power-starved state had raised a political storm.The previous government had signed as many as 122 PPAs, of which five are now caught in a political storm, with both the Congress and AAP demanding that these be scrapped.In August, Punjab had relinquished its allocated share of power from Anta, Auraiya and Dadri power stations under National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC).The PSPCL had agreed to terminate an agreement with the producers working under the aegis of the NTPC. The PSPCL had filed a petition seeking permission to relinquish allocated power from Anta, Auraiya and Dadri generating stations of the NTPC in March 2021, which the power regulator had admitted in June 2021. The orders are likely to benefit Punjab by over Rs 115 crore per annum. The PSERC said the PSPCL should buy power at not more than Rs 3 per unit, including fixed and variable cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-terminates-pacts-with-4-more-private-plants-321560
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Scrap PPAs inked by Akali govt too: AAP||Reacting to the issuance of notices of termination of power purchase agreements (PPAs) to four private power plants, AAP leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema asked the Congress government to clear its stand on the PPAs with three main private companies. He said the faulty PPAs, reached upon by the previous Badal government, must be scrapped as these were financially harmful to the state.In a statement, Cheema said the ruling Congress government had started playing new tricks to mislead the people on the issue of cancellation of power deals. “If the government can cancel power agreements with Durgapur, Raghunathpur, Bokaro and Meja Urja power plants, then why can’t it scrap the faulty and costly power pacts reached upon by the previous Badal government?” he said.Cheema said even former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu had admitted that unilateral agreements with private companies were robbing Punjab and the people financially. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scrap-ppas-inked-by-akali-govt-too-aap-321561
08-10-2021||---||Faridkot college gets oxygen plant, Covid labs in offing||Faridkot, October 7A new pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant has been installed at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. It is funded by the PM Cares and was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The PSA plant in Faridkot is one among the 35 plants being set up across states and union territories in the country and all these plants were inaugurated on Thursday. Overall, 894 plants are functional in the country of which 41 are in Punjab.Terming these plants as vital healthcare infrastructure in his virtual speech, the Prime Minister said during the second wave of Covid-19, the country faced a debilitating shortage of medical oxygen with more than 10,000 metric tonne was required daily due to the exponential surge in infections and deaths. Since these demands could not be met, the government banned the industrial usage of oxygen, airlifted oxygen from those industrial plants and ran oxygen supply trains.These plants have been installed looking at the deficiency of oxygen during the second wave and to tackle such deficiency during the third wave, if there is any, said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-college-gets-oxygen-plant-covid-labs-in-offing-321562
08-10-2021||---||Now, full-body truck scanner at Attari to check smuggling of arms||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 7After the Taliban’s return in Afghanistan, India has tightened the security at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), located on the Attari border, by making the radiation-detection equipment (RDE) operational. How X-ray machine functions  This equipment, known as a full-body truck scanner (FBTS), is an X-ray device that can detect arms, ammunition, explosives, detonators or any radioactive material, if concealed in any part of the truck. Officials said it could detect narcotics and fake currency too, but for this, specific adjustments needed to be made to the equipment.Though India had suspended trade ties with Pakistan after the Pulwama attack and revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, the trucks from Afghanistan have been entering India (Attari) via Wagah (Pakistan). While Taliban leaders have assured India that they won’t allow any one to use their soil to play mischief, India is cautious of undercover forces operating in Pakistan.Sukhdev Singh, an official with the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), the custodian of the ICP, Attari, said despite a tense situation, nearly 30 trucks of dry fruits from Afghanistan crossed the Attari border.“We have deputed dedicated staff to operate the FBTS which minutely scans the goods carried on trucks from Afghanistan. It takes us just five minutes to scan a truck. Otherwise, it takes us at least 20-25 minutes. Still, a manual checking is being done randomly for the second time by customs officials to leave no room for error,” he said. Costing around Rs 23 crore, the FBTC is the first-of-its-kind device that was announced to be installed by the then Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Kiren Rijiju in 2017. The project, which commenced in March 2018, has so far missed several deadlines — October 2018, December 2018, May 2019, June 2019 and August 2019, followed by Covid-19 lockdown restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-full-body-truck-scanner-at-attari-to-check-smuggling-of-arms-321563
08-10-2021||---||Speaker flays J-K killings, says govt must restore trust in minorities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh today condemned the selective killing of members of minority communities in Srinagar. “It is tragic that the state has failed to safeguard the lives of those people who preferred to stay back against terrorism in Kashmir,” Rana said in a statement issued here today.He appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah not to take these selective killings casually. “These killings have scared and shaken the members of the minority community living in Kashmir and it is important that their confidence is restored,” he said, while calling for strengthening of security in Kashmir.“Abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution will hardly serve any purpose, if we are not able to provide security to the minorities living in Jammu and Kashmir and restore their confidence that their lives and property will be safe and secure,” Rana remarked.Meanwhile,  a senior Congress leader Anish Sidana said the targeted killings were highly condemnable.  All parties should jointly take a bold stand against the targeted killings, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/speaker-flays-j-k-killings-says-govt-must-restore-trust-in-minorities-321564
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Beef up  security in Kashmir,  SAD urges Centre, UT||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today condemned the systematic targeting of members of the minority community in Jammu and Kashmir and urged the Centre and UT administration to beef up security to instil confidence in the minorities to prevent another bout of migration from the Valley.Reacting to the gunning down of two teachers in Srinagar today, the SAD president said it was shocking that the two teachers — Satinder Kaur and Deepak Chand — were segregated from other staff members as terrorists barged into their school and subsequently shot them.He said an SAD delegation would visit Srinagar shortly to meet members of the minority community who had been singled out for elimination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/beef-up-security-in-kashmir-sad-urges-centre-ut-321565
08-10-2021||Sekhwan (Gurdaspur)||Hundreds attend Sekhwan’s last rites||Hundreds of people attended the last rites of former SAD Cabinet minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, who passed away at his Mohali residence on Wednesday, following a bout of prolonged illness.His eldest son, Jagrup Singh Sekhwan, lit the pyre. A contingent of the Batala police reversed arms as a mark of respect to the departed soul. Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq placed a wreath on behalf of the state government.Former Gurdaspur MP and ex-PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa sent condolence messages. Prominent among those who were present were former Rajya Sabha MP Bhupinder Singh Maan, former SAD minister Sucha Singh Langah, AAP MLA Meet Hayer, Gurdaspur Planning Board chairman Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hundreds-attend-sekhwans-last-rites-321566
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (S) delegation detained briefly||A delegation of SAD (Sanyukt) leaders, which was on its way to Lakhimpur Kheri, was detainedby the UP Police in Saharanpur on Thursday.Led by Jathedar and party general secretary Ranjit Singh Talwandi, the delegation had a heated argument with cops, after which all leaders were released and allowed to travel to Lakhimpur Kheri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-s-delegation-detained-briefly-321567
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Trucks carrying paddy  from outside seized||A flying squad of Food and Civil Supplies Department today seized a truck of parmal paddy being brought from Madhya Pradesh to Punjab for illegal recycling or bogus billing. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the truck was seized at Shambhu border in Patiala. It was carrying 254.50 kg of parmal paddy in the name of bogus firm named Dasmesh Agro Foods, Ludhiana.Ashu added when the flying squad inquired from the Secretary Market Committee, Ludhiana, in this regard, he said no firm was registered with his office on aforementioned name.Following which, the truck (MP07 HB 4072) was seized and a case registered against the driver, Harmeet Pal. The Food and Civil Supply Minister said 150 flying squads had been formed in the state in which about 1,500 officers and personnel were working round the clock. He further said seven FIRs had been registered on the basis of complaints lodged by flying squads, which would be operations till December 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trucks-carrying-paddy-from-outside-seized-321568
08-10-2021||---||Abohar doctor attacked in clinic||Our CorrespondentAbohar, October 7Days after a motorcyclist attacked two women and tried to snatch their mobile phones, a miscreant on Thursday entered the clinic of a homoeopathy doctor on Circular Road and attacked Dr Upasana Kawatra with a sharp weapon in a bid to rob her around 10 am.Dr Kawatra, who suffered injuries in the attack, was taken to the Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital. Preliminary probe indicated a 25-year-old person entered the clinic on the pretext of showing his test report and placed his bag inside the doctor’s cabin.Sensing trouble, the doctor pulled her chair a little at which the miscreant allegedly took out a sharp weapon from his bag and attacked her.The doctor tried to grab hold of the attacker, but he fled the spot, leaving her wounded. As the doctor raised the alarm, some passersby came to her aid and took her to the hospital.Baljit Singh, incharge, City-1 police station, said the statement of the injured doctor had been recorded and CCTV footage was being analysed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-doctor-attacked-in-clinic-321569
08-10-2021||---||Fraud case filed against former NC vice-prez||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 7A fraud case against former vice-president of the Nagar Council (NC) Vijay Lankesh has led to a political storm here.Complainant Ravi Chawla, a former Congress councillor, alleged that Lankesh got registered a community hall, constructed on government land, in the name of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Community Hall Management Committee (Aadhas) even before its inauguration on September 14.“The inauguration of community hall was on September 14, but Lankesh got the hall registered without the consent of residents on August 2. He should have called a meeting of residents if he wanted to get the hall registered,” said Chawla.The police have registered a case under Section 420, IPC, against Lankesh and started an investigation.Lankesh could not be contacted as his mobile phone was switched off. However, his close friend Chamandeep Singh Milkhy said the police had registered the FIR under political pressure.“On December 15, 2014, then SDM in the presence of residents had decided that the Aadhi Dharm Samaj (Aadhas) would be caretaker of the community hall and park. It would remain property of the government since the land belongs to it. We have all documents to prove it, but Congress leaders have got registered a false FIR,” said Milkhy while showing documents. When contacted, a police spokesperson denied the allegations of political pressure. “Our investigation is going on,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fraud-case-filed-against-former-nc-vice-prez-321570
08-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC quashes central order rejecting trust’s dental college plan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled principles of natural justice required showing the affected person the material on the basis of which an order was proposed to be passed against him before giving him an opportunity of hearing to establish non-existence of the projected reasons.‘Justice principles can’t be violated’Justice Sudhir Mittal asserted opportunity of hearing was required so that principles of natural justice were not violated. The principles required that the person against whom an order was to be passed, resulting in civil consequences, must be shown the material on the basis of which it was proposed.The ruling came as Justice Sudhir Mittal quashed an order passed by the central government rejecting Gian Sagar Educational and Charitable Trust’s scheme for establishing a new dental college near Banur. Justice Mittal also directed the central government to grant fresh opportunity of hearing to the petitioner-trust after supplying a copy of inspection report dated April 24.Taking up the petition filed through counsel Gagneshwar Walia, Justice Mittal also directed the Dental Council of India to ensure that the physical verification was incorporated in its procedure of examining the scheme for establishing an institute.Justice Mittal asserted opportunity of hearing was required so that principles of natural justice were not violated. The principles required that the person against whom an order was to be passed, resulting in civil consequences, must be shown the material on the basis of which it was proposed. He was required to be given an opportunity to establish that the proposed reasons did not exist by granting hearing.Justice Mittal added it was incumbent upon the Centre to hear the petitioner before passing the impugned order. Admittedly, the petitioner was not supplied with copies of the physical inspection report conducted in March. Only deficiencies were pointed out, which were “allegedly complied with”. Thereafter, a compliance inspection was carried out in April. But the council sent a disapproval note dated April 30 to the Centre, which proceeded to pass the impugned order dated August 19, even though the petitioner had sought a hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-quashes-central-order-rejecting-trusts-dental-college-plan-321571
08-10-2021||Bathinda||Novel protest over price rise||In a novel protest over increasing prices of fuel and essential commodities, a former municipal councillor used binoculars to look for “achhe din” — a slogan given by PM Narendra Modi during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections — while being suspended from a crane.“With ever-increasing prices of essential commodities under Modi’s government, for the common man ‘achhe din’ don’t seem to be anywhere near,” said Vijay Kumar while protesting with residents here.“The prices of petrol have touched Rs 104 per litre and an LPG cylinder is selling at Rs 940. Besides, prices of cooking oil and other essential commodities have almost doubled in the past few years. People are still recovering from the financial jolt dealt by two waves of the Covid and instead of supporting them, the government with its faulty policies has started burdening the common man,” he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/novel-protest-over-price-rise-321572
08-10-2021||Moga||5 held for illegal mining in Moga, vehicles seized||The Moga police arrested five persons and impounded five tractor-trailers laden with sand on the allegations of illegal mining, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said here today.Those arrested have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Kothe Lal Singh (Jaito), Luvpreet Singh of Bargadi village (Faridkot), Arshdeep Singh of Bajakhana (Faridkot), Gurpreet Singh of Mahla Kalan village (Moga) and Gurcharan Singh of Vandar village (Moga).The SSP said they used to load tractor-trailers with sand from illegal mining sites and sell the same in Baghapurana subdivision of Moga district and nearby Faridkot district.A criminal case under Sections 379 and 411 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 21 (3) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act has been registered against them at the Samalsar police station. Further investigation is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-held-for-illegal-mining-in-moga-vehicles-seized-321573
08-10-2021||Amritsar||Will move court, says family of blast suspect||The family members of Tarn Taran blast accused Malkit Singh, aka Shera, who died in judicial custody, today said they would approach a court seeking action against the Amritsar Central Jail authorities for “failing” to provide proper medication to him which ultimately took his life.Shera (28) was arrested for alleged connection with a bomb blast that occurred in Pandori Gola village in Tarn Taran in September 2019. He died while in judicial custody at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on Tuesday.“He had a hole in the heart besides being an acute diabetic patient. The Punjab and High Court had directed the jail authorities for provide him treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh, after forming a board in December 2020,” said Ravinderjit Singh, elder brother of Shera, who claimed that he was implicated in the case. An official of the central jail said Shera was given proper treatment and the allegations being levelled by his familywere baseless. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-move-court-says-family-of-blast-suspect-321574
08-10-2021||Bathinda||BEd teachers’ stir on Oct 9||Meet on climate changeAmritsar: The EcoSikh representing Sikh perspective joined a gathering of 40 religious leaders in Vatican on the global climate crisis recently. Influential leaders from different parts of the world came together in an effort to rally support measures to preserve the ecology in the upcoming UN climate conference ‘Faith and Science: An Appeal for COP26’ that was hosted at the Vatican by Pope Francis. tnsDengue outbreak in MaloutMuktsar: Around 200 dengue cases have been reported in Malout this season. Residents allege hardly any preventive measures have been taken by the district administration. Shockingly, an eight-year-old girl had lost her life due to dengue in Malout. After this incident, residents fear for the worst. Dr Rashmi Chawla, Senior Medical Officer, Malout, said, “We are taking several steps to control dengue. As many as 15 employees have been deployed to find larvae and destroy them.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bed-teachers-stir-on-oct-9-321575
08-10-2021||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Meghalaya starts process to take over Shillong's Punjabi Lane||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 7Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma today said the process had been initiated to transfer ownership of the land of Shillong’s Harijan Colony (Punjabi Lane) to the state’s Urban Affairs Department.The CM was briefing the media in Shillong after presiding over a Cabinet meeting where the report submitted by a committee regarding the relocation of Dalit Sikhs of Harijan Colony was discussed.Sangma said the report submitted to him on Monday by the panel headed by Deputy CM Prestone Tynsong made three recommendations, including changing the ownership of the land on which the Harijan Colony was situated.An agreement by the Urban Affairs Department, the Shillong Municipal Board and the traditional Khasi tribal chief (Syiem) of the area would be signed to transfer land ownership to the Urban Affairs Department, he said. The process would be completed over the next one week, he added.The next step, he said, would be to shift the municipal office located in the area and order the municipal employees (Dalit Sikhs who work as sweepers) living in Harijan Colony to move to the new location where residences would be provided to them.The Urban Affairs Department would then take up the cases of people who live in the colony without being employees of the municipality.Harijan Panchayat Committee chief Gurjit Singh said attempts were made to evict Sikh residents of Harijan Colony by roping in the local tribal chieftain in 1954 too. Transfer of ownership||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meghalaya-starts-process-to-take-over-shillongs-punjabi-lane-321636
08-10-2021||New Delhi||Vandalisation of gurdwara in Kabul raises concern not only for India but for world as well: MEA||India on Thursday said the vandalisation of a gurdwara in Kabul raised concerns not just for it but for the world and the international community needs to insist on protecting the rights of various sections of Afghan society as outlined in a UN Security Council resolution.According to reports, Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul was vandalised two days ago by suspected Taliban fighters.“The reports of vandalism and of intolerance obviously raise concerns not just for us but, I suppose, across the world. It is important that the international community continues to insist on the fulfilment of goals outlined in the UN Security Council resolution 2593,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.He was replying to a question on the issue at a media briefing.The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India’s presidency of the global body, talked about the need for upholding human rights in Afghanistan and that a negotiated political settlement should be found out to the crisis.Bagchi said the resolution reflects the world community’s collective approach towards Afghanistan and demanded that Afghan territory should not be used for terrorism besides ensuring the rights of all sections of the Afghan society including women and minorities.“The UN Security Council resolution articulates and guides the collective approach of the global community towards Afghanistan. The resolution talks about ensuring that Afghan territory is not used for terrorist acts,” Bagchi said.“It talks of safe passage and secure departure of Afghans and all foreign nationals from Afghanistan. It talks about holding of human rights including of women and minorities and encourages all parties to seek an inclusive, negotiated political settlement,” he said.The MEA spokesperson said the situation in Afghanistan figured during US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman’s talks in India on Tuesday.He said there was a need to ensure that terrorism does not emanate from Afghan soil.“We highlighted our perspective on role of Pakistan and what are our concerns regarding that,” Bagchi said, describing Sherman’s visit as “very very useful and productive”.He said issues relating to security in Afghanistan was a major focus area in the talks.When asked whether China figured in the talks, Bagchi said it did and added that “China is an important player, an important country” and both countries shared their perspectives.To a question on the Afghans who are currently in India and want to return to Afghanistan, Bagchi said the issue of resumption of commercial flights to Afghanistan is a sensitive issue.He said the visas of Afghan citizens stuck in India are being automatically extended. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vandalisation-of-gurdwara-in-kabul-raises-concern-not-only-for-india-but-for-world-as-well-mea-321479
08-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur violence: Navjot Singh Sidhu, other party leaders detained at Saharanpur on Haryana-UP border||Chandigarh, October 7Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and other party leaders were detained at Saharanpur on the Haryana-UP border where they staged a dharna on Thursday. Later, they were taken to the Sarsawa Police Station by the UP Police.Sidhu has demanded the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son in connection with the death of farmers during violence in Uttar Pradesh, saying he would go on hunger strike if action is not taken against him by Friday.Also read: Another video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedSidhu said he was ready to sacrifice his life for the cause of farmers.Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Cabinet Ministers Pargat Singh, and Vijay Inder Singla, besides former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Kangar and Sunder Shyam Arora were among the leaders present. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also joined Sidhu for a brief period when the march was about to start in the morning from Mohali.Also read: Lakhimpur Kheri violence hits local Sikh community hard Lakhimpur killings another blow to Punjab BJPInstead of holding  the party flags, Sidhu and other leaders could be seen holding the flags associated with farmers agitation as slogans of ‘Kisan-mazdoor ekta zindabad’ were raised.Earlier in the day, farmer unions surrounded the cavalcade and then the vehicle in which Sidhu was on his way to Mohali at Dhareri Jattan toll barrier and showed him black flags. It was after much requests by Sidhu that the farmers allowed him to pass through.Sidhu had resigned from the post of Punjab Congress chief on September 28 but it wasn’t immediately clear if the resignation was withdrawn.Before the protest march Thursday, Sidhu slammed the BJP-led government in UP over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.He said Punjab Congress and party MLAs are standing firmly with the farmers.He asked why UP authorities hadn’t taken action against Mishra’s son even after an FIR was lodged in the matter.“Are union minister and his son above the law and constitution?” he asked.“This fight is for our farmers,” he said, adding: “If UP police do not arrest the union minister’s son, I will go on hunger strike. It is my ‘vachan’ (promise).”       Later, he said, “If the arrest is not made till tomorrow (Friday), or he does not join investigation, I will go on a hunger strike.”         Sidhu called Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi “saviours of democracy.”        Earlier, Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny said they would stage a sit-in wherever they were stopped from heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri.Congress legislator Sunder Sham Arora said they were ready for courting arrest if prevented from going to UP.Four of the eight people who died in Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.Two BJP workers, Mishra’s driver, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel, were also killed in the incident.While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering farmers’ protest against Maurya’s visit to Mishra’s native place.No arrests have been made in connection with the case so far. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-violence-navjot-singh-sidhu-other-party-leaders-detained-at-saharanpur-on-haryana-up-border-321424
