09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu’s fasts start after dinner, end at breakfast: Sukhbir Badal||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday called Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu’s fast at Lakhimpur Kheri a “drama”, saying his hunger strike “started after dinner and ended before breakfast.”Sidhu on Saturday ended his fast after Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra turned up for questioning.The Punjab Congress chief, who met the family of 28-year-old journalist Raman Kashyap, one of the eight people killed in the violence, had proceeded on a fast and could be seen lying on a cot at the scribe’s house in Lakhimpur Kheri.Reacting to the hunger strike by Sidhu, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said he wanted to request Sidhu that he should stop doing “dramas”.“@sherryontopp is just an attention seeker. His hunger strike to get Ashish Mishra arrested, was a comedy show that started after dinner and ended before breakfast. He doesn’t know the difference between appearing before the police &getting arrested: SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal,” according to a SAD’s tweet.Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit last Sunday.Sidhu in a tweet on Saturday said, “Broke my fast with the family of Raman Kashyap … After Ashish Mishra surrenders to join investigations. The Almighty gave me the strength to fight for a Just cause … Path of Truth will always Triumph !!”Sidhu had declared that he would go on hunger strike if the union minister’s son was not arrested by Friday or he did not join the investigation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhus-fasts-start-after-dinner-end-at-breakfast-sukhbir-badal-322406
09-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Justice Rajesh Bindal appointed Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9The President on Saturday appointed Justice Rajesh Bindal as the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court — one of the oldest high courts to be established in India.The oath ceremony is expected to be held on Monday. The appointment came less than a month after the Supreme Court collegium cleared his name for elevation.Justice Bindal is the senior-most Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and is currently the Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court.Among other important cases, Justice Bindal had headed the five-Judge Bench that delivered verdict on the Kolkata post-poll violence. Justice Bindal was Acting Chief Justice of the Jammu & Kashmir High Court prior to this.Justice Bindal was recently appointed as chairperson of a committee constituted by the Supreme Court’s e-committee to formulate modern electronic registers for use by the district judiciary across the country. The effort is to replace all manual registers or paper records.As chairman of a committee constituted by National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), Justice Bindal has already submitted a report on optimal use of technology, including use of Artificial Intelligence.Known for his proficiency in brining justice closer to people through computerisation, Justice Bindal was instrumental in launching a unique project, in which the post offices in Jammu and Kashmir help in delivering justice. The project uses the pre-existent postal system in 11 districts to allow citizens to register their disputes through the local post offices as well as common service centres.Justice Bindal was elevated as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 22, 2006, and remained chairman of a committee for framing draft rules for electronic evidence. The report was submitted to the Supreme Court in November 2018. As chairman of a multi-member committee constituted by the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development to study civil aspects of International Child Abduction Bill-2016, Justice Bindal submitted report accompanied by the recommendations and draft of the Protection of Children (Inter-Country Removal and Retention) Bill-2018 to the Ministry in April 2018.Before his transfer to High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in November 2018, he disposed of around 80,000 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-rajesh-bindal-appointed-chief-justice-of-allahabad-high-court-322392
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM asks Centre to ensure adequate coal supply to avert power crisis||Slamming the Centre for inadequate coal supply against the PSPCL’s agreements with various subsidiaries of the Coal India Ltd (CIL), the Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday asked it to immediately enhance the state’s coal supply as per quota to tide over power crisis with the impending shutdown of its thermal plants due to fast depleting coal reserves which are likely to exhaust within next couple of days.Reviewing the power situation amid the shortage of coal supply in the state, the Chief Minister said that all the thermal plants are unable to generate a full capacity of power due to insufficient coal receipt. However, he reiterated his government’s firm commitment to give power supply for irrigation of paddy crop where necessary. He also said that power cuts are being imposed for domestic consumers in cities and villages to ensure sufficient supply to the agriculture sector as well as to maintain grid discipline.Earlier, the Chairman-cum-Managing Director A. Venu Prasad apprised the Chief Minister that the thermal plants throughout the country are reeling under coal shortages and coal supplies crisis. Within the state, Independent Power Producer (IPP) plants are left with less than two days coal i.e. NPL (1.9 days), TSPL (1.3 days), GVK (0.6) days and it is on a decreasing trend as coal supply by Coal India Ltd. (a GOI undertaking) is not as per requirements. PSPCL plants i.e.  GGSSTP and GHTP also have just two days of coal stock reduction. Coal to all these plants is supplied by various Coal India subsidiaries as per Fuel Supply Agreements of these plants with them but presently receipt is much below the required level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-asks-centre-to-ensure-adequate-coal-supply-to-avert-power-crisis-322388
09-10-2021||Archit Watts||After their meeting with admn is cancelled, protesting Muktsar farmers break police barricades and protest outside Manpreet Badal’s house||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 9After the district administration backtracked from its Friday's promise to hold a meeting of protesting farmers with the Principal Sceretary to Chief Minister in Chandigarh on Saturday, a large number of protesting farmers on Saturday broke police barricades and reached outside Finance Minister Manpreet Badal's residence at Badal village.They have started an indefinite protest outside Manpreet's residence, pitching a tent by blocking both the entrances.Earlier, they were sitting metres away from his residence.They had gheraoed Manpreet's residence on Thursday for two hours.The farmers are demanding Rs 60,000 per-acre compensation for the damage of cotton crop due to pink bollworm. Besides, they are demanding Rs 30,000 per acre relief for each farm labourer’s family.The farmers from five districts - Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Faridkot - are lodging their protest under the banner of Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan).A farmer leader said the district administration told them that Saturday's meeting stood cancelled as the Chief Minister was busy till October 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-their-meeting-with-admn-is-cancelled-protesting-muktsar-farmers-break-police-barricades-and-protest-outside-manpreet-badals-house-322352
09-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Paddy issue: HC directs Punjab Chief Secretary to file affidavit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Punjab Chief Secretary to file an affidavit explaining how instructions dated October 21, 2020, regarding the sale of paddy from other states on minimum support price were sustainable when the three “farm laws” were in operation and not stayed by the Supreme Court. At that time, the farmers were free to trade across the country.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after two petitions were filed against the State of Punjab by Manjinder Singh and another petitioner through counsel Ferry Sofat. Manjinder Singh was seeking the quashing of an FIR registered on the allegations that he was bringing rice from outside. They were accused of bringing paddy at a lower price from Uttar Pradesh for selling it at minimum support price in Punjab.The Bench was told that the instructions dated October 21, 2020, issued by the Chief Secretary said State farmers should not suffer any problem during the paddy season. But paddy was being brought to Punjab to be sold on minimum support price from other states. As such, police barriers should be set up during kharif season 2020-21 at the border points with other states. The vehicles coming from other states should be stopped and original bills/biltis to be checked. Cases should be registered if fake or bogus bills were found.The farm laws, on the other hand, paved way for selling the produce anywhere. Sofat submitted that the Supreme Court passed the order in January, while the ‘farm laws’ came into effect from June 2020. Consequently, at the time that the FIR registered against the petitioner on October 20, 2020, there was no stay on the operation of the farm laws.The instructions issued by the Chief Secretary in October 2020 were, as such, wholly illegal and unsustainable in the face of an enacted statute by Parliament, operation of which had not been stayed at that stage at all. As such, the FIR against the petitioner was wholly illegal and unsustainable.“Today, with the operation of the ‘farm laws’ having been stayed, obviously, those instructions would have a different implication altogether,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted, while directing the filing of the affidavit.Justice Amol Rattan Singh observed an affidavit in the matter stated that the Supreme Court, vide its order dated January 12, had stayed the implementation of the three “farm laws” enacted by the Union of India. The Bench added the counsel for the petitioner was submitting that the ‘farm laws’ came into effect from June 2020. When an FIR was registered in the matter against the petitioner on October 20, 2020, there was no stay on the operation of the farm laws and the FIR against the petitioner was wholly illegal and unsustainable.“The State counsel would address arguments in terms of the contentions raised, with the Senior Superintendent of Police, Patiala, to also file another affidavit stating as to how the FIR is sustainable in the face of the contentions raised by counsel for the petitioner today, which prima facie seem to be wholly correct in the context of the FIR registered on October 20, 2020.” Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted.The case will now come up on November 18. The trial court, in the meanwhile, was directed to adjourn the case beyond the date fixed by the Bench.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-issue-hc-directs-punjab-chief-secretary-to-file-affidavit-322239
09-10-2021||Amritsar||Former Afghan PM returns home via Attari||Former Afghanistan Prime Minister Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai, along with his son Musa Ahmadzai, crossed over to Pakistan on his way to Kabul on Thursday through Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP).Ahmad was the acting Prime Minister of Afghanistan from 1995-1996, when Burhanuddin Rabbani was the President. He held various prominent positions in the Afghanistan Government from 1992 to 1996. He left the country in 1996 when the Taliban took over Kabul and since then, he was in exile. An official at the Integrated Check Post said they possessed a transit visa issued by the Pakistani High Commission in Delhi. India had allowed them to cross over from Attari. It is learnt that he will be using Torkham border crossing to cross over to Afghanistan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-afghan-pm-returns-home-via-attari-322043
09-10-2021||Ferozepur||2 held in Ferozepur blast case||The Ferozepur police arrested two persons in connection with a blast that took place in the city area last month. The accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, a resident of Chandi Wala village and Sukeen Singh, a resident of Dharmu Wala village in Jalalabad.SSP Rajpal Singh said during the investigation, the involvement of the two suspects came to the fore. “These two were involved in another incident in which they had set ablaze a car in the city area,” he said. “The accused have been booked under Sections 436, 427 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, at the City police station,” he said.On September 6, the suspects allegedly blew up the front entrance (rolling shutters) of two shops with some explosives at midnight in the Namak Mandi area in the city. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-in-ferozepur-blast-case-322044
09-10-2021||---||Heroin seizure: NIA raids ex-SAD leader’s Amritsar house||Amritsar, October 8A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) today raided the residence of former SAD leader and Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board member Anwar Masih in connection with the seizure of 197 kg heroin by the special task force in January last year.The NIA recently took over the probe after the seizure was found to be connected with the confiscation of 3,000 kg heroin from a Gujarat port.The team remained in the house for at least two hours and questioned the family members. They also seized some documents. According to information, the team had raided the house a few days ago as well. Intelligence officials said the raid could be connected to some specific inputs in the case. The STF had arrested Masih in connection with the seizure of heroin from a residential complex, allegedly belonging to him, at Sultanwind village on January 31 last year.On July 14, Masih attempted suicide when he along with several religious organisations protested against alleged harassment by a former AIG and three DSP-rank officials of the STF. They had demanded quashing of the case registered against him in connection with the seizure of contraband from the residential building.As the building belonged to Masih, the STF had booked him under Section 25 (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises) of the NDPS Act.The STF had seized 197 kg heroin and narcotic material and arrested around 20 persons, including an Afghan national, in the case. Masih had claimed he had sold the house and was unaware about any drug factory being run from the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-seizure-nia-raids-ex-sad-leaders-amritsar-house-322045
09-10-2021||Ferozepur||Home Guards jawan ends life||Job letters distributedChandigarh: Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni distributed appointment letters to 70 multipurpose health workers (male) and 28 pharmacy officers here at Punjab Bhavan on Friday. Congratulating the new appointees on their induction into the state Health Department, the DCM said the entire recruitment process was merit-based. TNSPatiala man is ISRO scientistPatiala: Kamaldeep Sharma (25) of Magar Sahib village of Sanour in Patiala district has cracked the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist exam. He cleared the exam in his second attempt and will now be undergoing training to be incorporated as a scientist at ISRO. Elated at the achievement, Kamaldeep wants to register his name among top scientists of the world. TNS‘Mewar Trail’ flagged offAbohar: Lt Gen JS Nain, AVSM SM GOC-in-C Southern Command on Friday flagged off the ‘Mewar Trail’ as a part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations from Eklinggarh Military Station in Rajasthan. The ‘Mewar Trail’ is a foot-based expedition being undertaken by the Ninth Battalion of the Grenadiers Regiment. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/home-guards-jawan-ends-life-322049
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punsup inspector suspended||A Punsup inspector was placed under suspension today after he was caught with a commission agent for making bogus purchase of paddy on MSP. Food and Supply Department officials said Inspector Jagwinder Singh was posted in the Sanaur mandi of Patiala, where he and arhtiya Ranwa Trader Company made bogus bills for purchase of over 1,300 metric tonnes of paddy. A raid was conducted on the premises of the arhtiya by market committee officials. The inspector uploaded the I-form, showing 2,065 quintals of paddy purchase through the agent, but checking of stocks revealed fake entries of 1,310 quintals. The arhtiya’s licence  has been suspended and an FIR against him has been recommended. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punsup-inspector-suspended-322031
09-10-2021||Vijay C Roy||Entrepreneurs flag industry’s concerns ahead of Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8From policy issues to infrastructure constraints to setting up a convention centre, industrialists in Punjab voiced their issues in an interaction with the state functionaries namely Tejveer Singh, Principal Secretary, Industries, Commerce & Investment Promotion, Punjab; and Rajat Agarwal, Chief Executive Officer, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion. The officers assured that they would take steps to make Punjab a business-friendly state.Ahead of the Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit, to be held on October 26 and 27, the government is reaching out to various industry chambers (CII and PHD) to know the grassroots problems being faced by industrialists.One of the issues raised was of inverted duty structure. The state offers SGST incentives up to 50 per cent of its GST share as an advantage to the new units being set up under Industrial and Business Development Policy-2017. However in case of industries such as cycle and textiles which fall under the inverted duty structure (situation where the rate of tax on inputs purchased is more than the rate of tax on outward supplies), the policy becomes unbalanced.The industrialists also raised banks’ reluctance to approve loans. To ease the regulatory burden on newly incorporated micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs), the Punjab Right to Business Rules-2020 were notified on July 29, 2020. The District Bureau of Enterprise has been empowered to issue “certificate of in-principle approval” to the units, however banks are not granting loans to the units but insisting on change in land use. So there was a need to empanel banks to facilitate investment in the state, industrialists said.The recent notification by the Town and Country Planning Board increased the right of way from16.5 feet to 33 feet for setting up an industry. “This is practically impossible. The MSMEs can’t afford to set up industry on the highway as land is costly. So, they are bound to set up industry on link roads. Unfortunately, we don’t have the concept of 33-foot roads on link roads. Moreover, this notification was introduced suddenly and at a time when all formalities had been done by many investors, so the notification would act as deterrent for investors,” said Rajiv Sajdeh, Chairman, CII Amritsar Zone.Strengthen InfraThe industrialists demanded the state government should upgrade the infrastructure at Focal Points which are in poor shape. The Dera Bassi Industries Association demanded immediate steps to set up new electric substation due to increased demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/entrepreneurs-flag-industrys-concerns-ahead-of-progressive-punjab-investors-summit-322036
09-10-2021||GS Paul||Afghanistan onion import resumes, will help curb price surge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 8The bilateral trade between Afghanistan and India is inching towards its normal pace after the change of regime.After dry fruit, the consignments of onion, which is widely used in cooking in India, have started arriving from Afghanistan. A couple of Afghan trucks laden with onions reached the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari. It is learnt in the absence of bank transactions in Afghanistan, the trade had been resumed on ‘goodwill’ by both sides. With the Taliban militia taking over the reins, the Indian and Afghan traders were a worried lot as they were expecting disruption in the bilateral business.Talibanis had earlier sealed Afghanistan’s Torkham and Chaman borders with Pakistan, the only two land routes used for trade activities between India and Afghanistan.The ICP, Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, has been receiving goods only from Afghanistan since New Delhi abrogated Article 370 in August 2019.Indian traders import dry fruit, onions and apples from Afghanistan. There has been a bumper crop of onion in Afghanistan. Red onions brought from Afghanistan’s Balkh and Ghazni through the ICP are being supplied to Tamil Nadu, Andhra, MP, Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi, HP, Punjab and J&K. It takes about two weeks for a consignment to reach India.Jatinder Khurana, a leading importer and exporter of fruit and vegetables, said at least 25 trucks carrying onions were on way to India.“Of course, it will mellow down the prices of onions in India. The landed cost of onions from Afghanistan is Rs 25-26 per kg and the retail price of the local crop from Nasik is priced at Rs 40-45 per kg,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/afghanistan-onion-import-resumes-will-help-curb-price-surge-322037
09-10-2021||---||Punjab to move Anti-Red Tape Act soon||Chandigarh, October 8To eliminate red-tapism and improve ease of doing business in the state, the Punjab Government will soon bring the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Act, 2021. The Act aims to reduce the compliance burden of business and citizen services by minimum 50 per cent.“We are committed to ensure the ease of doing business in Punjab and have taken host of initiatives to further simplify and streamline the system and process for regulatory clearances. The Anti-Red Tape Act, which is likely to be introduced soon, will probably be the first in the country and aims to stop all kind of unnecessary harassment faced by the industry,” said Rajat Agarwal, Chief Executive Officer, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion. He was interacting with CII members ahead of the Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit.The Act would be instrumental in providing various measures for simplification of government processes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-move-anti-red-tape-act-soon-322038
09-10-2021||Faridkot||Abetment to suicide: Faridkot NGO moves court against FIR cancellation||An NGO, Naujawan Gurmat Sabha, today approached a court here opposing the police move to cancel the FIR in the case in which a person had committed suicide after killing his two children.In the FIR, registered under Section 306 of IPC (abetment to suicide), a close relative of a Congress leader has been named as the main accused.It is alleged that on February 6, Karan Kataria, a Faridkot resident, had killed his two children in sleep before committing suicide. The court has issued a notice to Sheenam, wife of the deceased, for appearance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abetment-to-suicide-faridkot-ngo-moves-court-against-fir-cancellation-322039
09-10-2021||New Delhi||Shillong Sikhs oppose fresh eviction attempt||The Meghalaya Cabinet has decided to go ahead and relocate “illegal settlers” of Punjabi Lane in Them Iew Mawlong area in Shillong based on the recommendation of the high-level committee.After the panel submitted its report to CM Conrad Sangma, the latter told reporters that the process had been initiated to transfer the ownership of the land from the local tribal chieftain (syiem) to the state so that the government could take steps to evict Sikhs from the area.The Harijan Panchayat Committee (HPC), the representative body of Dalit Sikhs living in the Harijan Colony (also Punjabi Lane) vowed to “fight till last breath against the illegal, unethical and unjust action of the BJP-led coalition government”.In a statement, Gurjit Singh, president, HPC, said, “Poor Sikhs who have served the state are being made victims of forcible eviction under pressure of land mafia since the previously inaccessible area is now a prime property.” The HPC said the 2.5 acres of the colony land belonged to the residents whose ancestors had come from Punjab two centuries ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shillong-sikhs-oppose-fresh-eviction-attempt-322040
09-10-2021||---||Shift focus to solar power, PSPCL told||Chandigarh, October 8Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday asked the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to go for clean and green power at a competitive price to consumers.Chairing a meeting with (PSPCL officials, the Chief Minister said the solar power, being cost effective and reliable, besides clean and green source of energy, would go a long way in ensuring a healthy and pollution-free environment.A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL, informed the Chief Minister that the power corporation had floated two tenders for procurement of 500 MW solar power. Of this, 250 MW is planned to be procured from solar power projects located anywhere in India with a ceiling tariff of Rs 2.50/Kwh. Besides, another 250 MW of solar power would be purchased from projects located anywhere in Punjab with ceiling tariff of Rs.2.70/Kwh, said the CMD, adding the move would meet the rising demand of power in Punjab and simultaneously develop and promote renewable sources of energy.Briefed on coal stock situationBriefing the Chief Minister about the current coal shortages in the power plants in the state, the CMD said the situation was prevalent across all the thermal power plants in India due to less production by the Coal India Limited. He further explained how with great difficultly the power was being managed by the PSPCL. “All possible avenues are being explored to supply uninterrupted and quality power to the people of the state,” said Venu Prasad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shift-focus-to-solar-power-pspcl-told-322041
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tax evasion: 5 more pvt buses plying in Ferozepur district impounded||Stepping up the heat against private bus operators evading tax in the state, the Transport Department today impounded five more buses of private companies plying in Ferozepur district.Assistant Transport Officer (ATO) Pardeep Singh Dhillon said the flying squad of the Regional Transport Authority, Ferozepur, found the buses operating without paying the tax during checking of documents. These included two of New Deep, and one each of Nagpal Bus Service, Raj and Jujhar bus service.Reiterating his commitment to ensuring transparent system in the department, Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring said those defaulting or not paying taxes would not be spared and strict action would be taken against them. “During checking of documents at Cantonment Bus Stand, it came to the fore that five buses belonging to various private operators had defaulted on payment of tax following which these were impounded by the department,” he said.Warring has initiated a crackdown on buses plying illegally or those fleecing commuters and not adhering to the tax norms.Over the past two days, the department has impounded 15 private buses on the grounds of non-deposit of special road tax and permit-related irregularities. Sources said fearing action, many transport operators had already deposited taxes worth lakhs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tax-evasion-5-more-pvt-buses-plying-in-ferozepur-district-impounded-322042
09-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Dengue cases set to rise in Punjab, say officials||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 8Dengue outbreaks have been reported in several districts of the state. Over 4,600 positive cases have already been confirmed in the state so far. Officials said the cases would continue to rise in the coming days.Also read: Now, tests at health kiosksThe Health Department said Hoshiarpur remained the worst hit with over 811 positive cases followed by Amritsar with 676 cases. It has been learnt that positive cases have shot up in Bathinda, Mukstar and Mohali over the past few days.10L houses inspectedAround 10 lakh households have already been inspected by the employees. We need community participation to curb the spread. —Dr Gagan Grover, —State nodal officerIn the wake of the conducive breeding temperatures for dengue mosquitoes, health officials are worried that the situation might go out of hand in some districts. A large number of dengue larvae were detected from households during anti-dengue drives. Dengue larvae from 20,000 households have already been detected this season.Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said, “Around 10 lakh households have already been inspected by the employees. We need community participation to curb the spread because it becomes highly difficult to check every household once a week by health officials.”He said testing labs had also been increased across the state from 30 to 39. Besides, more testing kits had been procured by the department following the rise in cases. “Around 15,853 tests have already been conducted in the state. Review meetings are being held to assess the situation. We are mindful of the situation and doing what we can to curb the spread,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-cases-set-to-rise-in-punjab-say-officials-322033
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Now, tests at health kiosks||Ever put off going for complete body check-up, either because of the cost or shortage of time required to visit various places for all tests? The ICMR-Centre for Innovation and Bio Design (CIBioD) at the PGI here has come up with a perfect solution in the form of health kiosks, which are the size of a vending machine.These one-stop shops will offer a wide variety of tests — checking of body temperature, complete blood count, blood pressure, ECG etc. These kiosks, which are the GenNext of virtual clinics, will also offer tele-consultation from different medical specialists. The first of the kiosks is being set up in Chandigarh on October 17, said Dr Varinder Garg, head of CIBioD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-tests-at-health-kiosks-322034
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar Killings: Punjab CM Channi urges Centre to ensure minorities’ safety||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today expressed anguish over the killing of a principal and a teacher from minority communities by terrorists at a government school in Jammu and Kashmir capital Srinagar on Thursday.Terming it a “crime against humanity to destroy the ethos of peace, harmony and brotherhood”, Channi urged the Narendra Modi government to take effective measures to ensure the safety of those living under uncertainty due to threat from terror outfits in the state. He stressed the need to repose a sense of security amongst minority communities and asked the BJP-led government at the Centre to bring the guilty to book. He said harshest punishment under the law should be given to those involved as it would serve as a deterrent.Centre’s failureThere have been seven targeted killings in past five days. The Centre has failed to protect minorities in J&K. The government has failed to curb terrorism in Valley.—Harpal Singh Cheema, Leader of oppositionThe CM urged Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha to direct the state administration to extend all possible help to the aggrieved families.Meanwhile, the AAP has accused the Centre of failing to provide security to the people, especially minorities. Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema expressed condolences with the families of the victims and termed the killings “deeply distressing”. — TNSCandle march by SADIn Ropar, SAD workers led by ex-Cabinet minister Daljit Singh Cheema held a candle march in memory of the slain teachers. Cheema condemned the killing and asked the Centre to take appropriate measures to protect minorities in the Valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/srinagar-killings-punjab-cm-channi-urges-centre-to-ensure-minorities-safety-322035
09-10-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Cotton in 85 Sangrur villages under bollworm attack||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 8The cotton crop on 1,500 acres in 85 villages of Sangrur has come under the pink bollworm attack. In Barnala, the attack has caused panic among farmers. In many villages, the repeated sprays of insecticide have failed to prevent the spread of the attack.Though teams of the Agriculture Department are visiting various affected villages to save the crop, farmers are demanding quick release of financial aid, fearing complete loss.Survey under way to identify affectedOur survey is on. Once done, we will send a list of affected farmers to the Punjab Government. —Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal, Sangrur chief agriculture officer“My relatives in Bathinda have told me that once pink bollworm attacks the cotton crop, there is no chance of survival. Officers are advising us to spray more insecticides, which we have already done without any success,” Rashpinder Singh, a farmer.Department officials are organising special camps at various villages, recommending sprays and making farmers aware against spurious ones. However, many farmers, who are already under a huge debt and had high hopes of good return from cotton, are distressed.“In the district, many farmers have not received any financial aid for the paddy destroyed by rain some months ago. The latest attack on cotton will just add to the losses. The Punjab Government should quickly announce financial aid to bail out farmers,” said Gurcharn Khokhar, a Bhartia Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader.Confirmed the pink bollworm attack, Sangrur Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said: “In Sunam, Lehra and Andana blocks of Sangrur district, pink bollworm has affected cotton on 1,500 acres in 85 villages. Our survey is on and we are sending lists of affected farmers to the Punjab Government.”Barnala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Saurav Raj also visited various villages of the district on Friday, including Pakhon Kalan, Tajoke, Rureke Khurd, Bhaini Fatta, Dhurkot, Pandher and Kotduna. “We would send a report of the affected villages to the Punjab Government for further action,” said the Barnala DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-in-85-sangrur-villages-under-bollworm-attack-322022
09-10-2021||Muktsar||Farmers to meet Punjab CM’s Principal Secy today||A day after farmers gheraoed Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here, the district administration and police today held a two-and-a-half-hour meeting with them in the village and promised their meeting would now be held with the Principal Secretary to CM and some department heads in Chandigarh on Saturday.Notably, farmers from five districts – Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Faridkot – under the banner of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, were lodging a protest near Manpreet’s residence since Monday, demanding Rs 60,000 per acre compensation for themselves and Rs 30,000 for every farm labourer family for the damage to the cotton crop due to pink bollworm. They have even blocked the Kheowali-Bathinda road by pitching a tent.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary, BKU Ekta Ugrahan, said, “We held a meeting with the Deputy Commissioner, the SSP and some other officials, who have told us that our meeting has been fixed with the Principal Secretary to the CM and some other senior officers in Chandigarh. Though we had announced to gherao the FM’s residence today again, we have decided to continue our protest at our earlier site and not to march ahead today. Now, our delegation will go to Chandigarh tomorrow and then take a decision.” DC Harpreet Singh Sudan said, “The CM also wanted to be in the meeting but he is busy at a family function. The state government has already ordered girdawari and taken other steps also.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-meet-punjab-cms-principal-secy-today-322025
09-10-2021||---||Finish girdawari before Oct 10: Bathinda DC||Bathinda, October 8The district administration has expedited the girdawari process to assess the quantum of loss to cotton crop due to the pink bollworm attack so that affected farmers can be compensated adequately. Deputy Commissioner Bathinda Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu today directed officials to complete the girdawari before October 10 so that compensation can be released at the earliest.He also directed officials to ensure effective management of paddy stubble and awareness drives to sensitise farmers regarding hazardous impacts of burning crop residue.DC also directed officials of the Education Department to spread awareness among students regarding paddy stubble management so that they can further spread the word among public in general and their parents in particular.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finish-girdawari-before-oct-10-bathinda-dc-322027
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali march video ‘bares’ Cong’s unity claim||Congress’ attempt at putting up a united face was laid bare yesterday as one-upmanship played out between ‘rival’ camps on the Mohali stage before PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu left for Lakhimpur Kheri in a show of solidarity with farmers yesterday.Also read: Navjot Sidhu on indefinite fast at slain scribe’s houseParty sources said Sidhu was miffed at Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for arriving late at the protest march. As the CM arrived at the venue, his convoy halted a short distance from Sidhu’s tractor-trailer owing to the crowd. Sidhu, who was addressing party workers, suddenly asked them to begin the march, prompting Channi to scamper through the crowd to join him and flag off the march.BJP takes swipe at PCC presidentPurported commentHowever, media houses today played video clips of Sidhu purportedly saying: “If Sardar Bhagwant Singh’s son (Sidhu) was made the Chief Minister, you should have seen the crowd.”In an apparent indication of CM Channi and Sidhu not being on the same page, PCC working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny in the video is heard talking to Sidhu about the success of the gathering. Sidhu’s remark came in reply. Danny refused to take calls today, while his team handling his media affairs said they didn’t want to make any comment.A senior party leader said: “Tension is palpable between top party leaders in the context of the recent developments. Sidhu was asked by the party to fall in line after he continued with his objections to appointments of the AG and DGP.” After a clear message to Sidhu from party leader Rahul Gandhi, who made it a point to take CM Channi along last night to meet the families of farmers who died during the UP violence, Sidhu seemed keen on bouncing back.“Politically speaking, this is seen as an assurance to Channi that party will stand with him after the forthcoming elections,” said the leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-march-video-bares-congs-unity-claim-322029
09-10-2021||Vijay Mohan||Monsoon retreats on deficient note in Punjab, Himachal, dams nearly half empty||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The monsoon is finally over in North India for this year, with the withdrawal being on a deficient note and half empty dams. While rain during the prolonged season was deficient in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, it was noticeably surplus in Haryana.“Southwest monsoon has further withdrawn from some more parts of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, most parts of Rajasthan, entire Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and some parts of Uttar Pradesh,” a statement issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) read.An analysis of the data compiled by the IMD from June 1 to October 8 this year reveals that while rain was surplus by 31.3 per cent in Haryana, it was below the long period average by 4.2 per cent in Punjab and 9.4 per cent in Himachal.During the aforementioned period, Haryana received 580.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 442.4 mm, whereas Punjab and Himachal received 450.2 mm and 698.3 mm, respectively against the normal of 470.1 and 771.1 mm, respectively.The situation at major dams in the region is not very good. According to information released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) on October 7, the current storage at Thein Dam on the Ravi in Punjab is just 43 per cent of its total capacity as compared to the 10-year average of 73 per cent.Pong Dam on the Beas in Himachal has filled up to 55 per cent of its total capacity this year as compared to the 10-year average of 84 per cent. The situation at Bhakra Dam on the Sutlej is a little better, with the current storage being 69 per cent as compared to the 10-year average of 85 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monsoon-retreats-on-deficient-note-in-punjab-himachal-dams-nearly-half-empty-322050
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Faulty central policies behind inflation: Punjab Dy CM||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has come down heavily on the NDA government over sky-rocketing inflation, saying it was the result of “disastrous” economic policies being pursued by the Centre.In a statement, the Deputy Chief Minister said during the past 10 months, LPG prices had increased by Rs 300, hitting the common man hard. He further said rising inflation had come at a time when farmers were already facing a financial crisis due to the farm laws and all sections of the society were reeling under economic distress due to Covid-19. “This increase is alarming considering the fast approaching festival season as every spectrum of our society is closely connected to it,” said the Deputy Chief Minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faulty-central-policies-behind-inflation-punjab-dy-cm-322061
09-10-2021||Abohar||Kinnow purchase begins in Abohar||Arrival of kinnow and citrus (malta) fruits at the Kinnow Mandi in the new grain market here today evoked good response from traders of different states.The purchase started officially in the presence of Bharat Krishak Samaj (Farmers’ Forum India) chairman and Punjab State Farmers and Farm Workers Commission’s former chairman Ajay Veer Jakhar and Market Committee chairman Surinder Bishnoi. The first lot of malta was purchased by Pala Ram at Rs 31.5 per kg, while the first purchaser of kinnow was Ram Krishan at Rs 13 per kg. Last year, the first lot of 800-quintal kinnow was purchased by some businessmen at Rs 7 per kg.However, about 250-quintal citrus fruits were sold at Rs 25 to 29 per kg. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kinnow-purchase-begins-in-abohar-322066
09-10-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur: Officials keep tabs on illegal sale of paddy||The Sangrur police have set up six permanent check posts and 11 special teams to prevent the illegal sale of paddy from other states in the district, which shares 42-km-long border with Haryana. Similarly, the Barnala administration and police have also started inspecting vehicles.Flying squads to operate till DecIn the past also, Khanauri and Moonak police stations had thwarted attempts of some Haryana residents to sell their paddy in grain markets and at government purchase centres located in border areas. Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma has directed the cops at both police stations to remain on guard. “Farmers are willing to cooperate with the police and prevent the sale of illegal paddy. The police should keep vigil at all entry points a during nights,” said Rinku Moonak, a BKU Ugrahan leader.The Sangrur SSP said besides being on guard at borders, patrolling parties are conducting checks across district. “If any farmer has any information about the illegal sale of paddy, we will ensure quick action,” the SSP.In Barnala, at all five market committees, including Barnala, Tapa, Dhanaula, Mehal Kalan and Bhadaur, tehsildars and naib tehsildars are leading teams to keep a check on the illegal sale. The teams include policemen, employees of Assistant Taxation Commissioner’s office, Food and Civil Supplies Department employees and market committee employees. “The teams are closely monitoring their respective areas to ensure that paddy from other states does not enter into Barnala,” said Kumar Sourabh Raj, Barnala DC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-officials-keep-tabs-on-illegal-sale-of-paddy-322068
09-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC: Collate data on pending drug appeals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8In a move liable to expedite the hearing of appeals filed by the state against acquittal orders and convicts against their conviction and sentence in drug cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the initiation of an exercise to find out the pendency of such matters before it.A division Bench of the High Court has directed the registry to collate year-wise information on the total number of pending appeals under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The direction came after the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Alka Sarin was told that appellants before it in drug cases had undergone substantial part of the sentence, but their appeals were yet to be heard.The Bench was hearing a bunch of applications in criminal appeals filed against the Narcotics Control Bureau by Bhupender Singh and other appellant-convicts through counsel Navkiran Singh, Shaveta Sanghi, Aditya Sanghi and other advocates. The state of Punjab was represented by Sandeep Vermani while Shruti Jain appeared for the state of Haryana. Advocate PS Ahluwalia was the amicus curiae or the friend of the court in the matter.The Bench observed the convicts in the bunch of applications were seeking suspension of sentence on the preliminary ground that they had undergone a substantial part of the sentence, but the appeals had not been heard.“It has been suggested by the counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant-appellant, the amicus curiae and the state counsel that before considering this issue, it would be appropriate if statistics are summoned regarding total number of pending appeals (year-wise) under the NDPS Act, 1985, in this court. We are in agreement with the suggestion,” the Bench asserted. Before parting with the order, the Bench fixed the case for October last week to enable the registry to place the requisite information before it after collating the same. The High Court, as of now, is facing a pendency of 4,51,581 cases. The National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases — indicates that 68,390 of the total pending matters are criminal appeals.Yearly info soughtA division Bench of the High Court has directed the registry to collate year-wise information on the total number of pending appeals under the provisions of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-hc-collate-data-on-pending-drug-appeals-322046
09-10-2021||Aditi Tandon||Navjot Sidhu on indefinite fast at slain scribe’s house||Tribune News ServiceLakhimpur Kheri, October 8The Uttar Pradesh Police and administration came in for a surprise this evening with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu declaring an indefinite fast until junior Home Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, accused in a murder cases related to the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, either joined probe or was nabbed.Also read:Lakhimpur Kheri Violence: Supreme Court pulls up Uttar Pradesh Police, hints at probe by agency other than CBILakhimpur Kheri Violence: Memorial service in Kheri may draw huge crowd, security upSamyukt Kisan Morcha to mark October 12 as ‘Shaheed Kisan Diwas’Moments after emerging from a condolence meeting he had with the family of journalist Raman Kashyap, 35, one of the five deceased in the Sunday violence, Sidhu laid on a cot in the compound of the Kashyap family home, surprising everyone. The brother of the deceased, Pawan Kashyap, said Sidhu had taken the family into confidence over the move.Opinion pages: Medieval barbarismLakhimpur Kheri tragedy hardens battle linesSGPC gives Rs 5L each to victims’ kinAmple evidenceThere’s ample evidence of Ashish’s role, but he’s not being arrested as he is a minister’s son. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chief“He is doing it for us. He came all the way to meet us. This is the least we can do,” Kashyap told The Tribune as locals discussed probable repercussions of the move as the UP Police deployed cops at the house barring general entry. Hour before sitting on fast, Sidhu had, after meeting the family of another victim Lovpreet Singh, said the killings were a barbaric crime and the whole country was awaiting justice. “Justice delayed is justice denied. There’s ample evidence from videos and eyewitnesses of the involvement of Ashish in the crime. He’s not being arrested because he’s a minister’s son,” said Sidhu.Also read: UP violence: 2 arrested; SC seeks status report on accused in 24 hrsAnother video from Lakhimpur Kheri shows minister's vehicle mowing down farmers at great speedPunjab politics played out in Lakhimpur Kheri all day today with rivals Congress and SAD meeting kin of Lovpreet and Kashyap separately.The Akali delegation comprised Prem Singh Chandumajra, Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Bikram Majithia and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur. After meeting four farmers who died on Sunday, Harsimrat demanded the sacking of the MoS Home and arrest of his son.In the evening, speaking for Sidhu who took a pledge of silence in protest against UP Police inaction, Punjab minister Vijay Inder Singla said the government’s brazenness needed be exposed.Also read: Mohali march video ‘bares’ Cong’s unity claim“The families of those who died are in pain and anger at the travesty of justice. We visited two families since morning and both are in agony. Our state president has decided to commence a fast to make the UP administration move. Farmers have been killed. We demand justice and will not relent until Ashish Mishra is taken in by the police,” said Singla after the Punjab Congress delegation, also comprising Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Kuljit Nagra arrived in Lakhimpur Kheri after a 36-hour wait.Editorial: Mowing down protest: If video clip is genuine, Centre should act nowThey were yesterday stopped at the Saharanpur border before finally being allowed to proceed under heavy police deployment. Police convoys followed Sidhu and other Punjab Congress leaders wherever they went today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-on-indefinite-fast-at-slain-scribes-house-322048
09-10-2021||---||Paddy straw generation in Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh may fall by 12%||New Delhi, October 8Ahead of the “smog season” in north, the Environment Ministry today said attempts to reduce paddy straw generation were yielding “positive results” and as per the data received from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, the amount of paddy straw generated would come down this year.Paddy straw generated is expected to come down significantly this year as states have adopted crop diversification measures and started moving away from PUSA-44 variety to short-duration high-yielding varieties, as part of the framework and action plan to control stubble-burning, it added.The burning of paddy straw from non-basmati variety is a prime concern.The Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management said paddy straw generation from the non-basmati variety is likely to be reduced by 12.42 per cent during the current year as compared to the previous year.“The total paddy area in Haryana, Punjab and eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh have come down by 7.72 per cent in the current year as compared to last year,” it said.Crop diversification yielding results||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-straw-generation-in-haryana-punjab-uttar-pradesh-may-fall-by-12-321967
09-10-2021||---||Collegium clears proposal to make 10 Punjab & Haryana High Court Additional Judges permanent||New Delhi, October 8The Supreme Court Collegium has recommended 10 Additional Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to be made permanent.The decision taken by the Collegium led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on October 7 was officially announced today. The Collegium also recommended 13 other names for appointment as judges in five other HCs.In line for elevationJustice Suvir Sehgal | Justice Alka Sarin | Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri | Justice Ashok Kumar Verma | Justice Sant Parkash | Justice Meenakshi I. Mehta | Justice Karamjit Singh | Justice Vivek Puri | Justice Archana Puri | Justice Rajesh BhardwajIt has cleared elevation of advocates Anant Ramanath Hegde, Cheppudira Monnappa Poonacha, Siddaiah Rachaiah and Kannankuzhyil Sreedharan Hemalekha as judges in the Karnataka HC.The names of advocates Kuldeep Mathur, Maneesh Sharma, Rekha Borana and Sameer Jai and judicial officer Shubha Mehta have been cleared for the Rajasthan HC; advocates Soubhik Mitter and Sakya Sen for Calcutta HC and advocates Manu Khare and J Sathya Narayana Prasad for Allahabad and Madras HCs, respectively.Justice Agnihotri not on the listChandigarh, October 8The Supreme Court Collegium has approved the proposal to make 10 Punjab and Haryana High Court Additional Judges permanent, but Additional Judge Justice Girish Agnihotri’s name is not on the list.Justice Agnihotri (administered oath on October 26, 2019) along with those made permanent were appointed Additional Judges between October 2019 and September 2020. The HC has 44 judges against sanctioned 85, but the number is expected to go up with the transfer of three judges to the HC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/collegium-clears-proposal-to-make-10-punjab-haryana-high-court-additional-judges-permanent-321973
09-10-2021||New Delhi||SC Collegium recommends 10 additional judges of Punjab and Haryana HC to be made permanent judges||The Supreme Court Collegium has recommended 10 Additional Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to be made Permanent Judges.The Additional Judges recommended for Permanent Judges are---Justice Suvir Sehgal, Justice Alka Sarin, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, Justice Ashok Kumar Verma, Justice Sant Parkash, Justice Meenakshi I. Mehta, Justice Karamjit Singh, Justice Vivek Puri, Justice Archana Puri, and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj.The decision taken by the Collegium led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on October 7 was officially announced on Friday.The Collegium also recommended 13 other names for appointment as judges in five other high courts across India.It has approved the proposal for the elevation of four advocates Anant Ramanath Hegde, Cheppudira Monnappa Poonacha, Siddaiah Rachaiah, and Kannankuzhyil Sreedharan Hemalekha as judges in the Karnataka High Court.The Collegium recommended the elevation of advocates Kuldeep Mathur, Maneesh Sharma, Rekha Borana, and Sameer Jai as judges in the Rajasthan High Court. It has also approved the proposal for the elevation of  Shubha Mehta, a judicial officer, as Judge in the Rajasthan High Court.It recommended the names of advocates Soubhik Mitter and Sakya Sen as judges in the Calcutta High Court. Sen’s name was earlier returned by the Government for reconsideration but the Collegium chose to reiterate his name for elevation.Advocates Manu Khare and J Sathya Narayana Prasad have been recommended for elevation as judges to the Allahabad High Court and the Madras High Court, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-collegium-recommends-10-additional-judges-of-punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-be-made-permanent-judges-321940
09-10-2021||Chandigarh/Lakhimpur Kheri||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Navjot Singh Sidhu starts fast-unto-death, takes pledge of silence||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Shiromani Akali Dal Member of Parliament Harsimrat Kaur visited victims of Sunday’s violence at Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday.Sidhu vowed to fast-unto-death and took a pledge of silence until Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is arrested. Sidhu, who made the announcement when he was at the house of a journalist, Raman Kashyap, who was among eight people killed in the violence.Sharing the photos of his meeting with one of the families on Twitter, Sidhu said, “Justice Delayed-Justice Denied.”   Sidhu consoled the family members of Lovepreet Singh, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Later, he said, “What has happened is a barbaric crime. Entire India is asking for justice. Loss of human lives can never be compensated.”      He added that Lovepreet Singh’s father said he wants justice.“There is evidence, video...witness account is there. But arrest is not being made because he (Ashish Kumar Mishra) is a Union minister’s son,” the Congress leader said.Badal also separately met the 28-year-old Kashyap’s family. Ashish Mishra has been booked for the violence and has been summoned for questioning by Uttar Pradesh Police.Police have called him for questioning on Saturday because he skipped their last summonsAjay Mishra ‘Teni’, Minister of State for Home Affairs, maintains his son is innocent and claims it’s a conspiracy. He has so far ignored calls for resignation from the union council of ministers over the incident.Leading a delegation of SAD leaders, former Union minister Badal demanded Mishra’s immediate dismissal, besides the arrest of his son Ashish, a statement issued by the party said.Badal visited the residences of the four farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri along with senior SAD leaders Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bikram Singh Majithia, Manpreet Singh Ayali, besides Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Jagir Kaur.Four of the eight people who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence were farmers who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched two workers of the saffron party and their driver.The farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father.Badal said it was condemnable that no action was taken in the heinous case either by the Centre or the Uttar Pradesh government despite clear-cut evidence.“The video footage of Ashish Misra’s vehicle is available. There are eyewitness accounts that Ashish Misra fled the scene...he should be arrested on murder charges immediately,” she was quoted as saying in the SAD statement.Badal also pointed out that there is video footage of the Union minister allegedly threatening farmers and inciting violence against them.“It is wrong to keep him in the Union cabinet and the Centre should take immediate action against him,” she added.The SAD delegation visited Lovepreet Singh’s residence at Chaukhra village, Nachhattar Singh’s house at Namdar Purve, Daljeet Singh’s residence at Vanjaran Tanda, Gurwinder Singh’s house at Mohrnia and journalist Raman Kashyap’s residence at Nighasan village, according to the party statement.Kaur handed over a cheque for Rs 5 lakh to each of the families of the victims, besides assuring them that the SGPC would look after the educational needs of the next of kin of the victims.There were emotional scenes at the residences of the victims’ families.The bereaved family members said they could never imagine that anyone could mow down innocent farmers returning home after the conclusion of their peaceful protest, according to the SAD statement.They also said the Uttar Pradesh government had still not initiated action in the case in earnest.They said the perpetrators were locals and were identified but were not being arrested.After meeting Lovepreet Singh’s family, Badal tweeted: “The sense of loss and pain they are experiencing is heart-wrenching. Sharing their grief, assured them support in every possible way. We are together in this fight.”--- With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-navjot-singh-sidhu-starts-fast-unto-death-takes-pledge-of-silence-321929
09-10-2021||Vijay Mohan||Prolonged and erratic monsoon withdraws on a deficient note and nearly half-empty dams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8Monsoon is finally over in north India for this year, with the withdrawal being on a deficient note and nearly half-empty dams. While rain during the prolonged season was deficient in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, it was noticeably surplus in Haryana.“Southwest monsoon has further withdrawn from some more parts of Gujarat, some parts of Madhya Pradesh, most parts of Rajasthan, entire Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal  Pradesh, Uttarakhand and some parts of Uttar Pradesh on Friday,” a statement issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) read.An analysis of data compiled by IMD from June 1, 2021 to October 8, 2021 reveals that while rain was surplus by 31.3 per cent in Haryana, it was below the long-period average by 4.2 per cent in Punjab and 9.4 per cent in Himachal.During the aforementioned period, Haryana had received 580.9 mm rain against the normal of 442.4 mm, whereas Punjab and Himachal received 450.2 mm and 698.3 mm, respectively against the normal of 470.1 and 771.1 mm, respectively.Monsoon had progressed in fits and starts this year. The region had experienced unseasonal heavy rains in mid-June followed with periodic weakening of the monsoon and long dry periods. Due to climatic developments, the monsoon season over the region also got extended by over a fortnight.The situation at major dams in the region is not very good, with the storage level in reservoirs being nowhere near their full capacity or even the average storage of the past 10 years.According to information released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) on October 7, the current storage at Thein Dam on the Ravi in Punjab is just 43 per cent of its total capacity as compared to the 10-year average of 73 per cent.Pong Dam, which lies on the Beas in Himachal has filled up to 55 per cent of its total capacity this year as compared to the 10-year average of 84 per cent. The situation at Bhakra Dam on the Sutlej is a little better, with the current storage being 69 per cent as compared to the 10-year average of 85 per cent.The filling season of dams in the region officially lasts up to September 30 when the rains normally end and falling temperature affects snow melt, thereby reducing inflows. Low storage level in dams will have an impact on water availability in summer next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prolonged-and-erratic-monsoon-withdraws-on-a-deficient-note-and-nearly-half-empty-dams-321899
