10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab sees 27 new cases, 2 more deaths||Two more Covid-related fatalities were reported from Punjab on Sunday while 27 fresh cases took the infection tally to 6,01,876, according to a medical bulletin.The deaths were reported from Amritsar and Gurdaspur, taking the toll to 16,531.Among the new cases, Pathankot reported nine, followed by three each in Rupnagar and Mohali.The number of active cases in the state stands at 234.Twenty-two people recovered from the infection as the number of those who have been cured rose to 5,85,111, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported two new Covid cases, pushing the infection tally to 65,279. The death toll in the Union Territory stands at 820.The number of active cases in the city is 38 while 64,421 people have been cured so far. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-27-new-cases-2-more-deaths-322792
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Will take up with Home minister ‘unjust’ move to ‘evict’ Sikhs living in Shillong: Punjab Dy CM||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday said he will take up with the Union Home Minister Meghalaya government’s alleged move to “evict” Sikhs living in Shillong.Days after the Meghalaya cabinet approved a proposal to relocate “illegal settlers” from the Them Iew Mawlong area in Shillong, the Harijan Panchayat Committee (HPC), which represents members of the Sikh community there, has said it will “fight tooth and nail” to stop the government from carrying out the drive.The Meghalaya state cabinet took the decision earlier this week, based on a recommendation made by a high-level committee (HLC) headed by Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong.Randhawa, according to an official statement, said he opposes the decision of the Meghalaya government “to evict the Sikhs living in Shillong” and has decided to take up the matter with the Union Home minister and Meghalaya chief minister.Two years ago, a Punjab government delegation led by Randhawa had visited Shillong and met members of the Sikh community living there and had assured them at that time too that he would vociferously oppose any move against their displacement.Randhawa vehemently opposed the Meghalaya government’s latest move, saying it was totally unjust to evict the Sikhs.The deputy chief minister said the Sikhs have been living in Shillong for decades and the Punjab government strongly opposes this decision to displace them.He said the civil rights of these Sikhs who have been living in Shillong for more than 200 years would not be allowed to be trampled upon at any cost.Randhawa alleged that the BJP-led NDA government has failed to create a sense of security and confidence among minorities across the country “who are feeling insecure, the latest examples of which can be seen in Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh”.HPC secretary Gurjit Singh on Saturday that the organisation, which represents the interests of hundreds of Dalit Sikh families living in Them Iew Mawlong area or Punjabi lane for the past many years, has rejected the report of the high-level committee.Singh had also said his organisation has vowed to “fight tooth and nail for the rights of people residing in the area till their last breath”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-take-up-with-home-minister-unjust-move-to-evict-sikhs-living-in-shillong-punjab-dy-cm-322774
10-10-2021||Patiala||Navjot Singh Sidhu wants thermal plants not having adequate coal reserve penalised||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has called for action against thermal plants for not having an adequate reserve of coal.“Punjab must prevent & prepare, rather than repent & repair… Private Thermal Plants floating guidelines, punishing Domestic Consumers by not keeping Coal Stock for 30 Days should be penalised. It is time to aggressively work on Solar PPAs, & roof-top solar connected to the Grid,” he said in a tweet.  As highlighted in a report in The Tribune today, thermal plants' failure to keep an adequate reserve of coal could lead to a power crisis in the state. Punjab must prevent & prepare, rather than repent & repair… Private Thermal Plants floating guidelines, punishing Domestic Consumers by not keeping Coal Stock for 30 Days should be penalised. It is time to aggressively work on Solar PPAs, & roof-top solar connected to the Grid !||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-wants-thermal-plants-not-having-adequate-coal-reserve-penalised-322730
10-10-2021||Moga||Moga youth duped of Rs 24L||A 28-year-old Moga youth has been cheated of Rs 24 lakh by a Canada-based NRI woman on the pretext of marriage and helping him get a work permit. Baljinder Singh of New Apex Colony here alleged that Shehnaaz, who is now settled in Canada, cheated him. A case has been registered against Shehnaaz and her mother Veena Rani. Further investigation is on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-youth-duped-of-rs-24l-322423
10-10-2021||Jalandhar||Enforcement Directorate seizes Rs 63L in drug raids||A team of the Enforcement Directorate yesterday conducted searches at multiple locations in Amritsar under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in connection with a drugs case lodged by the Special Task Force in January 2020.The searches at nine locations in and around Amritsar led to seizure of Rs 63 lakh and foreign currency worth Rs 16 lakh at the home and office of one of the money changers. Mobile phones were also seized. The team members said they were trying to dig out financial details against the accused and their further connections. ED officials are tracing the money trails of a drug cartel busted by the STF after lodging two FIRs last year against Ankush Kapoor and his associates Sukhwinder Singh, Major Singh, Tamanna Gupta and Afghan national Arman Bashar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enforcement-directorate-seizes-rs-63l-in-drug-raids-322424
10-10-2021||Malout||Malout institute staff await salary||Nearly 200 employees of the Malout Institute of Management and Information Technology (MIMIT), which is affiliated to the Punjab Technical University (PTU), Jalandhar, have not got salary for the past four months.The employees said they were last paid in May and were facing financial issues now. An employee, Ravi Chaudhary, said: “This is a premier college established in 1998 to cater to the needs of technical and professional education in the area. The institute has helped students get placed in various national and international companies. But it is a tragedy that the faculty are themselves sans salary for the past four months. On one hand, the government is organising job fairs and on the other it is unable to pay salary to its employees.” He said: “We even met CM Charanjit Singh Channi when he was the Technical Education Minister, but to no avail.”MIMIT Director Dr Sanjiv Sharma said: “The government announced Rs5 crore grant for MIMIT, which is still pending.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malout-institute-staff-await-salary-322425
10-10-2021||Bathinda||Parents among 8 held for ‘selling’ newborn||The Bathinda police have arrested eight persons, including the parents of a two-day-old baby, who was allegedly sold to a Gurdaspur-based couple for Rs 2.50 lakh.Bathinda City 1 DSP Gurjit Singh Romana said the accused parents reportedly sold their son to Satwinder Singh and Gurpreet Kaur of Jagatpura village in Gurdaspur for money. "The investigation revealed that the woman had given birth to a total of six kids, but only three live with them. We suspect she must have sold off her other two kids as well," he said.The case came to the fore after the woman approached the police, saying her son had gone missing from the hospital.Romana said: "On October 1, Pooja, a resident of Bir Talab gave birth to a boy at Goodwill Hospital in Paras Ram Nagar here and later, with the help of her husband Sonu, she sold him to the Gurdaspur couple for Rs 2.50 lakh. Four persons who acted as mediators to sell the child — Guddo of Bir Talab, her husband Peter Happy, Gurmeet Kaur of Jaito and Rachpal Kaur of Bathinda — too have been arrested." The DSP said: "On being interrogated, the accused revealed that as per the agreement, the Gurdaspur couple paid the mediators Rs 2.50 lakh, but the child's mother was given just Rs 50,000. Irked over being paid less, Pooja lodged a false complaint of missing child.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parents-among-8-held-for-selling-newborn-322426
10-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Probe Nawanshahr DSP, says court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9A Punjab Police Service (PPS) officer has been found negligent in furnishing information to the Punjab and Haryana High Court about the involvement of a drug case accused in other criminal matters. As such, a recommendation has been made to the Punjab Director-General of Police to write to the Department of Home Affairs and Justice for initiating a regular departmental inquiry against Nawanshahr Deputy Superintendent of Police Davinder Singh.The matter has its genesis in a petition by Mukesh Kumar against the state of Punjab for regular bail in an FIR registered on August 31, 2019, under the provisions of the NDPS Act. No less than 25 injections and five vials were seized from the petitioner.His counsel’s argument was that the NDPS rules made it clear that a person could possess 100 doses of such a psychotropic substance even without medical prescription and the High Court granted him bail even in a case of 70 injections in another matter. The state counsel, during the course of hearing, submitted that the petitioner was also involved in four other criminal cases — a fact denied by his counsel. Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed that the custody certificate filed by the state counsel, too, did not show his involvement in any other case. But the status report filed by way of Davinder Singh’s affidavit showed that the petitioner was involved in other cases. Taking a note of the conflicting stands, Justice Raj Mohan Singh directed the Nawanshahr SSP to submit a fact finding report.In pursuance of the order, a status report was submitted by IPS officer Harmanbir Singh Gill, wherein it was admitted that the petitioner was not involved in any other case. Record verification showed the petitioner was not involved in other FIR/criminal cases. Davinder Singh, while submitting the status report, was, thus, found negligent. ASI Darshan Lal, who initially attended the hearing, was also found negligent while attaching a slip with the police file showing that the petitioner was involved in four cases. As such, a regular department inquiry was directed to be initiated against the ASI.Found negligent in providing info to HC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-nawanshahr-dsp-says-court-322427
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Justice Rajesh Bindal-led Bench gave West Bengal violence verdict||The President today appointed Justice Rajesh Bindal as the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court — one of the oldest in India. The oath ceremony is expected to be held on Monday. The appointment comes less than a month after the Supreme Court collegium cleared his name for elevation.Justice Bindal is the senior-most judge of the Punjab and Haryana HC and is currently the Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta HC. Among other important cases, Justice Bindal had headed the five-Judge Bench that delivered verdict on the Kolkata post-poll violence. Justice Bindal was Acting Chief Justice of the J&K High Court prior to this.Justice Bindal was recently appointed as chairperson of a committee constituted by the SC’s e-committee to formulate modern electronic registers for use by the district judiciary across the country. The effort was to replace all manual registers or paper records. As chairman of a committee constituted by National Legal Services Authority, Justice Bindal has already submitted a report on optimal use of technology.Known for his proficiency in brining justice closer to people through computerisation, Justice Bindal was instrumental in launching a unique project, in which the post offices in J&K help deliver justice. The project uses the pre-existent postal system in 11 districts to allow citizens to register their disputes through the local post offices as well as common service centres. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-rajesh-bindal-led-bench-gave-west-bengal-violence-verdict-322428
10-10-2021||Manav Mander||14K industries shut amid Covid in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 9With 14,249 units being shut, Covid proved to be disastrous for industrial sector in the state and the government has failed to revive these industries or push the growth of the ailing sector.Badish Jindal, president, All India Trade Forum, said the fact that so many industries had closed was supported by the annual revenue report of the PSPCL. “As many as 10,617 small power, 3,210 medium power and 422 large power units have closed down in the state. But the government never turned up to give any sort of relief to the industries,” he said.Following this, the load of industries also decreased during the same period. The load of small power connections decreased from 10,99,243 KVA to 10,55,227 KVA, of medium scale industries from 20,29,163 KVA to 16,08,963 KVA and of large scale industries from 67,52,580 KVA to 58,74,316 KVA.Jindal said Punjab reported mere 4 per cent growth in industries from 2012 to 2021 with just 1,243 new small industries being set up and 150 large. “In the past nine years, the population grew around 27.57 lakh, the number of domestic connections went up by 14,77,113, agriculture connections 2,31,975, shops connection 1,92,437, but the industrial connections increased merely by 4,002,” he said.Jindal said: “The VAT collection in 2010-11 in Punjab was Rs 12,200 crore against Haryana’s Rs 11,082 crore. However, this year the average annual GST collection of Haryana crossed Rs 60,000 crore and Punjab is still below Rs 16,000 crore. The GST collection in September 2021 in Punjab is Rs 1,402 crore against Haryana’s Rs 5,577 crore.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/14k-industries-shut-amid-covid-in-punjab-322429
10-10-2021||Moga||SSP wants Dharamkot DSP suspended over illegal mining||With illegal mining reportedly going on unabated on the Sutlej basin in Moga, the involvement of local police officials can’t be ruled out as SSP Dhruman H Nimbale has recommended to the Home Secretary to suspend Dharamkot DSP Subeg Singh.Before recommending the DSP’s suspension, the SSP had asked SP(D) Jagatpreet Singh to look into the reports of illegal mining in the sub-division and file a reply on the corrective measures being taken. Though the DSP refuted allegations of his involvement, the inquiry officer was not satisfied. The DSP claimed that he wrote to the mining officer several times regarding the illegal operations, but the latter never responded.Earlier, before the onset of monsoon, The Tribune in its report “Illegal mining unabated on Sutlej riverbed in Moga” published on April 7 highlighted that the mining mafia had hired local vehicles to transport sand from the riverbed during night to yards in the nearby villages on the pretext of “own use”. However, this sand was reportedly being stored and supplied to consumers from there. The local police during raids found heaps of sand stored in the villages adjoining the Sutlej, but no action was taken.The police recently booked Rana and Company, Kot-ise-Khan, for allegedly dumping and storing sand on the outskirts of Sherpur Taiba village.The SSP had maintained that the mining contractors were selling sand without weighing, issuing computerised slips and keeping a record of the vehicles transporting sand. Further, the SP(D) would conduct an investigation into it.Moga mining officer Gursimran Singh Gill, however, claimed that no illegal activity was going on in the district and the case registered against Rana and Company was off the mark. “Rana and Company has been allotted a mining site on the Sutlej belt, which falls under Jalandhar. Since there is no route available to them on the other side in Jalandhar, the mining department has allowed them to pass their vehicles through Moga. Accordingly, the company dumped sand at Sherpur Taiba village. No illegality is involved in it,” he said.Talking to The Tribune, DSP Subeg Singh denied the reports of illegal mining. “We are strict and do not allow illegal mining. We have registered many cases and will continue to adopt a zero tolerance to such acts.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ssp-wants-dharamkot-dsp-suspended-over-illegal-mining-322430
10-10-2021||Sangrur||Chess event organised||Opium, poppy husk seizedAbohar: The police have seized 3.5-kg opium in a raid and arrested Akram Khan (56) of Khunja village in Hanumangarh. His son Sohail Khan, however, managed to flee, said sources. The police also recovered Rs 1.51 lakh from Akram’s possession. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. OCSangrur-Ldh road blockedSangrur: After the death of an employee at a local factory, his relatives and area residents blocked Sangrur-Ludhiana Road at Dhuri and demanded financial aid and registration of a case against factory owners. “Kartar Singh (28) died on Friday after some bags of food grain fell on him,” said local AAP leader Dr Anwar Bhasaur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chess-event-organised-322431
10-10-2021||---||Haryana man held for firing at Kesgarh Sahib||Anandpur Sahib, October 9A Nihang was arrested after he allegedly fired into the air at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib today. The suspect, Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Panipat, Haryana, claimed it was his salute to Guru.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Reminder Singh Kahlon said Kuldeep after paying obeisance at the gurdwara went to the ‘parikarma’ and fired a shot from his revolver. This led to a commotion, following which the SGPC guards overpowered him.The police, after registering a case under Section 336 of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act, arrested the suspect. A revolver, one rifle and 29 cartridges were recovered from his possession, said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-man-held-for-firing-at-kesgarh-sahib-322432
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||State jobs going to outsiders: AAP||The AAP today accused the Congress and previous SAD-BJP governments of not formulating any policy to secure jobs in public and private sectors for the youth of the state, enabling candidates from other states to take jobs here.In a statement, state president Bhagwant Mann said the latest example was the inclusion of 51 to 71 per cent candidates from other states in the merit list for various posts of Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL). He said as per the PSTCL list, up to 71 per cent candidates from other states had managed to secure jobs. “Of the total 95 posts of assistant lineman (general category), 64 have been filled by candidates from other states, accounting for 67 per cent share. Similarly, 28 of 39 posts (71.70% share) of assistant sub-station attendant were taken by candidates from other states. Also, 28 of 54 posts (52%) of JE sub-station and 4 of 11 posts of assistant engineer (36%) were taken by outside candidates.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-jobs-going-to-outsiders-aap-322434
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP: Congress, SAD faking sympathy for farmers||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh today lambasted the Congress, SAD and AAP for trying to “hijack covertly” the farmers’ agitation by making cheap political capital out of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.In a statement, he said the UP Government had registered criminal cases and the investigation was on in addition to the judicial inquiry that had been instituted under a retired High Court judge. He said this was a law and order problem in Lakhimpur Kheri and the UP Government had been dealing with it firmly. Chugh said while the government stood firmly by the affected families and promised all help, political parties like the Congress and SAD were “faking sympathy” with them. — TNSProtest in CanadaPunjabi NRIs on Friday organised a protest rally against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident outside the Indian visa and passport application centre in Surrey, Canada. They were seen holding placards with slogans ‘Stand with farmers’, and ‘Arrest Ashish Mishra-Suspend Ajay Mishra’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-congress-sad-faking-sympathy-for-farmers-322433
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Speak up on deaths, sack minister, Opposition asks PM||Demanding immediate dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, father of main accused Ashish Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said no justice can be expected if the minister continues on his post.In a statement issued here on Saturday, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema asked why Prime Minister Narendra Modi was silent about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “If the Prime Minister had not hated farmers so much, no hooligan would have dared to run away after mowing down farmers under VIP vehicles,” said Cheema. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri farmer killings even as she called for immediate dismissal of Union Minister for State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra. The former Union Minister said the victim families of farmers, who had been crushed to death, did not have any hope for justice from the Uttar Pradesh Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-speak-up-on-deaths-sack-minister-opposition-asks-pm-322435
10-10-2021||---||On Kanshi Ram’s anniversary, Akalis woo SCs with more sops||Jalandhar, October 9Having already announced 400 units of free power for all and a Deputy CM’s post for a Dalit leader, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today announced more sops for the community at a joint rally organised with alliance partner BSP.Speaking at the event in the Dalit hub to mark the 15th death anniversary of BSP founder Kanshi Ram, Sukhbir promised to bring in Kanshi Ram Pendu Vikas Scheme if voted to power in 2022.“Under the scheme, all villages with 50 per cent SC population will be given a special grant of Rs 50 lakh for development works. Our alliance will also establish a medical college and multi-specialty hospital in the memory of Babu Kanshi Ram besides a university in the Doaba region after Dr BR Ambedkar.He said: “We are also committed to distributing five lakh houses each to the poorer sections among the SC and BC communities. One lakh houses will be given to both communities every year. We will also split the Scheduled Caste and Backward Classes department into two to ensure focused development of both communities.”Questioning the hunger strike by PCC president Navjot Sidhu at Lakhimpur Kheri to protest killings, the SAD president said: “It was a sham protest. He insulted slain journalist Raman Kashyap by indulging in a drama at his residence. Can it be called a hunger strike if one has dinner and then ends fast before breakfast? Sidhu indulged in circus for to grab attention and has no interest in ensuring justice for the four farmers and journalist killed in the violence. Surrender of Union MoS’ son was already on the cards since yesterday. The main demand was of arrest, which is yet to take place.” On purported use of abusive language by Sidhu in a viral video yesterday, Sukhbir said: “Use of language by a PCC president is uncalled for. He did not just insult the CM’s chair but also hurt the community.”On route to rally, Sukhbir faced a protest by farmers who blocked the Pathankot Road from where his cavalcade was to pass. As the convoy was diverted at Kishangarh, a footwear was flung at the vehicles. Sukhbir said farmers should oppose the BJP instead of fighting it out with them. Ahead of the rally, Sukhbir reached Devi Talab Mandir in the afternoon. He said he had come to pay obeisance during the Navratras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-kanshi-rams-anniversary-akalis-woo-scs-with-more-sops-322436
10-10-2021||---||Dasehra tragedy: Navjot Singh Sidhu aide among 7 chargesheeted||Amritsar, October 9The court of judicial magistrate has framed charges against PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s aide Saurav, alias Mithu Madaan, and six other members of the committee that had organised the October 2018 Dasehra event near Jaura Phatak in which over 50 persons were mowed down by a train.The crowd had spilled on to the railway track to watch the burning of effigies when the ran them over.After a probe, the Government Railway Police had claimed the organisers had organised the event without mandatory permissions and safety measures. The programme was held at Dhobi Ghat, which lacked space to accommodate large gatherings. Interestingly, the GRP had submitted a challan in court without making arrests, fearing a law and order situation could arise as the accused enjoyed “political patronage”. The GRP had registered a case under Sections 304-A (death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt) and 338 (grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code on October 19, 2018.While framing charges, the court pointed out that after examining the final report and accompanying documents, a case under the aforesaid Sections had been made out. The court has fixed December 2 as the next date of hearing while summoning the prime witnesses.Other organising committee members against whom charges have been framed included Rahul Kalyan, Deepak Kumar, Karan Bhandari, Kabal Singh, Deepak Gupta and Bhupinder Singh.58 were killed in 2018 train mishapOct 19, 2018 A train mows down crowd watching Dasehra festivities at Dhobi Ghat, near Jaura Phatak; 58 dieOct 21 Government Railway Police register case against unidentified suspects as state govt orders magisterial probeOct 22 State government forms an SIT of GRP to fix criminal responsibilityNov 22 Then Jalandhar Div Commissioner B Purusartha submits report to govt, holding organising panel members, MC officials, police, Rly staff guiltyJuly 2020 Police file chargesheet in court; Mithu Madaan, six other organising panel members nominatedOct 5, 2021 Charges framed against Madaan, 6 others||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dasehra-tragedy-navjot-singh-sidhu-aide-among-7-chargesheeted-322437
10-10-2021||Muktsar||Farmers smash barricades, protest outside Punjab FM Manpreet Badal’s house||After the district administration backtracked from its Friday’s promise of organising a meeting of farmers with the Principal Secretary to Chief Minister in Chandigarh on Saturday, a large number of protesters today broke police barricades and reached outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village.Though a heavy police force was deployed and anti-riots vehicle stationed, the farmers hardly had to face any resistance. They even started an indefinite protest outside Manpreet’s residence by pitching a tent on the road and blocking both entrances. “The Deputy Commissioner late last evening informed us that the meeting can’t be held till October 13 because of the busy schedule of the Chief Minister. Irate over this, we today marched ahead and reached again outside the residence of Manpreet,” said Jhanda Singh Jethuke, senior vice-president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). Om Parkash, SDM, Gidderbaha, who also holds the additional charge of Malout, said, “Now, a three-member committee will hold a meeting with the farmers on October 13 in Chandigarh. The farmers were informed last evening. During this period, the officials will assess the damage to cotton crop.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-smash-barricades-protest-outside-punjab-fm-manpreet-badals-house-322438
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers oppose per acre ceiling on grain purchase||Farmers in Punjab are up in arms against the proposed ceiling on per acre purchase of foodgrain, which will restrict the procurement by the state and central government agencies.In a statement issued here today, the BKU Dakaunda and BKU Kadian said the Centre had “advised state governments to put a limit of 34 quintal per acre marketing of paddy and also ask farmers to submit the land records”. It was unfair and they would fight it out, said Jagmohan Singh Patiala, BKU Dakaunda general secretary.“Paddy is not an indigenous crop of Punjab. It was imposed at the time of the Green Revolution and hence it is a cash crop for Punjab farmers. It is completely up to farmers to maximise their production and therefore they are entitled to sell as much produce as they will in the market. The government also been claiming that every seed of farmers will be purchased on MSP,” said Harmeet Singh Kadian, BKU Kadian president.In a state like Punjab, where per head landholding size was small and the majority of the farmers was marginal or tenant, and the government didn’t include all input costs in its MSP calculation, it was necessary for them to maximise the production for sustenance, said Patiala. — TNS‘Unfair decision’In a statement issued on Saturday, the BKU Dakaunda and BKU Kadian said the Centre had “advised state governments to put a limit of 34 quintal per acre marketing of paddy and also ask farmers to submit land records”. This was unfair and they would fight it out, said Jagmohan Singh Patiala, BKU Dakaunda general secretary.Under debt, 2 farmers kill self in 10 daysMuktsar: In the past about 10 days, two debt-ridden farmers have allegedly died by suicide in the Lambi segment of Muktsar. A 40-year-old farmer, Ranjit Singh of Kolianwali village, allegedly ended life by consuming a poisonous substance on Friday. Similarly, a 28-year-old farmer, Manipal Singh from Rattakhera Vadda village, allegedly died by suicide by consuming a poisonous substance on September 29. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-oppose-per-acre-ceiling-on-grain-purchase-322439
10-10-2021||Mansa||Irrigation hit sans 8-hour power: BKU||Farmers in majority of the villages here are quite perturbed over “frequent and prolonged” power cuts in Mansa district. Farmers said poor power supply to tube wells in fields had been affecting the irrigation of cotton and paddy crops these days.Farm leaders from the BKU Dakaunda said power cuts had been affecting the irrigation of crops at the ripening stage and demanded that the PSPCL must ensure uninterrupted eight-hour power supply, else the union would start an indefinite stir.Balwinder Sharma, president of the BKU Dakaunda, said, “Both cotton and paddy crops are at final stages of ripening and require proper irrigation. As per government direactions, the PSPCL is required to provide eight hours of uninterrupted power supply but majority of the villages in the district have been facing prolonged power cuts on a daily basis. Instead of eight hours, many villages have been getting power supply to tube wells for only four to five hours.”In Sangrur, farmers under the banner of the BKU Ugrahan protested against power cuts in Lehra and demanded uninterrupted supply. They announced intensifying their agitation in the coming days if the government failed to ensure adequate power supply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/irrigation-hit-sans-8-hour-power-bku-322440
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure coal supply, Punjab CM urges Centre||Slamming the Centre for inadequate coal supply against the PSPCL’s agreements with various subsidiaries of Coal India Ltd, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday asked it to immediately enhance the state’s coal supply as per the quota to tide over power crisis with an impending shutdown of its thermal plants due to fast depleting coal reserves, which were likely to exhaust within next couple of days.Reviewing the power situation amid shortage of coal supply in the state, the Chief Minister said all thermal plants were unable to generate full capacity of power due to insufficient coal receipt. However, he reiterated his firm commitment to give power supply for irrigation of paddy crop wherever necessary at the fag end of crop yield. He, however, said power cuts on domestic consumers in cities and villages were being imposed to ensure sufficient supply to the agriculture sector as well as to maintain grid discipline.Earlier, PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad apprised the Chief Minister that thermal plants throughout the country were reeling under coal shortages and supply crisis. Within the state, the Independent Power Producer (IPP) plants are left with less than two days coal i.e. NPL (1.9 days), TSPL (1.3 days), GVK (0.6) days and it is on a decreasing trend as supply by Coal India Ltd is not as per requirement. PSPCL plants i.e. GGSSTP and GHTP also have just two days of coal stock reduction. Coal to all these plants is supplied by various Coal India subsidiaries as per the fuel supply agreements of these plants with them, but presently, the receipt is much below the required level. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-coal-supply-punjab-cm-urges-centre-322441
10-10-2021||Aman Sood||Coal Shortage: PSPCL demands action against erring plants||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 9The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) will now write to the power regulator to “ensure strict action against erring private plants” that failed to maintain the minimum three-four weeks’ coal stock, leading to power shortage in the state.Despite paying hundreds of crores of rupees as fixed charges to private players, Punjab has failed on power front again within four months — first during the beginning of paddy season and now at its fag end.With five thermal units being forced to shut down, the state is on the edge. Punjab, along with majority of the coal-based thermal plants in the country, is facing irregular coal supply and is unable to replenish its already low stock. Senior PSPCL officials confirmed that though coal was arriving, it was way less than what was required to keep the plants running at full capacity.However, experts in the power sector confirmed that since the beginning of the paddy season, coal stock was lower than previous years. “Blaming monsoon is wrong as it is an annual phenomenon and coal is always short during the post-monsoon period. The PSPCL failed to ensure that they stock over 35-40 days’ coal in all its state and private thermal plants, leading to sudden shortage,” they said.“Even Coal India Limited says that if thermal power generation plants had maintained a minimum of 22-day fuel stock prescribed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the low coal situation at thermal power projects could have been averted. If Punjab had stocked more coal, it would have been able to sell power during this period at higher rates,” said a former chief engineer with the PSPCL. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad told The Tribune that they would “write to the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission for strict action against power plants that did not maintain coal stock”.Energy crisis again||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coal-shortage-pspcl-demands-action-against-erring-plants-322412
10-10-2021||Lakhimpur Kheri||Navjot Sidhu ends his ‘silent protest’ after minister’s son Ashish Mishra turns up for questioning||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu ended his "silent protest" on Saturday after the minister's son Ashish Mishra turned up for questioning.The Punjab Congress chief began his 'maun dharna' from 6.15 pm on Friday outside the home of local journalist Ram Kashyap in Nighasan tehsil. The protest came to an end around 11.30 am on Saturday. Kashyap had also died in the incident on October 3.Opinions page: Medieval barbarismLakhimpur Kheri tragedy hardens battle linesSpeaking to reporters after ending his fast, Sidhu said, "This is the victory of truth. A person may be a king, but no one is bigger than justice. If there is justice, there is 'shaasan' (governance), and if there is no justice, there is 'kushaasan' (misgovernance). This is the victory of the families of farmers. The family of Lovpreet Singh and the family of Raman Kashyap."Lovepreet Singh of Palia village of Lakhimpur is among the four farmers who died in the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri. PTIAlso read: Samyukt Kisan Morcha demands dismissal and arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra and arrest of son Ashish||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-ends-his-silent-protest-after-ministers-son-ashish-mishra-turns-up-for-questioning-322346
10-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab witnesses power cuts for 3 to 4 hours as 5 power units shut down amid severe coal shortage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9Punjab on Saturday plunged into a power crisis amid severe coal shortage. Power cuts ranging from three to four hours are being imposed in the state.With five thermal units being forced to shut down, the state is on the edge.Information available with The Tribune shows that while two units each at Talwandi Sabo power plant and the Ropar plant are shut, one unit at the Lehra Mohabbat plant is also closed.While the units at the Lehra Mohabbat plant and Talwandi Sabo plant have been forced to shut because of power shortage, technical glitches have forced the shut down of two units at Ropar. This has led to a power shortage of 1,000 MW.Official sources in Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) told The Tribune that the only relief is the low demand in the agriculture sector now as the paddy is being harvested, and does not require irrigation. As a result, the demand for power is around 8,500 MW.Failing to ensure its own minimum coal stock at private and state owned thermal plants, PSPCL, meanwhile, has been appealing consumers to use power wisely as it resorted to 3 to 4 hours of power cuts to meet demand.It is second year in a row that PSPCL is putting power restrictions after peak paddy season due to its failure to maintain minimum coal stocks.Last year, too, it resorted to power cuts in October."There is an acute shortage of coal in the conuntry. Please conserve power by switching off the lights, devices and air conditioners when not required." PSPCL said in its appeal.With the gap arising because of the coal shortage-induced shutdown of power generation, the state power utility is buying power from the power exchange.“We are buying power from private and government players through the power exchange. But this is expensive. On Friday, we got power at Rs 13 per unit,” PSPCL Chairman A Venu Prasad told The Tribune.He said that while the government is asking the Centre to send coal to Punjab urgently, they are prepared to buy power from other producers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-witnesses-power-cuts-for-3-to-4-hours-as-5-power-units-shut-down-amid-severe-coal-shortage-322302
