11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Razia Sultana, who resigned as minister ‘in solidarity with’ Navjot Sidhu, attends Punjab Cabinet meeting||Razia Sultana, who had resigned as the Punjab minister last month in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu, on Monday attended a cabinet meeting here.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi chaired the meeting of the council of ministers.Sultana attended the cabinet meeting, said an official.However, there is still no clarity over her resignation letter written to Channi last month.Sultana had tendered her resignation as the cabinet minister after Navjot Singh Sidhu put in his papers as the Punjab Congress chief last month. In her resignation letter to Channi, Sultana had said that she resigned as the cabinet minister “in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu”. Sultana is considered close to Sidhu. Her husband Mohd Mustafa, who is a former IPS officer, is the principal strategic adviser to Sidhu. After his resignation, Sidhu had raised a question over the appointments of the director general of police, state’s advocate general and “tainted” leaders. Later, the party had formed a coordination panel which was to be consulted before making any major decisions by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government. A few days back, Sidhu had led a protest march to the Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh where he had even observed a hunger strike, demanding the arrest of the son of the union minister Ajay Mishra. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/razia-sultana-who-resigned-as-minister-in-solidarity-with-navjot-sidhu-attends-punjab-cabinet-meeting-323166
11-10-2021||Amritsar/Chandigarh||Punjab Congress marks ‘maun vrat’; Navjot Singh Sidhu skips it||Congress leaders in Punjab sat on a 'maun vrat' (vow of silence) on Monday to seek the dismissal of Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh.The minister's son Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday by the UP Police in connection with the October 3 incident wherein eight people, including four farmers, were killed.He was produced before a court late on Saturday night, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody.Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny, MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria, party's state unit general secretary Yoginder Pal Dhingra along with other Congress workers held the silent protest at Amritsar.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who currently in Jammu and Kashmir to pay a visit to Mata Vaishno Devi in Katra, didn’t attend Punjab Congress unit’s ‘maun vrat’ (vow of silence) programme in Amritsar because of poor weather.In Amritsar, Congress workers held a programme at the Amritsar Railway Station from 1 to 3 pm, but Sidhu’s marked absence from the event meant dwindling enthusiasm.  As the word got around, Congress leaders began leaving the event.However, some, such as Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, stayed until the end.What’s interesting is that the purpose of ‘Maun Vrat’ was defeated several times by the leaders getting up to either attend the calls or welcome leaders who’d just arrived at the site. Some leaders even gave bytes to the media.MLA North Sunil Dutti claimed Sidhu had told him he could not attend the event because of bad weather. “Still, the party workers staged their silent protest against the lackadaisical approach of the BJP government towards the heinous incident that claimed innocent lives. We demand the immediate removal of the minister and transparent trial of his son who was responsible for this incident, which was the murder of democracy,” he said.MLA South Inderbir Bolaria said too much was being read into Sidhu’s absence.“It should not be given a political colour. Due to unavoidable circumstances, he could not come but we all were there on behalf of our party president”, he said.All the three Amritsar-based cabinet ministers—OP Soni (also Deputy CM), Raj Kumar Verka and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla—attended the event.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal meanwhile mocked the Congress, especially Sidhu, saying he should stay silent until the Punjab assembly elections.  “It shouldn’t be like his previous one at Lakhimpur Kheri where he went on hunger strike post-dinner and broke it even before breakfast time,” he said.— With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-marks-maun-vrat-navjot-singh-sidhu-skips-it-323151
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Won’t let power blackout take place in Punjab, says CM Charanjit Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Monday his government will not let a power blackout take place in the state and he has asked the Centre to ensure an adequate supply of coal.Channi’s statement came amid a power crisis triggered by severe coal shortage in the state’s thermal power plants. “Not only Punjab, the entire country is facing the power crisis because of coal shortage,” Channi told reporters, adding that he spoke to the coal minister and even had written a letter in this regard.He has also asked the Centre to ensure adequate supply of coal to Punjab at the earliest, Channi said.To a question on fears of a power blackout, Channi said his government will not let it happen in the state. Power supply situation continued to remain grim in Punjab as the state-owned utility PSPCL has been imposing up to three-hour daily power cuts across all categories of consumers to bridge the gap between demand and supply. Severe coal shortage has forced Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to cut down power generation. Because of depleted coal stock, the coal-fired power plants were operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity, officials had said on Sunday. While the private power thermal plants had coal stock of up to 1.5 days, the state-owned units had coal for up to four days, the officials said.PSPCL Chairman and Managing Director A Venuprasad on Sunday said the power utility was facing acute coal shortage in all of the coal-based plants situated across the state. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-let-power-blackout-take-place-in-punjab-says-cm-charanjit-channi-323121
11-10-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||No big fat Punjabi wedding, this||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 10It was not a big fat Punjabi wedding per se, nevertheless, it was the wedding of the Punjab Chief Minister’s elder son. An event in itself, as every Punjabi would vouch for.Residents suffer for four hoursAlthough it was billed as a simple function, residents around the gurdwara had to face inconvenience for close to four hours as the movement was restricted in the vicinity of the wedding venue. Traffic movement was restricted near the gurdwara for a short while as the cavalcade of politicians made their way to the venue.And so Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi solemnised the low-key “Anand Karaj” of his son Navjit Singh and bride Simrandheer Kaur in a high-profile ambience.Being a Sunday, and in anticipation of something big, there was a buzz around the Sacha Dhan Sahib gurdwara in Phase 3B1 since early morning.The commotion grew around 10.30 am as Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, in a pink turban and tie, drove in the groom and his family in a flower-adorned SUV outside the gurdwara. Navjit Singh, attired in Gulanari colours, and the family alighted from the vehicle to the music of brass band and walked inside the gurdwara. Bride Simrandheer Kaur complemented the colour coordination with a Gulanari lehnga as the couple sat solemnising the “Anand Karaj” inside.Eyewitnesses said the Punjab Chief Minister’s family partook of langar by sitting on the ground with members of the marriage party. Later, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and actor Gurpreet Ghuggi among others praised the family for performing the function with “maryada”.The newlywed couple left the venue only after the visitors had left around 1.30 pm followed by Chief Minister Channi and his extended family in a cavalcade of SUVs. The newlywed couple will host a reception at a resort on Monday evening in Kharar.Sources said Channi considers the newlywed daughter-in-law as a lucky mascot for him as he ascended to the Chief Minister’s throne only days before the marriage. Navjit is an engineer, while Simrandheer has completed her engineering and is currently pursuing a Masters in Business Administration (MBA). The bride’s family belongs to Amlala village near Dera Bassi with her father posted as Principal in Kendriya Vidyalaya in Patiala. His brothers Balkar Singh and Satnam Singh live in Amlala. Channi reportedly returned the “shagun” and gifts brought by the guests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-big-fat-punjabi-wedding-this-322934
11-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Man fakes robbery, held||Drug smuggler surrendersAbohar: Mohinder Singh, alias Bhoma Singh, of Jhugge Kishore Singhwala village in Ferozepur, who was wanted in connection with a February 8 heroin smuggling case, has surrendered. He was arrested and a court allowed his custody for interrogation till October 14. He was reportedly paid Rs10 lakh for escorting a team that carried a consignment of 5 kg heroin from Pakistan. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-fakes-robbery-held-322831
11-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||3 held for Rs 8L extortion bid||Three members of a gang involved in demanding Rs 8 lakh ransom from a city jeweller by using international numbers has been arrested.SSP Amneet Kondal said the police got a complaint from Anoop Kumar Jain, a jeweller, that he had received messages from international numbers, threatening him with dire consequences if Rs 8 lakh was not paid. The SSP said the numbers were generated via the Internet and the messages originated from the Bhagta Bhai Ka area of Bathinda. Subsequently, Bhagta Bhai resident Akashdeep Singh was arrested yesterday. His associates — Sukhwinder Pal Singh, alias Gaggi, of Salewara Patti in Bathinda and Gagandeep Singh, alias Gagan, of Bhagta Bhai Ka — were was also arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-held-for-rs-8l-extortion-bid-322832
11-10-2021||Amritsar||Charanjit Singh Channi: New CM, old photo||Elusive parliamentarianPathankot: It has been ages since MP Sunny Deol was last seen in his constituency. Congress councillor Nitin Laddi Mahajan hit the nail right on the head when he claimed the MP’s absence was proving to be an impediment in city’s development. “I recently wrote to the Railways requesting them to convert the biweekly Jammu-Katra Vande Bharat Express into a weekly feature. If that happens, the tourism industry will get a boost. But, the Railways asked me to route my request through the MP. And here lies the problem. Where should I go to find Mr Deol?” he quipped. The MP was last reported in Mumbai after his return from the US, where he had gone for treatment.Banner warFategarh Sahib: The emergence of Charanjit Singh Channi as Chief Minister has upset the applecart of Bassi Pathana MLA Gurpreet Singh GP, as CM’s brother Dr Manohar Singh is going all out to reach out to people ahead of the Assembly elections. There is a virtual flex board war between the two. The sitting MLA has resented the growing clout of the new entrant and feels it has created a confusion, particularly among Congress supporters and may endanger the party’s prospects. He plans to bring it to the notice of party high command and CM so as to nip trouble in the bud.Shifting loyaltiesSangrur: Several Congress leaders had stopped visiting Cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla’s local office after Capt Amarinder Singh quit as CM along with his ministers, thinking it was the end of the road for Singla. Once he was re-inducted into the Cabinet with the same PWD portfolio, the leaders were seen rejoicing, inviting criticism from locals, who call them “chameleons”. There are others who feel it is nothing new as they have been shifting loyalties each time there is a change of guard. Feeling aggrieved, some hard-working Congress leaders have decided to ask Singla to choose between them and “chameleons”.RealpolitikBathinda: The SAD recently held a protest rally over the pink bollworm attack on the cotton crop in the southern Malwa region of the state. Even party patron Parkash Singh Badal, who has stayed away from political events in the recent past, addressed the rally. Instead of focusing on crop damage, most speakers, including Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur, chose to use the stage to attack the Congress and list achievements of the previous SAD government in the state. Most of those who attended the rally were left guessing whether it was a protest or political rally.Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Surinder Bhardwaj, Parvesh Sharma, Manmeet Singh Gill & Sukhmeet Bhasin||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-new-cm-old-photo-322833
11-10-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka Sugar mill workers demand dues||Resentment is brewing among employees of the Fazilka Central Cooperative Sugar Mills as they have not been paid salary for the past 11 months, reportedly due to financial crunch.The employees, who have attained superannuation, and dependents of the deceased workers have also not been paid their dues since January, 2020.The mill owes nearly Rs 11 crore towards salaries and dues. Sugar mill labourers’ union leaders have demanded release of salaries immediately, as Diwali was approaching. Kanwaljit Singh, general manager of the mill, refused to comment on the issue. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-sugar-mill-workers-demand-dues-322834
11-10-2021||Abohar||Abohar SAD leaders skip Dr Mohinder Rinwa’s meet||Days after the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) announced Dr Mohinder Rinwa its candidate from the Abohar constituency for the 2022 Assembly elections, all circle presidents of the party here skipped his meeting with mediapersons.Several local SAD leaders are upset at new halqa incharge Rajinder Deepa, a former Panjab University senator, not getting the opportunity from Abohar, despite party president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s OSD reported assurance. The leaders said they arranged public meetings for Deepa and abstained from Rinwa’s events in rural and urban areas.Sukhbir on May 30 paid obeisance to Arora community founder Arut ji Maharaj on latter’s birth anniversary in the presence of Deepa, giving rise to speculation of his candidature. An official release of the local SAD unit said no party could ignore the Arora community while choosing its candidate. The BJP is expected to field sitting MLA Arun Narang to re-contest the election despite opposition thrown by farmer unions. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-sad-leaders-skip-dr-mohinder-rinwas-meet-322835
11-10-2021||Muktsar||Protesting farmers yet to decide on October 13 meeting||Farmers lodging an indefinite protest outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here said today they would decide in their state-level committee whether to hold a meeting with the Principal Secretary to Chief Minister on October 13.The state government had cancelled the Saturday’s meeting with the Principal Secretary. Thereafter, the farmers were told to hold a meeting with the Principal Secretary to CM and Financial Commissioners (Revenue and Development) in Chandigarh on October 13.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “Our state committee will take a call on the meeting.”Farmers from five districts — Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Faridkot — are protesting under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), demanding Rs 60,000 per acre compensation for the damage to cotton crop due to pink bollworm. Besides, they are demanding Rs 30,000 relief for each farm labourer’s family. Meanwhile, the farmers’ protest at Badal village entered sixth day today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-yet-to-decide-on-october-13-meeting-322836
11-10-2021||---||Dengue centre set up, to carry out free tests||Bathinda, October 10In the wake of rising number of dengue cases, the district administration has established a special centre where patients will be treated free of cost.Established at the government meritorious school in the city, the 15-bed dengue centre will be instrumental in providing quality treatment to patients. Apart from free treatment, patients will not be charged for medical tests and medicines at the centre.Dr Gagandeep Goyal said, “Apart from free treatment, dengue patients will be admitted and provided food. For a dengue patient, plasma is the most important thing and it’s quite expensive when you buy it in market but at the newly established centre, it will be provided free of cost.” A total of 976 dengue cases have surfaced in Bathinda district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-centre-set-up-to-carry-out-free-tests-322837
11-10-2021||Sangrur||Congress govt failed to boost health infrastructure: Delhi minister Satyendra Jain||Delhi Health and Power Minister Satyendra Jain today blamed Punjab and central governments for allegedly failing to provide required health and power facilities.Jain visited Dirba, Sangrur and Dhuri areas along with Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema. “The Punjab Government has failed to ramp up health facilities even after Covid. In Delhi, we have brought massive improvement in facilities and this will become a major issue in the next Assembly poll,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-govt-failed-to-boost-health-infrastructure-delhi-minister-satyendra-jain-322838
11-10-2021||Jalandhar||Author Amardeep Singh retraces travels of Guru Nanak on cam||His first two books opened up an unknown and lost world of the remnants and architecture of the Sikh heritage in Pakistan to those in India.Singapore-based banker-turned author Amardeep Singh is now all set to release his 24-part documentary series on the travels of Guru Nanak. Titled ‘Allegory, A Tapestry of Guru Nanak’s Travels’, the 24-part series will be available in the form of weekly episodes on the website TheGuruNanak.com from October 14.Also read: Retracing Guru Nanak’s legacyOn Guru Nanak’s trail‘Allegory, A Tapestry of Guru Nanak’s Travels’ chronicles the vast expanse of sites which were visited by Guru Nanak during his lifetime over 550 years ago and were travelled by Amardeep Singh and his team. The pursuit took him include Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Tibet, Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka.In January 2019, a team led by Amardeep Singh and his wife Vininder Kaur embarked on a journey to retrace Guru Nanak’s footsteps. The documentary will also provide glimpses into Afghanistan where Amardeep travelled with his team, having no idea that it will soon be a region ravaged under the Taliban. In April 2019, tracing the legacy of the Guru in Afghanistan, Amardeep visited the Karte Parwan Gurdwara and called upon its functionary Chhabol Singh’’s home. The gurdwara today serves as the last refuge of remaining Sikhs in Afghanistan. The author says it is imperative to protect this rare community.Filmed over 3 yearsAided with the analytical study of the oldest ‘Janamsakhis’ (biographies of Guru Nanak) and the allegoric messages in Guru Nanak’s verses, the author and his team spent over three years filming all the geographies and multi-faith sites visited by Guru Nanak to present his life events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/author-amardeep-singh-retraces-travels-of-guru-nanak-on-cam-322839
11-10-2021||---||State-level shooter Hunardeep Singh Sohal ends life||Amritsar, October 10A state-level shooter, Hunardeep Singh Sohal, died by suicide at his residence in the Vallah area here on Saturday evening. According to the police, he shot himself in the head.His family said he was upset for the past two months after he sustained an injury on his right wrist that damaged his nerves. Though he recuperated from the injury, he suffered from depression as he thought it ended his career as a shooter. The incident left the family shocked. His father Bhupinder Singh is a retired kanungo, while mother Sukarni Gill a retired government teacher. The family also owned agricultural land.ASI Kuldeep Singh said inquest proceedings had been started and the body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem. Sohal did his schooling from DAV International School at the Verka bypass and graduation from Khalsa College here. He was also a cadet of National Cadet Corps and did training in the air wing at Pathankot and Delhi.Hunardeep’s father Bhupinder Singh was inconsolable. Speaking to The Tribune, he said Hunar was a disciplined and lively man. “He used to train daily at the PAP range in Jalandhar and had also made a range in the fields for practice. He used to work very hard,” he said. Hunar participated in many state-level competitions in Delhi, Jalandhar, Pune and Kerala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-level-shooter-hunardeep-singh-sohal-ends-life-322840
11-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur, Pathankot hotels face closure||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur/Pathankot, October 10A majority of the 110-odd hotels spread across the townships of Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Batala are on the verge of closure amid losses incurred due to Covid-induced lockdown and the newly constructed bypasses on the Amritsar-Pathankot national highway have added to the hoteliers' woes.20% occupancy rateWe are down to barely 20 per cent occupancy rate from a comfortable 70-80 per cent during the pre-Covid days. A majority of hoteliers has become bankrupt. Romesh Mahajan, Gurdaspur Hotel AssnThey are devising new ways and means, including giving heavy discounts, to stay afloat. "We are down to barely 20 per cent occupancy rate from a comfortable 70-80 per cent during the pre-Covid days. A majority of hoteliers has become bankrupt. The main reasons are the pandemic and bypasses. Earlier, people going to J&K in general and the Vaishno Devi shrine in particular would stop in the city en route to their destinations. However, after the bypasses came up, people prefer to drive straight to their destinations," said Romesh Mahajan, president, Gurdaspur district hotel association.Insiders say for the past 40 years, Delhi-based tour operators did a thriving business by bringing in people from various parts of the country to the Vaishno Devi shrine."When the bypasses were not constructed, buses stopped at our hotels due to which our occupancy rate got a massive boost. However, now only a few operators stop in cities. They prefer to make a straight run-through. Now, it has become difficult to convince people to stay in hotels in the midst of the pandemic. It is going to be a long haul till things are brought back to normal. Right now, our balance sheets are in the red," averred Nitin Laddi Mahajan, president, Pathankot hoteliers association.Hoteliers claim the fear of the third wave is not doing the industry any good. People are going in for online food platforms, making life all the more difficult for them."We have taken loans at exorbitant rates to sustain our businesses. However, we see no light at the end of the tunnel. The virus may evaporate into thin air sooner or later but the by-passes will stay here forever," Mahajan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-pathankot-hotels-face-closure-322841
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Son’s wedding: A toned-down affair, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi keeps it simple||In a toned-down affair, the wedding ceremony of CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s elder son was solemnised at a Mohali gurdwara on Sunday. The ceremony was attended by the who’s who of Punjab Congress.Also read: Navjot Sidhu skips wedding of CM Channi’s sonNo big fat Punjabi wedding, thisWhile those in attendance included Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Akal Takht Jatehdar Giani Harpreet Singh, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat and observer Harish Chaudhary, PCC Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu chose to stay away.As the ‘anand karaj’ ceremony was being performed at the gurdwara, Sidhu along with minister Vijay Inder Singla and MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal landed in Jammu to pay his obeisance at Mata Vasihno Devi.Though former CM Capt Amarinder Singh did not show up at the wedding, former minister Rana Gumreet Sodhi and other party leaders loyal to the former CM showed up at the ceremony.Apart from most of the Cabinet ministers, including Manpreet Badal, Pargat Singh and Razia Sultana, and party MLAs, other prominent leaders who attended the ceremony included Punjab MPs Jasbir Singh Gill, Dr Amar Singh, Partap Bajwa, Mohammad Sadiq and Manish Tewari; Haryana MP Kumari Selja, former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and Punjab Speaker Rana KP Singh. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar did not turn up for the event.In what appeared to be a conscious effort at sending across the message of simplicity, CM Channi along with family members and Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh partook of langar seated on the floor. Earlier, CM Channi drove the car along with the bridegroom to the gurdwara.Actor-turned politician Gurpeet Ghuggi said CM Channi had set an example by shunning big-fat wedding, otherwise associated with politicians. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sons-wedding-a-toned-down-affair-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-keeps-it-simple-322842
11-10-2021||---||Minorities, stranded Indians in Afghanistan seek evacuation||Amritsar, October 10Distressed by the situation in Afghanistan, several Indian and Afghan-origin minority community members have made a fresh appeal to the Indian government, seeking immediate evacuation from Kabul.The only hitch was non-operation of international flights for Kabul, but Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of Indian World Forum, thinks otherwise. “The Iranian Airline Mahan Air has been operating flights for a month now to and fro from Kabul-Tehran-New Delhi. I have raised the issue with the PMO and MEA that when 100 Afghans stuck up in India could go back through same flight, why can’t the stranded Indians and minorities be flown here? We are trying our best to convince the Indian government on this for their safe evacuation,” he said.A 35-year-old displaced Afghan, preferring anonymity, said he, along with his wife and three-year-old daughter, had taken temporary shelter in a parking lot. His wife and daughter are Indians, as they hold Indian passports. They had been waiting to be evacuated for the past two months, but in vain. He said they were facing financial crisis as the banks were not operating. “We were accommodated in the parking lot of my friend’s place,” he said. He worked at an international firm in Mazar-e-Sharif and married an Indian girl. “On August 24, we were about to board the India-bound flight, but the situation deteriorated at the airport and we had to return,” he said.They took shelter in Karte Parwan gurdwara in Kabul for a few days. “We didn’t find it safe as unidentified persons frequently visited. Recently, the gurdwara was vandalised too,” he said. There are around 300 Afghani Sikhs and Hindus wishing to leave Kabul.The council of Afghan Hindus and Sikhs met at Gurdwara Karte Parwan yesterday, which was attended by president of management committee for ancient Aasamai Mandir Ram Sharan Bhasin, gurdwara president Gurnam Singh. In a fresh video message, head priest Satvir Singh requested India to safely evacuate people as the situation was deteriorating. “Many among us have families in New Delhi. We want to reunite with them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minorities-stranded-indians-in-afghanistan-seek-evacuation-322843
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Protect minorities in J&K, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today paid homage to the civilians who were reportedly killed in targeted terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir.AAP MLAs and spokespersons Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Aman Arora said party leaders and volunteers took out candles marches at all district headquarters to pay homage to the terror victims.Condemning the killings, AAP leaders urged the Centre to protect the minority communities in the Valley, including Kashmiri Pandits and Sikhs. “The recent killings are a matter of serious concern. The Centre should boost security and protect those living in the Valley.” Taking a dig at the Centre, the AAP leaders said the claims of curbing terrorism and maintaining peace in the Valley with abrogation of Article 370 had turned out to be hollow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protect-minorities-in-jk-says-aap-322844
11-10-2021||---||Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa opposes eviction of Sikhs in Shillong||Chandigarh/New Delhi, October 10Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa today opposed the decision of the Meghalaya Government to evict Sikhs living in Shillong. Taking up cudgels on behalf of the community, Randhawa has decided to take up the matter with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma to protest against the wrong decision.Sukhjinder Randhawa, Deputy Chief MinisterCivil rights violatedThe civil rights of Sikhs living in Shillong for more than 200 years would not be allowed to be trampled upon at any cost. The state government should reverse the decision.Two years ago, a Punjab Government delegation led by Randhawa had visited Shillong, met members of the Sikh community living there and assured them that he would vociferously oppose any move against their displacement.Based on the recent recommendations of a high-level committee headed by Meghalaya Deputy CM Preston Tynsong, the Cabinet has approved a proposal to relocate Sikhs living in the Thame Liu Malong area (Punjabi Lane).Randhawa opposed the Meghalaya Government’s decision, saying it was totally unjust to evict the Sikhs under the pressure of land mafia. He said the civil rights of Sikhs who had been living in Shillong for over 200 years would not be allowed to be trampled upon at any cost. He demanded that the NDA government in Meghalaya should immediately reverse the decision.Meanwhile, the Harijan Panchayat Committee, a representative body of Dalit Sikhs living in Harijan Colony of Shillong, thanked the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) and National Commission for Scheduled Castes for taking suo motu cognisance of the issue.NCM chief Iqbal Singh Lalpura directed the Chief Secretary of Meghalaya to furnish a detailed report on the subject and maintain status quo in the matter as directed by the Meghalaya HC.“The Meghalaya HC at Shillong has passed orders for status quo and the matter is under consideration of the Supreme Court. Still the Sangma-led government ignored this and announced they will take possession of the 2.5 acres of land (of Harijan Colony) within a week,” said a press release issued today by committee secretary Gurjit Singh.Meanwhile, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, too, condemned the eviction and sought the Centre’s intervention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-opposes-eviction-of-sikhs-in-shillong-322845
11-10-2021||---||Girdawari begins in bollworm-hit areas of Sangrur; farmers sceptic||Sangrur, October 10After the pink bollworm attack on the cotton crop on hundreds of acres in various villages of Sangrur, the district administration has started girdawari (assessment of damage). However, local farmers are sceptical of the entire process.“Many a time officials do not conduct thorough assessment. In the past also, many girdawaris were done, but some influential persons were favoured in the process. The Punjab Government must release financial relief to all affected farmers on the basis of a preliminary report of the Agriculture Department,” said Sukhwant Singh, a farmer.As per the Agriculture Department’s report, pink bollworm has affected the cotton crop on 1,500 acres in 85 villages of Sangrur. The district administration has however assigned the task of girdawari to Revenue Department officials, who are visiting various affected villages.“When the Agriculture Department has all data, what is the need for another assessment through the Revenue Department? Farmers are already under a huge debt. The latest pink bollworm attack will add to their losses,” said Barinder Singh, another farmer.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ramvir along with a team of senior officials visited Daska, Gidiani, Ratta Khera, Hariun, Dehlan and Guladi villages and took direct feedback from farmers. “I have been personally monitoring the girdawari in the affected areas. We will send the details of all affected farmers to the Punjab Government for financial relief,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/girdawari-begins-in-bollworm-hit-areas-of-sangrur-farmers-sceptic-322846
11-10-2021||---||1.76 LMT paddy procured on Day 8 in Punjab||Chandigarh, October 10Government agencies purchased 1.76 lakh metric tonne paddy on the eighth day of procurement of the ongoing kharif season in Punjab.Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said government agencies procured 1,74,589.95 MT, while private millers purchased 994 MT paddy.So far, 9.33 LMT paddy had arrived in the state, out of which 8.63 LMT had been procured. The department had cleared Rs 770.31 crore payment to farmers.Meanwhile, in the past 24 hours, the Food and Civil Supplies Department had got three FIRs registered for bringing in rice illegally from other states.Two trucks were seized at the Moonak border in Sangrur district, while the third was seized at the Shambhu border in Patiala. At least 800 quintal rice was recovered from the trucks.Fazilka arhtiya’s licence suspended Fazilka: The licence of a commission agent firm in Jalalabad has been suspended for five days over anomalies in the procurement process. Baljinder Singh, secretary, Market Committee, Jalalabad, said 472 bags of parmal variety of paddy were found excess on the shop of the commission agent.The firm failed to file satisfactory reply resulting in suspension of licence under the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Act, 1961. — OCBid to smuggle rice, case filedSangrur: The Moonak police confiscated 349 quintals of smuggled rice from a truck on the Punjab and Haryana border and registered a case. The rice was allegedly being smuggled to Punjab under the bills of two rice mills located in UP and Haryana. During checking of vehicles at the Moonak barrier, officials intercepted a truck loaded with rice. When they checked the bills, they found these were under the names of rice mills from UP and Haryana. — TNSHry gives MSP on 11 crops, Pb none: BJPChandigarh: The BJP on Sunday alleged the Congress was more interested in creating law and order problems than resolving the issues of farmers. State BJP president Ashwani Sharma said it was on record that Punjab did not give MSP on any crop, while neighbouring Haryana gave benefits in the form of subsidy and MSP on 11 crops. The economic health of the state can be gauged from the mere fact that it could not lift paddy even for four days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-76-lmt-paddy-procured-on-day-8-in-punjab-322847
11-10-2021||---||Punjab Govt failed to foresee, prepare for crisis: SAD||Amritsar, October 10Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today alleged the current power crisis in the state was a direct consequence of the Congress government’s utter neglect and absenceof advance planning and preparedness.During a visit to Amritsar, Sukhbir paid obeisance at Valmiki temple in Gawal Mandi, Hanuman Mandir and Jama Masjid, Gurdwara Cheharata Sahib and Gurdwara Bohri Sahib.On the power shortage, he said the Union Coal Ministry had clarified that there was no shortage of coal supplies in the country. “The Punjab Government’s ill-conceived policy was the reason behind the current crisis as it failed to keep the required reserves of coal to meet the emergent situation,” he said. Stressing power was one of the key priority areas during the Akali government, Sukhbir said: “Coal shortages are nothing new and these happened during our times also. But we always used to prepare in advance and never let the state run into such foreseeable and preventable crises.”Later, he held a rally organised by SAD North candidate Anil Joshi in the Ranjit Avenue area. Others present on the occasion included Dr Dalbir Verka, Gurpartap Tikka, Talbir Gill and SGPC member Rajinder Singh Mehta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-failed-to-foresee-prepare-for-crisis-sad-322848
11-10-2021||Aman Sood||Private thermals units in Punjab left with just 36-hour stock||Tribune News ServicePatiala October 10Punjab continues to face power shortage and cuts across various consumer categories due to coal paucity.Despite paying crores of rupees to private thermals, Punjab continues to buy power at higher price to meet the demand, while Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided to impose cuts for next few days. As on Sunday, the private coal-based plants in the state have 36-hour coal stock left, while the state-owned plants have about four days’ stock.A Venu Prasad, PSPCL CMDSituation may ease off from Oct 15With the fall in demand and arrival of sufficient quantum of coal for building up the stock, the situation may ease off from Oct 15Punjab’s seasonal power demand during the paddy season for two-three months is almost double the requirement during the remaining nine-10 months. “Principally, it is prudent to meet around a year’s demand with base load plants like thermal, nuclear and seasonal demand through banking, short-term power purchase, need-based purchase from power exchange and peak load plants (gas-based or hydel). However, failure on part of all thermal plants to maintain their minimum stock has led to power shortage. And with coal now arriving at irregular intervals, Punjab will have to brace for some restrictions in terms of power supply,” said a former chief engineer.“Yesterday, 11 coal rakes were received against total requirement of 22. Due to depleted coal stock, these plants are operating at less than 50% of their generation capacity. The demand of agriculture sector still persists due to delayed transplantation of paddy and for the varieties of paddy needing supply,” said PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad.“With the fall in demand and arrival of sufficient quantum of coal for building up the coal stock, the situation shall ease off further from October 15,” Prasad said.At present, PSPCL is procuring power from the market to cater to the demand of consumers, including the agriculture sector, even at exorbitant rates. “PSPCL has met maximum demand of 8,788 MW on October 9, while it procured around 1,800 MW on Sunday at Rs 11.60 per unit from the exchange,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-thermals-units-in-punjab-left-with-just-36-hour-stock-322849
11-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Out of coal, Goindwal Sahib power plant shuts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10Punjab continued to be on the edge today, with yet another thermal power unit at GvK-operated Goindwal Sahib plant in Tarn Taran being forced to shut because of coal shortage.This is the sixth thermal power unit that has been forced to shut down in the past few days. Four thermal units were shut because of severe shortage of coal yesterday, but one was operationalised in the evening. Two units of Ropar (having generation capacity of 420 MW) have been shut down because of technical snags.This again resulted in three to four hours of power cut across the state. As coal shortage continued, the thermal power plants in the state have either been forced to shut generation, or some are operating at less than their optimum capacity to save on their depleting coal stocks.With one more unit at GvK plant being shut, the state’s own thermal power generation fell by over 1,500 MW. The demand for power in the state is 8,300 MW. As a result, the state was again forced to buy additional power from the power exchange (285 lakh units at Rs 11.60 per unit).PSPCL chairman A Venu Prasad said the situation would begin to ease out around October 15. “We have got more coal linkages today and it will take two to three days for the coal to reach the power plants,” he added.Generation falls by 1,500 MW||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-of-coal-goindwal-sahib-power-plant-shuts-322850
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu skips wedding of CM Channi’s son||Days after Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi shared the stage with PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu at a protest march in Mohali in a show of unity, the cricketer-turned-politician skipped the wedding of CM’s son on Sunday.Ex-servicemen don’t want Navjot Singh Sidhu to campaign in HimachalAlso read: Son’s wedding: A toned-down affair, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi keeps it simpleNo big fat Punjabi wedding, thisAmong those present at the function were Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat and party’s central observer Harish Chaudhary.While the wedding ceremony was underway at Mohali’s Sacha Dhan Gurdwara,Sidhu, minister Vijay Inder Singla and MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal landed in Jammu to pay obeisance at Vaishno Devi shrine. Apparently trying to put to rest speculation on his absence from the wedding, Sidhu tweeted: “Darshan of the primordial mother during Navratras is synergising.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-skips-wedding-of-cm-channis-son-322799
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Power cuts in Punjab to remain till October 13, coal-fired plants operating at 50 pc capacity||Power supply situation continued to remain grim in Punjab with the state-owned utility PSPCL on Sunday saying up to three-hour daily power cut will remain in the state till October 13.Severe coal shortage has forced the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to cut down power generation and impose load shedding.Because of depleted coal stock, the coal-fired power plants are operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity, said officials.Read also:While the private power thermal plants have coal stock of up to 1.5 day and the state-owned units have coal for up to four days, said officials on Sunday.PSPCL Chairman and Managing Director A Venuprasad said the power utility was facing acute coal shortage in all of the coal-based plants situated across the state.Similar situation is prevailing in the neighbouring states of Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan as well as in other parts of India, he further said.Venuprasad said the PSPCL is procuring power even at exorbitant rates from the market to cater to the demand from consumers including the agriculture sector.The PSPCL met maximum demand of 8,788 MW of Punjab on Saturday, he said, adding that about 1,800 MW of power was procured for meeting requirement for Sunday at a rate of Rs 11.60 per unit from the power exchange.In spite of such procurement of power, the PSPCL is going for load shedding across the state on all categories of consumers in order to bridge the gap between demand and supply, said Venuprasad. Power cut duration of about 2 to 3 hours every day will be imposed till Wednesday, he said.The CMD said presently, all the private coal-based plants in the state have 1.5 day coal stock while the state-owned plants have about four days of coal stock.“Yesterday 11 coal rakes were received against the total requirement of 22 rakes. Because of depleted coal stock, these plants are operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity,” he said in a statement.The demand for power from the agriculture sector is still there, he said.He, however, said after the intervention of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, loading of coal rakes has improved.With the fall in demand and arrival of sufficient quantum of coal for building up the coal stock, the situation shall ease from October 15, he said.Venuprasad appealed to consumers to use power judiciously. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-cuts-in-punjab-to-remain-till-october-13-coal-fired-plants-operating-at-50-pc-capacity-322783
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi's son gets married; Navjot Singh Sidhu gives it a miss||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s son Navjit Singh got married at a gurdwara in Mohali in a simple ceremony on Sunday.Several leaders of the Congress—ministers, Members of Parliament, and legislators—attended the ceremony held at Sacha Dhan Gurdwara in Mohali.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu remained conspicuously absent. Sources in the party said Sidhu had flown to Jammu from Lucknow to visit Vaishno Devi with Minister Vijay Inder Singla and MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal."Darshan of the primordial mother during Navratras is synergising... Washes away all the dirt from the soul!! Blessed to be at the lotus feet of Mata Vaishno Devi," he said in a tweet.Navjit tied the knot with engineering graduate Simrandheer Kaur, a resident of Amlala village near Dera Bassi in Mohali district.The ‘anand karaj’ according to Sikh rituals was performed at Gurdwara Sacha Dhan.With his son seated next to him, the chief minister himself drove the SUV to the gurdwara.Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Congress general secretary Harish Rawat, deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, O P Soni, ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Brahm Mohindra, Pargat Singh, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, MLA Rana Gurmit Sodhi, MP Manish Tewari, were among those present at the ceremony.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh also attended the marriage. Singh had ‘langar’ (community kitchen) with the couple and Channi’s family at the gurdwara.The Jathedar also praised Channi for holding the simple marriage ceremony. With PTIDarshan of the primordial mother during Navratras is synergising ... Washes away all the dirt from the soul !! Blessed to be at the lotus feet of Mata Vaishno Devi#JaiMataDevi pic.twitter.com/MP5VcDzy9F||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channis-son-gets-married-navjot-singh-sidhu-gives-it-a-miss-322752
