13-10-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab polls: Kejriwal promises to end ‘inspector raj’, red-tapism; redress industry’s grievances||AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday promised end of “inspector raj” and “red-tapism plaguing the trade and industrial sector” if his party is voted to power in the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls.Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to Punjab, also promised the formation of a trade and industry body and its decisions will have to be implemented by the state government.He stated this while addressing traders and industrialists of Jalandhar after hearing their grievances.Addressing the gathering, the Delhi chief minister assured the trade and industry sector to resolve their grievances and take steps to boost their businesses.He also assured to provide round-the-clock power to the sector and gave an example of his government in the national capital on ensuring 24-hour electricity there.“In Punjab, we will ensure 24-hour electricity. We know how to do it,” Kejriwal claimed.He also asserted that “inspector raj and red-tapism” will be ended in the state as he blamed the previous governments for “promoting” the same for corruption.To prove his point, the AAP leader said his government in Delhi had stopped “raid raj” and reduced VAT rate that led to doubling of tax revenue at Rs 60,000 crore.It happened because the government trusted the traders, he said.He also promised to end “hafta system and goonda tax” in the state.Kejriwal further assured the businessmen to disburse their pending value added tax refunds, saying he received similar complaints from traders of Ludhiana.He also promised to clear the pending VAT refunds within three to six months as he underlined that capital is essential for running a trade or business.The Delhi CM promised to improve infrastructure in focal points and industrial zones in Punjab to facilitate the industry if voted to power in the state.Replying to another issue raised by the traders, he said the industrialists pointed out to him that former CMs Parkash Singh Badal and Capt Amarinder Singh had promised to resolve it after elections.“My request (to you) is once ask Kejriwal—‘Ek mauka saanu vi’ (Give us a chance too). I assure you that you will forget others,” Kejriwal said as he urged people to choose his party over others in the next state polls.He also laid stress on promoting small traders and micro, small and medium enterprises, saying these sectors generate more employment. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-kejriwal-promises-to-end-inspector-raj-red-tapism-redress-industrys-grievances-324106
13-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab drugs case: HC fixes hearing on Thursday before it closes for Dussehra break||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13More than three years after proceedings in the Punjab drugs case came to a virtual standstill, the matter came up for effective hearing this afternoon with the Punjab and Haryana High Court making clear its intent to come out with a timeline for hearing the issues, including opening of the special task force report and extradition of the accused.The Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma also fixed the case for Thursday — the last working day before it closes down for the Dussehra break.As the case came for hearing for the first time before it, the Bench took up a synopsis, highlighting 13 points, submitted by advocate Navkiran Singh. The synopsis, summing up the proceedings ever since the High Court took suo motu cognisance of the matter way back in September 2013, was submitted by Navkiran Singh on the previous date of hearing in the matter underscoring drug menace in Punjab and requesting for judicial scrutiny.Navkiran Singh, among other things, also called for the opening of reports submitted in the matter. One of the reports submitted in a sealed cover by the Punjab government was gone through by the Bench in May, 2018, before it was re-sealed.Punjab Advocate-General APS Deol and senior advocate Anupam Gupta also aired similar views. The development comes at a time when the issue has attained political proportions, particularly with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu repeatedly tweeting regarding the opening of the STF report “on multi-crore drug racket”.The suo motu case came up for hearing on a regular basis till March last year, but came to a standstill after the High Court went into restrictive functioning mode following Covid outbreak, compelling advocate Navkiran Singh to file an application for advancing the date of hearing in the case. Taking up his plea, the hearing was advanced by almost a month.Appearing on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International, counsel Navkiran Singh also prayed that the Bench "may open" a report lying in a sealed cover in the case. He had contended the matter related to drug mafia operating in Punjab and was having international tentacles. It was required to be dealt with on an urgent basis as it affected the lives of the Punjabi youth."The sealed reports, which have been filed by Niranjan Singh, (the then) Deputy Director, Enforcement Directorate, and the Special Task Force, as well as the State of Punjab, need to be opened and considered by this Court Navkiran submitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-drugs-case-hc-fixes-hearing-on-thursday-before-it-closes-for-dussehra-break-324103
13-10-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht accuses missionaries of forced conversions of Sikhs into Christianity||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has accused Christian missionaries of running programmes for forced conversion of Sikh families in border villages, a charge vehemently denied by the Bishop of Diocese of Amritsar.The Jathedar further alleged that several members of the Sikh community were being lured with money for conversion.“Christian missionaries are carrying out massive programmes for forced conversions of Sikh families and Scheduled Caste Sikhs in the border belt of Punjab. Missionaries are using money and all possible means to force Sikh families of the border belt to adopt Christianity,” alleged the Jathedar of Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs.He said, “Conversions of innocent Sikhs into Christianity fold is a direct attack on internal matters of the Sikh community and this is intolerable.”         Singh further said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has received many complaints in this regard.He laid emphasis on taking some steps for prevention of alleged forced conversions.The SGPC has taken a serious view of it and has recently launched a ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamshal’ to stop forced conversions, said Singh.“Sikh preachers have been given the task to visit all the bordering villages of Punjab to distribute Sikh religious literature, including historical books and other materials free of cost. Besides, all gurdwaras (Sikh shrines) in the border villages are also being extended help to counter the conversion mission of Christian missionaries,” he said.When contacted, Bishop of Diocese of Amritsar, Church of North India, Pradeep Kumar Samantaroy rejected the claims as “baseless”.        “This is absolutely wrong and baseless allegations. Christians never believe in forced conversions as it is against the principles of Christianity. We are open to criticism, but I asked them to come forward with facts and even quote any single example of forced conversion,” he said. “If anything is found, the matter is to be investigated by any independent agency or NGO. Every religion has a right to preach and many people including Sikhs and non-Sikhs with their own sweet will join us, but we never force or pressurise them to adopt Christianity,” he added.There are 150 educational institutions being run by Christianity and anybody can visit there to enquire from any student about the conversion, according to Samantaroy.“Yes, we definitely give free education to whosoever approaches for the same. We help people to give them education irrespective of caste and creed,” he said.He also said, “The SGPC is talking about the bordering belt of Punjab but we are helping people all over the state to extend free education in our schools, whether they are Sikhs or non-Sikhs”. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-accuses-missionaries-of-forced-conversions-of-sikhs-into-christianity-324084
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Vigilance Bureau asks public to use toll free number, email, WhatsApp for corruption complaints||With the sole aim of ending corruption in the state government offices, the Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Wednesday gave a clarion call to the people of Punjab as well as honest officials to co-operate with the bureau by providing information or filing complaints regarding corruption and bribery by the public servants on its toll free number 1800-1800-1000, or WhatsApp number or email.Disclosing this chief director-cum-ADGP Vigilance Bureau LK Yadav said corruption by public servants would not be tolerated at any cost as the vision of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjeet Singh Channi was to provide corruption free governance in the state which would be implemented with letter and spirit.Making an earnest public appeal, VB chief informed that the toll free number would be operational at the headquarters of the bureau for 24x7.In addition to this, anyone could send information, video or text message anytime on WhatsApp number 90410-89685 or at email complaint2vb@punjab.gov.in to the VB.“Anyone can use this toll free number, email or WhatsApp number to register complaint against any public servant demanding illegal gratification in cash or kind for performing any legitimate official work, public servant misusing official position, misappropriating government funds and causing loss to the state exchequer, any financial irregularity or embezzlement noticed in ongoing development project, and substandard material being used in project of any state government department,” said Yadav.The VB chief further added that any public servant with clean hands could also use the above mentioned contact numbers or email to lodge complaints or inform the bureau against any VB official indulging in any dishonesty or misusing his/her official position etc.The bureau would initiate action against the accused if proved after thoroughly probing into such complaints and the guilty would be dealt with seriously. He assured that in case the complaint so desired his/her identity would be kept secret.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-vigilance-bureau-asks-public-to-use-toll-free-number-email-whatsapp-for-corruption-complaints-324073
13-10-2021||Muktsar||BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) meets Principal Secretary, demands compensation for pink bollworm attack||A five-member delegation of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) met a committee of the state government led by the principal secretary to the chief minister at the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh to demand Rs 60,000 per acre compensation for damage of cotton crop due to pink bollworm in five districts of Malwa region.However, nothing came out of the meeting, said Ram Singh Bhainibagha, a BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader. "The officers said that the state government can give a maximum of Rs 12,000 per acre according to the rules. However, we want Rs 60,000 per acre relief for farmers," he said.He also said that the indefinite protest outside Finance Minister Manpreet Badal's residence at Badal village will continue."We will now chalk out a fresh strategy in our meeting," said Ram Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-ekta-ugrahan-meets-principal-secretary-demands-compensation-for-pink-bollworm-attack-324068
13-10-2021||---||Treated by a drunk doctor in Jalandhar hospital, 16-yr-old dies after injection||Jalandhar, October 12A 16-year-old boy, Vansh, of Mukerian (Hoshiarpur), who met with an accident and admitted to a private hospital, Guardian Hospital, died barely half an hour after he was administered an injection by a doctor who was allegedly in an inebriated condition here on Monday evening.As soon as the family members of the victim came to know that the doctor was drunk, high drama was witnessed at the hospital as the victim’s kin started beating up the doctor and called the police.The police on Tuesday registered a case against the doctor of the hospital who reportedly gave wrong treatment to the child in an inebriated state.Police investigation revealed that the accused, Dr Jitendra, who was treating the patient, was under the influence of alcohol. The serious lapse during the duty hours was also confirmed in the medical examination conducted by the police on Monday night at the Civil Hospital. A case under Section 304 (culpable homicide) of the IPC has been registered against the doctor.SHO, Police Division 6, Inspector Sukhjit Singh, said the case was registered following the statements of the victim’s family members. The alcohol test was conducted on the doctor at the Civil Hospital last night after the accusations of the family members, the report of which came back positive, added the SHO.The victim was admitted to the hospital situated near Milkbar Chowk in Model Town at around 6.30pm. Chander Kumar, father of the victim, stated that his son had met with an accident in which a school bus was involved.Following the accident, he was rushed to a hospital in Mukerian, where doctors further referred him to Guardian Hospital in Jalandhar. Vansh had received grievous injuries around his ribs.His family members further alleged that their son died due to the negligence of the doctor and hospital staff. They alleged that Vansh died after the doctor injected him a wrong dose. The infuriated family members also thrashed hospital staff. After they blocked the road, the police reached the spot to take control of the situation. When things seemed to go out of hand, the police took the doctor for the medical examination.The SHO stated that investigation was underway against the doctor. Action would be taken accordingly against him if the charge of medical negligence is proved against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/treated-by-a-drunk-doctor-in-jalandhar-hospital-16-yr-old-dies-after-injection-323959
13-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Coal crisis persists, Punjab residents bear brunt of outages||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 12Owing to a depleting coal stock, residents continue to face unscheduled power cuts across the state. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is resorting to two to five hours of cuts in the urban areas and around six hours in the rural areas daily. The rotational power cuts might go beyond a week with the availability of coal far from satisfactory.No rakes for state-run plantsMeanwhile, farmers claim the government has assured an uninterrupted power supply for six hours against the required eight hours. Manjit Singh Nial, a farmer leader, said: “We need electricity to run tubewells for paddy. The government has backtracked from their promise of a continuous supply as it is giving power intermittently.”However, the PSPCL said there was an improvement in the supply to the agriculture sector and the quantum of power cuts on domestic consumers.The ongoing coal crisis is forcing the PSPCL to purchase electricity at higher rates to meet the electrcity demand. In the first week of this month, the PSPCL purchased power at around Rs 5 per unit. However, it had to buy power over Rs 10 per unit after October 6. The PSPCL said they had to purchase 1600 MW on Tuesday at Rs 14.56 per unit.In just 12 days, the PSPCL has already purchased electricity worth Rs 280 crore from power exchange. It is learnt that the coal stock in the five thermal plants in the state remains critical — even on Tuesday — as only 13 coal rakes reached the state against the average consumption of 22. Of 13, the state-owned thermal plants couldn’t get any coal rakes. Around 52 coal rakes are said to be in transit.The PSPCL said presently, all private coal-based plants in the state had less than two days of coal stock, while the state-owned plants had below three days of stock. The state-run plants were still operating at 50 per cent of their generation capacity.Nabha Power Limited (NPL) thermal plant, however, is producing the highest power by running to its full generation capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coal-crisis-persists-punjab-residents-bear-brunt-of-outages-323779
13-10-2021||Amritsar/muktsar||Erratic power supply: Situation in Amritsar grim, Muktsar no better||The power supply to rural and urban areas of the border district of Amritsar continued to remain grim on Tuesday. Gurjit Singh, a resident of Naraingarh area, said the erratic power supply hampered the daily schedule of his family, besides adversely impacting the recharging capability of inverters.Poor managementThe government has failed to manage the power crisis. It should have made proper arrangements to deal with the shortage of coal supply. — A Muktsar residentBhupinder Singh, a resident of the Majitha road, said the power went out at 9:30 am and was restored at 12 pm. At 2:30 pm, another power cut was imposed which was lifted at 5 pm. A similar situation prevailed yesterday. Residents of rural areas, too, complained of long and erratic power cuts.In Muktsar district, three to six hours of unscheduled cuts were being imposed in the urban areas. While the situation is little better in Muktsar and Gidderbaha towns, residents of Malout town say they were facing long power cuts.Not just shopkeepers, housewives too are facing hardship. “The diesel price is touching Rs 100 per litre. With pandemic creating a hole in our pocket, it is not viable for us to use a power generator. Inverter batteries too don’t last long enough. The state government has failed in managing the power crisis. It should have made adequate arrangements to deal with the shortage of coal supply,” said Esha, a housewife.Subhash Kumar, a shopkeeper, said: “Despite cuts, the situation is a shade better than other towns. Our relatives from Abohar and other areas told us they were facing cuts for six-seven hours daily. The supply remains suspended for maximum three hours here.”Meanwhile, Jasvir Singh, a resident of Bhullar village, said the situation had improved in their area. “The situation has improved from yesterday. We faced a two-hour outage on Monday and today there is no cut in our area. Even tubewells were running in the afternoon,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/erratic-power-supply-situation-in-amritsar-grim-muktsar-no-better-323781
13-10-2021||---||Lehra farmers barge into powercom offices||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 12A day after farmers owing allegiance to the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) began their indefinite stir in front of PSPCL offices over the frequent power cuts, protesters on Tuesday entered the offices in Lehra and didn’t allow any employee to enter the premises.Trying our bestThe shortage of coal has created the power crisis in the state. We are trying best to ensure regular power supply. — Kulraj Singh, PSPCL Executive Engineer“The Punjab Government must ensure the required power supply to farmers. After PSPCL officers did not take the required steps to ensure uninterrupted power supply even after repeated requests, we decided to take control of their offices,” said Karnail Singh, a protesting farmer.PSPCL employees tried to pacify farmers, but they didn’t relent. As a result, no work could take place at the PSPCL offices. “We will not end our protest until the required power supply is ensured,” said Harjinder Singh, press secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Lehra block. Farmers are preparing for a long haul by making arrangements for food and tea and announcements on the public address system in various villages to mobilise more support.PSPCL Executive Engineer Kulraj Singh said the shortage of coal had created the power crisis in state. “Our department has been working round the clock to arrange required power for farmers. Since morning, no work has taken place in our offices as farmers have taken control of all PSPCL division and subdivision offices,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lehra-farmers-barge-into-powercom-offices-323782
13-10-2021||---||Punjab Govt’s non-serious approach behind shortage: SAD||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra today alleged the non-serious approach and administrative lapse of the state government was responsible for the present power crisis.He stressed by not raising the issue of the power crisis during his meeting with the Prime Minister, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi indicated the non-seriousness of his Government.Chandumajra said the Congress party and its government were embroiled in infighting for the top chair and they cared least about the power crisis. He said now the CM was writing letters to the PM after failing to take up the issue with him during his one-to-one meeting.The SAD leader also said Punjab was facing the coal crisis because Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is defaulter of Coal India Limited. He said the rules were clear on the supply of coal; those who paid in advance got priority, second slot was for those who mad immediate payment on delivery and third was for defaulters. He said Punjab was a defaulter state, so it was not getting priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govts-non-serious-approach-behind-shortage-sad-323783
13-10-2021||Jalandhar||After Sukhbir, Arvind Kejriwal visits Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar||Days after SAD chief Sukhbir Badal visited Devi Talab Mandir here, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal today paid obeisance at the temple this evening.With the Assembly elections round the corner, both leaders have chosen Navratras for the visit in a bid to woo the local Hindu community. The Hindu voter, especially from the trading class, is generally believed to be inclined towards the BJP. With the saffron party already facing the heat over the farmers’ protests in Delhi and Punjab, the recent backlash over the Lakhimpur Kheri killings has further dented party’s prospects in the elections, slated a few months from now.Kejriwal, who was received by local industrialist Sheetal Vij at the temple, sought the blessings of Sri Tripurmalini Shakti Peeth and addressed devotees at a pandal.“I am not here as a leader but as a common man to seek blessings. I have prayed for the prosperity and communal harmony of Punjab, Delhi and the country as a whole,” he said. He was flanked by AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann, state affairs incharge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, among others.Earlier, the security staff had a tough time controlling the crowd as a stampede-like situation prevailed on the temple premises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-sukhbir-arvind-kejriwal-visits-devi-talab-mandir-in-jalandhar-323784
13-10-2021||Sekhwan (Gurdaspur)||AAP full list of candidates for Punjab Assembly elections before Oct 31||AAP will make public its final list of remaining 38 candidates before October 31. This was stated by an aide of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal who today met the family of late SAD ex-minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan.The party has already announced its candidates on 79 seats. They have been designated as “halqa incharges”.In Gurdaspur district, which has a total of seven seats, AAP has already made public the names of five candidates. ‘Kejriwal today appealed to workers to fan out among the masses, particularly in the rural areas, to apprise them of the “party’s vision, plans and programmes”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-full-list-of-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-elections-before-oct-31-323786
13-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||If not victim, can’t file case under SC/ST Act sans legal opinion: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12In a significant judgment that will change the way the provisions of the SC/ST Act are misused by self-styled social activists, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made mandatory the opinion of District Attorney (Legal) before registering cases at the instance of a third party.Elderly couple gets anticipatory bailIt means that an FIR cannot be lodged by a third party, who is not the "victim", without obtaining legal opinion. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also directed the Punjab DGP to issue necessary instructions in this regard."Considering the fact that so-called social activists are misusing the provisions of the SC&ST Act, the DGP is directed to issue instructions to all SSPs in the districts that no FIR under the Act be registered at the instance of a third party, unless an opinion is sought from the District Attorney (Legal) that the complainant falls within the definition of victim," Justice Sangwan ruled.The matter was placed before Justice Sangwan's Bench after a senior citizen couple filed an anticipatory bail plea in an FIR registered on September 7 under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at the Rama Mandi police station in Jalandhar district.Justice Sangwan's Bench told that the petitioners' dispute was with their son, married to a girl belonging to SC/ST caste. Prior to his marriage, there was some private conversation between the petitioners on one side and their son and the would-be bride on the other. It was alleged that the petitioners used derogatory words against the would-be bride's community.The petitioners' counsel submitted they had disowned their son much prior to his marriage as he used to maltreat them. In a ploy to oust them from the house, the son uploaded the audio recording on his social media profile and three persons, claiming to be social activists in Jalandhar, got the FIR registered.Justice Sangwan asserted the petitioners were senior citizens without criminal antecedents. Admittedly, there was a property dispute between the petitioners on one side, and the son on the other. The FIR was registered by three persons, who were not "victims" in accordance with the provisions of the SC&ST Act and there was clear misuse of law.The bride had not lodged complaint against her parents-in-law, indicating that she was hopeful of getting things resolved. "Finding that none of the complainant has any locus standi to register the present FIR, the present petition is allowed and the petitioners are directed to be released on anticipatory bail on furnishing bail/surety bonds," Justice Sangwan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/if-not-victim-cant-file-case-under-sc-st-act-sans-legal-opinion-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-323787
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panel seeks report in SC assault case||Taking a dim view of the alleged assault on a Dalit family and molestation of a woman by the sarpanch and certain villagers over a piece of land at Assal Uttar village, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), on the directions of Chairman Vijay Sampla, has sent a notice to the Tarn Taran administration, asking officials to submit an action-taken report by October 22.The complainant said at least eight villagers along with some unidentified men allegedly assaulted his family on January 12. He had bought a house in the village in 2018. On January 12, eight suspects, along with 25 others, trespassed on the house to take its possession forcibly. The suspects allegedly tore the clothes of his wife and molested her. He further accused sarpanch Tarlochan Singh of passing casteist remarks. He accused Valtoha SHO Balwinder Singh and the Bhikhiwind DSP of not taking action against the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-seeks-report-in-sc-assault-case-323788
13-10-2021||Bathinda||Man linked to Assam terror outfit nabbed from Bathinda||The Bathinda police arrested a man linked with Assam’s Bodo Liberation Tigers Force, identified as Sanjay Bharao, along with his association, while he was preparing weapons in Bathinda. The police seized two fully prepared pistols, two partially prepared ones and material required in preparing arms.His associate Amrik Singh of Chotian village in Muktsar is said to be on the run and the police are conducting raids to arrest him. As per information, accused Sanjay Bharao was living with his associate Amrik Singh in a rented house at Model Town, Phase 1, for the last 25 days in Bathinda. He was an active member of Assam’s terror outfit Bodo Liberation Tigers Force. In 2003, around 3,000 members of the terror outfit had surrendered before the police.These days, Bharao was doing the work of plumbing along with Amrik in and around the Bathinda region. Earlier, Bharao used to prepare arms and supplies to the tiger force. The police were on high alert ahead of the arrival of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Bathinda on Dasehra. They received information that a person belonging to a terror outfit from Assam was manufacturing ammunition.In the preliminary inquiry, the suspect admitted that he wanted to manufacture and sell arms in Punjab. Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja is questioning the accused. The suspect is said to have lived in several other cities before.DSP Aswant Singh said Bharao used to work for a security agency. His fugitive accomplice Amrik Singh also worked as a security guard in Pune. Bharao came to Punjab with him and both started working as plumbers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-linked-to-assam-terror-outfit-nabbed-from-bathinda-323789
13-10-2021||---||Ropar soldier had carried farmers' flag at his recent marriage; now, his body returns wrapped in Tricolour||Tribune News ServiceRopar, October 12‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ — a slogan given by ex-PM Lal Bahadur Shastri to motivate soldiers and farmers to protect the nation from Pakistan onslaught and overcome food scarcity — was followed by the family of martyr Gajjan Singh in letter and spirit.Sepoy Gajjan Singh, youngest among four sons of Charan Singh of nearby Pachranda village, was the first person in the farmer family to join the forces six years ago. His father and three brothers still work as farmers on their small landholding.A pall of gloom descended on the village ever since the news of his martyrdom during a gunfight with terrorists in Poonch reached his home. Hundreds of people from the area, including local MLA Amarjeet Singh Sandoa, former Cabinet Minister Daljit Singh Cheema, Ropar DC Sonali Giri and SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, visited the aggrieved family today. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is likely to attend his funeral tomorrow.While his newly married wife was inconsolable, father Charan Singh with his choked throat was finding it difficult to even talk to visitors.“Gajjan was a farmer at heart and used to work with me like his elder brothers in the fields. But, he always used to talk about joining the Army. His dream finally came true six years ago and it also helped in improving the economic condition of the family,” said Charan Singh.When he came home in February for marriage, the farmers’ protest against the three agricultural laws was at its peak and he was pained to see the plight of his brethren squatting on roads during winter, he said.“Expressing his solidarity with the protesting farmers, Gajjan not only carried the flag of the Kirti Kisan Morcha, but also walked around the village with his newlywed wife immediately after returning home with the marriage party to register his protest against the farm laws,” Charan Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-soldier-had-carried-farmers-flag-at-his-recent-marriage-now-his-body-returns-wrapped-in-tricolour-323790
13-10-2021||---||Protesters, cops clash near Punjab CM house in Morinda; DSP among 4 hurt||Tribune News ServiceMorinda, October 12Thousands of Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC) members reaching here to demand rights on different lands in the state allegedly attacked police personnel with stones and lathis here today. At least four cops, including a DSP, suffered injuries.Following this, the police resorted to a mild lathicharge. It was in the afternoon when nearly 5,000 members of the committee reached the town in private buses and other vehicles to give a memorandum of demands to the Chief Minister. The committee has been demanding allotment of plots to landless Dalits in villages and rights to people already occupying rural land. The committee members claim that Dalits, who comprise 33 per cent of the state population, got hardly two per cent of the land.The protesters reaching Morinda started moving towards the residence of the CM. They, however, were stopped by the police on the way. The district administration officials accepted the memorandum of demands from the protesters and assured them a meeting with the Revenue Minister. The protesters, however, insisted on meeting the CM. When the officials failed in assuring them a meeting with the CM, they allegedly started hurling stones at cops and many of them could be seen using rods of flags to thrash policemen. The police resorted to lathicharge to disperse them.SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said four cops, including DSP Gurdev Singh, suffered minor injuries. Ropar DC Sonali Giri said the administration has promised a meeting of the committee members with the CM on October 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-cops-clash-near-punjab-cm-house-in-morinda-dsp-among-4-hurt-323791
13-10-2021||---||Behbal firing: Give challan papers to accused: Court||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 12After a six-month 'tussle' between former SSP Charanjit Sharma, an accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case, and the prosecution over the supply of some documents, the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, has directed the prosecution to provide these documents to Sharma.No hope for justice: Victims’ kinOn April 2, 2021, Sharma had moved an application demanding copies of three supplementary challans presented by the police against accused Paramraj Singh Umranangal, Sumedh Singh Saini, Bikramjit Singh, Amarjit Singh Kular, Suhail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal.While Charanjit Sharma claimed he was not supplied any documents which were required for preparation of the case, the public prosecutor for the state claimed the copies of the documents were already supplied to the accused. Rather, the accused was moving one after another application only to delay the trial, alleged the prosecution.The only motive of and intention of the accused to submit the application was to cause a delay in the trial. By moving such an application, he was creating hurdles in the smooth trial of the case and delivery of justice, the prosecution alleged.However, Sharma said as all the challans in the cases were interconnected and there were allegations of conspiracy and abetment against all the accused, all the further evidence collected by the investigating agency was part and parcel of the said supplementary challans, and the accused were entitled to get the copies of supplementary challans. Sharma had demanded the court to direct the prosecution to supply him 27 documents which were part of the supplementary challans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-firing-give-challan-papers-to-accused-court-323793
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tracking system to cover private buses: Warring||Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring on Tuesday announced that the newly launched vehicle tracking system (VTS) will be further extended to all private buses operating in the state.Real-time monitoringThe vehicle tracking system monitors buses in real-time. It checks over-speeding of buses, overnight stay, stoppage at places other than designated stops, etc. — Amrinder Raja Warring, Transport ministerReviewing the functioning of the Bus Tracking System Monitoring and Control Room at the head office of Punjab Roadways and PUNBUS, Raja Warring said the performance of buses of private operators wasn’t satisfactory in terms of safety; hence vehicle tracking system will be installed in private buses as well. The minister also rang up depot general managers, drivers and conductors randomly to check the working of the system.The Transport Minister said the system had been implemented in 1,450 buses of PUNBUS/Punjab Roadways so far. The system ensures transparent and time-bound travelling of buses and security of women with availability of panic buttons. He said the tracking system was checking over-speeding of buses, harsh braking and acceleration, overnight stay, stoppage at places other than designated stops, stay of buses on dhabas for more than 25 minutes, route diversion, bypassing cities, missing stops, real-time monitoring of arrival and departure of buses from counters, actual travel distance of buses, etc.Meanwhile, with petrol and diesel prices surging to a record high at Rs 105 and Rs 95.16 per litre respectively, traders under the banner of Punjab Beopar Mandal have urged the Centre and the state government to work in a coordinated manner to reduce taxes on fuel prices and provide them some relief. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tracking-system-to-cover-private-buses-warring-323794
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Small operators seek relief in road tax dues||With diesel prices skyrocketing to Rs 96 per litre, small scale bus operators have sought relief in road tax dues.The demand comes in the wake of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring going in an overdrive mode by impounding buses of private operators defaulting in payment of road tax, running on unapproved routes or resorting to other violations under the Motor Vehicles Act. After the drive, private bus operators such as Orbit, Dadwali and Jujjhar have started depositing the tax.In a letter to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the small scale bus operators have sought relief of the motor vehicle from January 2021 to March 2022, reimbursement of fare for allowing free travel to women in private buses on the pattern of the state transport undertaking buses and allowing fair play by revising bus route timetable to encourage healthy competition.Warring said a proposal to give the relief in motor vehicle tax was being prepared and it would be forwarded to the Chief Minister for approval.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/small-operators-seek-relief-in-road-tax-dues-323796
13-10-2021||Ravneet Singh||Bungling case: Records of Punjabi varsity research scholars under lens||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 12In what has come out as a major case of bungling of Punjabi University’s UGC-related scholarship funds, records of all research scholars admitted since 2014 are now under police scanner.The police, during a press conference held on September 23, had claimed the bungled money could be over a crore, but sources say it could be much higher.The Patiala police have collected important finance-related documents from the university. Officials said the university collected records of all its research scholars admitted since 2014 and provided these to the police for investigation. The information includes bank account numbers, schemes under which the scholarship funds are provided to the scholar, fellowship amount and HRA of research scholars. Insiders said those involved in the scam credited multiple transactions into various bank accounts over a span of years, the details of which will be revealed after each one is properly scanned. Vice Chancellor Prof Arvind said, “We have provided the police all records of research scholars admitted since 2014 as per their demands. They have also collected some other information regarding the university’s finances.” He said apart from names of 17 people that were provided to the police by the university, no new names or any other information had been shared by the police with the university yet. Urban Estate SHO Ronnie Singh said the university was slow in providing information. He said the police would differentiate among genuine and fake scholars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bungling-case-records-of-punjabi-varsity-research-scholars-under-lens-323797
13-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||FCI to test age of milled rice stock||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12The Food Corporation of India has asked its field staff to check all consignments of rice handed over to them for the central pool and ensure old stocks are not being recycled and passed on to them as rice milled from this season’s paddy.How it will workEight nabbed for smuggling paddyPunjab Police have registered eight FIRs against 16 persons for attempting to sell their produce in the state, since the start of procurement on October 3. The police have also arrested eight persons after seizing 7,260 quintals of paddy or rice, besides impounding seven vehicles or trucks3 vehicles seizedThe Ropar police on Tuesday seized three tractor-trailers ferrying paddy illegally from Himachal Pradesh to Punjab at Kiratpur SahibAll field officers have been instructed to examine consignments as per the specifications of the Government of India. All lots of custom milled rice are to be tested to determine the age of milled raw rice stocks.The move follows the malpractices adopted by some rice millers, who procure cheaper rice meant for the public distribution system from states such as Bihar and UP and pass it on as custom milled rice to the FCI.These millers are in cahoots with commission agents, who make bogus purchases and pocket the MSP of paddy. Since bogus purchase has been made, they have to turn the rice (from the paddy shown to be bought) back to the FCI, which is done by passing off old rice stocks.Owing to this, the paddy purchased in the state last year stood at 203 lakh metric tonnes, almost 20 per cent higher than the crop produced.Though the state government has raised the vigil to stop bogus billing and recycling of rice, the FCI, too, has decided to use scientific methods “to stop falling prey to unscrupulous traders”. “We have started training our field staff on how to check samples using mixed indicator method. From each consignment, five grams of sample will be taken for age determination, where a sample giving a green colour only will be accepted. The remaining samples will be rejected,” a top officer in FCI told The Tribune.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fci-to-test-age-of-milled-rice-stock-323799
13-10-2021||Muktsar||Farmers burn FM’s effigy over relief||Farmers lodging indefinite protest outside the residence of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Tuesday burnt his effigy over his stoic silence.Agitating farmers said their protest has entered eighth day today, but the Finance Minister has not uttered a single word so far.Notably, farmers from five districts — Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Faridkot – have been demanding Rs 60,000 per acre compensation for the damage to cotton crop due to pink bollworm. Besides, they have been seeking Rs 30,000 relief for every labourer family.The state government has invited farmers to hold a meeting with senior officers in Chandigarh on October 13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-burn-fms-effigy-over-relief-323800
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||MLAs meet CM, flag  graft, high power tariff||At the first meeting of Congress MLAs convened by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, the legislators underscored the need to ensure that pro-people initiatives to improve government’s governance were visible on the ground.Akalis hail ‘lal dora’ decisionThe meeting was held under the gaze of AICC observer Harish Chaudhary.At the day-long meetings attended by MLAs from Mohali, Ropar, Jalandhar, Hoshairpur, Amritsar, Pathankot, Faridkot, Tarn Taran besides others, the legislators stressed the need for lowering the prevailing high power tariff for consumers other than economically weaker sections (EWS).Problems being faced by the common man in dealing with matters related to urban local bodies, ranging from delay in clearing of layout plans to CLUs and rampant corruption in tehsil offices were flagged by MLAs.It was pointed out that after the ban on issuance of NOCs for registration of properties, corruption in the Revenue department had gone up.It was also demanded that a meeting of the MLAs representing the urban areas be called so that issues pertaining to the Local Government department were taken up on a priority basis.Though the state government did not issue any statement regarding the meeting, the CM on his Twitter handle said it was decided to hold Suwidha camps at the local level where the district administration would redress grievances on the spot.A party leader said the meeting had been called by the CM to have first-hand information about the issues and demands specific to each constituency. Officials present at the meeting were asked to note down the issues raised by each MLA. Based on the feedback, the future strategy would be devised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mlas-meet-cm-flag-graft-high-power-tariff-323801
13-10-2021||Barnala||Barnala district to have more polling stations for 2022||On the directions of the Election Commission of India, polling stations in Barnala district have been rationalised for the forthcoming 2022 elections following the policy of limiting 1,200 voters per station in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Following this, the polling stations of Assembly constituencies 102 Bhadaur (SC), 103 Barnala and 104 Mehal Kalan (SC) were verified and rationalised. After getting due permission from the EC, 64 new polling stations have been added to existing 494 and the number has increased to 558.As per constituency-wise details in 102 Bhadaur (SC) constituency, there were 162 polling stations and seven have been added. Similarly, in 103 Barnala constituency, there were 167 polling stations and 45 new have been added. In 104 Mehal Kalan constituency, there were 165 polling stations and 12 have been added.Some officials said besides this, as per the EC guidelines, special electoral revision is being done. The revision shall be done from November 1, 2021 to November 30, 2021. Claims and objections are invited from all three Assembly constituencies regarding voter revision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-district-to-have-more-polling-stations-for-2022-323802
13-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Parties ‘targeting’ SAD under guise of farm protest||Congress and AAP workers have been protesting in the guise of farmers to target Akali leaders, said SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal here today.Addressing a rally at Pandori Khajoor village here in support of BSP’s joint Hoshiarpur candidate Varinder Singh Parihar, Sukhbir targeted the Congress saying party’s Dalit Chief Minister card would not improve the lives of the downtrodden.CM Charanjit Singh Channi was a Cabinet minister in the Capt Amarinder Singh government when the Scheduled Caste student scholarship scam came to light, he said.On the eviction of Sikh families in Shilling, he said the SAD would not allow them go homeless. Meanwhile, former minister Balbir Singh Miani returned to the SAD fold. He along with colleagues joined the party in Sukhbir’s presence. During the last Assembly elections, Miani had quit the SAD to join the Congress. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-targeting-sad-under-guise-of-farm-protest-323803
13-10-2021||Bathinda||6 qtl spurious sweets seized||Health officials seized around six quintal sweets from three vehicles in Mansa.The recovered sweets included 1.2 quintal gulab jamun, 1 quintal rasgulla, 75 kg laddu kesar, 15 kg laddu, 1.8 quintal barfi, 8 kg dhodda, 30 kg barfi, 30 kg of patisa, etc, which were to be supplied by Surinderpal and Lovepreet Kumar to villages near Mansa. The team took samples of these sweets, which have been sent to a government lab in Kharar for investigation. District Health Officer Jaswinder Singh said he had received a tip-off that vehicles with adulterated sweets were parked in Mansa. “Three vehicles loaded with sweets have been seized,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-qtl-spurious-sweets-seized-323804
13-10-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to open hospital in Jalandhar||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will open a super-specialty hospital in Jalandhar.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said a Sikh devotee, Joginder Singh, has donated 26 kanals for developing the hospital. “This hospital will be dedicated to Guru Ramdas and the construction will begin soon,” she said.Regarding the events related to Parkash Purb of Guru Ramdas on October 22, she said nagar kirtan would start from Akal Takht and pass through the old city and culminate at the Golden Temple. Like every year, ‘raag darbar’ and ‘kirtan samagam’ would be organised on the night of October 21. On October 22, jalau (grandeur) would be decorated at the Golden Temple, Akal Takht and gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-open-hospital-in-jalandhar-323805
13-10-2021||Amritsar||Hindus celebrate Navratras in Kabul||Amid uncertainty over their lives and property under the Taliban regime, the minority Hindu community in Afghanistan observed Navratras at the ancient Asamai temple in Kabul today. They were joined by members of the Sikh and Christian communities.The temple is located in central Kabul, at the foothill of a mountain referred to as Koh-i-Asamai, named after Goddess Asha (Goddess of hope). Legend goes that the ‘akhand jyoti’ (eternal flame) has been burning there uninterrupted for over 4,000 years.The congregation urged the Indian Government for their early evacuation due to acute economic and social hardship faced by them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hindus-celebrate-navratras-in-kabul-323807
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP questions SKM's call to burn effigies of PM Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah on Dasehra||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to burn effigies of PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP leaders on Dasehra has brought the saffron party and morcha at loggerheads once again.In the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri killings, SKM leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal had given a call to farmers to burn BJP leaders’ effigies on October 15.BJP’s state general secretary Subhash Sharma said targeting a political party and holding demonstrations on a religious occasion reflected insensitivity on part of certain farm unions. In a letter to the DGP, Sharma has sought an FIR against those who were “deliberately and maliciously trying to hurt the religious sentiments of the community”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-questions-skms-call-to-burn-effigies-of-pm-modi-home-minister-amit-shah-on-dasehra-323809
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu called to Delhi to discuss party matters||In an apparent bid to quell speculations about the Congress likely to accept the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Pradesh Congress Committee chief, AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal has called the cricketer-turned-politician to Delhi on October 14 for discussion on organisational matters pertaining to the state party unit.Sharing the information on Twitter this evening, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat said Sidhu would be meeting Venugopal and him for a discussion on Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee organisational matters at the former’s office in New Delhi. The meeting comes ahead of the CWC meeting on October 16.Sources said the party brass, upset over Sidhu’s sudden move to resign, is likely to tell him to concentrate on forming and strengthening the state body unit.Sidhu has been called after AICC observer Harish Chaudhary, who had been camping in Chandigarh, recently submitted his report on the Punjab Congress crisis to top party leaders in Delhi.Sidhu had announced his resignation as PPCC chief on Twitter on September 28 over supposed differences with Punjab CM Charanjit Channi on the appointments of Advocate General and DGP and the reinduction of certain ministers.Till now, there has been no word from the party leadership about the fate of his resignation.Only yesterday Rawat on being asked about Sidhu’s resignation said: “What resignation? We have not seen any resignation. We have only read about it in newspapers.”Recently, Sidhu was at the forefront in Lakhimpur Kheri, demanding action against Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish. “The leadership also wants to listen to his grievances. The issues being raised by him are relevant, but the timing and manner in which they’re raised have not only caused embarrassment to the leadership but have also given an opportunity to his detractors to question his appointment as the state party chief,” said a senior leader privy to the development.It is learnt that a strong lobby in the Punjab Congress wants Sidhu’s resignation to be accepted. The party leadership, however, wants to retain him as after dethroning Capt Amarinder as CM any adverse move on Sidhu could damage the party prospects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-called-to-delhi-to-discuss-party-matters-323776
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Proud of my husband: Wife of Gurdaspur soldier killed in Poonch gunfight||“I am proud of my husband. He laid down his life for the country,” says Mandeep Kaur, wife of Naik Mandeep Singh, who was among the five soldiers killed in a fierce gunfight with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Monday.Kaur, who last spoke to her husband on phone on Sunday, said she couldn’t have imagined that they would never get to talk to each other again.Mandeep, 30, hailed from Chhatha Shira village in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district. Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh and Sepoy Gajjan Singh, who were also killed in the operation in Poonch’s Surankote also hailed from Punjab.The mortal remains of the three soldiers will reach their respective hometowns on Wednesday. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is expected to attend the cremation of one of the soldiers, according to officials.Mandeep is survived by his wife and two sons. While his elder son is 3 years old, the younger one is only a month old.Relatives and villagers gathered at Mandeep’s residence on Tuesday to mourn his death.Similar scenes were witnessed at the houses of Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh and Sepoy Gajjan Singh.Gajjan, 27, was a resident of Pachranda village in Rupnagar district. Youngest of four brothers, he got married in February this year.Gajjan was expected to come home on Wednesday, his family members said.But on Monday the family was informed that he was killed in an encounter with terrorists, his elder brother Amarjit Singh said.Jaswinder, 39, belonged to Mana Talwandi village in Kapurthala district.His elder brother Rajinder Singh, a retired Armyman, said Jaswinder had joined the Army at the age of 18.He said their father, Captain (honorary) Harbhajan Singh, was also in the Army. He died of Covid-19 a few months back.In 2006, Jaswinder was awarded the Sena Medal.Jaswinder is survived by his wife Sukhpreet Kaur (35), daughter Harnoor Kaur (11) and son Vikramjit Singh (13).Meanwhile, Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit expressed profound grief over the soldiers’ death and offered his deepest condolences to their families.The state government had on Monday announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh and a government job each for the families of the three soldiers. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proud-of-my-husband-wife-of-gurdaspur-soldier-killed-in-poonch-gunfight-323664
13-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu to meet Harish Rawat, KC Venugopal on Thursday||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is scheduled to meet All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) on Thursday to discuss “organisational matters related to Punjab”, the party said on Tuesday.“Sh. Navjot Singh Sidhu, President Punjab Congress will be meeting me and Sh. Venugopal ji for discussion on certain organisational matters pertaining to Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee at Venugopal ji's office on 14th October at 6 PM,” Harish Rawat, AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab affairs, said in a tweet.This comes a fortnight after Sidhu resigned as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief, a position he fought hard for only three months ago.  Congress hasn’t accepted his resignation yet.  It also comes amid reports of ongoing tensions between cricketer-politician Sidhu and Punjab's new chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi. The party has so far dismissed these reports as rumours.Sidhu took over as Punjab Congress chief in July at the end of a long power tussle between him and former chief minister Amarinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-to-meet-harish-rawat-kc-venugopal-on-thursday-323623
