14-10-2021||---||Sidharth Chattopadhyaya appointed Punjab Vigilance Bureau director||Chandigarh, October 14The Punjab government on Thursday appointed DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya as new Director, Vigilance Bureau.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was reportedly backing his appointment as Punjab DGP -- head of police force.It seems a compromise has been reached within the warring groups within the Congress on Chattopadhyaya's posting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidharth-chattopadhyaya-appointed-punjab-vigilance-bureau-director-324562
14-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC to hear Punjab drugs case on day-to-day basis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday made clear its intent to go through sealed cover reports in the Punjab drug menace case before the matter came up for resumed hearing after about 10 days.The Bench also made it clear that the case would be heard on a day-to-day basis.Taking up the case on the last working day before the Dussehra break, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma observed it would examine the report during the vacation before taking up the case again on October 26.State’s advocate general APS Deol, senior counsel Anupam Gupta and advocate Navkiran Singh — appearing for different parties — had earlier told the Bench that the issue of opening of sealed cover reports could be taken up on priority.Deol’s argument was that taking up the issue of opening the reports on priority could enable the State’s prosecution agencies to proceed in accordance with the law.The submissions came more than eight years after the High Court took suo motu cognisance of retired IPS officer Shashi Kant’s letter underscoring drug menace in Punjab and requesting judicial scrutiny in the matter.The former top cop, during the resumed hearing of the matter, submitted that the opening of sealed cover reports was not relevant at present — a stand that failed to find favour with other counsel, who insisted it would be “a total tragedy”.Appearing before the Bench, a senior counsel on Kant’s behalf submitted that there were several other issues that the Court was required to focus on. Expressing complete disagreement with Kant’s stand, senior advocate Anupam Gupta said: “There may be million other issues in this case, but the principal issue would be opening of sealed cover reports as it relates to the culpability of people in high places. If the sealed report is not opened, it would be a total tragedy. The dominant issue would be culpability of people in high political places.”Strongly advocating the opening of sealed cover by the Bench, Gupta said the court may agree or disagree with the contents of the report, but it should be opened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-to-hear-punjab-drugs-case-on-day-to-day-basis-324561
14-10-2021||---||NGOs educate farmers against stubble burning||Chandigarh, October 11As paddy harvest begins in Punjab, residents of the entire North India are keeping their fingers crossed, hoping that the stubble burning would be less and people would breathe easy (literally).Besides the efforts being made by the state government, a number of NGOs too have joined hands to create awareness about ill effects of stubble burning and new techniques for managing stubble in the limited time period of 20-40 days, when paddy is harvested and fields have to be readied for the next wheat sowing.To address the challenge of stubble burning, Roots Foundation, a social enterprise, working closely with the farming community - today announced this Sensitisation and Training Programme for farmers of Punjab and Haryana.The foundation, which has been working with more than 2 lakhs farmers in the region since 2017 on promoting various good agriculture practices, in association with experts from Wazir Advisers and Agriculture Universities, aims to encourage farmers not to burn stubble. Ritwit Bahuguna, founder, Roots Foundation said, “We aim to create awareness of various technology interventions, government schemes and subsidies to eradicate stubble burning, and go one step ahead to train farmers in alternate methods of disposal. Under the programme, our experts focus on the use of a mix of in-situ (on the field) and ex-situ (off the field) practices. In in-situ our focus has been on promoting use of happy seeders and Pusa Decomposer whereas, in ex-situ, emphasis is on linking farmers to markets.”Besides, Roots Foundation, Ambuja Cement Foundation, too, is working on creating awareness about the ill effects of stubble burning.Talking to The Tribune, Manov Maity, area programme manager, said they were working with hundreds of thousands of farmers across Malwa region of Punjab, trying to convince them not to burn stubble, but go in for its management.“We have been asking farmers to go in for custom hiring of machines, so that they are not financially burdened. Early maturing varieties of paddy, which generate less stubble and also allow more time to farmers to clear stubble in a scientific manner are recommended by our experts. To create a lasting impression, graffiti against stubble burning is also being done in walls of villages,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngos-educate-farmers-against-stubble-burning-324554
14-10-2021||Muktsar||Farmers gherao Manpreet Badal’s residence; demand compensation for damage of cotton crop||Farmers on Thursday gheraoed Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s residence at Badal village from the rear as well.Earlier, they were lodging protest at the front of his residence.Meanwhile, their indefinite protest has entered 10th day today. Their talks with the state government had failed yesterday. They are demanding Rs 60,000 per acre compensation for the farmers for the damage of cotton crop due to pink bollworm in five districts of Malwa region.Besides, they are demanding Rs 30,000 relief for every farm labourer family. The state government had however told their five-member delegation on Wednesday that it can maximum give Rs 12,000 per acre relief to the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gherao-manpreet-badals-residence-demand-compensation-for-damage-of-cotton-crop-324526
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police detain Sukhbir Badal, other SAD leaders as they try to gherao Punjab Governor’s house||Chandigarh Police on Thursday detained SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other leaders as they wanted to gherao the Punjab Governor’s house.The SAD leaders were protesting against the Centre’sChandigarh Police detain Sukhbir Badal. orders to extend the jurisdiction of BSF in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chandigarh-police-detain-sukhbir-badal-other-sad-leaders-as-they-try-to-gherao-punjab-governors-house-324515
14-10-2021||---||Case filed against woman who was sent abroad by husband, but refused to sponsor latter||Ludhiana, October 13A woman, sent abroad by her husband by spending lakhs of rupees, allegedly dumped the latter. The woman and her father have been booked for fraud under Section 420 of the IPC.As per ane agreement, woman had to sponsor her husband after reaching the foreign land butshe backtracked.The accused woman has been identified as Issa of Christian Colony, Batala. Her father Sehbaz has also been made accused in the case.Complainant Imanual Bhatti of Dakha told the police that his son Akashdeep got married to Issa in February 2020. “The marriage was solemnised on the condition that the entire expenses of Issa’s study would be borne by Akashdeep’s family. After marriage, Issa went to Australia on study visa and Akashdeep’s parents sent over Rs 14 lakh to Issa for her study expenses.”“Although Issa had sent sponsorship for Akashdeep, but later she forced him to withdraw the visa application. She even had heated arguments with Akashdeep, following which she herself stopped the process of visa,” alleged the complainant.Investigation officer ASI Baljit Singh said a case of fraud was registered Issa and her father under Section 420 of the IPC yesterday and further probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/case-filed-against-woman-who-was-sent-abroad-by-husband-but-refused-to-sponsor-latter-324357
14-10-2021||Jalandhar||Will end red tape, inspector raj: Kejriwal to Punjab bizmen||A day after paying obeisance at Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today laid out a red carpet for industrialists with his 10 promises to traders and businessmen for the development and uplift of industry ahead of the 2022 elections.Promising 24-electricity, end of ‘goonda’ tax, red tape and inspector raj, VAT refund to businessmen, end of CLU (change of land use) hassles and emphasis on MSMEs among other doles for industry, the Delhi CM made the declarations during a programme titled ‘Kejriwal’s talk with traders and businessmen’ at Bath Castle in Jalandhar.Nearly 500 industrialists from Jalandhar’s sports, leather, pipe-fitting, hand tools and other industries were present at the event.In an initiative pegged to project AAP as the saviour of the trade community, Kejriwal said, “You have tried the Congress-Captain and the Badals, now give us a chance. We don’t need funds from businessmen, we just need support.”The 10 promises also included 24-hour power supply for the industry, upgrade of infrastructure, strengthening of law and order and emphasis on small traders and MSMEs.Kejriwal said, “If there is an honest CM and Cabinet at the top, I can challenge that the entire structure below will be alright. We did this in Delhi. Old laws will be rectified and unnecessary ones will be scrapped. A system will be built wherein existing industries need not waste time over government and will be able to invest their time in business.”Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party faced protests from farmers after a party worker’s husband allegedly abused farmers who were protesting outside Kejriwal’s meeting venue in Jalandhar.Farmers blocked the road while squatting on the highway and also tore party posters erected at the site. The police apprehended the man. The party, however, denied that abusive language was used against farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-end-red-tape-inspector-raj-kejriwal-to-punjab-bizmen-324127
14-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu adamant on 18-point agenda, Delhi meeting today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Ahead of his meeting with AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat in New Delhi tomorrow, Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today indicated he won’t compromise on key issues concerning the state that he had raised.PCC chief Raises key demandsCompounding problems for the party high command that wants to bring Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on the same page ahead of the Assembly elections expected early next year, the PPCC chief took to Twitter today to remind the government about the 18-point agenda. He also pointed out “pending” action on the report submitted by the special task force (STF) in the multi-crore drug racket case linked to political bigwigs.Sharing on Twitter a video of his interaction with his media team, the cricketer-turned-politician stressed he was “firm on his stand on these issues”. His media team also said the PPCC president would continue to serve the party “without compromising on these issues as well as his ethics”.‘No compromise on issues’Sharing on Twitter a video of his interaction with his media team, the cricketer-turned-politician stressed he was “firm on his stand on these issues”. His media team said the PPCC chief would continue to serve the party “without compromising on these issues and his ethics”.In the video, Sidhu is heard talking about the need for efforts towards “stopping the loot of Punjab’s money, which was going into private hands; increasing thestate’s revenue, generating employment, ending mafia raj, raising the income of farmers through crop diversification and opposing the central farm legislations”.Though Rawat, in a tweet yesterday, had pointed out that organisational matters related to the PPCC were to be discussed, Sidhu has again flagged the issues of “delay in justice in sacrilege and police firing cases and action in drug-trafficking case.A senior leader privy to the development said the party leadership wanted clarity from Sidhu on what exactly he wanted after he posted his resignation on Twitter on September 28. The high command is likely to tell him to concentrate on forming and strengthening the state unit, besides listening to his viewpoint on the issues raised by him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-adamant-on-18-point-agenda-delhi-meeting-today-324128
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hold ‘suvidha camps’: Punjab CM Channi to legislators||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has asked MLAs to organise ‘suvidha camps’ with the help of district administrations for quick redressal of people’s grievances in order to instill their confidence in the state governance.The Chief Minister held one-on-one detailed interactions with nearly 60 MLAs to gather feedback from them regarding various development and welfare schemes being implemented in their Assembly segments during an ongoing two-day brainstorming session.Responding to various issues raised by the MLAs, the Chief Minister assured them of prompt redressal of grievances on priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-suvidha-camps-punjab-cm-channi-to-legislators-324129
14-10-2021||---||Tearful adieu to soldiers killed in J&K||Ropar, October 13The mortal remains of Sepoy Gajjan Singh were cremated at Pachranda village here today in the presence of thousands of people.Gajjan Singh (27) of the 16 RR Battalion of Sikh Regiment, along with four others, was martyred during a gunfight with terrorists in Surankote area of Poonch in Jammu on Monday.Also read: Ropar soldier Gajjan Singh had carried farmers' flag at his recent marriage; now, his body returns wrapped in TricolourChief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Speaker Rana KP Singh were among the pallbearers. Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghubir Singh, local MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa, former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, former Cabinet Minister Daljit Singh Cheema and Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon also attended the cremation.Earlier, the sepoy’s mortal remains were received by hundreds of Kirti Kisan Morcha volunteers at Kahanpur Khui before being taken to his home.Also read: Naik Mandeep’s mother among pallbearersGrandson too will join Army, says Naib Subedar Jaswinder’s motherAfter the funeral procession reached the cremation site, the CM and the Speaker took the body to the pyre, where wreaths were laid on it by politicians, Army officers, police officers and civil servants. Following this, an Army contingent gave a gun salute as the sepoy’s father Charan Singh, along with his grandson and the Chief Minister, lit the pyre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tearful-adieu-to-soldiers-killed-in-jk-324130
14-10-2021||Chatha (Gurdaspur)||Naik Mandeep’s mother among pallbearers||Naik Mandeep Singh’s body was cremated with full state honours at his native village Chatha on Wednesday. Hundreds of people turned up to pay their last respects to the martyr, killed in a militant attack in Poonch.Also read: Tearful adieu to soldiers killed in J&KGrandson too will join Army, says Naib Subedar Jaswinder’s motherRopar soldier had carried farmers' flag at his recent marriage; now, his body returns wrapped in TricolourHis mother, Manjit Kaur, was inconsolable, and so were the soldier’s wife and brothers. But when the moment arrived to take her son’s body on its last journey, the mother jumped the queue and was one among the pallbearers. Later, she saluted the body before it was consigned to the flames.A contingent of the 19th Sikh reversed arms and fired shots in the air as a mark of respect.His wife, Mandeep Kaur, tried to put up a brave face while speaking about the future of her sons— Mantaj (4) and 38-days-old Gurkirat.The Army also handed over a T-shirt inscribed with ‘Mandy-22’ to the family. Mandeep used to wear it while playing football for his unit. His colleagues said he was good at both football and basketball and had brought many laurels to his unit.The Punjab Government was represented by Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa while DC Mohammad Ishfaq laid wreaths on behalf of the Lok Sabha Speaker and the Governor. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who hails from Gurdaspur, sent in a condolence message. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/naik-mandeeps-mother-among-pallbearers-324131
14-10-2021||Kapurthala||Grandson too will join Army, says Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh’s mother||Putting up a brave face, Manjit Kaur remained determined not to shed a tear as the body of her younger son, Sena Medal awardee Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh, reached his native village Mana Talwandi in Bholath this morning. Jaswinder was martyred in a militant attack in Poonch on Monday.Also read:Tearful adieu to soldiers killed in J&KNaik Mandeep’s mother among pallbearersRopar soldier had carried farmers' flag at his recent marriage; now, his body returns wrapped in TricolourWhile thousands of people bid a final adieu to the braveheart with moist eyes, Manjit Kaur was heard telling everyone that she was proud of her son’s sacrifice. “My son’s martyrdom does not shake my resolve to prepare my grandson Vikramjit Singh (13) for the Indian Army. In fact, my resolve got stronger today. He too will follow the footsteps of his father, grandfather and paternal and maternal uncles, all of whom have served the armed forces”.The martyr’s son and daughter Harnoor (11) wore proud smiles on their faces as they laid a wreath and saluted their father before the cremation.SGPC chief Jagir Kaur announced to sponsor the children’s education. Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, SSP Harkamalpreet Khakh and Army officials also paid tributes to the martyr. The last rites were performed with full military honours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/grandson-too-will-join-army-says-naib-subedar-jaswinder-singhs-mother-324132
14-10-2021||Aman Sood||Power crisis: Coal situation critical, 2-day stock left||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 13Even though Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is claiming improvement in availability of electricity, the coal stock at all thermal plants is at a critical level. The private and state-owned plants in the state have about two days of coal stock left.Punjab received 13 coal rakes against the total requirement of 22 on Tuesday. However, 52 more coal rakes are reportedly in transit and as such the persisting crisis may ease off in the coming days.PSPCL Chairman A Venu Prasad claimed power cuts had come down drastically in the past 24 hours with improved power availability and additional units supplying power. “Hopefully, the temporary power availability restrictions will go in a few days as coal stocks will improve. Besides, the state-owned thermal plant at Ropar and hydel project at Anandpur Sahib have started generation following repair, while a private thermal unit in GVK has also started producing power,” he said.However, to tide over the crisis, PSPCL has bought power at a higher rate from Tata Mundra-run private thermal power project, which last year stopped supplying electricity to the powercom citing non-viability, for a week.The PSPCL Chairman clarified that following the intervention of the Government of India, they agreed to buy 500 MW per day at a cost of Rs 4.50 per unit as against Rs 3 per unit for a few days only. The arrangement would not affect the terms of their agreement. “It is much better than buying at over Rs 13 from the power exchange,” Prasad said.The PSPCL has a share of 475 MW in the project’s total production capacity of 4,000 MW. As per the agreement, which was entered in 2007 and is valid for 25 years, the Mundra project will sell power to the state at around Rs 3 per unit.“PSPCL is buying power at around Rs 4 a unit. Also, solar power is costing around Rs 2 on an average. We are working on reducing power rates further. High power rates are a temporary phase,” Prasad said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-crisis-coal-situation-critical-2-day-stock-left-324133
14-10-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Industries on generators, operate at Rs 17 per unit||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 13Reeling under unscheduled power cuts, most industrial units are running on generators, which is costing them Rs 17 or even more per unit.Hand Tool Association president SC Ralhan said the unscheduled power cuts had hampered their operations. “If the authorities provide us the schedule, the industry can plan productions accordingly. Unscheduled power cuts of two to three hours disturb the entire planning of the day. The production is badly hit due to the erratic supply”, he rued.Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations (FOPSIA) president Badish Jindal said the continuous process industries were facing huge losses under the current circumstances.He said: “The industry is reeling under unscheduled power cuts of 3-5 hours daily. The cuts are causing huge production losses. The continuous process industries such as steel or plastic are unable to run because of the outages. This is increasing the cost of production and there is unrest among the workers as they are forced to sit idle for long hours.Already hit by Covid and farm protests, the power cuts may prove as final nail in the coffin of Punjab industries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/industries-on-generators-operate-at-rs-17-per-unit-324134
14-10-2021||Amritsar||SGPC launches anti-conversion drive||The rising rate of conversions, mostly Dalits opting for Christianity, has caused an alarm among the Sikh clergy with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) launching a special drive to curb the practice.The drive, ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal’, was launched on September 7 and 100 teams, each comprising seven preachers, were deputed for the rural belts of Majha, Malwa and Doaba.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “Our teams stay in each village for a week, connect the ‘sangat’ to Gurbani, Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ (code of conduct) as well as the Sikh history and principles. Free religious literature is also distributed.”A majority of these conversions were being reported from the rural and border belts of Ajnala, Majitha, Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Batala, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, said sources. Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh alleged that Christian missionaries had been running campaigns for forced conversions by luring the poor.Dalit and Minority Organisation president Dr Kashmir Singh, however, refused to believe the conversions were “forced”. He alleged both Giani Harpreet Singh and Bibi Jagir Kaur belonged to the reserved category, but could hardly take any steps to ensure “security, equality and dignity” of the sub-minorities in the Sikh community.“Mainly, the Dalit Mazhabi Sikhs are converting to Christianity. In return, they are offered free education, treatment, etc. The Dalit Sikhs were never given adequate representation in Sikh bodies,” he claimed. In rural belts, upper caste people often call for social boycott of Dalits even in gurdwaras, he said. “Some Sikh outfits even defy the Akal Takht’s directions on equality,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-launches-anti-conversion-drive-324135
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s security breached at his son's wedding, 4 suspended||Four police personnel, including an Inspector, have been suspended for alleged breach of CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s security at the ‘ladies sangeet’ ceremony during his son’s wedding on October 9.Inspector Sukhbir Singh, Jaskaran Singh, Darshan Singh and Satbir were on duty outside the venue, but they reportedly left the place and entered the room where the CM and his family were present. Sources said the cops were seen clicking pictures with the CM at the function. Mohali SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the cops had been “suspended for carelessness”.Tax on dutyChanni’s son Navjit Singh tied the knot at a gurdwara in Mohali on October 10. In an internal report prepared by the Police Department, it has been pointed out that a video footage showed the Inspector, posted in the CIA wing at Kharar, allegedly crossing the CM’s security cordon in an inebriated condition and coming close to the CM. No effort was made by the security personnel to stop him.Women police personnel deployed in civil dress were seen enjoying food and beverages inside the function. Even the personnel deployed at the gates had left their duty points before the function ended. Not only unidentified persons were seen approaching the CM’s vehicle, the commandos posted in the CM’s security were seen busy on their mobile phones and some others were seen on camera consuming alcohol. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cms-security-breached-at-his-sons-wedding-4-suspended-324136
14-10-2021||Abohar||3 held for abetting suicide||Drug suppliers bookedBathinda: The Bathinda police have identified suppliers in the incidents pertaining to death of three youths due to drug overdose and booked them under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC, which is a non-bailable offence. Manpreet Singh of Bir Talab, Kuldeep Singh of Bangiwander village and Birbal Singh of Bucho Mandi died due to drug overdose. TNS263 phones recoveredMansa: The police have recovered 263 mobile phones which were lost or stolen in recent years and handed over them to their original owners. Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav said, “A special team headed by SP (Headquarters), Mansa, Satnam Singh used advanced technology to successfully trace the stolen or lost mobile phones.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-held-for-abetting-suicide-324137
14-10-2021||Ropar||CM Charanjit Channi pays surprise visit to Ropar vendor’s house||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi gave a poor family a surprise when he knocked at their door in Nurpur Bedi here today.Channi, accompanied by Speaker Rana KP Singh, arrived in Nurpur Bedi for Poonch martyr Sepoy Gajjan Singh’s cremation. As he got down from the chopper, he was informed that he would have to wait for some time as there was a huge gathering at the martyr’s home. The CM, however, moved towards a small house near the helipad. House owner Gogi Kumar, a small vendor, offered tea to the guest, who spent nearly half an hour there.On Gogi’s request for a job to his daughter studying in Class XII, the CM promised to help and asked them to meet him after she completes her study. Channi also gave Rs 2,000 as ‘shagun’ to Gogi’s daughter before leaving. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-charanjit-channi-pays-surprise-visit-to-ropar-vendors-house-324138
14-10-2021||---||Giving BSF more powers attack on federalism, claim leaders||Chandigarh, October 13The Punjab Government and Opposition parties have condemned and opposed the Union Home Ministry’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force to 50 km from the International Border. The extension gives the BSF powers to search houses and carry out arrests with or without the operational involvement of the Punjab Police.Condemning the move, CM Charanjit Singh Channi said: “It is a direct attack on federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister Amit Shah to immediately roll back this irrational decision.”However, former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh supported the decision. “Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We are witnessing more weapons and drugs being pushed by Pakistan-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence and powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag central armed forces into politics. Partisan considerations can’t and shouldn’t dictate our stand on issues of national security,” he said.Roll back moveIt’s a direct attack on federalism... I urge Union Home Minister to immediately roll back this irrational decision. —Charanjit S Channi, CMCapt backs decisionThe BSF’s enhanced powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag CAPFs into politics. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Former chief ministerState govt handHighly unlikely that the Centre took the decision without the knowledge and consent of the state. —Sukhbir Badal, SAD chiefPradesh Congress Committee (PCC) former president Sunil Jakhar blamed the CM for allowing it. He said the CM had in his meeting with Amit Shah asked for sealing and strengthening of the International Border. “Be careful what you ask for! Has @CharanjitChanni unwittingly managed to hand over half of Punjab to the central govt… 25,000 sq km (of the total 50,000 sq km) has now been placed under the BSF jurisdiction (sic).”Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also oversees Home Affairs, said the policing in the hinterland was not the role of a border guarding force. The move would weaken the capacity of the BSF in discharging its primary duty of guarding the International Border.The SAD described the move as “the imposition of the President’s rule in nearly half of Punjab”. Party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said: “This virtually turns the state into a de facto Union Territory. This devious attempt to place the state directly under the central rule must and will be opposed.”Can search, arrest within 50-km areaThe Centre has extended the BSF’s jurisdiction to 50 km from the International Border, giving it powers to search houses and carry out arrests with or without the Punjab Police’s involvement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/giving-bsf-more-powers-attack-on-federalism-claim-leaders-324139
14-10-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court to consider timeline for hearing in drug case||Chandigarh, October 13More than three years after proceedings in the Punjab drug case came to a virtual standstill, the matter came up for effective hearing this afternoon with the Punjab and Haryana High Court making clear its intent to come out with a timeline for hearing the issues, including opening of the special task force report and extradition of the accused.The Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma fixed the next hearing for Thursday, the last working day before the High Court closes for the Dasehra break.Political connectAs the case came up for hearing for the first time before it, the Bench took up a 13-point synopsis , submitted by advocate Navkiran Singh. The synopsis, summing up the proceedings ever since the High Court took suo motu cognisance of the matterway back in September 2013, was submitted by Navkiran Singh on the previous date of hearing in the matter,underscoring drug menace in Punjab and requesting for judicial scrutiny.Navkiran Singh, among other things, called for the opening of reports submitted in the matter. One of the reports submitted in a sealed cover by the Punjab Government was gone through by the Bench in May 2018 before it was re-sealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-consider-timeline-for-hearing-in-drug-case-324140
14-10-2021||Bathinda||‘Harassed’, private hospitals to quit Ayushman plan||Private hospitals have threatened to exit en masse the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana-Ayushman Bharat Scheme in the state.Dr Vikas Chhabra, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Bathinda unit president, said, “Annoyed with problems being faced by empanelled hospitals, an emergency meeting of the IMA-Punjab was called on October 10. More than 300 doctors from all over Punjab, who have their hospitals empanelled under the scheme, along with IMA branch officials, attended it and submitted an authority letter for quitting the scheme en masse.” He alleged an insurance company and state government were responsible for the failure of the scheme in Punjab.Delay tactics?Hospitals claim the insurance firm is purposely delaying authorisation of casesDue to this, they say, patients are forced to wait for two-three days for start of treatmentThis leads to waste of resources and manpower, delayed claim settlement and unnecessary queries, they claimDr Vikas said, “The doctors agreed that in the rat race to grab the tender by all means, insurance companies filed proposals at such a low quotation that later, they had to manipulate things to sustain.”He claimed the previous insurance company decreased claims by getting 194 treatment modalities reserved only for government hospitals. The present company was also pressing upon the government to further reserve few more packages for government hospitals only. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harassed-private-hospitals-to-quit-ayushman-plan-324141
14-10-2021||Bathinda||Cut taxes on fuel, Punjab Beopar Mandal urges govt||Traders under the banner of the Punjab Beopar Mandal have urged the Centre and state government to coordinate and reduce taxes on petrol and diesel prices.Mandal senior vice-president Amarjit Mehta said apart from vehicle owners, the high fuel prices had impacted transportation, manufacturing and other sectors also. The hike in prices was directly impacting the prices of essential commodities and consumers were bearing the brunt.Hitting out at the state government, Mehta said, “We expect least from the Centre to provide relief to Punjab traders, but we are highly disappointed with the state government as fuel prices are at an all-time high. The state government has not made any effort to provide relief to residents and traders by cutting down fuel taxes from the state’s share”. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cut-taxes-on-fuel-punjab-beopar-mandal-urges-govt-324142
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||ADGP AS Rai is new Punjab Police Intelligence chief||ADGP Varinder Kumar has been posted as Director, Bureau of Investigation, while ADGP AS Rai will be the new Punjab Police Intelligence chief in a major reshuffle of 50 officers that included 14 SSPs.The new SSPs and their place of posting are: Harcharan Singh Bhullar, Patiala; Sandeep Garg, Mansa; Rakesh Kaushal, Amritsar (Rural); Varun Sharma, Faridkot; Harmandeep Singh Hans, Ferozepur; Kanwardeep Kaur, Nawanshahr; Alka Meena, Barnala; Ravjot Grewal Malerkotla; Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Batala; Surinderjit Singh Mand, Moga; Sarbjit Singh, Muktsar; Harwinder Singh Virk, Tarn Taran; Rajbachan Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana (Rural); and Kulwant Singh Heer, Hoshiarpur.ADGP Jatinder Jain will head Powercom. Patiala. and ADGP Arpit Shukla Punjab Police Welfare Wing. V Neerja is ADGP, NRI; Mohinsh Chawla IG, Border range; SPS Parmar IG, Ludhiana range; Mukhwinder Singh Chhina, IG, Patiala range; Shive Kumar Verma IG, Law and Order; and Rakesh Aggarwal IG, counter Intelligence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/adgp-as-rai-is-new-punjab-police-intelligence-chief-324143
14-10-2021|| Muktsar||Talks between Punjab Govt, cotton farmers fail||The meeting between a five-member delegation of farmers protesting outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village and a high-level committee of the state government headed by the Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister in Chandigarh on Wednesday failed to yield any result.Farmers are demanding compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre for the damage of cotton crop due to pink bollworm. Besides, they are demanding relief of Rs 30,000 for every farm labourer family.After the meeting, which lasted for nearly an hour, farmer leader Ram Singh Bhainibagha said, “The Principal Secretary told us that the government can give a maximum of Rs 12,000 per acre compensation to the farmers. We are demanding Rs 60,000 per acre. We have decided that our protest outside the FM’s residence, which has entered ninth day today, will continue.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talks-between-punjab-govt-cotton-farmers-fail-324147
14-10-2021||Vishav Bharti||RSS cancels its annual Dasehra parade in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Cornered by farmers’ resistance, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has decided not to hold its annual full-uniform parade, Path Sanchalan, in Punjab on Dasehra this year.It involves showcasing of strength by RSS cadres in full uniform and carrying sticks. Sometimes, they would display weapons too. The practice has been going on for several decades.The state leadership of the RSS has reportedly told its local units to avoid parade or hold small events in closed areas, not necessarily on Dasehra. Though they have not categorically mentioned the farmers’ threat as the main reason, an RSS leader from the Malwa region said they had been verbally told not to hold any big event on Dasehra.RSS’ Punjab unit president Iqbal Singh said they had told local units to take any decision keeping in mind their security. Path Sanchalan was not more important than peace and harmony in society, he said.Another RSS leader said, “We used to make route maps weeks in advance and RSS workers would be excited about it. This year, no route map has been prepared and we have been asked to keep it a low-profile affair.”Peace more importantPath Sanchalan is not more important than peace and harmony in society. Iqbal Singh, Punjab RSS chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rss-cancels-its-annual-dasehra-parade-in-punjab-324234
14-10-2021||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh||Punjab posts ADGP Varinder Kumar as new Director, Bureau of Investigation; 14 SSPs transferred||ADGP Varinder Kumar is the new Director Bureau of Investigation while ADGP AS Rai is posted as the Intelligence chief of the Punjab Police in a major reshuffle of 50 officers that included changing 14 Senior Superintendents of Police.The new SSPs and their place of posting are: Harcharan Singh Bhullar-Patiala, Sandeep Garg-Mansa, Rakesh Kaushal-Amritsar(Rural), Varun Sharma-Faridkot, Harmandeep Singh Hans-Ferozepore, Kanwardeep Kaur-Nawanshahar, Alka Meena-Barnala, Ravjot Grewal-Malerkotla, Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar-Batala, Surinderjit Singh Mand-Moga, Sarbjit Singh-Muktsar, Harwinder Singh Virk-Tarn Taran, Rajbachan Singh Sandhu-Ludhiana(Rural) and Kulwant Singh Heer-Hoshiarpur.In other postings, ADGP Jatinder Jain heads Powercom Patiala, ADGP Arpit Shukla heads Punjab Police Welfare wing. V Neerja is ADGP-NRI, Mohinsh Chawla is IG-Border Range, SPS Parmar is IG-Ludhiana Range, Mukhwinder Singh Chhina is IG-Patiala Range, Shive Kumar Verma is IG-Law and Order, Rakesh Aggarwal is IG-counter Intelligence and Kaustubh Sharma is IG-Headquarter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-posts-adgp-varinder-kumar-as-new-director-bureau-of-investigation-14-ssps-transferred-324113
14-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi cries foul after MHA notification expanding BSF powers in state||Punjab has objected to the Ministry of Home Affairs decision expanding Border Security Force’s powers of arrest, search and seizure to a 50-km belt in Punjab.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he opposed the central government’s decision that has sparked similar reactions from his Congress party as well rivals Shiromani Akali Dal. Both see this as a means of infringing upon states’ policing powers."I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision," he said in a tweet.  At the centre of the controversy is a recent order by the Ministry of Home Affairs expanding BSF’s powers to arrest, search and seizure in Punjab, West Bengal, Assam, and Tripura to 50 km from the border, up from the previous 15 km.MHA empowers BSF to make raids, arrests up to 50 km from IB in Punjab, West Bengal, Assam and TripuraThe notification issued on Monday has sparked a debate on state autonomy.“MHA Notification enhancing operational mandate of BSF, 15 to 50 KM’s in Punjab,West Bengal &Assam transgresses upon Constitutional Public order & Policing remit of States Half of Punjab will now fall under BSF jurisdiction @CHARANJITCHANNI must oppose it,” said Manish Tewari, who’s a Congress Member of Parliament from Anandpur Sahib.  A second tweet from the leader said: “Mischievous part of Section 139 of BSF Act ‘…or of any cognizable offence punishable under any other Central Act; or punishable under any other Central Act..,’ It allows GOI to institutionalise an alternative policing paradigm. Was Punjab Govt consulted?Former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar blamed Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for having unwittingly handed over “half of Punjab to the central government”.“Be careful what you ask for! Has @CHARANJITCHANNI unwittingly managed to handover half of Punjab to Central govt. 25000sq km (out of total 50,000sq km) has now been placed under BSF jurisdiction. Punjab Police stands castigated. Do we still want more autonomy to States,” Jakhar said in a tweet.Akalis were similarly incensed by the move.“This means internal emergency is being imposed in Punjab,” Shiromani Akali Dal leader  Daljit Cheema said.Former chief minister Amarinder Singh however welcomed the measure.“Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We’re seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag central armed forces into politics,” Amarinder Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral said quoting the former chief minister in the first of two tweets.“Partisan considerations can’t & shouldn’t dictate our stand on issues of national security. I’d said that at the time of the 2016 surgical strikes & am saying it again. We’ve to rise above politics when India’s security is at stake, as it is now,” the second tweet on behalf of Amarinder Singh said.MHA Notification enhancing operational mandate of BSF,15 to 50 KM’s in Punjab,West Bengal &Assam transgresses upon Constitutional Public order & Policing remit of States Half of Punjab will now fall under BSF jurisdiction@CHARANJITCHANNI must oppose it https://t.co/Yy3pOnbFGN  Be careful what you ask for ! Has @CHARANJITCHANNI unwittingly managed to handover half of Punjab to Central govt. 25000sq km (out of total 50,000sq km) has now been placed under BSF jurisdiction. Punjab Police stands castigated. Do we still want more autonomy to States ? https://t.co/JlGB7G0Pnj  ‘Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We’re seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag central armed forces into politics’: capt_amarinder 1/2(File pic) pic.twitter.com/nu4DhAQnAz  I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-cries-foul-after-mha-notification-expanding-bsf-powers-in-state-324099
