15-10-2021||---||BSF jurisdiction row: AAP accuses Punjab CM of surrendering over half of the state to Modi govt||New Delhi, October 15The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday targeted the Punjab government over the issue of extension of the Border Security Force’s jurisdiction by the Centre, saying Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has “surrendered” more than half of the state to the Modi government.The central government had on Wednesday increased the powers of the BSF by increasing its jurisdiction in poll-bound Punjab by up to 50 km from the international border.The jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) has been extended by the Centre in the name of national security only to bring over half of Punjab under the Centre’s rule, the AAP alleged.Extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction in Punjab and other states is “a direct attack” on the federal structure of the country, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha told a press conference at the party’s headquarters here.Chadha is also co-in charge of the party’s political affairs in Punjab, where the Congress is in power.“By extending the jurisdiction of the BSF, the Narendra Modi government has imposed President’s Rule in more than half of Punjab. This area will now be ruled by the BJP and the Narendra Modi government,” he said.“It has been done because the BJP has understood that it will not be able to form its government in the state,” Chadha said.The AAP leader said that his party “firmly” condemns and opposes the Centre’s decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction.“We will not let this happen,” he said.The AAP is the main opposition party in Punjab where assembly polls are due to be held early next year. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-jurisdiction-row-aap-accuses-punjab-cm-of-surrendering-over-half-of-the-state-to-modi-govt-324999
15-10-2021||Vibha Sharma||Significant decrease in stubble-burning cases in Punjab, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 15The Environment Ministry on Friday said active paddy residue burning cases in Punjab, Haryana and the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh had "come down significantly" this year and fewer fire counts were reported in 2021 as compared to last year.As many as "1,795 fire counts were reported in the past one month as compared to 4,854 instances in the corresponding period in 2020," officials said, adding that Punjab had reported substantial reduction.Of them, 663 fields have been inspected by the enforcement agencies and officials concerned of the respective states and Environmental Compensation (EC) imposed in 252 cases, they added.As per the report based on the protocol framed by ISRO for the Commission, paddy residue burning events have been reduced by 69.49 per cent in Punjab, by 18.28 per cent in Haryana and by 47.61 per cent in the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh during the one-month period compared to the same period last year, they added.During the one-month period of the current year, the total reported residue burning events in Punjab are 1,286 as against 4,216 for the same period last year. In Haryana, the reported fire incidents are 487 as against 596 for the corresponding period last year. In UP, the total stubble fire incidents reported during this period are 22 as against 42 for the corresponding period last year.No fire counts have been reported from Delhi and two NCR districts of Rajasthan. The first paddy residue burning was reported on September 16 in Punjab, on September 28 in Haryana and on September 18 in the NCR area of Uttar Pradesh.The major hotspots of paddy residue burning in Punjab are Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala and Ludhiana. The four districts account for 72 per cent of stubble burning cases. Similarly, the major hotspots in Haryana are Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra. These three districts account for 80 per cent of the stubble-burning incidents.To curb air pollution during the ongoing harvest season, the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) has been actively monitoring paddy residue burning events from  September 15 onwards in Punjab, Haryana and the NCR districts of UP."The Commission is taking up with the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on a daily basis to ensure strict implementation of the action plan and the framework to curb paddy residue burning events. CAQM has also held a series of meetings with state officials, including the district collectors/district magistrates of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh," they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/significant-decrease-in-stubble-burning-cases-in-punjab-haryana-324978
15-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Action against illegal private buses will continue, says Punjab Transport Minister Raja Warring||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 15Punjab Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Friday said the clampdown on private operators - who were running illegal buses - had already resulted in an increase in the income of the state-run Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC).The minister – during his early-morning inspection-cum-visit of the Patiala bus stand - said the government would continue to impound all private buses running without paying taxes. “We will not spare anyone. The department will impound private buses that don’t pay taxes. The clampdown yet far is just the beginning. The action against illegal private buses will continue,” said Warring.He assured the PRTC employees that he would work day and night to uplift the PRTC.The minister claimed that there were still many private buses running on the roads without paying taxes. “In the coming days, we will fix the accountability of the government officials of the area under whose jurisdiction private buses are found running without paying taxes,” he said.It has been learnt that the PRTC daily income has gone up from Rs 1.7 crore to Rs 1.87 crore. The minister attributed this to the collective efforts of everyone.After interacting with the PRTC employees at the depot, the minister went to Patiala bus stand, metres away, and enquired from the passengers about the problems faced. Warring also inspected toilets at the bus stand.Following a complaint, the minister went to a shop and found that packaged food items were being sold at higher prices than the MRP. Warring directed the Patiala General Manager to take action against the violators. Conductor honoured for his workPRTC conductor Milkha Singh, 28, was honoured by the minister for being the best conductor in the organisation. The minister gave Rs 5,100 from his own pocket to the conductor for his dedication and tireless work. Milkha Singh, said, “I am very happy, and the gesture will motivate me and other employees to work hard.”  Minister enjoys tea at a stallRefusing to have tea at the AC room, the minister – along with Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu – sipped tea at a stall at the bus stand. The minister discussed various issues related to the improvement of the Patiala bus stand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/action-against-illegal-private-buses-will-continue-says-punjab-transport-minister-raja-warring-324969
15-10-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh to blame for more powers to BSF: Pargat Singh||Chandigarh, October 14Dissent within the Congress over increasing BSF powers in the state came to fore with Cabinet Minister Pargat Singh, a confidant of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, saying former CM Capt Amarinder Singh was hand-in-glove with the BJP.Questions Delhi visitsWhen Capt Amarinder met Amit Shah, paddy procurement was delayed... when he went to Delhi again, the BSF’s jurisdiction has been increased. — Pargat Singh, Cabinet MinisterIt’s publicity stuntYou and Navjot Sidhu are clearly birds of the same feather, with nothing betterto do than cook up ridiculous stories for cheap publicity. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Ex-chief ministerJakhar targets CM Channi, Amarinder      Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar said by visiting the Home Minister and asking for sealing the borders, CM Charanjit Singh Channi had given an excuse to the Centre to justify the new powers to the BSF. “What was the urgency to call upon Amit Shah and authenticate the narrative built up for four and a half years by Capt Amarinder?” Jakhar said.He said the development smacked of a “design to impose Governor’s rule in the state by tagging it as a  disturbed state”.His statement came on the day when CM Charanjit Singh Channi called upon the former CM, along with his wife, newly-wed son and daughter-in-law, at the latter’s Siswan farmhouse.Shortly after Channi returned, Capt Amarinder hit back at Pargat Singh, saying: “This is the height of irresponsibility on the part of a minister. You and Sidhu are clearly birds of the same feather, with nothing better to do than cook up ridiculous stories for cheap publicity.”Addressing the media today, Pargat said: “What is Capt sahib trying to prove? I always said he is with the BJP. Earlier, when he went to Delhi and met Home Minister Amit Shah, paddy procurement was delayed by 10 days and now when he has gone to Delhi again, BSF’s jurisdiction has been increased.”A bête noire of Capt Amarinder, Pargat Singh said: “Captain sahib, please do not do this. We respect you a lot. The BJP should also understand that they cannot let Punjab become a disturbed state. It seems they want to impose Governor’s rule. I want to tell them that we will not allow the BJP to be successful in its designs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-to-blame-for-more-powers-to-bsf-pargat-singh-324630
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis gherao Raj Bhavan over extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other senior leaders were detained over an impromptu gherao of the Raj Bhavan here over the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction.Sukhbir said CM Charanjit Singh Channi “colluded and surrendered” before the Centre, which had extended control over law and order across almost half of the state.Situation graveDrone sightings and drug trafficking have increased in the state. The CM apprised the Centre of the grave situation. — Ashwani Sharma, BJPNot justifiedTaking away the rights of the state in the name of border security is not justified at all. The Centre is not respecting the democratic system. — Parminder Dhindsa, SAD (sanyukt)Hold all-party meetThe CM should convene an all-party meet to decide on sending a joint delegation to meet the Centre. — Harpal Cheema, AAPEarlier, addressing a gathering when stopped from proceeding to the Raj Bhavan, Sukhbir said this was the second time the Centre had impinged on the rights of Punjab. Terming the move an attack on the federal structure of the state, Badal said now even holy shrines such as Sri Darbar Sahab, Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath would come under the control of central forces.“The SAD will fight to right this wrong as we stand for a genuine federal structure.” Senior leaders Daljit Singh Cheema, Surjit Singh Rakhra, NK Sharma and Parambans Romana also courted arrest along with Sukhbir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-gherao-raj-bhavan-over-extension-of-the-bsfs-jurisdiction-324631
15-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Sunil Jakhar likely to head Punjab Congress poll campaign panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The Punjab Congress could have three faces as the party launches its campaign for the Assembly elections expected early next year. Apart from CM Charanjit Channi and PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, the AICC could give the key post of campaign committee president to former state unit head Sunil Jakhar.Going with 3 facesParty leaders privy to the discussions said apart from AICC observer Harish Chaudhary, who could soon be the new Punjab affairs incharge, the high command could give a significant responsibility related to the Punjab elections to Krishna Allavru, a Rahul Gandhi confidant.Discussions on the appointments are learnt to have been held at a meeting held in Delhi today between Sidhu, Rawat and AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal. “Given the manner in which Sidhu has been handling various issues, it becomes imperative for the party leadership to undertake micro-management of poll strategy,” said a senior party leader.With the new list of PCC office-bearers yet to be sent to the AICC for approval, the party’s top leadership is learnt to have told Sidhu to concentrate on strengthening the state unit. A senior leader said to bring cohesion between the government and the party (read Sidhu), the top leadership had started directly interacting with the MLAs and other leaders. “The top brass did not want to rely on Sidhu alone. Moreover, Channi is also being prepared for electioneering beyond Punjab,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-likely-to-head-punjab-congress-poll-campaign-panel-324632
15-10-2021||GS Paul||Border residents fume, fear harassment by central force||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14Residents of the border areas are angry at the Centre’s move to empower the BSF to conduct raids and arrests up to an area of 50 km inside from the International Border (IB).They say the BSF’s interference would end up harassing them unnecessarily and hampering their work.Border Area Sangharsh Committee general secretary Rattan Singh Randhawa said they would stage a massive protest across the state shortly. “The BSF is concentrated near the border fence. How will they know about the nexus prevailing in the local areas? This can only be busted by the police,” he said.From Ajnala border, Satnam Singh Ajnala, who is also the state president of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said it was the Centre’s move to rob the state of its governing rights and it was in retaliation for the success and pressure of the farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders against the three farm laws. “Punjabis are deliberately being targeted for their active involvement in farm agitation,” Ajnala said.Kuljeet Singh, an advocate from border village Malawali, said it had nothing to do with curbing the influx of contraband from across the border, but a political game to defunct the state governance and impose a replica of “Governor Raj” in an indirect way.“Border residents will be the worst sufferers. They were earlier harassed and accused of running illegal human trafficking syndicates after the BSF had spread misinformation and incorrect allegations of bonded labourers working in their fields. Under the guise of BSF, it is the Centre’s political move to deviate Punjabis to weaken the ongoing agitation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/border-residents-fume-fear-harassment-by-central-force-324633
15-10-2021||---||Will float political party, but won’t contest, says farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 14Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni today said as part of ‘Mission Punjab’, a new political party would be floated soon in the state that would be represented by honest people. Farmers can alter poll outcomeFarmers and labourers together comprise a major chunk of Punjab’s population. They can play a crucial role in altering the poll outcome of the Assembly elections. — Gurnam Singh Chaduni, SKM Leader“We have already been holding meetings with all stakeholders to that effect,” said the BKU (Chaduni) president, who was on a daylong visit to Bathinda. Chaduni however said he would not be part of the new political party, putting an end to speculations that he would throw the hat in the ring.  “We will form a new party and exhort voters to support it wholeheartedly. This system of money and power-driven politics need an overhaul now and there is no better way to cleanse this system other than fielding the honest, competent and progressive minds who want to bring about development and change and take the political plunge themselves,” he said. “We will also exhort people not to vote the BJP in UP Assembly elections. The government has already paved way to give reins of the agro industry and other small businesses in the hands of big corporate houses. Now, they are employing similar strategies to give control of the agriculture sector to the private sector. Everything seems to have been put on sale in the country today,” added Chaduni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-float-political-party-but-wont-contest-says-farmer-leader-gurnam-singh-chaduni-324634
15-10-2021||Aman Sood||Construction cost up as coal prices soar||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 14The construction industry and the common man have taken a hit after prices of construction materials, including bricks, cement, steel and iron, have gone up following the rise in price of coal.While power demand has dropped, slow coal arrival still ensures limited production.Experts say the recent rise in the price of coal and petroleum products are said to be the main reason for such a hike. “You can easily judge the hike from the fact that top brand cement now costs Rs 525 per sack, almost Rs 35-40 more than its selling price until recently, while low category cement is now priced around Rs 395, up from Rs 355 in July,” an expert said.The prices of bricks, too, have shot up to Rs 6,500 from Rs 5,400 per 1,000 bricks. “I was getting coal at Rs 11,000 per tonne in July and now the price is Rs 24,000 per tonne, including freight. So, there is no option but to increase the prices,” said Pankaj Maini, who owns three units of hand-moulded clay bricks.Even at the fag-end of 2020, the prices of building material had increased after construction activity resumed following Covid-19 lockdown.Even the steel and iron prices have shot up. “Iron was priced at Rs 5,000 per quintal in July, but now costs around Rs 6,000 per quintal. The TMT steel price has also doubled,” said Rajiv Sood, president of Small Scale Re-Roller Association.Insiders say another crucial factor for the price hike of construction material is the burgeoning fuel prices. With both diesel and petrol over Rs 100, transportation of construction material is becoming dearer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/construction-cost-up-as-coal-prices-soar-324636
15-10-2021||---||2 thermal plant units trip, PSPCL woes surmount||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 14The PSPCL met maximum power demand of 9,363 MW on October 13, while it purchased around 1,500 MW from power exchange at a rate of Rs 11.29 per unit.‘PPA Norms violated’ “Only 10 rakes of coal were received against the requirement of 22. However, there has been a noticeable change in weather with temperatures dropping, while the agriculture demand has also started to recede. So, the power demand has also started to decline,” said A Venu Prasad, Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited.On Thursday, a unit each of Lehra Mohabbat and Talwandi Sabo thermal plants tripped, following which the PSPCL faces power shortage yet again. Already a unit each of these two plants is shut.A senior PSPCL official said: “At present, we have two 660 MW units shut at Talwandi Sabo, 210 and 250 MW units at Lehra Mohabbat and a 210 MW unit at Ropar, which are not producing power. Though the situation is manageable right now, we hope domestic load will reduce in the next four days due to change in weather.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-thermal-plant-units-trip-pspcl-woes-surmount-324637
15-10-2021||---||HC may study sealed drug case  reports during Dasehra break||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made clear its intent to go through sealed cover reports in the Punjab drug menace case before the matter came up for resumed hearing after about 10 days. The Bench also made it clear that the case would be heard on day-to-day basis then onwards. U-turn by ex-top cop Shashi Kant?  Taking up the case on the last working day before the Dasehra break, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma observed it would examine the report during the vacation before taking up the case again on October 26.State’s advocate general APS Deol, senior counsel Anupam Gupta and advocate Navkiran Singh—appearing for different parties—had earlier told the Bench that the issue of opening of sealed cover reports could be taken up on priority. Deol’s argument was that taking up the issue of opening the reports on priority could enable state’s prosecution agencies to proceed in accordance with law.The submissions came more than eight years after the High Court took suo motu cognisance of retired IPS officer Shashi Kant’s letter underscoring drug menace in Punjab and requesting for judicial scrutiny in matter. The former top cop, during the resumed hearing of the matter, submitted that the opening of sealed cover reports were not relevant at present, a stand that failed to find favour with other counsel, who insisted it would be “a total tragedy”. Appearing before the Bench, a senior counsel on Kant’s behalf submitted that there were several other issues that the court was required to focus on. Expressing complete disagreement with Kant’s stand, senior advocate Anupam Gupta said: “There may be million other issues in this case, but the principal issue would be opening of sealed cover reports as it relates to the culpability of people in high places. If the sealed report is not opened, it would be a total tragedy. Dominant issue would be culpability of people in high political places.” Strongly advocating the opening of sealed cover by the Bench, Gupta said the court may agree or disagree with the contents of the report, but it should be opened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-may-study-sealed-drug-case-reports-during-dasehra-break-324638
15-10-2021||---||Cotton farmers gherao Manpreet Badal’s residence||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 14 A day after their talks with senior officials in the state government failed, cotton farmers today intensified their stir and gheraoed Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village from rear as well. Earlier, they were lodging a protest near his residence.Burning of effigies deferred by a dayJalandhar: The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has postponed by a day for October 16 its events to burn effigies of PM Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in protest against the deaths of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. TNSMeanwhile, their indefinite protest entered Day 10 today. The farmers from five districts — Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Faridkot — are protesting under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), demanding a compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre for the damage to cotton crop due to pink bollworm. Besides, they are demanding a relief of Rs 30,000 for every farm labourer’s family.The protesting farmers said even during the SAD-BJP government in 2015, whitefly had destroyed the cotton crop and they got just Rs 8,000 per acre compensation. Farmer leader Ram Singh Bhainibagha, who attended the meeting with officials yesterday, had said the Principal Secretary told us that the government could give a maximum of Rs 12,000 per acre compensation to the farmers. “The Congress is trying to compensate us inadequately too,” farmers said.They claimed the Bathinda district administration through a tehsildar and a DSP tried to reach out to them today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-farmers-gherao-manpreet-badals-residence-324639
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cop whom Navjot Sidhu wanted as DGP to head Vigilance||The Punjab Government today posted DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya as the Vigilance Bureau Director.Chattopadhyaya, who retires in March next year, was allegedly overlooked for the post of state police chief when Capt Amarinder Singh was the CM. The posting had become a major bone of contention between different warring groups in the Congress with PCC chief Navjot Sidhu rooting for him as the police chief.However, CM Charanjit Channi appointed Inder Preet Singh Sahota as the DGP. Sidhu even resigned from his post to protest the decision. Chattopadhyaya’s appointment comes on a day when Sidhu met a high-level AICC panel in Delhi to resolve issues plaguing the state unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-whom-navjot-sidhu-wanted-as-dgp-to-head-vigilance-324640
15-10-2021||Amritsar||Navjot Sidhu’s daughter Rabia inaugurates park, creates buzz||Amid speculations of taking a political plunge, Rabia Sidhu, daughter of PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, today inaugurated a park in Amritsar East constituency, represented by her father.Not joining politicsI am not joining politics. I am just representing my father in his absence as he is occupied in a ‘bigger’ fight for Punjab. — Rabia Sidhu, Navjot Sidhu’s DaughterHowever, she denied joining politics. “I am just representing my father in his absence as he is occupied in a ‘bigger’ fight for Punjab,” she said.Interestingly, the park located in the B-Block of New Amritsar was already inaugurated by Amritsar Improvement Trust former president Dinesh Bassi, who was the first casualty after Sidhu visited Amritsar and replaced him with his ally Damandeep Singh Uppal. When questioned about the park’s second time inauguration, she said: “The development work worth Rs 33 lakh of beautification of parks was stalled for long. Now, it has been officially resumed and I inagaurated it on behalf of my father”, she said.She said her father is an ‘emotional’ person whose heart beat for Punjab. “He feels the pain of Punjab. Don’t you need leaders who would be emotional about Punjab?” she said. It was not for the first time when Rabia participated in a political programme actively. A graduate in fashion designing from Singapore and London, she had grabbed the headlines first on May 26 when she hoisted the black flag in favour of the protesting farmers atop the residence in Amritsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhus-daughter-rabia-inaugurates-park-creates-buzz-324641
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Already have law to cut red tape: Brahm Mohindra to Kejriwal||Parliamentary Affairs Minister Brahm Mohindra today hit out at AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for his promise of ending red-tapism in Punjab.Suggesting Kejriwal to update himself, the Minister said the state government had already executed the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Act, 2021, to promote effective administration of public affairs through simplified and trust-based procedures that shall expedite processes and make governance efficient.Mohindra said he himself had moved the anti-red tape Bill during the Vidhan Sabha session on March 10. The law allows the government to impose a fine of up to Rs 50,000 or dismiss an employee over unnecessary delay in providing services to citizens and businessmen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/already-have-law-to-cut-red-tape-brahm-mohindra-to-kejriwal-324642
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Form committee to change archaic land laws, Punjab CS told||CM Charanjit Singh Channi today directed the Chief Secretary to constitute a committee to suggest proposals for changing archaic land laws to safeguard the proprietary ownership rights of people.No registry after 5 pm, CM tells DCsChanni said the initiative would go a long way in streamlining the existing procedure of girdawari, mutation, jamabandi and division, thus saving people from exploitation through fraudulent practices to divest them of their proprietary rights.The CM issued the directions during a meeting with all deputy commissioners at the CMO here. He sought a detailed proposal to abolish girdawari system to ensure ownership rights only vested with the legitimate owner. Several states have already done away with this system.Channi also asked the deputy commissioners to organise ‘suvidha’ camps to clear the backlog of social security pensions.Issuing a stern warning to the DCs to stamp out corruption, he asked them to ensure punctuality in offices. Without mincing any words, he said no one would be allowed to function from camp offices.He also asked the DCs to ensure prompt redressal of public grievances and keep their meetings with field officers after 5 pm so that they could concentrate on administrative functioning and reserve any two days in a week for field visits to supervise activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/form-committee-to-change-archaic-land-laws-punjab-cs-told-324644
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Probe casteist slur against Punjab CM in month, says panel||The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes has directed the Bureau of Investigation to submit a report by November 16 after completing the probe into the case of casteist remarks made against the Punjab Chief Minister on social media.Commission member Gian Chand said in September, a user had made abusive and casteist remarks against the Chief Minister on Facebook, taking suo motu notice of which the commission had directed the Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, to probe the matter. He said during a hearing yesterday, Balraj Singh, AIG, appeared on behalf the Director, Bureau of Investigation, and informed in writing that according to a report received from Nilambari Jagdale, AIG (Police), State Cyber Crime Cell, a case under Section 153A of the IPC and Section 3(1)(x) of the SC/ST Act, 1989, had been registered with the State Cyber Crime Police Station, Phase-4, SAS Nagar.The police officer said a notice was sent to the Facebook Legal Authority under Section 91 of the Criminal Procedure Code for deleting the controversial post and providing information of user of the Facebook ID, after which the post was deleted. However, the information about the handler is yet to come, and after receiving that, the matter will be investigated further. Upon hearing the case, the commission member directed the police to complete the probe soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-casteist-slur-against-punjab-cm-in-month-says-panel-324645
15-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||CBI probe ordered into cigarette smuggling case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered a CBI probe into an alleged cigarette smuggling case after taking note of the “tardy, casual and irresponsible attitude” of the Customs Department and the CGST Department.The direction by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a second petition by Sunil Dutt against the Department of Customs, Customs Commissionerate, Ludhiana, and another respondent for anticipatory bail in a complaint case for offences under the Customs Act.The petitioner in his initial petition had stated that action was initiated against erring customs officers on his complaint after he came to know that 39,60,000 cigarettes of four different brands were imported, instead of aluminum scrap, without paying customs duty.In his second plea, one of the new grounds taken was that the petitioner was a registered “informer” of the General Goods and Service Tax and had helped in unearthing “many scams” and GST evasion, for which he had been granted award. His counsel added the petitioner initially gave information to the GST Department regarding illegal clearing of consignment by the Customs Department without making an entry. It was intercepted by preventive wing of the CGST Commissionerate, Ludhiana. The container’s shipping line seal was found to be intact suggesting that the customs authorities never checked the consignment. He added the petitioner was apprehensive since he had unearthed the scam. The customs was represented by senior advocates Sanjay Bansal, CBI by senior advocate Sumeet Goel and CGST by Sourabh Goel.Justice Sangwan noticed that Amanjit Singh, Joint Commissioner, Central GST Commissionerate, Ludhiana, sent a secret note in a sealed cover stating Sunil Dutt was a secret informer/source. The court found it “very strange and surprising” that the Department of Customs, Customs Commissionerate, Ludhiana, and Anti-Evasion Unit, Central Goods and Services Tax, Commissionerate, Ludhiana, were fighting tooth and nail regarding fixing liability on how the consignment was cleared manually without an entry by the Customs Department.As per the Customs Department stand, there was a collusion of the CGST department officials with the petitioner and other accused. In the process, the CGST Department was posing him as a secret informer/source and even filed the secret note giving him a clean chit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-probe-ordered-into-cigarette-smuggling-case-324646
15-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||More powers to BSF: Decision in Punjab’s interest, says Ex-minister Dr Harbans Lal||Former Minister Dr Harbans Lal today appreciated the central government’s decision to give more powers to the BSF. He said the move will help BSF improve operational effectiveness in curbing trans-border crime.Lashing out at all those, who are opposing the decision, he said that the Centre had taken the decision after the CM Charanjit Singh Channi met Home Minister Amit Shah to strengthen the borders of the state against Pakistan’s nefarious designs. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-powers-to-bsf-decision-in-punjabs-interest-says-ex-minister-dr-harbans-lal-324647
15-10-2021||Shillong||Stop Shillong Sikhs’ eviction: DSGMC to Meghalaya Guv||Accusing the state government of acting “beyond its jurisdiction” in trying to relocate Sikh community members from Them lew Mawlong area (Punjabi Lane) here, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee today sought Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik’s intervention to stop the proposed eviction.The gurdwara mommittee panel met Malik at the Raj Bhavan and handed over a memorandum, pointing out that there would be no solution to the problem without his intervention.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said the proposed relocation might lead to communal violence. “We hope… you will intervene on the submission made and provide the long-time Harijan community settlers in Shillong an immediate solution,” the memorandum said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-shillong-sikhs-eviction-dsgmc-to-meghalaya-guv-324648
15-10-2021||Faridkot||Behbal Kalan: 6 yrs on, kin of police firing victims say no faith in govt||Several residents of the area converged at Behbal Kalan in Faridkot today to pay homage to the two victims of police firing on their sixth death anniversary. The victim families alleged after six years of “drama” by different political groups on the sacrilege and police firing incidents, they had lost all faith in the government.“We have faith only in God now, who will punish those part of the conspiracy,” said Sadhu Singh, father of Gurjit Singh, who was killed in police firing on October 14, 2015.“We have seen how politicians used the killing of innocent people as a tool to exploit people,” said Sukhraj Singh, whose father Krishan Bhagwan Singh was killed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-6-yrs-on-kin-of-police-firing-victims-say-no-faith-in-govt-324649
15-10-2021||---||Ensure scientific text on LGBTQ: NMC to colleges||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 14The National Medical Commission (NMC) has directed all medical institutions to amend the information about lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, virginity and homosexual in their textbooks. The NMC said it had been noted that various textbooks of medical education, mainly forensic medicine and toxicology and psychiatry subjects, contained unscientific information about the LGBTQIA+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, homosexual etc) community and also had derogatory remarks about them.The NMC issued a related letter today, suggesting all medical universities, colleges and institutions teaching MBBS, MD/MS and super-specialty students to amend the information. The commission said whenever any issue of gender or similar kind arose, the mention of clinical history or complaints or signs/symptoms, examination findings or history about nomenclature shall not be taught in such a way that it became and was perceived in any way derogatory, discriminatory or insulting to the LGBTQIA+ community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-scientific-text-on-lgbtq-nmc-to-colleges-324650
15-10-2021||---||Retd IAS officer booked for theft||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 14 The Malout city police booked retired IAS officer Sukhdeep Kaur and her personal security officer ASI Major Singh for allegedly harvesting and stealing wheat crop of retired IPS officer Amrit Brar at gunpoint in Abul Khurana village here in May.Sukhdeep Kaur, a resident of Bathinda, and Amrit Brar, a resident of Abul Khurana village, are relatives and entangled in a property dispute for a long period. Some cases have been registered in the past as well. The present case has been registered under Sections 379, 506, 509 and 120B of the IPC. Amrit Brar said the case was registered on court orders. “The court has directed the police to register the case and investigate it,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/retd-ias-officer-booked-for-theft-324651
15-10-2021||Bathinda||No work,  labourers seek compensation||Scores of landless labourers, including their family members, under the banner of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, staged a protest in front of Deputy Commissioner’s office in Bathinda demanding compensation after they did not get work following the pink bollworm attack on cotton crop in the Malwa region.The protesters raised slogans against the state government before submitting a memorandum of demands to the Chief Minister via senior district administrative officials.Mahipal Sathi, a leader of the union, said, “After a large part of cotton-cultivated area came under the pink bollworm attack, many labourers were rendered jobless. We demand from the government that every effected labourer family be provided with Rs 30,000 as compensation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-work-labourers-seek-compensation-324652
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Markfed signs pact||Notice to Punajb in transfusion caseChandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday issued a notice to the state of Punjab, Bathinda SSP and another functionary on a petition seeking registration of an FIR against Bathinda Civil Hospital SMO Dr Maninder Singh and two former officials of the blood bank for alleged transfusion of HIV+ blood to the petitioner. TNSPvt transporters seek helpChandigarh: The Punjab Motor Union, a representative body of passenger transport operators, on Thursday alleged due to policies of the Punjab Government, the private passenger transport sector had come to the verge of collapse and if necessary steps were not taken immediately, the sector would vanish from the scene. TNSMan ‘kills’ wife, fleesAbohar: A man attacked his wife with an axe in the presence of his three children reportedly for a few rupees at Khairpur village on Wednesday night. She succumbed to the injuries later. During the attack, the cousin brother of the deceased, who came to the rescue, was also hit. The accused then fled from the spot. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/markfed-signs-pact-324653
15-10-2021||New Delhi||Whatever Gandhis decide: Sidhu post meeting||Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chief, on Thursday said he had conveyed his concerns on Punjab affairs to the party and would abide by any decision taken by the Gandhis, even as party leaders claimed that Sidhu had been told to strengthen the party organisation in Punjab.After a 90-minute meeting, AICC general secretaryin-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat said: “Sidhu clearly said today that any decision by the Gandhis would be acceptable to him and he would follow it.“The party’s orders to Sidhu are clear — to strengthen the party and the organisation in the state.” Sidhu met AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and Rawat at the AICC headquarters and reiterated his concerns about Punjab. Venugopal later said the party would formally clear the air on Sidhu in 12 to 16 hours. There are indications that Sidhu may be asked to continue and some issues raised by him may be addressed. “I have conveyed my concerns to the party. I have full faith in Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandh. Whatever decision they take will be in the best interest of the Congress and of Punjab,” Sidhu said after the meeting. Responding to queries on his resignation, he replied: “I have always considered the Gandhis supreme and have followed their directions.”Rawat said: “He will give you some good news soon.” Rawat will brief Sonia on the discussions before the party clarifies matters within a day. Asked about whether the party would address Sidhu’s concerns on which he appeared steadfast, Rawat replied: “He has said he trusts the leadership to do what’s best for Punjab.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/whatever-gandhis-decide-sidhu-post-meeting-324616
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi calls on Captain Amarinder with family, raises brows||As PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu landed in Delhi on Thursday to meet party top brass, CM Charanjit Singh Channi landed at former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s Siswan house along with his wife, son and daughter-in-law to seek “blessings”.Though leaders close to the CM called it a courtesy call, sources said Channi might be sending out a message to Sidhu. Significantly, the CWC is scheduled to meet in Delhi on October 16, where “G-23” leaders are expected to rake up Captain’s “unceremonious removal.” The CM’s Siswan visit has reportedly not gone down well with those loyal to Sidhu and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-calls-on-captain-amarinder-with-family-raises-brows-324617
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi, family visit Capt Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his family members on Thursday paid a visit to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh at his residence in Siswan in Mohali.Sources said the visit was a courtesy call and no political issue was discussed.It was the first meeting Channi had with Amarinder Singh after he was sworn in as the new chief minister of Punjab last month.Channi was accompanied by his newly-wedded son Navjit Singh, daughter-in-law Simrandheer Kaur and other family members.Channi was handpicked as Punjab's chief minister last month following the unceremonious exit of Amarinder Singh after a prolonged power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-family-visit-capt-amarinder-singh-324574
15-10-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘Cooking up stories for cheap publicity’: Capt Amarinder hits back at Pargat Singh||Chandigarh, October 14The Centre's decision to extend the BSF's jurisdiction in Punjab, among other states, has set a war of words between former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state minister Pargat Singh.Pargat Singh has slammed former chief minister, who voiced his support for the Centre's move on Wednesday and said that it will "only make us stronger".Hitting back at Pargat Singh, Capt Amarinder accused him and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of ‘cooking up ridiculous stories for cheap publicity’.“This is the height of irresponsibility from a state minister. You and @sherryontopp are clearly birds of the same feather, with nothing better to do than cook up ridiculous stories for cheap publicity,” Capt Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted on former CM’s behalf.Dubbing Amarinder Singh's statement as unfortunate, Pargat Singh had said, "He acts like he is with the BJP."With this order, Pargat Singh claimed, half of Punjab will come under the BSF's control.The Centre wants to "later show Punjab as a disturbed state and push for the imposition of Governor's rule", he alleged. With agency inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cooking-up-stories-for-cheap-publicity-capt-amarinder-hits-back-at-pargat-singh-324547
15-10-2021||Aditi Tandon||Orders to Navjot Sidhu clear, strengthen Congress as Punjab chief: Rawat; PCC chief says will abide by Gandhis’ call||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 14Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday said he had conveyed his concerns about the state of affairs to the party and would abide by whatever decision the Gandhis take, even as party leaders reiterated that the orders to Sidhu were clear and these were to strengthen the Congress organisation in the state as Punjab chief.AICC general secretary, Punjab, Harish Rawat said Sidhu had been appointed state chief to work and empower the party in Punjab and he has said today that he would abide by the decision of the party.“Mr Sidhu clearly said today that the decision of Gandhis would be acceptable to him and he would follow it. The party’s orders to Mr Sidhu are clear. As Punjab Congress president he should strengthen the party and the organisation in the state,” Harish Rawat said after emerging from a nearly one-and-a-half-hour meeting with Sidhu.Sidhu discussed his issues with AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Rawat at AICC headquarters today and reiterated his concerns about Punjab.Venugopal later said the party will formally clear the air on Sidhu in the next 12 to 16 hours even as indications were that Sidhu would be asked to continue and some of his issues might be addressed.Sidhu after the meeting said, “I have conveyed all my concerns to the party.I have full faith in Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi that whatever decision they take will be in the interest of Congress and Punjab.”Responding to queries on his resignation, Sidhu said, “I have always considered the Gandhis supreme and have followed their directions. Their decision will be supreme for me.”Rawat said the discussions with Sidhu were positive.“Mr Sidhu will give you some good news soon,” said Rawat who will brief Sonia Gandhi on the discussions before the party formally clarifies matters within a day.Asked about whether the party would address Sidhu’s concerns on which he appeared steadfast. Rawat said “This is between him and us. He has already said he trusts the leadership to do what’s best for Punjab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/orders-to-navjot-sidhu-clear-strengthen-congress-as-punjab-chief-rawat-pcc-chief-says-will-abide-by-gandhis-call-324546
15-10-2021||---||Punjab power crisis deepens as 2 more thermal plant units shut down||Patiala, October 14In another blow to the current Punjab power scenario, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited lost supply of power from two thermal plant units on Thursday morning.A unit each of Lehra Mohabbat and Talwandi Sabo thermal plants tripped on Thursday following which the PSPCL faces power shortage yet again. Already a unit each of these two plants is shut.A senior PSPCL official said, “At present, we have two 660 MW units shut at Talwandi Sabo, 210 and 250 MW units at Lehra Mohabbat and a 210 MW unit at Ropar, which are not producing power. While the power scenario as for now is manageable due to less stress of agriculture upturn power, we are hopeful that domestic load will reduce in the next four days due to a change in weather.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-power-crisis-deepens-as-2-more-thermal-plant-units-shut-down-324473
