16-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Singhu border lynching victim cremated in Tarn Taran amid tight security||Dalit labourer Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu for alleged sacrilege, was cremated on Saturday at his native village here amid tight security in the presence of his close family members.No Sikh priest was present to perform ‘Ardas’ (Sikh religious prayer) and no one from his village Cheema Kalan attended the cremation, police sources said.Only 12 family members, including wife Jaspreet Kaur, sister-in-law Simranjit Kaur, mother-in-law Sawinder Kaur, sister Raj Kaur and his three minor daughters, were present for the last rites.According to sources close to the family, as there were allegations of sacrilege against Lakhbir Singh, some people from the village had told the family that only cremation would be allowed and thereafter none of the family members would be allowed to perform any kind of religious ritual.A large contingent of security personnel was deployed at the cremation ground as police escorted Lakhbir’s body in an ambulance.Two people -- Sarabjit Singh and Narain Singh -- belonging to the Sikhs’ Nihang order have been arrested so far.The body of Lakhbir Singh was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons.Hours after the macabre crime, Sarabjit Sigh, wearing the blue robes of the Nihang order, claimed that he had “punished” the victim for “desecrating” a Sikh holy book. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-border-lynching-victim-cremated-in-tarn-taran-amid-tight-security-325474
16-10-2021||---||Singhu murder case: Victim’s sister junks sacrilege charge||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, October 15Raj Kaur, sister of Lakhbir Singh of Cheema Kalan village here who was found dead at Singhu border, has questioned the circumstances leading to his murder. She said, “He was a drug addict and had just Rs 50 in his pocket. He couldn’t have travelled to Delhi on his own to commit sacrilege. There is a conspiracy behind his killing.” Lakhbir had been living with his sister after his wife and children left him a couple of years ago. Raj Kaur said Lakhbir used to steal utensils and other items from home and neighbourhood to get his daily dose of drugs.She said Lakhbir took Rs 50 from her on Wednesday to go to Jhabal. She said he went along with a person who was in the guise of a Nihang. He also attended a marriage function in the village on Wednesday and consumed liquor. She said he would often talk with someone on phone whom he addressed as “Sandhu sahib” and claimed that he had developed contacts with the “higher-ups”.Avan Kumar, village sarpanch, said it was matter of investigation that how an addict who had just Rs 50 in his pocket reached Delhi and committed an act of sacrilege.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-murder-case-victims-sister-junks-sacrilege-charge-325173
16-10-2021||---||Armed men storm Afghanistan gurdwara again||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 15Heavily armed persons, claiming to be from a special unit of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, forcibly entered Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul on Friday — the second time in the past 10 days— and threatened Sikhs and Hindus inside the shrine.Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the India World Forum, claimed the armed men barged into the shrine at 2 pm. “They raided the gurdwara and the community school attached with the gurdwara. They also raided the erstwhile residence and office of MP Narinder Singh Khalsa adjacent to the gurdwara,’’ said Chandhok on a social media post, appealing to PM Narendra Modi for help.On October 5, armed persons had reportedly entered the gurdwara, handcuffed the private security personnel, detained the sangat and damaged gurdwara property, including CCTV cameras.“I urge the Indian Government to raise the concerns of Hindus and Sikhs living in Afghanistan at the highest level. At the same, the regime in Afghanistan should ensure the well-being of minorities,” Chandhok wrote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/armed-men-storm-afghanistan-gurdwara-again-325168
16-10-2021||---||Ex-MP Prem Singh Chandumajra among 72 Akali Dal leaders get notices||Chandigarh, October 15A local court has issued notices to 72 Akali Dal leaders, including former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, for allegedly violating the orders of the District Magistrate, Chandigarh.The court issued the notices after the police submitted a challan in the case registered against all leaders for the offence under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.The police registered the case on the complaint of UT police constable Ram Diya on August 8, 2020. In his complaint, the constable alleged that 72 Akali leaders assembled near the Golf Turn road in Sector 26 for marching towards the Governor’s House. He said the leaders were warned not to assemble in view of the order issued by the District Magistrate, Chandigarh.He said senior police officials also advised leaders that gathering of more than five people was not allowed in the city, except the Rally Ground, Sector 25, as per the orders of the District Magistrate issued under Section 144 of the CrPC. Ignoring the orders, Akali Dal workers and leaders, under the leadership of Chandumajra, started moving towards the Governor’s House.They were also suggested to move to the Rally Ground in Sector 25 for the protest, but they refused to listen and sat on the road raising slogans against the government.The police later took all leaders to the Sector 3 police station for violating the DM’s orders. After the completion of investigation, the police filed a challan against the accused.After finding a prima facie case, a notice was issued to the accused. Besides Chandumajra, other leaders, who have been put on the notice, included Capt Ramandeep Singh, Harinder Singh Chandumajra, Balwinder Singh, Jaspal Singh Bassi and Parvinder Singh. The protest march was organised by the SAD against the Punjab government over the hooch tragedy that claimed several lives in Punjab last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-mp-prem-singh-chandumajra-among-72-akali-dal-leaders-get-notices-325077
16-10-2021||Mansa||Sandeep Garg is Mansa SSP||‘Godman’ booked for rapeMuktsar: The Lakhewali police have booked a self-styled godman of Chak Sherewala village for allegedly raping a police constable. The complainant alleged to the police that she was depressed after her divorce in 2017 and then came into contact of Baba Arshdeep Singh, who raped her. The police have registered a case of rape and have launched a hunt to nab the accused. tnsReopen corridor: JathedarPatiala: Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has reiterated the demand for reopening of the Kartarpur corridor on the lines of Pakistan. “Pakistan has opened the Kartarpur corridor on its side, so should India,” he said. The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) had recently urged him to push for reopening of the corridor. In July, SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur had also demanded the same. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sandeep-garg-is-mansa-ssp-325172
16-10-2021||---||12-yr-old among 5 killed in mishap||Patiala, October 15Five people, including a 12-year-old child, were reportedly killed while around a dozen were left injured in a road accident on the Patiala-Devigarh road during the wee hours of Friday.The deceased have been identified as Karanjot Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Sonu, Nikka and Rahul. The injured were rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital, while two critical patients were further referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh.The police said the accident took place near Jagatpura village around 3 am when an SUV collided with a tractor-trailer laden with people.Sources said over two dozen people in the tractor-trailer were coming back from Haryana after attending a religious event. Of the five killed, two were car occupants and three were on the tractor-trailer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-yr-old-among-5-killed-in-mishap-325170
16-10-2021||Sangrur||Jobless teachers to gherao Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house tomorrow||Members of the BEd and TET Pass Union, who have been on an indefinite protest for the past 10 months in Sangrur, announced to gherao the residence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Morinda on October 17.Sukhwinder Dhilwan, chief, BEd and TET Pass Union, said, “Ever since the formation of the Congress government in 2017, we have been protesting for government jobs. We will gherao the CM’s residence in Morinda on October 17 and start an indefinite protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-to-gherao-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channis-house-tomorrow-325169
16-10-2021||Faridkot||Need people of principles in politics: Gurnam Singh Chaduni||SKM leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni today held meetings with various groups of social activists and farmers here.“Until intellectuals and upright persons join active politics, nothing is going to change in this country where politics has now turned into a business,” said Chaduni.Earlier, people were supposed to join politics to serve the society and nation. Now, it had turned into a business where all tools were being employed to seize power or earn profit, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-people-of-principles-in-politics-gurnam-singh-chaduni-325167
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||EC lists policy on transfers, postings for Punjab Assembly poll||In view of the Assembly elections in 2022, the Election Commission (EC) of India has issued a policy on transfers and postings. The entire process of elections is to be carried out in the first quarter of March 2022.Punjab Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju today said general transfers and postings would be made by the EC in view of the forthcoming Assembly elections under the said policy. The term of the present Vidhan Sabha was till March 27, 2022.The CEO said a copy of the letter issued by the EC had been sent to the Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, DGP, secretaries of all departments, head of departments, deputy commissioners and SSPs for further action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-lists-policy-on-transfers-postings-for-punjab-assembly-poll-325165
16-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Kuljit Singh Nagra faces villagers’ ire||Local MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra had to face the ire of some residents of Mahadian village, where he had gone to distribute two marla plots to beneficiaries belonging to the economically weaker sections yesterday.The protesters wanted the plots to be earmarked on some other piece of land and allocated to all residents. As soon as the MLA reached the village, the protesters waved black flags, followed by heated arguments. A video in this regard went viral on the social media as the protesters demanded plots for all.The MLA tried to pacify them by urging only those who fulfilled the guidelines were being allotted plots. This led to sloganeering, prompting the MLA to leave the venue by handing over the certificates.The MLA later said: “The poor have been given the panchayat land, which some of them were cultivating. The plots have been allotted on merit.” He said the protest was the handiwork of the Opposition. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kuljit-singh-nagra-faces-villagers-ire-325164
16-10-2021||Sangrur||Congress leaders visit bollworm-hit fields in Sunam||After getting complaints of incorrect assessment of pink bollworm-affected cotton, Sunam Congress leaders visited various fields in their area and promised to take up the matter with the government. Farmers have also demanded a quick release of financial aid as they alleged officials concerned were not taking the issue seriously.“On Friday, I visited a pink bollworm-hit filed in Togawal and other villages. Though officials have been visiting various villages to help farmers, still there are many who are demanding a quick release of financial aid and they are not satisfied with present assessment,” said Daman Thind Bajwa, Sunam halqa incharge of Congress.She along with Cheema Market Committee chairman Naveep Singh and other Congress leaders met farmers and took direct feedback after visiting their fields.“We will take up the matter raised by farmers with senior authorities at the earliest.” said Daman. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-visit-bollworm-hit-fields-in-sunam-325163
16-10-2021||Sameer Singh||Amritsar tragedy forgotten, effigies burnt near Bathinda railway track||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 15The district administration of Bathinda, it seems, has not learnt any lessons from the Amritsar train tragedy on Dasehra three years ago that claimed 61 lives. Showing “scant regard” for safety norms, a towering effigy of ‘Ravana’ installed at Railway Ground was burnt barely 50 to 60 metres from the city railway station.The Bathinda city railway station, with its seven-lane tracks, is one of busiest and largest railway junctions in Asia. Interestingly, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was on a visit to the city today who greeted residents while addressing a gathering near the ground area.The high-tension electric wires of the Railways that are passing barely few metres away from where the ‘Ravana’ and two other effigies were installed at the ground posed a risk of any untoward incident that can put lives of thousands of revellers in danger. Talking to The Tribune, a city-based social activist said, “It points towards gross negligence on part of the district administration that the Dasehra function is being allowed to take place in proximity to the city railway station. When there is a large crowd, the possibility of a stampede can never be ruled out as we have witnessed in the Amritsar train tragedy incident.”Pradeep Sharma, Station Superintendent. Bathinda railway station, said, “The organisers have taken due permission to hold the celebrations at the Railway ground by paying the required fee to the authorities. As directed by senior officials of the Railways, we have taken all precautionary measures to avoid any untoward incident. Apart from round-the-clock monitoring, we have also ensured that trains will pass with less than 15 km/hr speed by the celebration venue. Moreover, the civil administration that has made elaborate arrangements.” Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said, “We have technical people working at the ground to ensure safety of residents during celebrations. The administration has taken care of security and safety measures so there is nothing to be worried about.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-tragedy-forgotten-effigies-burnt-near-bathinda-railway-track-325162
16-10-2021||Ferozepur||Heroin worth Rs33 crore seized from ex-sarpanch||The Anti -Narcotics Cell of the Punjab Police have nabbed a drug peddler and recovered 6.730 kg of heroin worth Rs 33 crore following the information provided by him.The accused has been identified as Didar Singh (50), former sarpanch of Naurang ke Siyal village.Senior Superintendent of Police Harmandeep Singh Hans said following a tip-off, the accused was nabbed by sleuths of the Anti-Narcotics Cell near Canal Colony at Ferozepur-Fazilka Road on Thursday night. “During his frisking, the police recovered 120-gm heroin from his possession, following which he was booked under the NDPS Act at the Sadar police station,” said the SSP.Hans revealed that during the investigation, it came to the fore that the accused was involved in drug peddling and had developed links with Pakistan-based smugglers. Later, as per the information provided by the accused, the police carried out a joint operation with the BSF’s 116 Battalion during which 6.610 Kg-heroin was recovered from fields situated along the ‘Zero Line’ near border pillar number 177/10 close to the Tappu border outpost, said the SSP. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs33-crore-seized-from-ex-sarpanch-325161
16-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC puts Punjab Dy CM Randhawa on notice over ‘harassment’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The functioning of Punjab Minister for Home, Cooperation and Jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has come under judicial scanner with the filing of a petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging harassment and victimisation at his behest.Taking up the petition, Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu of the High Court has not only put the minister and other respondents on notice, but also restrained him from proceeding with a Vigilance inquiry against petitioner Harinder Singh Sidhu, who was working as Additional Registrar, Cooperative Societies. Appearing on the petitioner’s behalf, senior advocate DS Patwalia and advocate Gauravjit Singh Patwalia contended Sidhu was constrained to approach the court again and file sixth writ petition due to “extremely malicious and mala fide departmental actions of the respondent-minister”. The Bench was told the petitioner was seeking directions to the state of Punjab, the minister and other respondents to implement an order passed on July 22/26 by the Punjab Department of Vigilance in an inquiry dated August 24, 2020.Among other things, the order said it was considered “more appropriate to hold a regular inquiry against the delinquent official for a major penalty” after careful perusal of the facts available on record. For a fair and proper inquiry, it may be appropriate to appoint a senior serving IAS officer as an inquiry officer and he may be asked to complete the inquiry within 60 days.Elaborating, Patwalia submitted the short point of consideration before the court was whether the Vigilance proceedings initiated against the petitioner stood terminated in light of the order dated July 22 passed by the Chief Minister, also minister-in-charge of the Vigilance Department, as it was categorically held that a regular inquiry be conducted by a senior IAS officer instead of a Vigilance inquiry. He added the petitioner had been victimised at the hands of Randhawa, a long-time MLA, who had assumed the office of Minister of Home, Cooperation and Jails from October 4. The petitioner was constrained to file four different writ petitions and an LPA on account of the multiple inquiries/harassment faced at the insistence of the respondent-minister. In those cases, interim relief had already been granted by different Benches.Petitioner seeks regular inquiry||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-puts-punjab-dy-cm-randhawa-on-notice-over-harassment-325160
16-10-2021||---||Covid restrictions extended till October 31 in Punjab||Chandigarh/Muktsar, October 15Persons fully inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine or those having an RT-PCR negative report for the past 72 hours will be allowed entry into the state, said a senior government functionary, adding the restrictions already imposed by the Home Department have been extended to October 31.In case of gatherings, a maximum of 400 persons for indoor events and 600 persons for outdoor have been allowed, subject to 50 per cent capacity of the venue. All bars, cinema halls, restaurants, swimming pools, coaching centres have been allowed to operate at two-third capacity.All educational institutions shall remain open subject to strict implementation of Covid guidelines and vaccination of the teaching faculty and students. Meanwhile, Muktsar has been declared a ‘Covid-free’ district with its active caseload coming down to zero. Sources said after the second wave of the Covid, this is perhaps the first district to become Covid-free in the state. The Health department officials said all seven Covid patients recovered today. Besides, there was no fresh case detected, they claimed. However, the report of 14 samples was awaited. Sources in the department said as of now, 18,780 persons have been tested positive in the district and 523 of them have died. Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said: “Covid cases declined to zero today in the district. For the past few days, just one or two cases were coming daily.”Muktsar virus-freeMuktsar has been declared a ‘Covid-free’ district with its active caseload coming down to zero. Sources said after the second wave of the Covid, this is perhaps the first district to become Covid-free in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-restrictions-extended-till-october-31-in-punjab-325159
16-10-2021||Bathinda||Stubble burning: At 692, cases in Malwa  lower than Majha belt||Of the total 1,946, only 692 stubble burning cases have been reported from 15 Malwa districts of the state so far this year. As per the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) data, Patiala has recorded the highest 192 farm fire cases, followed by Ludhiana (121), Fatehgarh Sahib (92), Ferozepur (61), Faridkot (57), Moga (33), Sangrur (31), SAS Nagar (27), Fazilka (24), Muktsar (14), Barnala (11), Malerkotla (7), SBS Nagar (6), Bathinda (5) and Mansa (1).On October 15, 660 farm fire incidents were reported in the state with Tarn Taran topping with 158 incidents followed by Amritsar with 109. PPCB officials said the harvest started early in the Majha region so a significant number of farm fire cases have been reported from there. Amritsar has recorded the highest 532 farm fire cases, followed by Tarn Taran (472) and Gurdaspur (104). Experts claim farm fires were so far as less as compared to last year because of the delay in harvesting in the southern Malwa region. As Bathinda and Sangrur are two districts where maximum incidents are reported in the state, only 31 farm fire cases have been reported in Sangrur while five cases have been reported in Bathinda to date. The incidents of stubble burning have been captured by the visible infrared imaging radiometer suite through satellite images by the PPCB. These are based on the longitude and latitude measurements.The PPCB takes the help of satellite imaging for the identification of sites where the stubble is set on fire. After getting the images of stubble burning through the remote sensing technique, a team is sent to the spot to ascertain the area of land on which the stubble has been set afire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stubble-burning-at-692-cases-in-malwa-lower-than-majha-belt-325158
16-10-2021||---||Stubble burning: Punjab sees 69% drop in farm fires this year||New Delhi, October 15The Union Environment Ministry today said active paddy residue burning events in Punjab, Haryana and eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh had “come down significantly” this year and fewer fire counts had been reported as compared to last year.“As many as 1,795 fire counts were reported in past one month as compared to 4,854 instances in the corresponding period in 2020,” officials said, adding that Punjab had reported substantial reduction. Of these, 663 fields have been inspected by enforcement agencies and officials concerned of the respective states and environmental compensation imposed in 252 cases, they said.As per the report based on the protocol framed by ISRO for the Commission for Air Quality Management, paddy residue burning events have been reduced by 69.49 per cent in Punjab, by 68 per cent in Haryana and by 47.61 per cent in the eight NCR districts of UP during the one-month period compared to the same period last year, they added. During the one-month period of the current year, the total reported residue burning events in Punjab are 1,286 as against 4,216 for the same period last year. In Haryana, the reported fire incidents are 487 as against 1,569 for the corresponding year last year while in UP, incidents reported during this period are 22 as against 42 for the corresponding period last year. No fire counts have been reported from Delhi and two NCR districts of Rajasthan.The first paddy residue burning was reported on September 16 in Punjab, September 28 in Haryana and September 18 in the NCR area of Uttar Pradesh.The major hotspots of paddy residue burning in the state of Punjab are Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala and Ludhiana. The four districts account for 72 per cent of stubble burning incidents.“The commission is taking up with the Governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on a daily basis to ensure strict implementation of the action plan and the framework to curb paddy residue burning events. The commission has also held a series of meetings with state officials,” they said.Harvesting peak yet to come: CentreHarvesting will be at its peak in the next few weeks and the state governments are taking steps as per the plan of action to improve the efficacy of enforcement and implementation to tackle the problem of stubble burning, the central government has said.Daily monitoring of casesThe commission is coordinating with the Governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on a daily basis to ensure strict implementation of the action plan. OfficialMajor hotspotsAmritsar | Tarn Taran Patiala | Ludhiana663 fields inspected252 cases compensation imposed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stubble-burning-punjab-sees-69-drop-in-farm-fires-this-year-325157
16-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Punjab: Wary of action, private operators take buses off road||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 15Following a clampdown, many private bus operators have taken their buses off the road which were running without permits. In the past two weeks, many operators have reportedly stopped their buses on key routes to avoid action.A main player on the Patiala-Ropar route has already cut down his buses by 70 per cent, while another withdrew his Volvo buses on the Chandigarh-Bathinda route.A senior official of the PRTC said, “Many private operators have stopped the service after the government started impounding buses. Consequently, we will be running more buses on these routes.”PRTC officials claimed their income had gone up by Rs 17 lakh daily after regular inspections by Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring. The daily income had gone up from Rs 1.70 crore to Rs 1.87 crore, they said.Warring, during an inspection at the Patiala bus stand, said the government would continue to impound all private buses running without paying tax to the government. “We will not spare anyone. The clampdown so far is just a trailer,” he said.The minister claimed there were still many private buses running on roads without paying tax to the government. “In the coming days, we will fix the accountability of officials, he said.Meanwhile, PRTC conductor Milkha Singh, 28, was honoured by Warring for being the “best conductor”. Warring gave Rs 5,100 to the conductor for his dedication.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-wary-of-action-private-operators-take-buses-off-road-325156
16-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Post Capt’s exit, 2 power centres emerge in Majha||Tribune News ServiceDharowali (Gurdaspur), October 15When Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa were in the midst of an intense rebellion preceding Amarinder’s exit, a sense of despondency used to be all pervasive at Dharowali and Qadian, their respective native places.The two, in fact, had almost been rendered out of action in the political battlefield. Leave alone high ranking bureaucrats, even middle-rung officials were averse to obey their diktats.Times have now changed. The perception of people too has changed. The same people who had started maintaining a distance are now back seeking favours and standing in unending queues.Ever since Sukhjinder was allocated the Home portfolio, police officers regularly make a beeline to him. They come in mufti and that too at odd hours.Yesterday’s transfer of more than 36 IPS and PPS officers was preceded by frenzied behind-the-scenes activity, some acts of which were played out at Dharowali itself.People start arriving in droves much before the sun rises. Sarpanches often urge the Deputy CM to get village link roads widened and ponds cleaned. People who come in groups are there for a common cause like seeking funds for cremation grounds. And then there are those who urge Randhawa to call up the SSP because “they spotted some youngsters selling drugs.”The Deputy CM tries not to annoy anybody. “Justice will not be denied to even a single person in my Assembly seat,” said Randhawa.The early morning chaos in Qadian disappears the moment the boss arrives.The minister has made it clear that he despises people touching his feet. Recently, ASI Palwinder Singh had the audacity to defy this diktat. Within moments, he found his suspension orders arriving through an SMS on his mobile phone. Enjoying unbridled powers, it could not have got bigger for these two Congressmen.Back in reckoning||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-capts-exit-2-power-centres-emerge-in-majha-325155
16-10-2021||Bathinda||CM lays stone of Rs60-cr projects  in Bathinda||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today laid foundation stone of development projects worth Rs 60 crore in Bathinda.The projects include canal lining and the renovation work of the Bathinda branch at a cost of Rs 30 crore and Balwant Gargi Multipurpose Auditorium at Rose Garden, which will come up on 2 acres at Rs 27.15 crore. The auditorium will having a seating capacity of 928 and an open-air capacity of 120 and will have state-of-the-art facilities.Stressing the planned development of the cities as the key to ensure overall progress of the urban areas, Channi announced that parks would come up across the entire state as sound health is of paramount importance. He was responding to the demand put forward by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for a park in Bathinda alongside the Bathinda branch canal.Channi dedicated Shaheed Sepoy Sandeep Singh Memorial Chowk at Paras Ram Nagar to the public. Addressing a meeting there, he said he felt blessed to meet the parents of the martyr, who made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation in Surankot (J&K) on August 2, 1999. He also visited the special dengue ward set up at the meritorious school. Later, he laid the stone of the new residence of the Finance Minister and also paid a visit to the residence of the Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti.Meanwhile, a video has been going viral on social media, in which Channi can be seen touching the feet of Manpreet Badal’s wife Vinu Badal during his visit to the city. — TNSFocus on urban infrastructureUrban development is the focus area for me. A robust sewerage system, spacious market places and parks are the need of the hour. Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinsterNot given time, rue protestersMuktsar: Cotton farmers, who are holding an indefinite sit-in outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here, on Friday criticised CM Charanjit Singh Channi for not bothering to meet them during his Bathinda visit. “We are demanding compensation for the crop loss due to pink bollworm, but the CM has no time for us,” said protesters. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-lays-stone-of-rs60-cr-projects-in-bathinda-325154
16-10-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||All settled, says Harish Rawat; Navjot Singh Sidhu aide disagrees||After days of uncertainty about Punjab unit affairs, the Congress on Friday said Navjot Singh Sidhu will withdraw his resignation as state chief and resume his duties even as Sidhu said he had flagged his concerns to the top brass and was assured of their resolution.After meeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi here on Friday night, Sidhu said: “I have shared my concerns with Rahul Gandhi, was assured they will be sorted out.”AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab Harish Rawat however categorically said Sidhu had assured Gandhi he was withdrawing his resignation and resuming his work as PCC chief. Rawat said Sidhu had shared his concerns with party leaders and it was the party’s duty to talk to the Chief Minister and resolve the remaining issues.The resolution would happen over the coming few days. “We have told Sidhu his concerns will be taken care of. He has assured Rahul he is withdrawing his resignation and resuming his duty as PCC chief,” said Rawat. The state AICC incharge said Sidhu also told Rahul he would join his duty as the state Congress president. “He told Rahul he’s working hard and will work harder now. For us his resignation matter is over,” said Rawat.However, Sidhu’s media adviser Jagtar Singh Sidhu later today maintained: “Sidhu has so far not withdrawn his resignation. He would withdraw his resignation as and when the issues raised by him are addressed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-settled-says-harish-rawat-navjot-singh-sidhu-aide-disagrees-325153
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu killing Talibani act, says commission||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) today called the Singhu border incident “a heinous Talibani crime”.NCSC Chairman Vijay Sampla said the brutal killing suggested the activists of the farmers’ organisations protesting on the Delhi border had no fear of the law. “No matter how big the mistake is, no one has the right to kill the accused,” said Sampla.“The Singhu border is the hub of farmers’ protest where leaders and workers of various organisations have deployed 24-hour security. Despite this, the Dalit man was brutally beaten up, his hand chopped off before being tied up and hung, while activists of farmer organisations stood as mute spectator,” said Sampla.He further said the SKM leaders, who immediately issued statements even on small issues, took 12 hours to hold a press conference on the brutal murder. Meanwhile, state BJP president Ashwani Sharma has said the farmer unions are responsible for the murder of the youth from Tarn Taran. He demanded a through probe into the killing and punishment to the guilty. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-killing-talibani-act-says-commission-325152
16-10-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Recovery up after BSF officers posted in Punjab prisons||Ferozepur, October 15The initiative of the Prisons Department to depute Border Security Force (BSF) officials on deputation as jail superintendents seems to be paying dividends as more than 150 mobile phones have been recovered within a short span from the Ferozepur Central Jail.In the last three days, 12 such cases have come to the fore where inmates were found in possession of mobile phones. Seven cell phones were recovered from barrack number five of the jail. On October 12, three mobile phones along with intoxicating material were recovered. Earlier, on September 28, a mobile phone was recovered from an undertrial. More than 300 mobile phones have been recovered this year so far. Last year, the number was 122.Ferozepur Central Jail Superintendent Surinder Singh, who recently came on deputation from the BSF, said he wanted to convert the jail into a ‘mobile free’ and ‘disciplined’ prison. “I have been given the task to ensure discipline in jail. Nobody will be allowed to take law into their hands,” said Surinder.In July this year, the state government had decided to depute officers from the BSF as jail superintendents in Ferozepur, Amritsar, Gursaspur and Faridkot. The step was taken as most of the police officers were reluctant to come on deputation with the Prisons Department.The Ferozepur Central Jail is adjacent to a residential area, which makes it easy for miscreants to throw mobile phones inside the jail premises.The jail superintendent said, “Security of the residential area is being looked after by the Punjab Police. Internal security is being managed by PESCO and jail wardens. Due to stringent checking, there has been a rise in recoveries of mobile phones and intoxicating items.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recovery-up-after-bsf-officers-posted-in-punjab-prisons-325151
16-10-2021||New Delhi||Powers to BSF: AAP targets Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national spokesperson and Punjab Affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha today held Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi equally responsible for the Centre’s decision to hand over control of approximately 27,600 sq km of Punjab to the Border Security Force (BSF).He said Channi had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah a few days ago, and asked the Centre to take strict action to curb the high incidence of arms and drug trafficking on the International Border with Pakistan, giving as reason to the Centre to occupy 50 per cent of Punjab.Raising questions, Chadha asked CM Channi to explain “why this was done? Indirectly, he let imposition of President’s rule. Indirectly, control of 12 of the 23 districts was handed over to the BJP government. The BJP knows that it can never form a government in Punjab, so why not half of Punjab be ruled indirectly through the BSF.” Chadha said, “The decision to increase the jurisdiction of the checkpoint from 15 km to 50 km along the IB for the BSF to search, arrest suspects and seize under the Passport Act, NDPS Act and Customs Act is not a matter of national security, but of national politics. The Channi government of Punjab has colluded with the BJP government at the Centre on this issue.”Chadha also raised question on the decision to increase the range of BSF by 35 km in Punjab and reducing it by 30 km in Gujarat. He alleged it was an attempt to intimidate the people of Punjab by handing over such a unilateral decision before the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/powers-to-bsf-aap-targets-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-325150
16-10-2021||---||Powers to BSF: Parkash Singh Badal calls for joint fight against Centre’s diktat||Chandigarh, October 15Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today called upon all political parties in the state “to stop fighting among themselves and wage a united fight against Centre’s move to turn Punjab into a UT through the backdoor by handing it over to the central security forces like the BSF”.“This move will further weaken the already endangered federal structure of the country and will reduce the state government to the status of municipality. This will be a severe blow to the pride and dignity of Punjabis,” said Badal.In a statement, Badal said: “If we don’t stop our mutual fights for petty stakes, the Centre will merrily take advantage of our weaknesses. Tomorrow, we will all repent, having no powers left to solve the problems of the people. There will be nothing left.”Badal said there was a strong ground to believe the Centre might be preparing to rob the state of its legitimate rights on its river waters. “They might be conspiring to use this drastic new step to crush the farmers’ movement.”The SAD patron said his party would not stand on prestige and would join or follow any other party willing to lead the fight. “The SAD wants no political limelight and will humbly cooperate with all other parties in a collective endeavou r to safeguard Punjab’s interests. In fact, safeguarding Punjab’s interests is in the best overall interest of the country as we are the sword arm of the nation.”Describing Centre’s decision to place almost half of Punjab under the BSF a “dangerous move”, Badal said it would mark a return to the period when the state was declared a disturbed area.“By giving sweeping powers to the BSF, the Centre has rendered Punjab Police irrelevant. I am afraid we are back into the era of midnight knocks and searches of homes by security forces without valid orders or prior notice,” he said.Badal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to rub salt into the already deep and festering emotional wounds of Punjabis by humiliating them through the denial of their basic democratic and federal right to manage their affairs through their own elected representatives instead of being run from Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/powers-to-bsf-parkash-singh-badal-calls-for-joint-fight-against-centres-diktat-325149
16-10-2021||Aditi Tandon||Sidhu to continue as Punjab Pradesh Congress chief, says all concerns addressed||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 15After days of uncertainty about Punjab Congress affairs, state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is all set to resume duties after the party leadership “addressed all his concerns.”After meeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi here on Friday night, Sidhu said: “Whatever concerns I had I have shared with Rahul Gandhi. All my concerns have been sorted out.”Harish Rawat, AICC General Secretary in-charge of Punjab, later said Sidhu had assured Rahul that he was withdrawing his resignation and resuming his work as PCC chief.Rawat said Sidhu has shared his concerns with party leaders and it is the party’s duty to talk to the Punjab Chief Minister and resolve the remaining issues.The resolution would happen over the coming few days.“We have told Sidhu that his concerns will be taken care of. He has assured Rahul that he is withdrawing his resignation and resuming his duty as PCC chief,” said Rawat.The state AICC in-charge said Sidhu also told Rahul Gandhi he would join his duty as Punjab Congress president.“He told Rahul Gandhi that he’s working hard and will work harder now. For us his resignation matter is over,” said Rawat, capping days of suspense since Sidhu resigned over differences with the CM in respect of certain government appointments.Sidhu had posted his resignation on Twitter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-to-continue-as-punjab-pradesh-congress-chief-says-all-concerns-addressed-325035
16-10-2021||---||5 killed in road accident as SUV rams into tractor-trolley in Patiala||Patiala, October 15Five people, including a 12-year-old child, were killed and 12 others injured in a road accident on the Patiala-Pehowa road in the wee hours of Friday.The injured are undergoing treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.Police said the accident took place near Jagatpur village around 3 am when a Scorpio SUV collided with a tractor-trolley.Sources said over two dozen people in the tractor-trolley were heading towards neighbouring Haryana to attend a religious function when the SUV rammed into it.Of the five killed, three were occupants of the tractor-trolley while two were those of the SUV.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-killed-in-road-accident-as-suv-rams-into-tractor-trolley-in-patiala-324971
16-10-2021||Sonepat||Semi-naked body of a man hanging with chopped hand found at Singhu border; Nihang arrested||A semi-naked mutilated body of a man with his left hand and foot chopped off was found hanging from an overturned police barricade near the main stage of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Singhu border on Friday morning.The deceased has been identified as Lakhbeer Singh (35), a labourer from Cheema Khurd village in Tarn Taran (Punjab). A Nihang, Sarvjeet, has been arrested after he surrendered before the police.In a purported video clip that has gone viral on social media, a few Nihangs are seen standing around the injured man with his severed hand tied close to his head. The group is heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book and asking him who sent him to “commit the sacrilege”.Police sources said the assailants dragged the man for a few metres before tying him with ropes to the barricade. He is said to have bled to death. Some injury marks were also seen on his neck and chest.In another video, a few people are seen at the spot and the man lying in a pool of blood on the ground, his eyes glazed over in shock and pain. They are purportedly heard asking him his name and other details. Hundreds of protesting farmers gathered at the spot and were seen making videos of the deceased hanging from the barricade.In yet another video, a group of Nihangs is purportedly heard taking responsibility for the crime, claiming, “He (deceased) disrespected the holy book. Why shouldn’t he be punished?”The police are learnt to have been informed about the incident around 5.30 am. When Kundli SHO Inspector Ravi Kumar reached the spot, the protesters reportedly didn’t allow the police team to take away the body. It was after over four hours of persuasion and when farmer union leaders, including Baldev Singh Sirsa, arrived at the spot that the body was sent to the General Hospital’s mortuary.ADGP Sandeep Khirwar along with DC Lalit Kumar Siwach and SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa also visited the Kundli border and camped at the local police station.The ADGP said a murder case had been registered against unidentified persons and a forensic team had visited the spot. “We have evidence and a few suspects are on our radar,” he said.The SKM has condemned the killing and distanced itself from the incident. At a press conference, the SKM leaders said both the Nihang group and the deceased had nothing to do with the morcha. It demanded that the culprits be punished in accordance with law after investigating the allegation of murder and conspiracy behind sacrilege.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/semi-naked-body-of-a-man-hanging-with-chopped-hand-found-at-singhu-border-nihang-arrested-324957
