17-10-2021||GS Paul||Akal Takht Jathedar demands fair independent probe into Singhu incident||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17Terming it as an utter failure of rule of law and order, the officiating Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh demanded a thorough probe from an independent agency into the unfortunate incident that led to killing of Dalit Sikh Lakhbir Singh at Singhu border over alleged sacrilege on October 15.Showing concern about the image of Sikhs globally, he said the incident was an outcome of emotional religious sentiments that had to be dealt with utmost precision and efficiency.“All the aspects of the incident should be probed and revealed so that the right version of Sikh community could be presented before the world,” he said.Citing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights drafted by the United Nations which states “a person goes on a violent path only if the rule of law protects his human rights fails”, he emphasised that the failure of the judiciary to bring justice to the sacrilege incidents in the past had led to the unfortunate incidents, like the one occurred at the Singhu border.He also advised the media to refrain from tarnishing the image of Sikhs by showing incomplete aspects of the incident.“Sri Guru Granth Sahib is prime for Sikhs. In the background of the Singhu border incident, there had been around 400 incidents of sacrilege in Punjab during the past five years. The law and system machinery could not deliver justice. Mostly, the cases were closed after declaring the culprits to be ‘mentally ill’, while avoiding to unveil the motive and forces behind it. Had there been exemplary punishment for the wrong doers and the real conspirators behind sacrilege incidents, it would have at least healed up the wounds of the Sikh community as consolation?” he said.He demanded that an independent agency should scrutinise all the aspects of the Singhu incident, its background, the forces behind it and their motive behind it. “Law should take its course, but the truth must prevail. The police of Punjab and Haryana should do their job impartially and refrain from harassing innocent Sikhs. There could be a motive to hurt the communal harmony of the state by creating problems on religious and caste lines,” he said.Meanwhile, echoing identical views, the SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the attempts were being made to defame the Sikhs and scuttle the farmers’ agitation against the contentious agri laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-jathedar-demands-fair-independent-probe-into-singhu-incident-325830
17-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Cotton windfall for farmers, sells at high of Rs 8K/quintal||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 16The “white gold” is paying dividends to cotton growers in the state as private players have started purchasing the produce way above than the Minimum Support Price (MSP) fixed by the government this season.Demand up at global levelFarmers are fetching around Rs 8,000 per quintal, which is an all-time high price for the crop and is much higher than the MSP of Rs 6,025.Jatinder Singh, secretary, Indian Cotton Association Limited, Bathinda, said: “The price of cotton is continuously on the rise and the mainreason is its huge demand and less supply.”Experts claim the private players are buying cotton due to a sizable increase in the demand at the international level. They are getting good rates internationally and are also learnt to be storing the stocks to sell later, expecting a rise in prices.Agricultural expert Dr Paramjit Singh Brar said the depleting stocks and increasing demand for cotton not only in India but also in countries like China and Bangladesh, which are international hubs of the textile sector, had led to the encouraging situation. “The reopening of textile industries, which were closed for a long time due to the pandemic, enhanced the demand for cotton supply,” he said. Competitive bidding among private players is anotherreason for its high price.The global prices of cotton have shot up since September in view of the consumption being higher than the production.“There is good demand from spinning mills as yarn rates have also been leapfrogging. The gradual opening of markets in the US and Europe and increase in retail business has led to good demand for yarn exports from India,” Dr Brar said.He said projections of lower output in the next cotton crop in major cotton-producing nations, including the US and Brazil, as farmers were planning to shift to maize and soybeans, which had given better returns, had also supported domestic prices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-windfall-for-farmers-sells-at-high-of-rs-8k-quintal-325485
17-10-2021||Our Correspondent||CM willing to lead all-party delegation: Vijay Inder Singla||Fatehgarh Sahib, October 16The Congress government is ready to lead an all-party delegation to the Union Government to raise the issue of rights of the state, said Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla here today. The remarks came amid criticism by various political parties over the Centre’s decision allowing more powers to the Border Security Force (BSF) in border areas.Answering a query during a state-level event to mark the 351st birth anniversary of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur here, Singla said the Modi government was interfering in the rights of the state and Punjabis would oppose it.He said paramilitary forces should strengthen the borders amid rising attempts at infiltration and smuggling of drugs and ammunition, and leave the handling of law and order to the state police.Welcoming SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal’s appeal to political parties to unite against the Centre’s move, he said Punjabis had always presented a united front to defend the rights of the state, which was visible from the support extended to farmers’ agitation irrespective of party affiliation. “Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is ready to lead such a delegation if all parties agreed,” he said.Dedicating a commemorative bronze statue of the Sikh fighter to the people, Singla said: “It is the need of the hour to follow and propagate the ideals of Sikh general Baba Banda Singh Bahadur. The Modi government is hell-bent on handing over the land of small farmers to corporates by implementing the three farm laws,” said the PWD Minister.On re-carpeting and four-laning of the Sirhind-Patiala road, the minister said the proposal had been sent to the Centre and they were awaiting the approval.Lauds sad patriarch’s statementWelcoming SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal’s appeal to political parties to unite against the Centre’s move, minister Vijay Inder Singla said Punjabis had always presented a united front to defend the rights of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-willing-to-lead-all-party-delegation-vijay-inder-singla-325486
17-10-2021||---||Jurisdiction row: Akalis blame Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi||Ludhiana/Amritsar, Oct 16Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal blamed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for the central government’s decision to give additional jurisdictional powers to the Border Security Force (BSF).Addressing mediapersons in Ludhiana today, Sukhbir alleged Channi was compromising the interests of the state to save his chair and retain power for the next three months.He’s an ineffective Chief MinisterChanni is proving to be an ineffective Chief Minister. This is because the CM takes orders from the Gandhi family instead of acting as per the sentiments of Punjabis. —Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD chiefHe alleged the Chief Minister had committed a sin by selling off the interests of the state to the Centre by agreeing to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF. “This effectively means central forces have policing powers across half of the state,” he said. Sukhbir also took the Chief Minister to task for not speaking up for the welfare of weaker sections as a Cabinet minister earlier. “Lakhs of blue cards of BPL families were struck off but you never raised your voice in their support. Even now you are not making any effort to restore benefits which have been snatched away from weaker sections,” he alleged.Asserting that Channi was proving to be an ineffective Chief Minister, Sukhbir said this was because the CM took orders from the Gandhi family instead of acting as per the sentiments of Punjabis.Bikram Singh Majitha, SAD leader, also slammed Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for giving up the jurisdiction of border areas of Punjab to the central government. He said if they were not capable of running the government, they should call for an early election. Meanwhile, former Fazilka MLA and SAD Vidhan Sabha poll candidate from Abohar Dr Mohinder Rinwa today led a protest against the Modi government by blocking National Highway-62 near Khuyiansarwer village in Abohar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jurisdiction-row-akalis-blame-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-325487
17-10-2021||---||Cong’s 5-marla plots for SCs a sham: Sisodia||jalandhar/Amritsar, Oct 16Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia today said CM Charanjit Singh Channi was misguiding homeless people of Scheduled Castes in the guise of giving them five marla plots. He said it was similar to the employment cards’ fraud.state leaders fooling residentsJust as Capt Amarinder fooled people in the name of employment under ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ scheme, Channi is fooling them in the name of five-marla plots. —Manish Sisodia, Delhi deputy chief ministerAddressing mediapersons at the Circuit House in Jalandhar today, he said: “I want to tell the people of Punjab that just the way Capt Amarinder Singh fooled them in the name of employment under Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme, Channi is befooling them in the name of five-marla plots. The project has been in place since 1961, but even today, they are giving just papers, not the land.”The CM had on October 2 announced that a special pro-poor campaign would be launched across all villages to identify eligible beneficiaries of the five-marla plot scheme. Eyeing the vote bank of the reserved categories in the forthcoming Assembly election, Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia today visited two famous sites associated with the Valmiki community.Earlier during the day, he visited Valmiki Temple in the Ramtirath area on the outskirts of Amritsar. The place is believed to be the ancient hermitage of Valmiki where he had given refuge to Sita and had composed the Ramayana. After a brief stopover, Sisodia went to Jalandhar’s Valmiki Ashram.Sisodia, flanked by AAP leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, said he prayed for the formation of the AAP government in Punjab at the shrine, where he stressed that Bhagwan Valmiki had imparted education to Luv and Kush. The AAP would proceed on the path shown by Valmiki and Lord Rama, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congs-5-marla-plots-for-scs-a-sham-sisodia-325488
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu lynching: Punjab Dy CM for probe by sitting judge||Deputy Chief Minister and state Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today demanded an inquiry by a sitting judge to bring out the truth behind the Singhu border incident yesterday.Randhawa called it a sensitive issue that was linked to the religious beliefs of the people and associated with farmers who had been protesting peacefully from almost a year against the farm laws. “At this juncture, it was important to identify the anti-social elements inciting religious sentiments and defaming the farmers’ agitation. Attempts to sabotage the peaceful agitation were already being made by some disgruntled elements.”He said the Haryana Government and its police could not disassociate themselves from the incident as the responsibility of maintaining the law and order laid with the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-lynching-punjab-dy-cm-for-probe-by-sitting-judge-325489
17-10-2021||Moga||Two farmers killed over land dispute in Moga||Two farmers were allegedly killed with sharp weapons by another farmer following a land dispute at Nathewala village in Baghapurana sub-division of Moga district, police officials said today.The deceased had been identified as Pal Singh (52) and Jaswinder Singh (42), both residents of Jhandeana Garbi village. Pal had taken a piece of land on lease at Nathewala, his in-laws’ village. Jaswinder had gone along with him to visit his land, which was previously taken on lease by a local villager, Pawanpreet Singh, whose own land shared the boundary with it.On learning that Pawanpreet was interested in taking the land on lease, Pal along with Jaswinder went to meet him in the fields to sort out the issue amicably. However, an argument ensued, leading to bloody clash. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against Pawanpreet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-farmers-killed-over-land-dispute-in-moga-325490
17-10-2021||---||Unions burn PM Modi’s effigies across state||Bathinda/Muktsar, October 16On call a given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), scores of farmers and labourers, including a large number of women, staged protests against the Union Government and burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Ashish Mishra and corporate houses in villages of Bathinda and Mansa district. The protesters held agitations at village and block levels and raised slogans against the Centre.Resham Yatri, a leader of the BKU Sidhupur, said, “Numerous pressure tactics have been used by the Centre but all of them have failed to dampen our spirit. Peacefully protesting farmers were mowed down and killed under vehicles at Lakhimpur Kheri in UP. We demand strictest punishment to the culprits. The protests were held in Yatri, Mandi Kalan, Chathewala, Jodhpur, Maisarkhana, Nagla, Sandoha, Kotra, Pitho, Kalyan, Jaga, Singo, Pakka Kala, Gurthari, Sekhpura, Phul, Lehra Mohabbat, Nehianwala and other villages in Bathinda and Mansa districts.”“A conspiracy cannot be ruled out in the incident that took place at the Singhu border where a man was killed. The farm agitation will continue,” he added. In Muktsar, farmers lodging a protest outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here today burnt the effigy of Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at Badal village. They blamed them for the present situation of farmers. Effigies of PM Modi and Amit Shah were burnt in Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unions-burn-pm-modis-effigies-across-state-325491
17-10-2021||Faridkot||Harsimrat shown black flags in Jaito||SAD MP from Bathinda and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today faced protests from farmers during her visit to Jaito.On her way to a meeting place with party workers and supporters at Jaito, her cavalcade was shown black flags by farmers and slogans were raised against the party. The protesting farmers claimed that the SAD had supported the controversial anti-farm laws and were now “doing drama” to fool people.However, addressing the party workers, Harsimrat claimed while Congress leaders were fighting to get ministerial berths for remaining four months of their government in the state, she left her ministerial berth in the central government for four years for the sake of farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-shown-black-flags-in-jaito-325492
17-10-2021||Morinda||Staff block highway over pay panel row||Members of the Punjab and UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front staged a protest against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission here today. The protesters, who started reaching at Chunni Chowk here since morning, initially held a rally andlater blocked the Chandigarh-Ludhiana road.Demanding amendments and resolution of their long-pending issues, they said the commission was full of ambiguous recommendations and the state government had turned a blind eye to their issues.Instead of increasing remuneration, the government had planned to impose salary cuts through the commission, they said. At 3.15 pm, the protesters cleared the road after they were assured of a meetingwith the Chief Minister on October 21 in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-block-highway-over-pay-panel-row-325493
17-10-2021||---||Another Nihang held for Singhu murder||Amritsar, October 16Day after the brutal killing of Lakhbir Singh, alias Neeta, by Nihangs at the Singhu border over alleged sacrilege, the Amritsar rural police today arrested Narain Singh, head of Misl Shaheed Baba Baj Singh Shiromani Panth Akali (Tarna Dal), for the murder.Heavy police force was deployed at Rakh Devidass Pura village, from where he was arrested. The police surrounded the village to prevent him from escaping.Unions holding nation to ransom: BJPThe Haryana Police had yesterday arrested another Nihang, Sarabjit Singh of Misl Baba Himmat Singh, for the murder.The police produced him before mediapersons, where Narain admitted to the crime but added he had no remorse. He said he chopped off Lakhbir’s ankle after several Nihangs approached him claiming he had committed sacrilege. He along with supporters then left for the Singhu border on October 14 and reached there around 5.30 am the next morning.“When I reached the spot, someone had already chopped his hand off. In a fit of anger, I severed his leg. Half an hour later, he died,” he said.“We have been hearing news of sacrilege but governments have failed to provide justice,” he said, while speaking to mediapersons.Earlier, he said he would surrender after paying obeisance at Akal Takht. However, when the police got inputs he had reached his village, they sent teams there in civvies.After confirming his presence at the village, more teams were rushed to his dera for arrest, said SSP Amritsar rural Rakesh Kaushal. A team of the Sonepat police was on its way to take his custody, he added.On Friday, Lakhbir, allegedly a drug addict from Cheema Kalan village in Tarn Taran, was found tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border where the anti-farm law protesters had been camping.His hand and a leg were chopped off and the body bore multiple wounds caused by sharp weapons. Soon after, videos of his barbaric murder went viral on the social media, leading to outrage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-nihang-held-for-singhu-murder-325494
17-10-2021||Abohar||Doda’s nephew told to surrender in Ropar jail||Denying his prayer for indoor treatment, the Punjab and Haryana HC directed liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda’s nephew Amit Doda to surrender before the Superintendent, District Jail, Ropar. He will be allowed to take his auto-CPAP device (to treat sleep apnoea).Amit had challenged his conviction in the Bhim Tank murder case and was undergoing life imprisonment. He was availing of concession of interim bail for medical treatment and prayed for further extension to get indoor treatment.In the medical report it was found the petitioner was suffering from obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome. The Bench said the treatment to be given to him was not of the nature where he would require indoor admission in hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dodas-nephew-told-to-surrender-in-ropar-jail-325495
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Private hospitals fleecing dengue patients: AAP||The state AAP unit today accused the Congress government of leaving people at the mercy of private hospitals amid rising dengue cases.Addressing mediapersons here today, MLA Baljinder Kaur said: “With dengue cases rising, the health mafia has gotten active. Private hospitals are charging exorbitant fee for beds and tests. A packet of single donor platelets (SDP) is being sold for Rs 10,000-15,000 to make up for the shortage of blood platelet, while the government is in slumber.” She accused the government of failing to take preventive steps as dengue outbreak peaked after September. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-hospitals-fleecing-dengue-patients-aap-325496
17-10-2021||Sangrur||Interstate arms racket busted, 2 nabbed with pistols in Sangrur||The district police today claimed to have busted an interstate illegal arms supply racket with the arrest of two persons and recovery of two country-made pistols. The name of a serving Army man from UP has cropped up during investigations.Those arrested have been identified as Pawan Kumar, a resident of Aligarh (UP), and Kulwinder Singh of Muktsar.SSP Swapan Sharma said following a spurt in the supply of illegal weapons in the district and its surrounding areas, an SIT was formed under the supervision of DSP (D) Yogesh Kumar. “During a month-long investigation, the SIT busted the interstate racket. Pawan had made several trips to Punjab and supplied weapons in Amritsar and Tarn Taran areas. He was working for Chanchal Kumar, who is serving in the Army. We have arrested Pawan and Kulwinder and seized two country made pistols from them,” said the SSP.Kumar was allegedly in touch with illegal arms manufacturer based in Madhya Pardesh (MP) and had several conduits who had been making trips to deliver country-made weapons to anti-social elements in the state, said the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/interstate-arms-racket-busted-2-nabbed-with-pistols-in-sangrur-325497
17-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Kids’ duty to take care of parents: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 16The Punjab and Haryana HC has ruled that abandoning parents after receiving property was not an uncommon phenomenon and permitting children to corrode legal and moral values of maintaining them would result in mushrooming of old age homes. The HC also reminded the children that looking after the parents was not only a value-based principle, but a bounden duty.MORE OLD AGE HOMESThe assertion by the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came in a case where a senior citizen was driven out of the home by his daughter after over 34 kanal was transferred to her, forcing him to live in an old age home.The daughter had initially moved the court after Fatehgarh Sahib Maintenance Tribunal-cum-Sub Divisional Magistrate directed an Assistant Collector to take necessary action for cancellation of mutation. Taking up the appeal after a Single Judge dismissed her plea, the Bench asserted the children often abandoned parents after receiving the property. In such situation, the Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, was “an enabling lifeline for such old aged parents not looked after by their children”.The Bench asserted the Act, a special law, was enacted to uphold the dignity and respect of the senior citizens and to ensure social security as the State had serious concern about the emotional and psychological challenges faced by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kids-duty-to-take-care-of-parents-hc-325498
17-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab Deputy CM ‘raids’ border posts at midnight||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, Oct 16“The tiger is on the prowl.” This was the telephonic message a Gurdaspur-based police officer received moments after Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa conducted a midnight surprise check at the Punjab Police post in Jagdev Khurd village near the International Border.6-hour inspectionBy the time he wound up his visit at Dera Baba Nanak in the wee hours, officials of the Batala, Amritsar (Rural) and Gurdaspur police districts were already dressed up in their uniform, fearing the Deputy CM could raid any place at any time.In the six-hour-long operation, Randhawa visited nearly a dozen places to ascertain the preparedness of his force. He was accompanied by IG (Border) Mohnish Chawla, Amritsar (Rural) SSP Rakesh Kaushal and Batala SSP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar.Officers welcomed the Deputy CM’s initiative and added that “the morale of the force would be boosted, particularly in the wake of the recent drone flights initiated by Pakistan”. He took stock of the ground situation at Jagdev Khurd, Gagomahal, Dariya Moosa, Singpura, Ghonewala, Kalanaur and Dera Baba Nanak. He arrived at his native village of Dharowali around 4 am. “I visited the posts at a short notice because I wanted to see for myself how prepared is my force. I am satisfied with the work being put in by my officers, particularly the ones who are posted near the IB. I also listened to the grievances of the lower and middle-rung officials. Today’s visit is just an extended part of the night domination exercise already put in place by us,” Randhawa said. This was his first visit to border area posts ever since he was given the Home portfolio.He criticised the central government for “needlessly meddling” in the affairs of Punjab by increasing the area of operation of the BSF. “The Centre is creating a controversy where none exists. When the Punjab Police are capable of doing their job, where is the need to deploy the BSF? Punjab is the sword arm of the nation and hence we are fully prepared for any eventuality. By asking the BSF to increase its area of influence, the central government is unnecessarily trying to instil fear among the residents,” Randhawa added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-deputy-cm-raids-border-posts-at-midnight-325501
17-10-2021||Ropar||5 arrested for illegal weapons trade in Ropar||Five persons were arrested on Saturday for allegedly trading in illegal arms.Five country-made pistols were seized from the suspects identified as Luvdeep Singh of Moga, Pardeep Singh of Samrala, Harpreet Singh of Amritsar, Inderpreet Singh from Mansa and Harmandeep Singh of Tarn Taran.SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said CIA staff incharge Inspector Satnam Singh conducted a raid and nabbed Luvdeep, Pardeep and Harpreet. Later, Inderpreet and Harmandeep were also arrested. They used to buy weapons from Balwari (MP) for Rs 20,000 a piece. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-arrested-for-illegal-weapons-trade-in-ropar-325504
17-10-2021||New Delhi||Charanjit Channi cried when told he’d be Punjab CM: Rahul tells CWC||For some time during the Congress Working Committee meeting on Saturday, the mood became highly sombre when Rahul Gandhi told the house that Charanjit Singh Channi broke into tears when told he would be the chief minister of Punjab.Seeking CWC’s permission to make a personal point, Rahul said when Congress president Sonia Gandhi phoned Charanjit Singh Channi to tell him he would be the next Punjab CM, “Channi ji cried and said he could never imagine that a person from an ordinary background such as his could become chief minister.”Present at the CWC gathering, Channi, one of the three CMs of the Congress-ruled states, who attended today, nodded in agreement and later said, “I could have never dreamed of being a CM as I am from a community where we are conditioned not to have any dreams. I cried on the phone that day because Congress president and Rahul ji were striking at the very core of injustices – the conditioning that those from a certain community should be content being ministers and they cannot overcome the prejudices inherent in society.”Rahul, citing Channi’s example, today said people expect the Congress to fight for them.“It does not matter who holds what post, people are only interested in seeing a united Congress which fights for the sustenance of democracy, honour of the Constitution and rights of the disadvantaged,” said Rahul urging the party leaders to work against mind sets that SCs, STs and OBCs cannot take up leadership roles.“The BJP approach is that the elite will rule over the marginalised. We have to work against this approach. The BJP and RSS want to divide the society on the basis of religion and communities. This will sound a death knell for democracy and would be a derogation of the principles of BR Ambedkar, Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru’s and Patel. This is what we need to fight for,” Gandhi said at the meeting, adding, “Those who are trying to weaken the Congress must also think about it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-channi-cried-when-told-hed-be-punjab-cm-rahul-tells-cwc-325473
