18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet opposes Centre’s decision to extend BSF jurisdiction||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said the state Cabinet took a serious view of Centre’s move to extend the BSF’s area of jurisdiction in the state, saying law and order is a state subject and the police force is capable of dealing with any situation.The Union government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50 km stretch, up from the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.“We are completely against it. Law and order is a state subject. The state police, which can end terrorism from the state, is capable of preventing any incident,” Channi said here after chairing a Cabinet meeting.“We oppose it,” the chief minister said, adding that the move is not justified.Such decisions should not be taken without consulting the state government, he said.A special Cabinet meeting will be called soon on this issue, Channi said, adding that the situation demands to dispel apprehensions from the minds of the public on this sensitive issue.“If the need arises, an all-party meeting will be called. We will take other (political) parties along (over this issue),” he said.A special assembly session will be convened if needed, he added.On Sunday, the Shiromani Akali Dal targeted the Punjab government over the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction, saying the chief minister should answer “why he had acquiesced” to the Centre’s move.Channi further said his government will not accept the Centre’s decision to allow enhancement of BSF’s jurisdiction, saying it is against the spirit of federalism.    He slammed SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for allegedly trying to flare up religious sentiments of people over this issue.Channi asked Badal to desist from making alleged “provocative” statements referring to the entry of central forces to the Golden Temple and other religious places.He also asked the SAD president not to push Punjab back into “black days of militancy” by hurting religious sentiments of people under the guise of the jurisdiction issue.He further alleged that the Akali Dal was solely responsible for having “misled” the state’s youth to take up the path of militancy.Anyone who rakes up such sensitive issues merely for pursuing his vested interests is the biggest enemy of Punjab and the country, he said.Last week, the state government had taken strong exception to the Centre’s decision, dubbing it an “attack on federalism”.It had also asked the Centre to withdraw the decision. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-opposes-centres-decision-to-extend-bsf-jurisdiction-326261
18-10-2021||Amritsar||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu inclines to contest Amritsar (East) seat in upcoming 2022 Assembly polls||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, has shown her inclination to contest the forthcoming 2022 Assembly elections from Amritsar East constituency.Toeing the line of Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government of waiving off old electricity bills for poor consumers with under 2-KW consumption, she held a special camp in East constituency, represented by Sidhu.Incidentally, Dr Sidhu was also MLA from the East constituency in 2012, but on BJP ticket.  When Sidhu switched over to the Congress, he started off his innings from the same constituency.“All the development works worth Rs 100 crore were executed in East constituency during my tenure as MLA. I have full faith and understanding with the natives and councillors of this constituency. In 2017 too, my name was recommended for Amritsar East and Sidhu was asked to choose any other seat, but he didn’t let me contest then from here. Now, if given a chance, I would definitely contest from here again,” she said.She was all praise for Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring’s working style.Taking a dig at Capt Amrinder Singh, she said that the promises remained unfulfilled and the Congress here had the ‘CM’ of ‘Akalis’ and all the ‘loot’ prospered during his tenure.“That’s why he (Capt Amarinder) was shunted out. My husband had a wider vision to make this state more prosperous and corruption free, but he always let him down. Now, the Congress government has come back to power in a real sense. Charanjit Singh Channi had shown the way that could lead us to attain success in achieving the goals. The points raised by Sidhu were widely discussed and modalities were being made to implement them,” she said.She claimed that NRIs were ready to invest in Punjab subject to the condition that there was corruption free set up.She said the power pacts made by the erstwhile Akali government were also being made defunct after considering its legal aspects.“There was a lobby of officers which worked for both sides-Congress as well as Akalis. Now, a new set of officers have taken over to achieve the goals,” she said.  She named several Akali leaders for prospering drug and gold smuggling from across the border.She supported the Centre’s decision of enhancing the BSF’s jurisdiction from 5 kms to 50 kms from the India-Pakistan border.“If it was for safeguarding the national security and curbing smuggling of drugs, arms and other forbidden material, it was the right decision to implement and enhance BSF’s control in the state,” she said.Dr Sidhu reiterated that the cultivation of opium would be beneficial.“There are 25 varieties of opium which is non-addictive and used to produce medicines. The countries like Canada, US were ready to import opium cultivated in India which could garner multiple times profit,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-navjot-kaur-sidhu-inclines-to-contest-amritsar-east-seat-in-upcoming-2022-assembly-polls-326247
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||All matters will be resolved, says Punjab CM Channi after Sidhu flags issues in letter to Sonia||All matters will be resolved and the party’s agenda implemented, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Monday, a day after the Congress’ Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu made public his letter to Sonia Gandhi flagging several issues.On Sunday evening, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi held a meeting with Sidhu. Minister Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, was among those present there.Interacting with reporters on Sunday, Channi said, “Be it 13-point, 18-point, 21-point or 24-point, whatever the agenda is will be implemented. No point will be left out.”                “It’s alright he (Sidhu) raised the issues... We have to implement the party’s ideology. The party is supreme. All issues will be resolved,” he replied when asked about Sidhu’s letter.Sidhu has sought a meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi, flagging in a letter issues which the government “must deliver upon” and saying it is the poll-bound state’s “last chance for resurrection and redemption”.In the letter to the Congress president on October 15, a day after he had meetings with senior party leaders in Delhi, Sidhu pitched for a “Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections”.Days after resigning as Punjab Congress chief, Sidhu had on October 15 said his concerns had been resolved and the party asserted that he would continue as the head of the state unit.Sidhu reminded Sonia Gandhi of the party’s 18-point agenda “given to the last chief minister” of Punjab and said that those were “equally relevant today”.He had raised several issues, including justice in the 2015 sacrilege cases, arrest of “big fish” in drug racket, and scrapping power purchase pacts.Sidhu’s letter, which he put in the public domain by posting on Twitter, had indicated that he was still not satisfied with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led government over its handling of key issues which he has been raising in the recent past.Channi became the chief minister after the unceremonious exit of Congress veteran Amarinder Singh, who had been at loggerheads with Sidhu. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-matters-will-be-resolved-says-punjab-cm-channi-after-sidhu-flags-issues-in-letter-to-sonia-326211
18-10-2021||Aparna Banerji  ||Huge traffic jams in Jalandhar after police officer’s vehicle runs 2 girls over||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 18Two girls were run over on Monday morning by a vehicle being driven by a police inspector.While one of the girls, who were standing by the roadside, died on the spot, another who was seriously injured was admitted to a local hospital.The Hoshiarpur number vehicle was being driven by Amrit Pal Singh, an inspector with Punjab Police. He has been arrested.A resident of Hoshiarpur, Amrit Pal is posted at Harike Pattan.The deceased has been identified as Navjot Kaur who worked at a local car showroom. She, along with her friend, was standing on the roadside when the vehicle mowed them down.The incident took place at Dhanewali village on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway. Following this, locals stopped traffic and blocked the highway causing a traffic jam. Traffic was stopped at Jalandhar Cantt too, causing huge traffic jams.A group of people sat on dharna on the highway against the accident.The CCTV footage shows a white Brezza car mowing down the two girls. The girls took a step back after seeing the vehicle approach, still the car rammed into them.ADCP 1 Jalandhar Suhail Mir said the vehicle was being driven by police inspector Amrit Pal Singh who was alone in the car and he had been arrested.Speaking about the huge traffic congestion, Jalandhar Police Commissioner Naunihal Singh said, "Due to the residents blocking traffic following the incident, jams were caused on the highway. We are looking into it."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/huge-traffic-jams-in-jalandhar-after-police-officers-vehicle-runs-2-girls-over-326169
18-10-2021||---||Remove pay panel anomalies, demand Punjab teachers, nurses||Chamkaur Sahib, October 17Members of Punjab State Teachers’ Alliance and nursing staff staged a protest march here today, demanding implementation of the 6th Pay Commission report and removal of ambiguities in the new pay scales of 24 categories of employees.They later sat on a dharna and blocked the Chamkaur Sahib-Morinda road for around one hour.Union leaders said it was recommended to increase salaries with a multiple of 2.59 in the new pay scales of 24 categories of employees and the Finance Department was creating hurdles in its implementation.Claiming that the authorities had agreed to resolve their issues and even issued a notification in this regard during their meetings with former Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar on September 8 and Principal Secretary Hussan Lal on September 28, they said nothing had been done to date.“Besides, the government has failed to regularise the contract teachers and restore the old pension scheme,” they said, adding that their protest would continue till their demands were accepted. The protesters, however, lifted the dharna around 4 pm when local tehsildar Chetan Bangar reached thespot to receive their memorandum of demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remove-pay-panel-anomalies-demand-punjab-teachers-nurses-325860
18-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Couple found dead, honour killing suspected||Abohar, October 17A couple was reportedly killed and the bodies thrown in the middle of a road in Sappanwali village on Sunday. For about 6 hours, the bodies kept lying at the spot as the boy’s family refused to give consent for a post-mortem.Locals said Rohtash Kumar, who belonged to a gardener’s family, was friends with a girl of the same village. Their families reportedly turned down the proposal for marriage.The couple went missing on September 28 and reportedly got married on October 1 in Delhi. They then came to Rohta village near Moga where Rohtash’s sister resided. Vikram, Rohtash’s brother, alleged the family of the girl brought both from Rohta and killed them.The gruesome incident has caused panic in the area. The family of Rohtash sought the arrest of the culprits at the earliest. The family of the slain youth allowed cops to shift the bodies to the hospital late in the night after a case under Section 302 was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/couple-found-dead-honour-killing-suspected-325861
18-10-2021||Karam Prakash||School being run from Nabha jail premises||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Over 300 students of a Government Primary School are regularly “exposed to dreaded criminals”. Reason: The classes are held on the premises of the Nabha jail.Children usually encounter the criminals when they are being ferried in police vans for court hearings. “Exposure to violent people such as these, even as a bystander, can have far-reaching negative impact on children,” said an expert.A teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said: “We were lucky that the infamous Nabha jailbreak took place on Sunday in 2016 when we were not on the premises. To ensure safety of children, the government should immediately shift us out of here.” Adding to their woes, the school is being run in four makeshift classrooms of tin sheds, which leak during rains. District Education Officer Harinder Kaur said: “Though the school is on the jail premises, it is far from where inmates are lodged. However, I will seek a report from the school staff on possible solutions to end this problem.” Education Minister Pargat Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/school-being-run-from-nabha-jail-premises-325862
18-10-2021||Moga||e-portal for basmati import launched||The Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board, popularly known as the mandi board, has launched an electronic registration system for facilitating rice millers to import basmati variety from other states.Since the Punjab Government has banned the import of non-basmati rice/paddy from other states during the procurement season, the millers engaged in the custom milling of basmati varieties were facing problems and harassment at the hands of the police and enforcement agencies. The Inter-State Basmati Movement portal (emandikaran-pb.in) mandates the rice millers and traders to declare the details of their basmati consignment in advance to facilitate its entry in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/e-portal-for-basmati-import-launched-325863
18-10-2021||---||Framed in false case: Ex-DGP Mohammed Mustafa||Chandigarh, October 17Mohammed Mustafa, former DGP and Principal Strategic Advisor to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, on Sunday again targeted former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The former DGP took to twitter claiming that Capt Sandeep Sandhu, a former political secretary to Capt Amarinder Singh, had told him about a move to falsely frame him in a case of murder.However, Capt Sandeep Sandhu termed the allegation by former DGP baseless. “It is said that the former DGP was levelling false allegation against him. I never told him anything like that. I am in public life for two decades.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/framed-in-false-case-ex-dgp-mohammed-mustafa-325864
18-10-2021||---||Special team to nab sacrilege accused||Faridkot, October 17About three weeks after registering a criminal case against three absconding members of Dera Sacha Sauda, who are alleged to be the prime accused in the sacrilege cases, the state police has constituted a special team today to arrest them.Need unbiased probe into Singhu case: Akal TakhtOfficiating Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh demanded a thorough probe from an independent agency into the killing of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border on October 15Concerned about the image of Sikhs globally, he said it was an outcome of emotional and religious sentiments that must be dealt with sensitivity. “All aspects should be thoroughly probed,” he saidThe special team will be headed by DIG, Ludhiana, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar. The team has been tasked with the job of arresting these accused so that to take the sacrilege cases to a logical conclusion in the run up to the forthcoming assembly elections.Las month, the Faridkot police had registered a criminal case against the dera followers, Harish Dhuri, Pardeep Kaler and Sandeep Bareta, under Section 174-A of IPC as they were not appearing before the court in three sacrilege cases of 2015.As per the investigation by the special investigation team (SIT), probing the three sacrilege incidents, the accused along with dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim were allegedly the part of conspiracy in the theft of the ‘bir’, making sacrilege which led to Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents.For the last about one year, the SIT claimed to have conducted searches in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to nab the accused but failed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-team-to-nab-sacrilege-accused-325867
18-10-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: A suspension for touching feet||Documentary on Harike Pattan releasedFerozepur: A special documentary depicting the various scenic and natural locations of the Harike Wetland, which is home to lakhs of migratory birds from Siberia and other central Asian countries, has been released worldwide. Produced by advocate Harpreet Sandhu, it highlights the serene calmness and natural beauty of Harike Wetlands and brings alive panoramic views of the area. It is known for its rich flora, fauna and migratory birds, surrounded with the natural lake deep inside the sanctuary in Harike.Muktsar’s own ‘Navjot Sidhu’Muktsar: Meet Principal (retd) Gopal Singh Makkar, secretary, District Red Cross Society. Having almost every characteristic of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, he is so loquacious that you can start any topic and he won’t let you speak until he concludes his informative talk loaded with couplets. Having a good command on English, Punjabi, Hindi and Urdu, he writes confidential letters and speeches for bureaucrats as well. Just like Sidhu, he is also a strong critic of those enjoying or enjoyed the power. He has done BA (English), BEd, MA (English, Punjabi), MPhil, PGDTE and is pursuing PhD. “You can call me Navjot Sidhu. We have a lot of similarities. I am retired but not tired,” he says proudly.No more security for ‘VIPs’Patiala: With the change of guard in the Punjab Police headquarters, police officials attached with around 500 self-styled VIPs, a majority of them politically connected, were called back. These VIPs were guarded by more than 3,500 Punjab Police personnel drawn from the district cadres and reserved battalions. In the orders to withdraw the security cover, the personnel were “immediately asked to return to their parent cadre” following instructions from Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. In many districts, those with political influence had security officials following verbal orders from local SSPs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-a-suspension-for-touching-feet-325870
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Government shielding Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in scholarship scam: AAP||Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema accused the state government of trying to shield former minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scam. Cheema said the action taken by Social Welfare Minister Raj Kumar Verka in the Channi government to register a case against some officials was just an attempt to deceive people.Cheema alleged, “Like the previous Captain government, the Channi government is defending Dharamsot. The Congress party has certainly changed the ‘Ali Baba’ of its government, but there has been no change in the intention and policy of the Congress government to save the scamsters.”Cheema said Verka had promised to immediately investigate the scholarship scam and take strict action against the culprits, but now even he had backed out.He said senior officials had handed over the report of misappropriation of scholarship funds to then CM Capt Amarinder Singh, but no action was taken. He asked the Channi government when and what action would be taken against Dharamsot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-shielding-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-in-scholarship-scam-aap-325848
18-10-2021||---||Smuggler nabbed with 24-kg opium, Rs 4L cash in Moga||Moga, October 17The Moga police on Sunday arrested a local drug smuggler and recovered 24 kg of opium and Rs 4 lakh cash from him, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Surinderjit Singh Mand revealed here.The accused has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Rimpy, hailing from Chogawan village and currently residing at Kartar Nagar in Moga.The SSP said on a secret tip-off, special checkpoints were set up on Mehmewala Road near the industrial focal point on the city outskirts. A white Swift car (bearing registration number PB-04-AD-7962) came from the Mehmewala side and tried to turn towards Ludhiana on the national highway, but the cops stopped it for checking, he added.The SSP further said during ther search, 24 kg of opium and Rs 4 lakh in cash were recovered from the car and the accused was taken into custody.During interrogation, Gurpreet confessed he was into drug smuggling for the past couple of years. Also, the recovered contraband was smuggled into Punjab from Rajasthan and was likely to be sold in Moga district.A case under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against Gurpreet at the Moga city police station.Further investigation was under way to find out from where the contraband was procured and to whom he was likely to supply it in the district, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smuggler-nabbed-with-24-kg-opium-rs-4l-cash-in-moga-325851
18-10-2021||---||2-fold rise in recovery of cellphones from Faridkot jail||Faridkot, October 17The past 10 months have seen about two-fold jump in the number of seized mobile phones in Faridkot’s modern prison complex over the last year, sending the police into a tizzy.On Sunday, the jail authorities claimed to have recovered around 13 mobile phones from over one dozen inmates here.The police believe lenient laws to deal with the crime of possessing mobile phone in jail is a big hurdle in checking the illegal practice. Offenders are booked under Section 52-A of the Prisons Act, which is a bailable offence.Amendment to Prisons Act sought The police, therefore, couldn’t get the custody of the accused for questioning and thus thwarting attempts to unravel the supply chain of the mobile phones in the jail, said Labh Singh, Station House Officer, Faridkot.“There should be some amendment to the law to make this offence non-bailable,” the Station House Officer added.While nearly 200 illegal mobile phones were recovered in the Faridkot jail in 2019 and 2020, as many unauthorised cellphones have already been seized in this year so far.About a week ago, three jail officials were booked for the offence of receiving Rs 1,63,000 as bribe from the inmates in lieu of providing various facilities, including drugs and mobile phones.On an average, about 15 mobile phones are recovered from inmates every month in the Faridkot jail, which houses more than 2,200 inmates and prisoners. However, the last one month witnessed recovery of more than 50 mobile phones during the search.Many a time, the police and the prison authorities claimed to have started an investigation to look into the details of calls made from the seized mobile phones to probe the links between inmates and outsiders, but it remains inconclusive.200 seized in 10 monthsNearly 200 illegal mobile phones have been recovered from Faridkot jail inmates in the past 10 months. Of these, more than 50 mobile phones were recovered in September alone||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-fold-rise-in-recovery-of-cellphones-from-faridkot-jail-325855
18-10-2021||Archit Watts||Muktsar farmers managing straw struggle to survive||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 17To end stubble burning, some young farmers have set up huge plants to convert and compress paddy straw into bales in Muktsar district. However, they are now finding it difficult to survive and seek financial assistance from the state government.Some of them are yet to get the subsidy on the balers purchased about three years ago.Application sent to higher-upsWe give subsidy just on balers and an application for fund disbursal has been sent to the higher-ups. In case, farmers want subsidy on the entire plant or aid to install a shed, they need to approach the Industries Department or NABARD. —Abhaijeet Singh, Asst engg, Agriculture deptKulbir Chahal, a farmer-turned-entrepreneur, said, “I have set up a huge plant at Rahurianwali village, where I store paddy stubble, then convert and compress it into bales, which are usually sent to cow shelters in Gujarat and Rajasthan. We charge nothing from the farmers to clear their fields and sell the bales at Rs 300 per quintal. The input costs and freight charges are quite high, thus the profit is negligible. I have spent almost Rs 2 crore on the entire machinery. Besides, a huge chunk of land is required to run this plant and store the stubble. A single baler costs about Rs 15 lakh. The state offers 50% subsidy on it, but even after three years I have not yet received the amount.”He added, “Once the stubble caught fire and I suffered a loss of nearly Rs 10 lakh. There were no electricity wires near the fields, still the state government did not give me any compensation.”Similarly, Kuldeep Singh said, “I am a co-owner of a stubble shredder and baler plant. We are on the verge of closing it. We have invested a huge amount, but rains often damage the stubble kept in the open. The state should at least give subsidy on installing a shed. We prevent stubble burning on nearly 2,000 acres to make bales and send them to other states to be used as fodder for livestock.”Another young entrepreneur said, “The harvesting season has just started and the state should immediately bring some policy to help us, otherwise we will not be able to run our plants next year. I purchased two balers about two years ago, but the department is yet to give me subsidy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-farmers-managing-straw-struggle-to-survive-325856
18-10-2021||Aman Sood||Rain brings down demand, power outages likely to end||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) finally heaved a sigh of relief after sudden rainfall led to a drop in temperature, which brought down the power demand to less than 6,000 MW from 9,500 MW witnessed last week.For a fortnight, the PSPCL had been struggling in terms of low coal availability and high power demand leading to outages and rotational load shedding at several places across the state.For the past almost over a fortnight, the coal-fired power plants are running at a reduced capacity because of stock shortage, leading to a grim situation as a majority of the state’s plants — both private and thermal — barely managed to produce energy.Senior PSPCL officials confirmed that the demand for the entire state was around 6,000 MW on Sunday with two and a half days of coal left in stock at Nabha Power Limited and Talwandi Sabo Power Project. “There is no power shortage now and the demand is being fulfilled for all sectors,” they added.Last week on Monday, the PSPCL procured 1,500 MW of power at a rate of over Rs 14 per unit when the state’s demand was over 8,700 MW. On Thursday, around 1,500 MW was bought from power exchange at a rate of Rs 11.29 per unit.Meanwhile, PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad said the critical coal position in the state was still prevailing “but rainfall has reduced the agricultural and domestic consumption”, which means lesser demand. “We are hopeful that there will be no more power cuts with the demand dipping with each passing day. Our coal stocks at all plants will also improve by month-end,” Prasad said, adding that they could now manage to supply 8,000 MW while the demand was 6,000 MW.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-brings-down-demand-power-outages-likely-to-end-325858
18-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Despite Punjab CM order, bill defaulters lose connection||Even though CM Charanjit Singh Channi has ordered the power connections of the defaulters not to be disconnected and annnounced waiver of pending bills, electrictity supply of dozens of defaulters has been snapped in Sirhind.A labourer, Shiv Preet Singh, said his power connection had been disconnected for non-payment of bills. He said his family told the lineman about the CM’s decision, but he still snapped the power supply. Shiv Preet said after the death of his father, he could not pay the bill and an amount of Rs 12,000 was pending. JE Balbir Singh said he had not received any written order to this effect. However, the PSPCL XEN clarified Shiv Preet’s power connection was disconnected on September 13, but the meter was removed some days after that. He said now they were not taking any action against the defaulters. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-punjab-cm-order-bill-defaulters-lose-connection-325859
18-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Sharp spike in farm fires worsens air quality in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 17Farm fire cases are on the rise as 1,554 stubble-burning incidents were reported between October 8 and 15 in the state. As of October 7, only 392 cases were reported but the figure spiked to 1,946 by October 15.Around 660 incidents were reported on October 15. Since then, Punjab’s crop residue burning information and management system website page is under maintenance and not showing any data of farm fires for the past two days.No alternativeWe are left with no choice, but to burn stubble because the state government hasn’t provided us with 50% subsidy announced in September. —Gurmeet Singh, FarmerHowever, it is learnt that farm fire incidents are rising. The practice was delayed as harvesting was late due to a prolonged monsoon season in the region this year. Experts said the delay in paddy harvesting due to late rain in the region had narrowed the winter crop-sowing window that could lead to more stubble-burning cases because farmers would get less time to clear fields in the coming days.The stubble burning also led to air pollution in the region with the Bathinda air quality index (AQI) rising to 217, becoming ‘very unhealthy’ and it is likely to deteriorate in the coming days with a rise in farm fires.Data from the Punjab Remote Sensing Authority showed farmers were now resorting to fires in the fertile Malwa belt. Gurmeet Singh, a farmer, said, “We were not left with any choice than burning stubble because the state government has not provided us with the 50 per cent subsidy announced in September. We have spent around Rs 5,000-6,000 for burning the stubble on our own but the Punjab Government has not given us any compensation.” He said the time for sowing winter crops had come, so they must burn the stubble.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said: “The farmers are also in favour of protecting the environment but the process of using stubble involves a huge cost. We want the state government to extend financial help of Rs 2,500 per acre and ensure eight hours of regular power supply along with providing farm equipment on subsidy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sharp-spike-in-farm-fires-worsens-air-quality-in-punjab-325852
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||NGOs to educate Punjab, Haryana farmers on challenges of stubble burning||A number of NGOs have joined hands to create awareness about the ill-effects of stubble burning and new techniques for managing straw in the limited time period of 20-40 days, when the paddy is harvested and fields have to be readied for sowing wheat.Roots Foundation, an NGO, recently announced a sensitisation and training programme for the farmers of Punjab and Haryana.Meanwhile, Manov Maity, area programme manager, Ambuja Cement Foundation, said: “We’ve been asking farmers to opt for the custom hiring of machines, so that they are not financially burdened… To make a lasting impact, graffiti against stubble burning is also being done on the walls of villages.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngos-to-educate-punjab-haryana-farmers-on-challenges-of-stubble-burning-325853
18-10-2021||Bathinda||In 2 weeks, over 900 infected with dengue in Bathinda||The deadly dengue continues to spread its tentacles at a rapid rate in Bathinda district with no signs of improvement in the number of cases in recent weeks.As per the Health Department, as many as 1,440 dengue cases have been reported in the district this year with more than 1,300 surfacing in the past one month alone.The data further suggests that of total 1,440 dengue cases this year, over 900 have been reported in the past two weeks alone. Notably, there were only 50 dengue cases in the district till September 10.Health officials claimed that they had been putting in all-out efforts to keep the number of cases in control but they also need proper cooperation of the residents.A senior Health Department official said many residents do not adhere to the preventive guidelines and precautionary measures conveyed to them by the field teams. He said the field teams conducted checks at various places and found 577 dengue larvae, which were destroyed by them.The health officials, however, admitted that there had been a sudden spurt in the number of cases recently but these were most likely to come down from next week as the temperature had gradually started dipping now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-2-weeks-over-900-infected-with-dengue-in-bathinda-325854
18-10-2021||---||At 8,600, dengue cases in Punjab up three times this year||Chandigarh, October 17Dengue cases in the state are heading towards an unprecedented spike this year, as 8,600 cases have been reported so far, which is almost three times the figure reported in the corresponding period last year.Only 3,200 cases surfaced till mid-October last year. The situation this time is alarming because the number of cases is doubling in just one week.According to data compiled by the Health Department, the state has reported 8,597 cases, while 12 persons have died due to the vector-borne disease.Door-to-door survey launched in AboharIn all, four districts have reported more than 1,000 cases. Bathinda tops the chart with 1,414 cases, followed by Mohali (1,264), Hoshiarpur (1,099) and Amritsar (1,019). Pathankot has reported 955 cases.Experts say the prolonged monsoon, which is a conducive atmosphere for mosquitoes to breed, can make the situation worse. They apprehend that cases may continue to rise till November-end. Last year, the state had reported 8,435 cases and 22 deaths.Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni has asked senior officials of the department to visit districts allotted to them at least twice a week and review steps taken for the prevention of dengue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-8-600-dengue-cases-in-punjab-up-three-times-this-year-325849
18-10-2021||Muktsar||2 girls from Punjab die in Canada mishap||Two girls died while two other persons suffered multiple injuries after a goods train hit their car at a railway crossing near Brampton last night.The deceased have been identified as Jashanpreet Kaur (18) of Muktsar’s Raniwala village and Prabhdeep Kaur (24) of Faridkot’s Deep Singhwala village. Jashanpreet’s cousin Palampreet Kaur (21) and the car driver of Patiala district were injured.Jashanpreet had gone to Canada for studies just about one and a half months ago.“After the mishap, my niece Jashanpreet died at a hospital in Canada while my daughter Palampreet is recovering,” said ASI Gurpartap Singh, who is posted in the CIA wing of the Mohali police.“My nephew also lives in Canada. He informed us about the mishap, which took place when the driver didn’t see the signal at a railway crossing. The goods train hit the car and dragged it up to 1.5 km,” the ASI added.He said, “The girls were going to work at an automobile spare parts factory. The car was provided by the factory for shuttling purpose. We have started the legal process to bring the body here, but it may take a week’s time.”Meanwhile, Rajwinder Singh, Jashanpreet’s father and a CTU bus driver, said, “She was my only child. She talked to her mother on the phone on Saturday night. I appeal to the Indian and Canadian governments to help us bring her body back.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-girls-from-punjab-die-in-canada-mishap-325850
18-10-2021||---||Crackdown continues, 26 pvt buses impounded in Punjab||Muktsar/Chandigarh, Oct 17Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Sunday visited Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra ISBT, Amritsar, and City Center, where most of passenger buses were parked illegally. On his instructions, officers of the department impounded 20 unauthorised buses of private operators, including one bus of the Orbit Aviation, due to incomplete documents, in and around the ISBT premises.He claimed that PUNBUS and PEPSU were earning profit of Rs 40 lakh per day after the strictness against illegal and unauthorised private buses and bus mafia. “I am trying to increase daily income of the department by Rs 1 crore.”Revoke over 5,000 illegal permits: AAPInteracting with the passengers at the bus stand and in buses, Warring said as many as 842 new buses would be added to the fleet of the government buses so as to provide better facilities to the passengers of the state.Meanwhile, the Transport Department impounded six private buses, including two of New Deep Transport and one of Orbit Transport, in Muktsar town for reportedly not paying the road tax. Notably, these transport companies are owned by Akalis.The other buses impounded belonged to Fateh Transport, Hargobind Transport and Sagar Transport. A Transport Department official from Faridkot, who had come to Muktsar today, told the media that the action was taken against the buses for not paying the road tax.This is the first such action taken against the private bus operators in the district after Amrinder Singh Raja Warring took over as the Transport Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crackdown-continues-26-pvt-buses-impounded-in-punjab-325843
18-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab faces acute DAP shortage, farmers call it artificial crisis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 17A rake of diammonium phosphate (DAP), the most widely used fertiliser, reached Nabha on Friday morning. It was meant to be distributed to both private and cooperative societies.As farmers in the area learnt about this, they immediately gheraoed the rake and did not allow its distribution to private entities, alleging that an artificial scarcity was being created so that they would be forced to buy the fertiliser at a higher rate of Rs 1,500 per bag against its price of Rs 1,200.The gherao by around 500 farmers continued till late in the evening. It was only on the intervention of the civic and police authorities that the blockade was lifted. This may have been a one-off incident, but considering that the DAP — a must for potato and wheat farmers this time of the year— is in short supply, the authorities apprehend a difficult time in the face of farmers’ unrest.Sources say the state requires 5.5 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of the DAP this rabi marketing season, but it has just 1.8 LMT.Gurjit Singh of Gowara village in Malerkotla told The Tribune that none of the cooperative societies in nearby areas of his village had the DAP stock. Potato and pea growers require three to four bags (of 50 kg each) of the DAP per acre, while wheat farmers require one bag per acre.In Barnala, Punjab Agro Inputs Dealers’ Association spokesman Gokul Chand Gupta said: “It is unfair to blame dealers for selling other goods along with DAP. That is how fertiliser manufacturers are selling the DAP to us. They are the ones who are earning profit.”Charge & counter-chargeFarmers have no option, but to buy the DAP at a premium. In many areas, where DAP is available for Rs1,200 a bag, dealers sell it with a pack of sulphur or weedicides, which are slow-moving goods. —Gurjit Singh, farmerIt is unfair to blame dealers for selling other goods along with the DAP. That is exactly how fertiliser manufacturers are selling the DAP to us. They are the ones who are earning profit. —Gokul Chand Gupta, Fertiliser dealerHe said there were reports of DAP being sold on the black market and that the association had advised its members against malpractices. Sources say since the state is getting lesser share than its allocation, the stock at cooperative societies is minimal. They say even urea, which has to be applied on wheat within a fortnight of its sowing, is in short supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-faces-acute-dap-shortage-farmers-call-it-artificial-crisis-325844
18-10-2021||Amritsar||Channi  puppet CM: Akali Dal||Launching an attack on the Congress for appointing a Dalit face as CM, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said even though Charanjit Channi was made to sit on the CM’s chair, he could not take decisions independently.“The post-matric SC scholarship scam during Capt Amarinder’s regime was committed under the nose of a minister who himself belonged to the SC category,” he said, questioning Channi’s silence over the issue.On the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction in the state, he reiterated Channi should explain to Punjabis why he had agreed to a move that was against the principles of federalism.Sukhbir was here to pay obeisance at Valmiki Tirath Sthal as part of Pargat Diwas celebrations. While sharing his vision for the state, he said initiating the Atta-Dal and Shagun schemes were bold steps that had lifted the economic condition of the poor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-puppet-cm-akali-dal-325845
18-10-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||New role for those ‘ignored’ during rejig: Punjab CM Channi||Hoshiarpur, October 17Four former ministers who were not retained in the Cabinet during the recent reshuffle would be soon given organisational responsibilities ahead of the Assembly poll.Announcing this during a visit to Hoshiarpur today, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Phagwara byelection was won by a huge margin under ex-Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora. “So, the organisational responsibility of the entire area will be handed over to him soon and the upcoming elections in the area will be fought under his leadership. Three other ministers will also be given similar responsibilities,” he said, without naming the remaining three ministers.Notably, former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu (Health), Gurpreet Singh Kangar (Revenue), Sunder Sham Arora (Industries), Sadhu Singh Dharamsot (Social Welfare) and Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi (Sports) were not retained in the Cabinet under Channi.Channi was addressing a meeting of elected representatives of the Congress and representatives of various organisations at Arora’s residence.He said despite less time, all-out efforts would be made to realise the dreams of people by fulfilling the remaining poll promises.“As we are short on time, we have increased our pace of work. For Punjab’s overall development, we have reduced the sleeping time and now we will act faster together. We will neither sleep nor let the officers sleep,” he said.He said the Cabinet meeting was scheduled to be held tomorrow and many important decisions would be taken in the interest of people.Referring to the waiver of electricity bills up to 2 KW, Channi said in the next phase, important decisions would be taken to provide relief to people from hefty power bills. He said there was a need to prepare master plans for the development of cities and soon a decision in this regard would be taken.Referring to the development projects and schemes in the area, Arora urged the CM to release Rs 10 crore to finish the pending projects in the city. Channi promised to release the funds immediately.He also announced to inaugurate a medical college and a park in the area next month. “Even though it will take two years to build the government medical college, the classes will be started from the next session,” he said.Channi also felicitated the Shivpuri workers who performed the last rites of the Covid-19 victims and also distributed financial assistance cheques to children who lost their parents due to Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-role-for-those-ignored-during-rejig-punjab-cm-channi-325846
18-10-2021||---||Capt Amarinder to meet Amit Shah; 3rd visit to Delhi in month||Chandigarh, October 17Ahead of forming a new political outfit, Capt Amarinder Singh is likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi tomorrow.The former CM’s Delhi visit is being seen in the light of reports of him playing a crucial role in finding a solution to the farmers’ agitation against the central farm laws. This would be Capt Amarinder’s third visit to Delhi after resigning as the Chief Minister. Sources close to him said he would be in the national capital for at least two days.In the last few days, Capt Amarinder has been calling upon leaders loyal to him to know their views on the formation of a new political outfit. Last month, the former CM had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah to discuss the prevailing security scenario in the border state and the ongoing farmers’ agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-to-meet-amit-shah-3rd-visit-to-delhi-in-month-325847
18-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Ownership rights for ‘lal lakir’ residents in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceDinanagar, October 17Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi launched “Mera Ghar Mere Naam” scheme from the Assembly segment of Revenue Minister Aruna Chaudhury to give ownership rights to people living in houses within the “lal lakir” of villages and cities. “Lal lakir” refers to land that is part of the village habitation and is used for non-agriculture purposes only.Channi also doled out a bonanza for the township by laying the foundation stone of a new tehsil complex, bus stand and a park named after Maharaja Ranjit Singh.He claimed that since the Revenue Department had conceptualised, planned and executed the venture, it was appropriate to launch it from the Revenue Minister’s constituency. He also announced the upgrade of the status of local community health centre to that of a sub-divisional hospital.Channi said to eliminate any confusion, a drone survey would be undertaken soon to identify properties located within the “lal lakir” in both rural and urban areas.He said under the new scheme, beneficiaries would be given property cards, which would serve the purpose of registries against which people could even avail bank loans. “In this way, the monetary value of their properties will also enhance,” he said. “This area is very close to my heart. So, I will ensure its overall development in whatever time I have,” he said.The CM said another scheme “Basera” was providing relief to people residing in slum areas outside the “lal lakir” by giving ownership rights to them. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa, who drove in from his Assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak, termed both schemes path-breaking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ownership-rights-for-lal-lakir-residents-in-punjab-325877
18-10-2021||Pathankot||Army co-pilot’s body found in Ranjit Sagar Dam after 75 days||The body of Captain Jayant Joshi (26), the co-pilot of an Army helicopter that had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam on August 3, has finally been recovered after nearly a two-and-a-half-month-long search, one of the longest such operations in recent history.The body was taken out from the dam’s lake around 2 pm and later taken to the Pathankot military station. The Army Aviation squadron’s Rudra helicopter had taken off from Mamun military station near Pathankot and crashed into the lake during a routine sortie. The body of Lt Col Abheet Singh Baath, the main pilot of the chopper, was retrieved from the dam on August 15.Hailing from Uttarakhand, Jayant's family is based in Delhi. His father Harish Joshi had been camping at the Mamun Military Station for the past several days along with his wife Jeevan Tara Joshi, a Lieutenant Colonel in the Military Nursing Service.Harish had petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind on October 11 to continue the search after it was conveyed to him that the operation could not go on for very long. Earlier too on September 19, he had petitioned the President. The grieving father had said the authorities wanted him to perform the last rites of his son even before the remains were recovered.“Persistent round-the-clock efforts by the Army and the Navy for 75 days have finally succeeded. Captain Joshi’s body has been recovered from the lake bed using hi-tech equipment,” an Army spokesman said.He said due to the vast expanse and depth of the dam, the Army was using sophisticated sonar equipment to scan the lake bed. Following inputs, the remotely operated vehicle having a robotic arm along with professional divers was launched to search the area.Officials engaged in the operation said they deployed various types of equipment belonging to the Army, Navy, Air Force, National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force, J&K Police, dam authority and private firms to locate the wreckage of the crashed helicopter.Heavy machinery and submarine rescue units were flown in too while specialised divers from the Navy and the Army Special Forces worked in tandem during the prolonged operation, which was challenging due to the near-zero visibility in the reservoir because of the colloidal nature of its water. — TNSChallenging op||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-co-pilots-body-found-in-ranjit-sagar-dam-after-75-days-325899
18-10-2021||---||Punjab’s last resurrection chance: Navjot Singh Sidhu to Sonia Gandhi||Chandigarh, October 17Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has sought a meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi and flagged issues that the government “must deliver upon”, saying it was the poll-bound state’s “last chance for resurrection and redemption”.In a letter to the Congress president on October 15, a day after he held meetings in Delhi with senior party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, Sidhu pitched for a “Punjab model with a 13-point agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly elections”. The PPCC chief shared the letter on his Twitter handle on Sunday.Justice in sacrilege cases, arrest of big fish involved in drug trafficking, lowering power tariff and cancelling faulty PPAs, employment generation and income from sand mining are among the core issues in the 13-point agenda.Days after resigning as Punjab Congress chief, Sidhu had on October 15 said his concerns had been addressed and the party asserted he would continue as the state unit head.“It might be the last damage-control exercise for Punjab’s resurrection and redemption. Otherwise, mafia raj will push the state into financial emergency,” he wrote. After meeting Rahul, Sidhu had said, “Whatever concerns I had I have shared with Rahul Gandhi. All my concerns have been sorted out.”Incidentally, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday met the PPCC chief in the presence of AICC observer Harish Chaudhary and another central leader, Krishna Allavaru, to resolve contentious issues.In party circles, Sidhu’s move to make public his letter to the party president is being seen as an effort by him to clarify that he had not compromised on his stand on issues raised by him earlier.Sidhu’s letter is also being seen in light of an upcoming move by the Channi government to lower the power tariff for a section of consumers.In the letter, the PPCC chief has spoken against making sand free, claiming Punjab had the potential to earn a minimum of Rs 2,000 crore from sand mining while providing it at low rate to consumers.“During the SAD regime, Punjab only earned Rs 40 crore annually, which increased to a few hundred crore during our rule. We mustn’t fall into the trap of free sand, making it free for mafia even as the common people will still be charged for transport and labour,” he said.On transport, Sidhu praised new minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for going after the mafia. “We must strengthen his hands by taking off road 13,000 buses plying without permit. Punjab youth must be issued permits, profitable routes should be brought under the PRTC and government-owned luxury buses should replace those owned by Badal family’s companies.”Core issues on 13-pt agenda for ’22 pollChanni meets SidhuCM Channi on Sunday met Navjot Sidhu in the presence of AICC observer Harish Chaudhary to iron out differences and discuss the implementation of 18-point agenda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-last-resurrection-chance-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-sonia-gandhi-325902
18-10-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi meets Navjot Sidhu hours after PCC chief made letter to Sonia public||Chandigarh, October 17Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday met PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in the presence of AICC observer Harish Chaudhary here.Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, who is also general secretary (organisation), PPCC, was present in the meeting that took place at guest house of Punjab Raj Bhavan here.The meeting was a follow-up of Sidhu’s meeting with AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat on October 14, followed by a meeting with party leader Rahul Gandhi.Party high command had categorically told both Sidhu and CM Channi had been asked to sit together and iron the issues that have become bone of contention between the two leaders.The meeting happened hours after Sidhu made public a letter written to party president, seeking a personal meeting on 13-point Punjab agenda.On September 30, a three-member panel comprising CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu and AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs was decided upon to resolve the impasse over official appointments besides other issues. However, no formal orders were issued in this regard.This decision was taken at a meeting between the CM, Sidhu, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat on September 30.It was then decided that the three-member panel would meet at least once a week to discuss key government decisions and appointments, indicating that Sidhu would be involved in the decision-making exercise.Giving officiating charge of DGP Vigilance to Siddharth Chattopadhyaya was in line with Sidhu’s demand, who wanted to make him DGP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-meets-navjot-sidhu-hours-after-pcc-chief-made-letter-to-sonia-public-325838
18-10-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Honour killing’: Man, woman done to death in Abohar; bodies thrown on road||Abohar, October 17In a suspected case of “honour killing” at Sappanwali village of Abohar, a man and a woman were allegedly killed and their bodies thrown at a village crossroad on Sunday. For nearly six hours, the bodies kept lying in the middle of the village square as the family of the deceased boy opposed lifting the corpses for post mortem. Senior police officers reached the spot and started investigation.Preliminary investigation indicated that Rohtash Kumar, who belonged to a gardener's family, was friends with Suman Rani Kamboj of the same village since long. Their families had reportedly turned down the proposal for the marriage. According to information, the ‘couple’ reportedly went missing on September 28 and got married on October 1 in Delhi. After this, they came to Rohta village near Moga where Rohtash’s sister was living. It is learnt that the woman’s parents came to know about this.Rohtash's brother Vikram alleged that the family members of the girl brought both of them from Rohta and allegedly killed the boy by slitting his throat and strangled the girl. The bodies were then thrown at a crossing in the main market of Sappanwali village.The gruesome incident caused panic in the area as people closed shops and gathered at the site. Senior police officials also reached the spot.The family of deceased Rohtash said they would not allow the bodies to be taken to the hospital till a case registered against the family members of the girl and the accused were arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honour-killing-man-woman-done-to-death-in-abohar-bodies-thrown-on-road-325824
18-10-2021||Aman Sood||Navjot Singh Sidhu writes to Sonia Gandhi, seeks meeting to discuss 13-point agenda||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Hinting that he is still not satisfied with the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government and its handling of key issues raised by him in recent past, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has written a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, seeking a meeting with her to discuss a 13-point agenda.In a letter dated October 15 and made public today, Sidhu said: “Request you to kindly give me a personal audience to present to you the Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress Manifesto for the 2022 Assembly elections, which is separate from this by means of its long-term vision to be implemented over a longer period of time, have crafted it through years of consultations with academics, civil society, party workers and feedback from the People of Punjab”."I express with a lot of pain in my heart that this is Punjab's last chance for resurrection and redemption. The issues at Punjab's heart as understood very well by you, and signified by the 18-Point agenda given to the last Chief Minister are equally relevant today. I stood for each point in that agenda through the responsibility vested in me of the organisation, keeping the executive under check, to be guardian of Punjab's rights," wrote Sidhu.The letter comes days after Sidhu met senior Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat, in Delhi to sort out differences. The PPCC chief was told by party high command to work for the betterment of Punjab and the state government.Full contents of the letter have been reproduced below.October 15, 2021Smt. Sonia GandhiHon’ble Congress PresidentIndian National CongressRespected Madam, Under your esteemed leadership, Congress Party won a 2/3rd majority in 2017 Assembly Elections, campaigning upon a Pro-People Agenda to give democratic and economic powers of the People back to the People. I personally campaigned in 55 Assembly Constituencies, among which we won 53, arguing for a Punjab Model of Development, according to which the rightful resources of the State should come back to the State, instead of going to private pockets. I have tirelessly worked on the same agenda as an MLA, Minister in Punjab Cabinet & now as PCC President. After multiple deliberations and consultations with party workers from across Punjab and with deep understanding of the public sentiment over 17 years of public life, I express with a lot of pain in my heart that this is Punjab’s last chance for resurrection and redemption. The issues at Punjab’s heart as understood very well by you, and signified by the 18-Point agenda given to the last Chief Minister are equally relevant today. I stood for each point in that agenda through the responsibility vested in me of the organization, keeping the executive under check, to be guardian of Punjab’s rights.Punjab for decades was the richest state of the country and today it is the most indebted state of India. Punjab is submerged under Lakhs of crores of Debt due to gross financial mismanagement over last 25 years and diversion of public resources making a few powerful people rich and having left the state Debt-distressed. It has been supplemented by 7 years of BJP rule discriminating against Punjab while paying its financial dues such as GST payments, Rural Development Fund payments, Post-Matric Scholarship for Scheduled Castes payments etc. Subsequently, the increasing debt overhead Punjab has led to our financial resources being used for merely paying-off the old debt and interest upon it. While, every year have to take new debt to support basic development works, to invest in 60:40 shared Central development schemes, providing healthcare, education and infrastructure needs of the State. Punjab has nearly one lakh of Government posts vacant, due to lack of resources government hiring’s are at lowest wages and contractual, school teachers have to work on probation for 4 years on minimum wages, delays in implementation of 6th pay commission by 5 years are all due to State not having enough resources.I always strive to follow the values of our party to empower the poorest of the poor, to give opportunities to the last man in the que, but these have been hard solutions and one of the main reason for dislike against me by powerful people associated with Mafias ruining the State. Today, I further write to your esteemed self with priority areas among the 18-Point Agenda, 2017 Campaign and Manifesto promises that the State Government must deliver upon. Beginning with the Issues for Justice of the Soul of Punjab, whose torch-bearer was our leader Shri. Rahul Gandhi Ji, having left no stone unturned in fight for Justice to Punjab in these issues: -1. Justice for Sacrilege: - People of Punjab demand Justice for Punjab’s soul by punishing the main culprits behind sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib Ji and Police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan.2. Drugs: - Drug menace has plagued almost an entire generation of Punjab. Solution to such problem requires a stern action, as i always reiterate all corruption flows from the top, thus heads must roll from the top. The Big-Fish behind drug trafficking in Punjab as mentioned in the STF report must be immediately arrested and given exemplary punishment.3. Agriculture: - Agriculture is the backbone of Punjab, and as we all protest against Centre’s three Black laws, Govt. of Punjab must reject them completely by announcing that they will not be implemented in Punjab at any cost. As we did in case of SYL, such stern resolve is needed today. This resolve must be supported on ground by bringing in structural changes. Creation of infrastructure such as cold storages & agro-processing industry through State funds, under control of Farmers; Bring changes into cooperative law to give farmers control and autonomy over agriculture-based cooperatives, expand network of cooperatives from farm to fork giving marginalised and small farmers access to storage, agro-processing and trading; State-owned Corporations to procure crops at MSP beyond Wheat & Rice, such as Oil-seeds & Dals; Bring in policy for MSP & procurement for fruits and vegetables.4. Electricity: - Giving Cheap and 24 hour supply of power to all domestic consumers, especially urban domestic consumers who suffer the most due to cross-subsidy burden upon them, as we decrease power tariff for industrial and commercial use, and give free power for agriculture. We must give fixed power subsidy to all Domestic consumers, be it decreasing price of power to 3 Rs per unit or 300 Units of free power to all.5. PPAs: - Release White-Paper on PPAs and Cancellation of all faulty PPAs as promised by us along with considering the present Coal-shortage in the Country, Punjab must move towards Smart, Cheap and efficient PPAs to meet state’s power demands, with a special focus on cheap solar power and aggressively pursuing grid connected roof-top & institutional solar.6. Scheduled Caste & Backward Caste welfare: - Even after High Command’s progressive decision of appointing a Dalit Chief Minister to give the under-privileged more voice in the Government, it has not been supported in the State in equal measure, we should have at least one Mazbhi Sikh in Cabinet, representation to Dalits from Doaba, at least two representatives from Backward Caste Community in the Cabinet. Special package of 25 Crore for development of reserved constituencies. We must fulfil our promise of 5 Marla plots to SCs, money for pakka ceiling for every Dalit household, agricultural lands to landless poor, fixing responsibility and initiating inquiry into Post-Matric scholarship scam, while clearing dues to the Dalits students for pursuing their education further.7. Employment: - Filling up thousands of vacant Government posts on regular basis along with addressing grievances of Employees Unions. More than 20 Unions (Teachers, Doctors, Nurses, Line-men, Safai-karamchari etc.) are protesting across the State. We must take there demands under compassionate consideration, I am forwarding each application and memorandum received by Pradesh Congress to relevant ministry for taking steps for inclusive development. Govt. must open doors for discussion, consultation and deliver what it can, considering its fiscal means.8. Single Window System & Comparative Advantage: - Industry and businesses are biggest growth and development accelerators. But sadly, in the past Punjab has seen rapid de-industrialisation, with companies fleeing to other states due to unfriendly & corrupt government policies and mafia raj created by Badals. Akali’s during their regime destroyed competitive markets and created controlled monopolies (such as liquor, transport, cable etc.) Thus, more emphasis should be to increase the Ease of doing metric and bringing those industries to Punjab, wherein Punjab’s youth have skills, knowledge and interconnected ecosystem for acceleration such as agro-processing industry, knitting & hosiery etc. Although the Government of Punjab has made tremendous progress in setting a statutory framework for ensuring the ease of doing business, administrative data & research studies indicate that the officials across departments are not enforcing key legislative provisions properly. Thus, immediate focus should be on implementing more reforms to promote EODB, enabling time bound single window clearances, supporting MSME’s with specific focus on employment generating industries.9. Women & Youth Empowerment: - Empowering Youth and Women is key to social change, economic growth and technological innovation, concrete steps should be taken to increase participation and to empower young people & women of Punjab.Punjab must bring in a Youth Policy to increase participation of youth in governance to empower them. Emphasis should be on enhancing and enabling infrastructure on sports, skill development and startup culture. As per your directions Hon’ble Congress President, as Local Government Minister Punjab, I was privileged to introduce 50% reservation for women in all Local Bodies elections. More such concrete measures should be taken to increase the participation of women in politics, governance and opportunities for employment.10. Liquor: - I have been fighting for this cause since the first Cabinet meeting of our Government in 2017, Punjab must monopolise liquor trade in the State, by bringing it under a State-run Corporation, as in case of Tamil Nadu, Punjab should own distilleries and liquor vends, giving at least 20,000 crore more revenue to the state along with thousands of Jobs.11. Sand Mining: - Sand is a natural common property resource belonging to the People, not to a few powerful, its mining must be done for welfare of the People, to earn revenue for the State in a sustainable manner, while protecting the environment. Punjab has potential of earning minimum of 2000 crores from Sand Mining, while providing cheap sand at fixed rates to the consumers, but during Badal regime Punjab earned only 40 Crore per year, which increased to few hundred crores during our rule. We must not fall into trap of free sand, and make it free for the mafia, as the common people will still be charged for transport and labour. State must fix a reasonable price of sand for the end consumer and setup an online portal for its sale. In the long-run building Sand Mining Corporation with stock yards and state-owned transport network for supply of sand.12.          Transport: - Punjab has potential to earn thousands of crores from a well-managed public transport along with boosting employment by creating most number of Jobs from any Public investment. Our present minister for transport is already working efficiently and we must strengthen his hands by removing 13,000 illegal or without permit buses plying on the roads of Punjab, issue permits to youth of Punjab, bring profitable routes under PRTC, luxury buses of PRTC should replace Badal-owned transporters. Road taxes on non-luxury buses is higher than luxury buses, though Private luxury buses should be taxed more than ordinary buses.13.Cable Mafia: - Implementation of “the Punjab entertainments & amusement taxes (levy & collection by local bodies) Bill 2017”, to break the back-bone of Cable Mafia run by Badals in the State, while increasing revenue of the State and creating avenue for thousands of jobs. It might be the last damage control exercise or else, Mafia-Raj ruling the State patronized by the Badals will take the state to the extend of financial emergency, joblessness, corruption and agrarian crisis, from which, there will be no return. Thus, I request you please kindly consider these points and give your august direction to the State Government to act in the best interests of the People of Punjab immediately.I further request you to kindly give me a personal audience to present to you the Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress Manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections, which is separate from this by means of its long-term vision to be implemented over a longer period of time, have crafted it through years of consultations with academics, civil society, party workers and feedback from the People of Punjab.Thanking you,SincerelyNavjot Singh Sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-seeks-meeting-to-discuss-13-point-agenda-325783
18-10-2021||Archit Watts||2 girls from Muktsar, Faridkot die in Canada accident as car hit by goods train||Tribune News Service Muktsar, October 17An 18-year-old girl of Raniwala village in Muktsar died while her cousin from the same village suffered multiple injuries after the car they were travelling in collided with a goods train at a level crossing near Brampton last night. A girl from Faridkot district too died in the road mishap. Palampreet Kaur taking treatment in a hospital. The deceased has been identified as Jashanpreet Kaur, who had gone to Canada for study purpose about a month ago."After the road mishap, my niece Jashanpreet Kaur died at a hospital in Canada, while my daughter Palampreet Kaur, aged about 21, is recuperating at a hospital there. She is critically injured," said ASI Gurpartap Singh, a resident of Raniwala village here and posted at the CIA wing in Mohali police.He said the driver of car too belonged to Patiala district. "My nephew is there in Canada. He has informed us that two girls, including my niece, died. Two others, including my daughter, are injured. The driver too is injured. The mishap took place when the driver did not see the signal at a railway crossing. The goods train hit the car and dragged it up to over a km," he said.He said girls were going to work in night shift at an automobile spare parts factory when the mishap occurred. The car was provided by the factory management for shuttling purpose.Jashanpreet's father Rajwinder Singh is a bus driver in the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-girls-from-muktsar-faridkot-die-in-canada-accident-as-car-hit-by-goods-train-325768
