19-10-2021||New Delhi||Punjab Agriculture Minister Nabha says Centre has assured to supply 10 rakes of DAP, five rakes of NPK and two of SSP to state||Punjab Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha said that Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has assured 10 rakes of DAP (Diammonium Phosphate), five rakes of NPK (Complex Fertilizer) and two of SSP (Single Super Phosphate) within three to four days to the state.Considering Punjab‘s demand, the union minister also assured adequate supply of urea in November and December, Nabha said after the meeting. Nabha said he informed Mandaviya that the total requirement of DAP for Rabi crops is 5.50 lakh MT, out of which 4.80 lakh MT is required during October and November for timely sowing of wheat crop.“DAP is an essential input for ensuring optimum productivity of wheat, which is sown on an area of about 35 lakh hectares in Punjab,” he said. Alleging “step-motherly treatment towards Punjab”, he said the Centre has allocated only 1.97 LMT of DAP against demand of 2.75 LMT in October. “Punjab has 0.74 LMT opening stock of DAP on October 1 as compared to 3.63 LMT last year (October 1, 2020).“It is being felt likely shortfall of this crucial input may appear for the sowing of wheat crop and only 20-25 days have been left for complete sowing of wheat,” he said demanding an additional allocation of 1.50 LMT of DAP in October expeditiously,” he saidAccording to Nabha, Punjab got only 80,951 MT DAP against an allocation plan of 1,97,250 MT, which is 41 per cent of the total allocation while Haryana got 89 per cent (Supply Plan 58650, Despatched 52155) of total allocation. Uttar Pradesh, he said, got 170 per cent (Supply Plan 60000, dispatched 102201) and Rajasthan 88 per cent (Supply Plan 67890, dispatched 59936).“This shows step-motherly treatment meted out to Punjab on part of the Union government,” he said. “We apprised the union minister that Punjab, known as the food bowl of the nation, is being allocated a much lesser quantity of DAP in comparison to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. We have been writing to the union government for the past six months on this sensitive issue. We also informed the union minister that shortage of DAP on the onset of Rabi season can lead to farmers’ unrest,” he said, expressing hope that the Centre will “stand by its commitment of supplying DAP”.Nabha also revealed that the union minister said that the shortage of DAP was due to “non-availability of the fertilizers in the international market and the Centre would ensure adequate supply of DAP to Punjab”. “During the meeting we also demanded that the union government must repeal the black farm laws against those the farmers have been protesting for the past one year. The farmers are feeling insecure as they argue that with these farm laws, the big corporate would take away their farm lands,” Nabha said. Regarding the issue of pink bollworm attack on the cotton crop, the minister said that the Punjab chief minister had already promised compensation to farmers. He also informed that in order to save the cotton crop from such attacks in the future, the state is collaborating with well-known scientist Dr Markandey to adopt the latest tube technology. Financial Commissioner Development DK Tiwari and Director Agriculture Sukhdev Singh were present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-agriculture-minister-nabha-says-centre-has-assured-to-supply-10-rakes-of-dap-five-rakes-of-npk-and-two-of-ssp-to-state-326618
19-10-2021||---||Punjab Dy CM Randhawa smells conspiracy in Singhu lynching; promises justice||Chandigarh, October 19Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday said there appeared to be a deep rooted conspiracy to defame the farmers’ stir. Referring to the recent incident of lynching of a Dalit labourer from Tarn Taran, and latest disclosures in media, the Deputy Chief Minister, who also heads the Home Department, promised complete justice saying the government will reach to the bottom of the case and identify and expose as who were the conspirators behind the incident.Randhawa said in view of the recent disclosures about one of the Nihang leaders having already been in touch with the government of India, Minister for Agriculture NS Tomar in particular, the lynching incident has now taken an entirely different turn. The same Nihang leader is now defending the main accused for the killing of Lakhbir Singh.“Lakhbir Singh, the Dalit victim belonged to Cheema Kalan village and was very poor. We need to find out as who lured him to Singhu border and who paid for his travel as he could not even afford his meals,” the Deputy Chief Minister observed, while adding that he had instructed the local administration to find out under what circumstances he was taken away from his home in Cheema Kalan village to Singhu border.Randhawa said in view of the recent photographic evidence available, the Nihang leader will also need to explain as in what capacity he had met the union agriculture minister NS Tomar and whether he was mandated to do so by the farmers' organisations spearheading the campaign against three black farm laws.The Deputy Chief Minister said given the important place the Nihang leader was camping at and staging dharna at Singhu Border, it was mandatory on his part to keep the farmers’ unions informed and updated about his meetings with the union minister. “This has raised genuine doubts and suspicion among the minds of people which will need to be cleared and the Punjab government will do everything to reach to the root of the conspiracy and expose and punish the culprits,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-dy-cm-randhawa-smells-conspiracy-in-singhu-lynching-promises-justice-326614
19-10-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Nihang Baba admits to secretly meeting Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, claims 'offered Rs 10 lakh' to vacate dharna site||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Nihang Baba Aman Singh, who had a secret meeting with BJP leaders, including Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar, has claimed that he was allegedly offered Rs 10 lakh cash and horses for vacating the Singhu border dharna site.Also read: Nihang chief Baba Aman Singh may have been part of efforts to end stir“We made four demands, withdrawal of farm laws, MSP guarantee, justice in sacrilege cases occurring in Punjab since 2015 and withdrawal of cases against us. We told them we will lift the dharna only when our demands are met. We rejected the money offer. We even wrote letters to the President and the Prime Minister regarding our demands," he said.On whether they discussed the meeting with farmer leaders, the Nihang Baba said they "didn't need to talk to farmers". “I did not go alone to meet Tomar. At least 10 members of our ‘fauj’ were with me," he said.The report, published in The Tribune on Tuesday, has caused a storm with questions being raised over the meeting. Four members of the Nihang group have been arrested since Friday for the barbaric murder of Lakhbir Singh, who was accused of committing sacrilege.He also said that senior functionaries of the sect will meet on October 27 in New Delhi to decide whether to continue dharna at Singhu border or not. “If the sangat wants us to leave, we will,” he said.Besides Tomar, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Kailash Chaudhary was present at the meeting. The Baba said they were fighting a religious war for justice in the sacrilege incidents and not sitting on dharna for the farmers.In response to the queries on the purpose of the meeting and the presence of a murder convict and dismissed cop Gurmeet Singh Pinki, the Nihang Baba said everything would be cleared to the ‘sangat’ in next few days.“For us, the fight for our religion is supreme and then comes the farmers' issue,” he said.Randeep Singh Surjewala, national spokesperson of the Indian National Congress, and Punjab Congress ex-chief Sunil Jakhar have sought high-level investigation into the meetings between the Nihang leader and the BJP leaders.Jakhar quipped that a man was known by the company he kept. He was referring to the reports that dismissed cop Pinki was present at the meeting with the BJP leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nihang-baba-admits-to-secretly-meeting-union-agriculture-minister-tomar-claims-offered-rs-10-lakh-to-vacate-dharna-site-326601
19-10-2021||---||SAD announces 4 more candidates for Punjab Assembly election||Chandigarh, October 19The Shiromani Akali Dal on Tuesday announced four more candidates for the Punjab Assembly polls.With this, the party has announced 74 candidates so far out of its share of 97 seats in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party.The candidates are Baldev Singh Mann from Sunam, Harpal Juneja from Patiala, Hardev Singh Megh from Balluana and Gobind Singh Longowal from Lehra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-announces-4-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-election-326571
19-10-2021||---||Amritsar man arrested for ‘abetting’ wife’s suicide ‘hangs self’ in police lock-up||Amritsar, October 19A man allegedly committed suicide in Division D police station's lock-up here on Tuesday morning.Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Phoollan Wala Chowk, was arrested for alleged abetment to suicide after his wife Paramjit Kaur allegedly hanged herself recently.Dilpreet allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the iron grill of the police lockup. According to police, he used a bedsheet for it. When Dilpreet's family reached the police station in the morning, they came to know about it.The police have sent the body for post-mortem.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harjit Dhaliwal said investigation was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-man-arrested-for-abetting-wifes-suicide-hangs-self-in-police-lock-up-326567
19-10-2021||---||Khalsa College, Amritsar, opens Sikh research centre for public||Amritsar, October 18The Sikh History and Research Centre at Khalsa College opened for public after a long delay due to the pandemic. The project was undertaken by the college management to create a space dedicated to the history of the Sikh culture. The centre houses rare artifacts, manuscripts, paintings and other items from the 18th and the 19th century.Dr Joginder Singh, in charge, research centre, said, “Tourists, research scholars and students are regular visitors to the museum section at the centre. It has five galleries, each dedicated to a specific subject, and there is no entry fee for the visitors. Only the ones, who want to use the Sikh history library, have to pay Rs 200. The library has over 7,000 books, scriptures and documents significant to the Sikh history.”The work on the centre began in 2019, and was supposed to finish by 2020. However, it was delayed due to the lockdown. The key attraction for the scholars at the centre is the library, which has historical documents and journals brought from Britain and Lahore. The manuscripts include ‘Pothi Mehrban’ and ‘Janam Sakhi of Guru Nanak Dev’. There are approximately 6,397 books, of which, over 500 are a century-old. Apart from this, two old ‘birs’ of Guru Granth Sahib are also present.Dr Joginder Singh said, “International research scholars have shown interest in visiting the centre. Recently, we hosted an eminent historian and researcher from Hyderabad. We hope to establish the centre as a seat for excellence in Sikh literature.” The museum and library are open for visitors from 9am to 4pm, on week days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khalsa-college-amritsar-opens-sikh-research-centre-for-public-326494
19-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Look into pendency of cases in all dists: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18The Punjab and Haryana HC has asked its Registrar-General to look into the pendency of cases in “every district” after noticing that the backlog was phenomenally high before a court in Amritsar. As many as 3,000 cases were pending before the court. Of these, 1,050 were sessions trials — 650 cases under the NDPS Act and 400 under the IPC.Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill directed the placing of the matter before the Registrar-General since it was noticed that the pendency before the court concerned was “phenomenally on the higher side”. The Registrar-General was asked to look into the matter and to see “whether it was only in the court of presiding officer concerned that the pendency of files is on the higher side or is it so in every district”.Justice Gill also directed considering the feasibility of posting “some additional officer” in case it was found that the number of files per officer was exceptionally higher in Amritsar. This could be done during the next general transfer or even before “in case there was any reshuffling/ posting of officers, which of course would be considered subject to the approval of the Chief Justice.The matter was brought to Justice Gill’s notice after petitioner-complainant Ram Dev moved the HC against the state of Punjab and others respondents. He was seeking directions to the court of an additional sessions judge in Amritsar district to dispose of within a fixed timeframe the trial in an FIR registered on May 11, 2018, at the Gate Hakima police station for abetment to suicide and another offence under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC.In response to an order passed in August calling for a status report from the presiding officer concerned, it was stated the courts had been working restrictively for the last one and a half years following the outbreak of the pandemic. Currently, priority was being given to cases where accused were in custody by fixing short dates. Long dates, on the other hand, were fixed in other cases due to high pendency.Justice Gill said: “In such a scenario, even if 50 sessions trials are fixed daily, it would be only after about a month, with average 20 working days, that the turn of the case would come for next hearing.”3,000 Cases pending in Amritsar court1,050 Are sessions trials650 Under NDPS Act400 Under IPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/look-into-pendency-of-cases-in-all-dists-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-326283
19-10-2021||Amritsar||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu keen to fight from Amritsar (East)||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, has shown her inclination to contest from the Amritsar (East) constituency.She held a special camp on old electricity bills of poor consumers, in the constituency, represented by Sidhu.Dr Sidhu was also an MLA from the constituency in 2012, but on BJP ticket. When Sidhu switched over to the Congress, he started off his innings from the constituency.“The works worth Rs 100 crore were executed in the (East) constituency during my tenure as MLA. In 2017, too, my name was recommended for Amritsar (East) and Sidhu was asked to choose any other seat, but he didn’t let me contest then. Now, if given a chance, I will contest from here again,” she said.She supported the Centre’s decision of enhancing the BSF’s jurisdiction from 5 km to 50 km from the India-Pakistan border. “If it is for safeguarding the national security and curbing smuggling of drugs, arms and other forbidden material, it is the right decision,” she said.She was all praise for CM Charanjit Channi and Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring’s working style. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-navjot-kaur-sidhu-keen-to-fight-from-amritsar-east-326284
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Control rising fuel prices: Parminder Singh Dhindsa||The SAD (Sanyukt) has opposed the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas and demanded that the central and state governments should take steps to control these.MLA and former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said they had earlier submitted demand papers to the DCs, seeking rollback of the hiked prices. “If people are not given relief, the party will intensify its struggle,” he said, adding that while people were forced to suffer due to the rising prices, no action was being taken by the state government to reduce it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/control-rising-fuel-prices-parminder-singh-dhindsa-326285
19-10-2021||Fazilka||Will form border development board: Sukhbir Badal||SAD president and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced to set up a border development board, if his party is voted to power the next year. Addressing public meetings in favour of Hans Raj Josan, SAD candidate, Sukhbir said the ownership rights would be given to farmers who had been cultivating the government land since decades near the border.On the demand of Josan, Badal ensured the uninterrupted water supply to the tailend villages. He also promised Rs 2,000 to unemployed youths. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-form-border-development-board-sukhbir-badal-326289
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Not feted for 2 years, 3K Punjab players to get Rs 11 cr||Sports Minister Pargat Singh today approved cash prizes, withheld for the past two years, to players and coaches hailing from Punjab who performed well at the state, national and international levels. Over 3,000 players will be given prize money amounting to Rs 11 crore for 2018-19 and 2019-20. The decision was taken during a meeting at Punjab Bhavan.In a statement after the meeting, the minister said the state government was committed to reward the players winning medals in various sports with cash prizes as per the sports policy. He also said the awards would be given within a month and the list of players and coaches would be finalised in a few days.In another decision, Pargat Singh decided to call a meeting of awardees and ex-Olympians belonging to Punjab in which the issues afflicting them would be discussed and suggestions taken to create a congenial atmosphere for sports. A meeting would also be held with the Punjab Olympic Association to have more robust coordination with the other sports associations.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-feted-for-2-years-3k-punjab-players-to-get-rs-11-cr-326295
19-10-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Ferozepur’s Rai Sikh Bhawan turns ‘haven’ for addicts||Ferozepur, October 18Constructed at a cost of around Rs 2 crore in 2010 in the heart of the city, the Rai Sikh Bhawan in this border district presents a picture of apathy and neglect.Ironically, the building, which was constructed for the welfare of Rai Sikh community, has already started crumbling down. Moreover, neither was it put to use for the designated purpose during the last decade nor it was handed over to the community. In absence of any measures for its maintenance, upkeep and security, the building is now in a dilapidated shape and has turned into a haven for drug addicts. Most of the doors and windows are broken or stolen. The tiles on the outside are dislocated and even the grills, besides the entry gate of the building, are missing.Earlier, Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Congress MLA from Guruharsahai, had played an instrumental role in procuring funds for the construction of this building. However, the building was never handed over to Rai Sikhs and was used by the administration for various purposes. Sher Singh Ghubaya, former MP from Ferozepur and also a Rai Sikh leader, said the designated funds which were released for the construction of the bhawan were never completely utilised. “I requested the district administration to handover the building to Rai Sikhs several times, but it never happened,” said the former MP, while demanding that an inquiry should be conducted to check the quality of material used in the construction of the building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepurs-rai-sikh-bhawan-turns-haven-for-addicts-326273
19-10-2021||Abohar||Indo-American feted for service during Covid||The World Book of Records, London, has honoured Indian-American Miss World AmericaShree Saini for her “relentless efforts in the fight against Covid-19”.Shree has been awarded with the ‘Certificate of Commitment’ that globally acknowledges her efforts and work in battling the pandemic. She took to her officialInstagram account and shared the news. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indo-american-feted-for-service-during-covid-326274
19-10-2021||Moga||Punjab launches drive to check quality of paddy seeds||The state government has launched a drive to check the quality of foundation seeds of paddy and basmati grown in the state. The Directorate of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has asked the regional seed certification officers of Jalandhar, Kotkapura, Ludhiana and Mohali to chalk out a plan and visit fields of seed producers.Jaswinder Singh Brar, regional seed certification officer of Kotkapura, said teams of agro-scientists would visit the fields and ask growers to produce seeds in a healthy environment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-launches-drive-to-check-quality-of-paddy-seeds-326275
19-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Look into pendency of cases in all dists: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18The Punjab and Haryana HC has asked its Registrar-General to look into the pendency of cases in “every district” after noticing that the backlog was phenomenally high before a court in Amritsar. As many as 3,000 cases were pending before the court. Of these, 1,050 were sessions trials — 650 cases under the NDPS Act and 400 under the IPC.Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill directed the placing of the matter before the Registrar-General since it was noticed that the pendency before the court concerned was “phenomenally on the higher side”. The Registrar-General was asked to look into the matter and to see “whether it was only in the court of presiding officer concerned that the pendency of files is on the higher side or is it so in every district”.Justice Gill also directed considering the feasibility of posting “some additional officer” in case it was found that the number of files per officer was exceptionally higher in Amritsar. This could be done during the next general transfer or even before “in case there was any reshuffling/ posting of officers, which of course would be considered subject to the approval of the Chief Justice.The matter was brought to Justice Gill’s notice after petitioner-complainant Ram Dev moved the HC against the state of Punjab and others respondents. He was seeking directions to the court of an additional sessions judge in Amritsar district to dispose of within a fixed timeframe the trial in an FIR registered on May 11, 2018, at the Gate Hakima police station for abetment to suicide and another offence under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC.In response to an order passed in August calling for a status report from the presiding officer concerned, it was stated the courts had been working restrictively for the last one and a half years following the outbreak of the pandemic. Currently, priority was being given to cases where accused were in custody by fixing short dates. Long dates, on the other hand, were fixed in other cases due to high pendency.Justice Gill said: “In such a scenario, even if 50 sessions trials are fixed daily, it would be only after about a month, with average 20 working days, that the turn of the case would come for next hearing.”3,000 Cases pending in Amritsar court1,050 Are sessions trials650 Under NDPS Act400 Under IPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/look-into-pendency-of-cases-in-all-dists-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-326283
19-10-2021||Amritsar||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu keen to fight from Amritsar (East)||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, has shown her inclination to contest from the Amritsar (East) constituency.She held a special camp on old electricity bills of poor consumers, in the constituency, represented by Sidhu.Dr Sidhu was also an MLA from the constituency in 2012, but on BJP ticket. When Sidhu switched over to the Congress, he started off his innings from the constituency.“The works worth Rs 100 crore were executed in the (East) constituency during my tenure as MLA. In 2017, too, my name was recommended for Amritsar (East) and Sidhu was asked to choose any other seat, but he didn’t let me contest then. Now, if given a chance, I will contest from here again,” she said.She supported the Centre’s decision of enhancing the BSF’s jurisdiction from 5 km to 50 km from the India-Pakistan border. “If it is for safeguarding the national security and curbing smuggling of drugs, arms and other forbidden material, it is the right decision,” she said.She was all praise for CM Charanjit Channi and Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring’s working style. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-navjot-kaur-sidhu-keen-to-fight-from-amritsar-east-326284
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Control rising fuel prices: Parminder Singh Dhindsa||The SAD (Sanyukt) has opposed the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas and demanded that the central and state governments should take steps to control these.MLA and former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said they had earlier submitted demand papers to the DCs, seeking rollback of the hiked prices. “If people are not given relief, the party will intensify its struggle,” he said, adding that while people were forced to suffer due to the rising prices, no action was being taken by the state government to reduce it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/control-rising-fuel-prices-parminder-singh-dhindsa-326285
19-10-2021||Fazilka||Will form border development board: Sukhbir Badal||SAD president and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced to set up a border development board, if his party is voted to power the next year. Addressing public meetings in favour of Hans Raj Josan, SAD candidate, Sukhbir said the ownership rights would be given to farmers who had been cultivating the government land since decades near the border.On the demand of Josan, Badal ensured the uninterrupted water supply to the tailend villages. He also promised Rs 2,000 to unemployed youths. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-form-border-development-board-sukhbir-badal-326289
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab fixes dengue test cost at Rs 600||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Om Parkash Soni has ordered that the cost of dengue test at private hospitals and laboratories would be Rs 600 across the state.At a meeting of the inter-sectorial coordination committee of the state task force on dengue control at Punjab Bhawan on Monday, he also ordered the formation of district-level committees under deputy commissioners.Soni also directed officers of the Local Bodies Department and the Punjab State Rural Development to procure fogging machines and other equipment to check spread of dengue and malaria. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-fixes-dengue-test-cost-at-rs-600-326311
19-10-2021||Narrating his experience of reining in the ‘transport mafia’ in the first three weeks after assuming the charge of Transport Minister||Punjab 'transport mafia': Carrot & stick policy working, says Transport Minister Raja Warring||The Transport Department is making big news these days. Any comments?We have impounded more than 150 buses plying illegally or without paying the road tax. As many as 842 new government buses have been ordered. There is no protest by employees anywhere. We have also increased the salary of the contractual staff by 30 per cent and assured them of 5 per cent annual increment. Major defaulters, including Orbit Transport and Rajdhani Transport, which are owned by the ‘powerful’ Badals, are now paying their pending road tax. Earlier, most tourist buses entering the state did not pay the tax. I have brought in changes in the delivery of motor vehicle registration certificates and driving licences, etc. Now, the important documents will remain available in post offices for 15 days. The automated driving test tracks will remain open on Sundays too.Also read: Daily revenue of Punjab govt buses up Rs 45 lakh in 3 weeksAre you hinting that your predecessor failed to live up to the expectations?Neither am I saying this, nor I want to go into it. Everyone has their own style of working. She can list her achievements, I have to list mine.What are your immediate plans?I want to see all bus stands neat and clean. Now, I have started a regular cleanliness drive. After becoming the minister, when I first went to the Ludhiana bus stand, it was in a shambles. However, when I went there again, it was much better. Similarly, the Amritsar bus stand, which has a daily footfall of 65,000, was also not up to the mark.Do you think there are some black sheep in the department?Yes, there are many. I assure you that those found guilty of causing loss to the state exchequer will not be spared. Results of recent actions will soon be visible to everyone.Your opponents call you more of a ‘stuntman’. What’s your reaction?Only the public can give answer to them. If I have become able to increase the revenue of the PRTC and the Punjab Roadways in such a short time span, then I have no problem on being called a stuntman.Tax evasion: 5 more buses impoundedFerozepur: Continuing its offensive against erring private bus operators, the Transport Department on Monday impounded five more buses in this border district. A special team has been ascertaining the tax liabilities and scrutinising documents at various bus stands following Warring’s instructions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-transport-mafia-carrot-stick-policy-working-says-transport-minister-raja-warring-326290
19-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Groundwater misuse may rise manifold in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18Punjab, while staring at desertification in two decades as claimed by various government agencies, has now made water supply to consumers nearly free. This will lead to further indiscriminate use of water.Interestingly, by taking a decision to waive the pending bills and bring down the user charges on water to just Rs 50 per connection, the Charanjit Channi-led government has also gone against the advice of a Vidhan Sabha committee headed by now Technical Education and Soil and Water Conservation Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh, which had recommended the metering of water supply and taking other immediate steps to reduce groundwater extraction.Sources in the government told The Tribune that while the pending electricity bills of the rural water supply schemes of Rs 1,168 crore would be paid by the state government to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), each year another Rs 440 crore would be allocated in the Budget for the said purpose. Besides this, Rs 200-crore pending power bills of the urban water supply schemes have been waived, while approximately Rs 50 crore will have to be provided each year to the PSPCL for these schemes.This means that while this year, the power subsidy bill of the state would increase by Rs 1,808 crore, it will rise by Rs 500 crore annually. Already, the annual power subsidy bill of the state is Rs 10,668 crore or 11% of the total revenue receipts. This high power subsidy has become unsustainable and each year, the state defaults in paying the subsidy.During this fiscal too, Rs 7,000 crore of subsidy from last year was carried forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/groundwater-misuse-may-rise-manifold-in-punjab-326286
19-10-2021||---||Extension of BSF jurisdiction attack on federalism, won’t accept it: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, October 18Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the government would not accept the Centre’s decision to enhance the BSF’s jurisdiction from the existing 15 km to 50 km, which was against the spirit of federalism.The Chief Minister said the situation demanded to dispel apprehensions on the issue and chalk out a strategy for which a special Cabinet meeting would be convened soon and, if need be, it would be discussed at an all-party meeting. However, in case the issue was not resolved, a special session of the Vidhan Sabha would be summoned.Addressing the media, Channi said the law and order situation was the subject of state and the central government could not thrust this decision on Punjab even without taking them into confidence.Referring to the state police force’s ability to contain the decade-long militancy in the state, he said the Punjab Government was fully competent to handle the law and order situation with its own police force.Slamming SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for flaring up religious sentiments by blowing the issue of BSF’s deployment beyond its jurisdiction, Channi urged him to desist from making provocative statements. He also asked Sukhbir not to push Punjab to the days of militancy by hurting religious sentiments of people in the guise of the Border Security Force issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extension-of-bsf-jurisdiction-attack-on-federalism-wont-accept-it-punjab-cm-326287
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet waives Rs 1,868 crore water bills||CM Charanjit Channi-led Cabinet today decided to waive all pending water bills of rural and urban areas, besides reducing the monthly user charges from Rs 166 to Rs 50 per household. The waiver would cause additional burden of Rs 1,868 crore on the state exchequer.The Cabinet also decided that the government would pay the power bills of the rural and urban water supply scheme with effect from October 1, entailing an additional annual expenditure of Rs 440 crore.Chamkaur Sahib gets Rs 1,000-crore projectsChanni said since majority of the pending dues in rural water supply schemes and urban local bodies were on account of the pending power bills that the department concerned had failed to clear to the PSPCL, the government would not be compensating PSPCL in future.Giving details of the Rs 1,868 crore waiver, the CM said while the outstanding arrears of rural water supply schemes was Rs 1,168 crore, the outstanding arrears of water supply and sewerage charges for domestic connections in urban areas was Rs 700 crore.The Cabinet also reduced water usage charges to Rs 50 per month for domestic connections of all categories with plot size above 125 sq yards. — TNSOther key decisionsRegular jobs for Group-D staffThe Cabinet gave a go-ahead to recruit the Group-D employees on regular basis, thus fulfilling their long-pending demand to instil a sense of job securityDecks cleared for new PPSC chairmanThe Cabinet also gave approval to send recommendations to the Governor for appointment of Jagbans Singh as the new Chairman of the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC)Land acquisition for rail linkTo boost economic activity in the region, the CM said land for the Patti-Makhu rail link would soon be acquired and farmers suitably compensated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-waives-rs-1-868-crore-water-bills-326288
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Committed to scrapping farm laws: Punjab CM Channi||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today hailed the Congress Working Committee (CWC) for showing concern at the plight of farmers and standing in solidarity with them by passing a resolution on farm laws at a meeting held on Saturday.Welcoming the resolution, the CM said the three agricultural laws were the culmination of the conspiracy to subjugate farmers for the advantage of a handful of crony capitalist friends of the Narendra Modi government.He further pointed out that nearly a thousand farmers had died, but the Centre refused to even engage with them. “It further refuses to repeal the three farm laws and end the stalemate,” said Channi, adding that the Congress was committed to repealing the laws and ensuring a just and fair MSP mechanism for farmers and justice for landless farm labourers."We reiterate our continued resolve to fight this battle alongside the farmers and farm labourers to defeat the Centre’s deliberate attack on annadatas,” the CM added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/committed-to-scrapping-farm-laws-punjab-cm-channi-326278
19-10-2021||Tribune Reporters||Lakhimpur violence: Rail Roko protest derails life across Punjab||Chandigarh/Bathinda, Oct 18On the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) call, activists of various farmer unions today squatted on railway tracks from 10 am to 4 pm at several places across the state. Commuters had to bear the brunt of the Rail Roko agitation as trains did not run as per schedule. Most passengers were seen struggling to find other available transport options to reach their destinations.During their protests, union leaders, farmers, including women, raised slogans against the BJP-led central government and demanded the dismissal and arrest of Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra following his son’s alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. They also asked the Centre to repeal three farm laws, Electricity Bill 2020 and the law of fine on farmers for burning straw. Farmers demanded minimum government fixed prices for all crops and guaranteed government procurement and supplying all required goods to the poor at free or cheap rates through the public distribution system. Farmer leaders also criticised the Centre government for high prices of diesel and petrol.Worst-hit sectionsIn Bathinda, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) blocked the Bathinda-Ferozpur railway track at Goniana Mandi. Simialrly, union other leaders protested on the Bathinda-Delhi railway track at Rampura town and on Bathinda-Bikaner railway line at Pathrala village.In Ferozepur district, members of BKU (Dakonda and Qadian Ekta), Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee besides others held protests near Ferozepur city railway station, Ferozepur Cantt railway station and railway crossing near Ferozepur-Moga road.In the morning, members of several farmer unions stopped trains at five different locations, including Ferozepur Cantonment, Jalalabad, Moga and Ludhiana. Farmers squatted on the railway tracks at Ferozepur Cantonment, Ajitwal in Moga, Guru Har Sahai in Ferozepur and Chauki Mann in Ludhiana, which affected the movement of trains. The farmers also staged a protest on the railway track near the silo of a private group at Dagru village in the Moga district.As per the Divisional Railway Manager’s office, Ferozepur-Sri Ganganagar Express, Ferozepur-Fazilka Express Special, Fazilka-Ferozepur Express, Ferozepur-Ludhiana Express, Ferozepur-Chandigarh Express and Ganga Sutlej Express were halted. The rail traffic on Suratgarh-Bathinda, Sirsa-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Bathinda, Hisar-Bathinda sections was also affected due to the agitation.The Bathinda-Rewari special train and the Sirsa-Ludhiana special train remained cancelled. The train which departed from Ahmedabad on Saturday ran on the changed route via Rewari-Delhi-Pathankot to Vaishno Devi Katra, railway officials said. The New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express was halted near Shambu station as protesters blocked railway tracks near Sahnewal and Rajpura.Meanwhile, farmers protested at five different places in Amritsar district and three different places in Tarn Taran districts. In Tarn Taran, the Railways has yet not resumed the services since the Covid outbreak last year. Farmers also squatted on railway tracks at three places in Muktsar district — Muktsar, Malout and Gidderbaha.(With inputs from Ferozepur, Moga, Amritsar & Muktsar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhimpur-violence-rail-roko-protest-derails-life-across-punjab-326263
19-10-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu firm on stand, parleys on||Chandigarh, October 18Days after a meeting of Navjot Singh Sidhu with party leader Rahul Gandhi, the political activity in the Punjab Congress has been shifted back to Chandigarh. All India Congress Committee (AICC) observer Harish Chaudhary and joint secretary Krishna Allavru engaged in parleys with Pradesh Congress Committee president for the second consecutive day on Monday.Last night, Sidhu had a meeting with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in the presence of Chaudhary and minister Pargat Singh for over five hours.Sources said the AICC leaders were giving a prolonged audience to Sidhu over the contentious issues of probe into sacrilege and drug trafficking cases raised by him.To know the legal status of the sacrilege cases and SIT report in the drug trafficking cases involving big fishes, Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari and officials of the legal team were also called in on the sidelines of the meeting. Sidhu was said to be sticking to the 13-point agenda, raised by him in a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi.A day after meeting with Sidhu, who had made public his letter to Sonia Gandhi flagging several issues, Channi told mediapersons that the matters would be resolved and the party’s agenda implemented.Channi said, “Be it 13-point, 18-point, 21-point or 24-point, whatever the agenda is, it will be implemented. No point will be left out. It’s alright that he (Sidhu) raised the issues... we have to implement the party’s ideology. The party is supreme. All issues will be resolved”. Sidhu’s letter had indicated that he was still not satisfied with Channi-led government over its handling of key issues.Sidhu harming Cong’s poll prospects: SukhbirShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal lashed out at state PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal after his first roadshow in Abohar on Monday. On the letter written by Sidhu to Sonia Gandhi, Sukhbir said, “I rightly predicted that overambitious Sidhu is like a misguided missile which has no idea which target is to be hit. The Congress itself is suffering due to Sidhu and he will prove fatal for his party.” oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-firm-on-stand-parleys-on-326264
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hold  Singhu victim’s ‘bhog’ as per Sikh maryada: Sampla||National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Chairman Vijay Sampla on Monday wrote a letter to acting Jathedar of Akal Takhat Giani Harpreet Singh, and requested him to ensure that Lakhbir Singh’s ‘bhog’ was performed as per the Sikh ‘rehat maryada’.In the letter, Sampla said, “You must have got the information that some people, especially the members of Satkar committee, objected to the victim’s cremation as per Sikh rituals, citing sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib.”Sampla added “we firmly believe that Lakhbir Singh should not be termed guilty until the police investigation proves the same”.He also said in Punjab border districts, a large number of SC Sikhs had been targeted by missionaries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-singhu-victims-bhog-as-per-sikh-maryada-sampla-326265
19-10-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Yet to get relief for paddy loss, bollworm-hit Sangrur farmers have little hope||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 18At a time when the Punjab Government is making big claims to provide quick financial aid to pink bollworm-affected cotton growers, farmers of many villages of Sangrur do not have any hope. Reason: They have yet not received any financial aid for losses they suffered months ago due to damage to paddy crop after heavy rain.“Pink bollworm has come as another blow to area farmers, who are yet to get financial aid for the damage to paddy due to rain. In August, we protested for several days in front of the office of the Moonak SDM. From Monday, we have again decided to launch an indefinite protest,” said Rinku Moonak, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president of Moonak block, who lost three acres of standing paddy to rainwater in August.Can’t trust governmentFarmers have not received any compensation for the paddy yet. How can we trust the govt this time now? —Sukhdev Singh, Sangrur farmerCompensation soonWe are hopeful that the financial aid for paddy and cotton losses will come in some days. — Ramvir, Sangrur DCAs per report of the Agriculture Department, rainwater had damaged standing paddy crop on thousands of acres of 47 villages of Moonak and Lehra areas of the district. Now pink bollworm has affected hundreds of acres of cotton in various villages of the district. Though after the Agriculture Department prepared their preliminary report of the damage to cotton, revenue department officers have also prepared their own report and sent to the Punjab Government, but farmers say it’s all an eyewash.Like past, this time also, farmers from various villages are getting united to press the government for immediate financial aid. Farmers are conducting village-level meetings to mobilise maximum support for their protest.When contacted, Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir, he said both lists (Including of paddy and cotton losses) are with the government and the relief was likely to be released soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yet-to-get-relief-for-paddy-loss-bollworm-hit-sangrur-farmers-have-little-hope-326267
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||DAP shortage in Punjab: Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha to meet Union minister||With the state staring at an acute shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP), Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha is rushing to meet the Union Fertiliser Minister on Tuesday.With the state receiving less than 20 per cent of the DAP stocks allocated for Punjab in October, the state government anticipates that the shortage could lead to farmers’ unrest.“There is less availability - 33,000 MT against the allocation of 1.97 lakh metric tonnes - for this month. The farmers require DAP immediately. I have sought time from the Fertiliser Minister tomorrow,” Nabha said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dap-shortage-in-punjab-agriculture-minister-randeep-singh-nabha-to-meet-union-minister-326268
19-10-2021||Archit Watts||Daily revenue of Punjab govt buses up Rs 45 lakh in 3 weeks||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 18Three weeks after assuming charge as Punjab’s Transport Minister, Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today claimed the revenue of state-owned buses had increased by Rs 45 lakh per day since he took over.Also read: Punjab 'transport mafia': Carrot & stick policy working, says Transport Minister Raja WarringTalking to The Tribune, Warring said, “We have impounded more than 150 private buses in the last about 20 days for not paying road tax. As a result, passenger load has increased in government buses.”The daily revenue of Punjab Roadways Transport Corporation (PRTC) has reached Rs 1.87 crore, compared to Rs 1.7 crore about a month ago. Similarly, Punjab Roadways is now earning Rs 1.77 crore, up from Rs 1.5 crore earlier. “Though the revenue collection has gone up, my first target is to ensure a hike of Rs 1 crore per day,” he said. Warring said four private buses were impounded in Muktsar and eight in Ferozepur today as well.“The action against private transporters will continue until they pay road tax... They should be penalised to recover retrospective tax,” he said.The minister said a departmental probe was underway to find out why the private transporters were being extended “undue benefits”. “I will act against officials found hand in glove with the private transporters,” he said.Warring said the department was considering giving relaxation in bus fare to senior citizens on the lines of free travel for women. There was also a proposal to issue a card each to EWS (economical weaker sections) families, allowing free travel to one member at a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/daily-revenue-of-punjab-govt-buses-up-rs-45-lakh-in-3-weeks-326316
19-10-2021||---||Punjab to waive pending water bills of rural and urban consumers||Chandigarh, October 18The Punjab Cabinet in its meeting held on Monday decided to waive all pending water bills of rural and urban areas, besides announcing a monthly flat rate of Rs 50 per connection.CM Charanjit Singh Channi said while the waiver in water bills for rural areas would put a burden of Rs 1,200 crore on the state exchequer, the waiver for urban areas would put a burden of Rs 700 crore.The CM said while there would be no water tariff for a plot size of up to 125 sq yard, the water tariff of all other categories of consumers has been fixed at a monthly rate of Rs 50 per connection.The Cabinet decided that in future, the state government would pay the electricity bills of public health tubewells supplying potable water in rural and urban areas.The Cabinet also decided to appoint all Group D employees on a regular basis.The Cabinet strongly opposed the decision of the Union home ministry to increase the BSF area of jurisdiction from 15 km to 50 km along the border.“We are completely against it. Law and order is a state subject. The state police, which can end terrorism from the state, is capable of preventing any incident,” Channi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-waive-pending-water-bills-of-rural-and-urban-consumers-326175
19-10-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh/Jaipur||Rail Roko: Farmers squat on rail tracks, train services hit in Punjab, Haryana, UP, Rajasthan||Farmers squatted on rail tracks at several places on Monday morning as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s six-hour ‘rail roko’ protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, hampering train movement in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.The stir affected 150 locations in the Northern Railway zone and hindered the running of 60 trains causing inconvenience to passengers who could be seen waiting for long hours with their baggage.In the North Western Railway (NWR) zone, rail traffic was affected in some sections in Rajasthan and Haryana with 18 trains cancelled, 10 partially cancelled and one diverted due to the protest.Agitations were held at Punjab’s Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Moga, Patiala and Ferozepur, and Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat, Kurukshetra, Jind, Karnal and Hisar.In Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) workers halted the Amritsar-Delhi and the Jalandhar Express trains by staging a dharna on rail tracks.Trains were halted at Meerut and Greater Noida’s Dankaur stations by the protesters, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. In Ghaziabad’s Modinagar, farmers staged a demonstration in front of a goods train which already reached its destination. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s Agri laws, had said, “To press for its demand for Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, SKM has announced a nation-wide Rail Roko programme.” SKM had put out a call to stop rail traffic between 10 am and 4 pm.Protesting farmers, including women, raised slogans against the BJP-led government and demanded the Ajay Mishra’s arrest. Security was deployed at rail stations in the wake of the protest.In Punjab, farmers sat on rail tracks in several sections, including the Ferozepur-Fazilka section in Ferozepur city and the Ferozepur-Ludhiana section at Ajitwal in Moga, officials said.In Rajasthan, farmers held a protest on the tracks in Hanumangarh district and raised slogans against the Central and the Uttar Pradesh governments. In Jaipur, SKM members staged a protest at the entrance of the railway station.State joint secretary of SKM Sanjay Madhav said, “We have not been allowed to enter the Jaipur junction so we have started the dharna at the entrance.”The trains that have been affected in the Northern Railway zone include the Chandigarh-Ferozepur Express. Its scheduled departure from Ludhiana was 7 am, but has been stranded there due to a blockade in the Ferozpur-Ludhiana section, its chief public relation officer said.The New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express was halted near Shambu station due to blockades near Sahnewal and Rajpura. “About 25 passenger and short-distance trains have been cancelled,” the officer said.In Rajasthan, the agitation affected train movement in Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar of the Bikaner division.A North Western Railway (NWR) spokesperson said rail traffic on Bhiwani-Rewari, Sirsa-Rewari, Loharu-Hisar, Suratgarh-Bathinda, Sirsa-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Bathinda, Rohtak-Bhiwani, Rewari-Sadulpur, Hisar-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Sadulpur and Sri Ganganagar-Rewari sections was affected.Eighteen trains, including the Firozpur-Hanumangarh Special train, Ludhiana-Hisar Special train, Bathinda-Sriganganagar Special train, Bathinda-Lalgarh Special train, Phulera-Rewari Special train, Rewari-Jodhpur Special train, Ratangarh–Churu special train and Churu-Bikaner special train, were cancelled on Monday, he said.Ten trains have been partially cancelled due to the stir.The route of Ahmedabad-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Special train has also been changed, the NWR spokesperson said, adding the train which departed from Ahmedabad on Saturday will run via Rewari-Delhi-Pathankot to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra.At Ludhiana railway station—one of the busiest in Punjab—a person headed for Jodhpur rued that he came to know about the protest after reaching the station.He appealed to farmer leaders to lay siege to the residences of politicians rather than harassing the common man. “They should think about the public.” A man waiting for his train at Ludhiana station with his family said they have to rush for Gonda in UP as one of their relatives has died.At Patiala station, Dinesh Joshi searched frantically for milk and hot water for his child as the train he was travelling in had stopped due to farmers’ protest.A group of protests put up a banner with ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ written on it in front of a train forced to stop at Moga. They also carried photos of four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur violence.In West Bengal, those belonging to Left parties protested at some railway stations, while in Madhya Pradesh, farmers squatted on the tracks near Bamnia station in Jhabua.Demanding the arrest of Ajay Mishra, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the KMSC will hold protests at 20 places in 11 districts of Punjab.Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles.The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver.Farmers have claimed that the minister’s son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and the father. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rail-roko-farmers-squat-on-rail-tracks-train-services-hit-in-punjab-haryana-up-rajasthan-326159
