20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 33 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||The Covid-19 tally in Punjab rose to 6,02,113 on Wednesday with 33 fresh cases, while one coronavirus-related fatality was reported in the state, according to a medical bulletin.With one death reported from Muktsar, the toll reached 16,550.Of the fresh cases, Ludhiana reported eight infections, followed by five in Pathankot and four in Faridkot, among others.The number of active cases in the state rose to 232 from 216 on Tuesday.Fifteen more people have recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,331, the bulletin stated.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported two new coronavirus cases, taking the total count to 65,312.With no fresh death in the last 24 hours, the toll stood at 820 in the Union Territory.There are 24 active cases in the city, while 64,468 people have recovered from the disease. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-33-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-327123
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Unfortunate to keep Punjabi out of main subjects by CBSE: Punjab minister||Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh on Wednesday termed as unfortunate the decision to keep Punjabi out of the main subjects in the datesheet of Class 10 and 12 released by the CBSE.He appealed to the central board to reconsider its decision.In a statement, the minister termed the decision by the CBSE to include all regional languages in the minor subjects as a conspiracy to wean students away from their mother tongue.He said the step is a gross injustice to the students of the state and is in total contravention to the spirit of the Constitution.The Minister said at least in the states concerned the mother tongue must be included in the main subjects such as in Punjab it is Punjabi."If need be then I would call upon the Union Education Minister to impress upon him to roll back the decision," added Pargat Singh.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unfortunate-to-keep-punjabi-out-of-main-subjects-by-cbse-punjab-minister-327077
20-10-2021||New Delhi||Amarinder Singh a patriot; BJP open to alliance with all those who put nation first: Dushyant Gautam||Amarinder Singh is a patriot and the BJP is open to alliances with those who put national interests first, party general secretary and Punjab in-charge Dushyant Gautam said on Wednesday, a day after Singh announced he would launch his own political party.Singh, the former chief minister of Punjab, on Tuesday said he would soon announce his own political party and is hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP if the farmers' issue is resolved in their interest.On his condition of resolving farmers' issues, the BJP leader said Singh did not talk about ending the farmers' agitation."He talked about farmers' issues. We are committed to it and are working for the welfare of farmers. If the time comes, both will sit together and discuss farmers' issues," Gautam told PTI.As far as the agitation is concerned, it is politically motivated, he alleged."Our main agenda is nationalism and keeping the nation first. All those parties who want to form alliances with us on this agenda are welcome," he said.Amarinder Singh was once a soldier and his stand on the issues of national security should be praised, the BJP leader said."....He (Amarinder Singh) was a soldier. He knows about the threats to the country and how to secure it is. He is patriotic. And whenever it was a matter of national security and security at the borders, we have appreciated his stand,"  Gautam said, adding that nationalists are not "untouchables" to the BJP.The BJP leader also said that his party has often been critical of Singh on social issues of Punjab.Gautam, however, indicated that nothing has been finalised yet as "Amarinder Singh still needs to form his party and put forward his views".Singh resigned as the chief minister of Punjab last month after a bitter feud with Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and infighting in the state unit. The party replaced him with Charanjit Singh Channi.After resigning, Singh had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-singh-a-patriot-bjp-open-to-alliance-with-all-those-who-put-nation-first-dushyant-gautam-327074
20-10-2021||---||Huge quantity of arms smuggled from Pakistan seized in Punjab’s Khemkaran||Amritsar, October 20The Counter Intelligence in a joint operation with the Border Security Force has recovered a huge quantity of weapons smuggled from Pakistan.According to information, following a tip-off, the CI and BSF conducted a search operation in Khemkaran area and seized 22 pistols, over 40 magazines and 1 kg of heroin besides live rounds from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/huge-quantity-of-arms-smuggled-from-pakistan-seized-in-punjabs-khemkaran-327025
20-10-2021||Vijay C Roy||Nearly 800 fuel stations in Punjab on verge of closure||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Higher petrol and diesel price in Punjab as compared to neighbouring states is not only impacting the consumers but also proving as a stumbling block for many fuel stations as their sustenance is at stake because sales volume has gone down drastically.According to data, the average monthly sale of petrol and diesel in Punjab was 90 KL per fuel station during April-September as compared to 155 KL in Haryana and 183 KL in Himachal.“On an average, a fuel station should sell 100 KL of fuel per month for sustainability. However, in Punjab, 72% fuel stations (2,492) are selling less than 100 KL per month. As many as 721 fuel stations (21%) have average sale volume of less than 36 KL,” said Gurmeet Monty Sehgal, spokesperson, Petrol Pump Dealers Association Punjab.The fuel station owners attribute the declining sales to high concentration of petrol pumps in the state and higher VAT on petrol and diesel in the state. Punjab has 3,460 fuel stations of public sector oil marketing companies — IndianOil (1,848), Bharat Petroleum (680) and Hindustan Petroleum (932). Punjab levies 35.25% VAT on petrol and 16.82% on diesel.As compared to Punjab, the VAT on petrol and diesel in neighbouring states such as J&K, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and UT of Chandigarh is lower and people living in the border districts prefer to purchase fuel where the rates are low.With sales being shifted to other states, around 800 fuel stations in border districts of Mohali, Rupnagar, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Sangrur, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib are running into heavy losses and on the verge of closure, say fuel station owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nearly-800-fuel-stations-in-punjab-on-verge-of-closure-326749
20-10-2021||Ludhiana||Smuggler brought on production warrant to Ludhiana||The Special Task Force (STF) of Ludhiana brought notorious smuggler Manjit Singh Manna on a production warrant from the Amritsar jail on Tuesday. Manna is the among the three accused who were arrested by the STF in November last year with 31-kg heroin, 6-kg ice (methamphetamine) and Rs 25 lakh drug money.The STF probe found that despite being lodged in Amritsar, Manna continued to run his heroin-smuggling network from the Kapurthala prison as he was lodged there for a few months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smuggler-brought-on-production-warrant-to-ludhiana-326681
20-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Man among 3 held for killing mother||The Bassi Pathana police solved the murder mystery of a woman with the arrest of her son, daughter-in-law and a relative.In June, Bhupinder Kaur, a resident of Jhampur village, was allegedly murdered by her son Amrit Singh in connivance with his wife Rajwinder Kaur and relative Gurwinder Singh at Badali Ala Singh village. The police arrested Amrit and during interrogation, he revealed how he had killed his mother in a bid to grab property. The police have booked the three under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-among-3-held-for-killing-mother-326682
20-10-2021||Amritsar||Held for wife’s suicide, Amritsar man ends life in lock-up||Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Phullan Wala Chowk here, ended his life by hanging himself in the police lock-up here on Tuesday morning. He was arrested by the police for allegedly abetting suicide of his wife Paramjit Kaur who had ended her life on Monday.Before taking the extreme step, Dilpreet scribbled a suicide note on the wall of the lock-up accusing his in-laws for the step. His family members alleged he was harassed by the in-laws.A magisterial probe has started in the case and the body has been sent for a post-mortem. Randeep Singh, brother of the deceased, told the police that Paramjit Kaur had hanged herself yesterday and on the complaint of her brother Simranjit Singh, the police had arrested Dilpreet Singh under Section 306 of the IPC.Simranjit said Paramjit was married to Dilpreet in 2019 and the couple had a two-year-old son. Paramjit gave the IELTS but did not get enough bands. Due to this, Dilpreet used to “harass” her. Harjit Dhaliwal, ADCP, said a case of abetment of suicide had been registered against five persons of the victims’ in-laws on the statement of Randeep Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/held-for-wifes-suicide-amritsar-man-ends-life-in-lock-up-326683
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh hints at early resolution of farm stir||Ahead of forming a new political outfit, former Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has hinted at an early resolution of the farmers’ agitation over the three central farm laws.Party launch soon, may tie up with BJPThe battle for Punjab’s future is on. Will soon launch a political party… Hopeful of a seat arrangement with BJP in 2022 Punjab polls if farmers’ issue resolved. — Capt Amarinder SinghThe former CM, who is camping in Delhi for the past two days, in an interview to a news portal, indicated the possibility of a pre-poll alliance with the BJP, subject to “a satisfactory resolution of the farmers’ issue”. He also listed the option of an alliance with the breakaway Akali Dal faction, mainly the Dhindsa and Brahmpura group.The Tribune had on October 1 highlighted that Captain would form a new political outfit ahead of the state poll. Captain and the BJP leadership have been on the same page on several issues. Therefore, a tie-up or tacit understanding between the two could be a possibility. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-amarinder-singh-hints-at-early-resolution-of-farm-stir-326773
20-10-2021||---||Demand for platelets up as dengue cases surge in Bathinda||Bathinda, October 19With surge in dengue cases in Bathinda, the demand for Single Donor Platelets (SDP) has increased manifold due to which machines in the five city hospitals are running round the clock.Platelets are being issued for about 200 dengue patients daily from one government and four private blood banks in the city. The blood bank of the government hospital is issuing 20-25 units daily, while before the dengue outbreak, it used to issue just 3-5 units. However, the private blood banks are issuing 30-35 units against the earlier production of 7-10 units.Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “Though the demand for SDPs has increased to 20 units daily, there is no shortage at the Civil Hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/demand-for-platelets-up-as-dengue-cases-surge-in-bathinda-326685
20-10-2021||Sangrur||Terror module busted, 1 held||The Sangrur police busted a foreign-funded terror module with the arrest of Lakhveer Singh, alias Lakha, and recovered arms and ammunition on Monday night from Lehra subdivision of the district.DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said Lakha worked as a mason in the Lehra area and was allegedly motivated by pro-Khalistani elements based abroad to carry out target killings in the state and to carry out attacks on religious places of various sects. “Lakha is a highly radicalised and motivated individual. He was lured by cash from pro-Khalistani elements based abroad,” said the DGP.Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma said investigations had revealed that various digital platforms were being used for money transactions in terror funding cases. He said Lakha received three installments of Rs 45,000 each, deposited in his account from New Delhi, Moga and Khanna. “The police, while tracing these transactions, identified two individuals — one from Canada and the other from Poland. The persons involved in depositing cash in Lakha’s account have been identified and investigations are on. Lakha was arrested last night and our team seized a pistol and four live cartridges,” said SSP Sharma. He said another accused Sukhjit Singh provided pistol and ammunition to Lakha. “Sukhjit was also involved in illegal arms smuggling from UP. Our raids are on to arrest him,” the SSP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/terror-module-busted-1-held-326684
20-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Clubbing of PCS (EB) vacancies illegal: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the Punjab Chief Secretary, Secretary, Department of Personnel, Financial Commissioner-Revenue (FCR) and the Legal Remembrancer (LR) acted contrary to the ambit and scope of the Punjab Civil Services (Executive Branch) (Class-I) Rules in filling up the Punjab Civil Service (Executive Branch) vacancies.The admonition came as Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu ruled that clubbing of vacancies of two years — 2013 and 2014 — was legally impermissible and illegal. “Their actions are indefensible in law, being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution,” Justice Sindhu asserted, adding that the panel/list of the eligible candidates for selection/ promotion was to be sent year-wise.Justice Sindhu was hearing petitions by Balwinderpal Singh and other petitioner through senior advocates Rajiv Atma Ram and DS Patwalia, along with BS Patwalia, Vivek Sharma and Jatinder Pal Singh. Working as District Revenue Officers, they had challenged the non-inclusion of their names in Register A-1 maintained by the Chief Secretary for appointment to the posts.Justice Sindhu observed the Department of Personnel, vide letter dated January 3, 2014, asked the FCR to send a panel/list of 27 eligible candidates against nine vacancies for 2013. The cut-off date for ascertaining age and experience was specifically mentioned as November 1, 2013.The list and complete service record was to be sent by January 15, 2014, but was ultimately sent on May 25, 2015, after four reminders. The department, instead of forwarding the list, preferred to seek the opinion from the LR following the delay. It, vide an impugned corrigendum dated August 26, 2015, asked the FCR to send a panel/list of 30 eligible candidates against 10 vacancies on the premise that one more vacancy for 2014 had become available following delay. Justice Sindhu added the LR completely misunderstood the date of process initiation and the Chief Secretary did not care to consider the matter’s gravity and, rather in routine, approved the opinion.The Bench quashed the impugned corrigendum, the second panel/list dated September 11, 2015, and the Punjab Public Service Commission recommendations dated February 8, 2016.26 posts vacantNo less than 26 more vacancies have accumulated from Register A-1 due to pendency of the present writ petitions. Following interim stay in the matters, appointments were not made on the basis of recommendations dated February 8, 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clubbing-of-pcs-eb-vacancies-illegal-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-326686
20-10-2021||---||Sacrilege: Defence counsels oppose special prosecutor’s appearance in court||Faridkot, October 19Around 17 days after he was appointed as a special public prosecutor by the Punjab Government to appear before trial courts and the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the sacrilege cases of 2015, senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains today appeared before the Court of Additional District and Sessions Judge here as the public prosecutor.However, his appearance in the case was opposed by defence counsels, saying he was already contesting a case for one of the main complainants in the police firing case, so he could not contest these cases as the public prosecutor.However, Bains opposed the contention, saying there was no conflict of interest in him appearing as a prosecutor in the same case. He alleged opposition to his appearance as a special public prosecutor in the police firing cases was a tactical move to cause delay in the start of a proper trial in these cases to take these to a logical conclusion.“There are total 42 hearings in the Kotkapura police firing case but the charges against the accused could not be framed as yet. I have high hopes from the new SIT, constituted by the state government following the High Court orders of April 2021. It will submit its investigation in the Kotkapura police firing cases before November 7 and the trial in these cases will start expeditiously,” said Bains.However, opposing Bains’ appearance in the court as the special public prosecutor, the counsels for the accused claimed as he had appeared in the High Court for one of the main complainants, he could not appear as an independent public prosecutor. “He can assist the public prosecutor but cannot appear as an independent prosecutor in this case,” said HS Saini, counsel for the accused.After the prosecution provided some documents over which there was about six-month ‘tussle’ between former SSP Charanjit Sharma, an accused in Behbal Kalan police firing case, and the prosecution, the court adjourned the case to October 29.‘Bid to delay trial in police firing cases’Public prosecutor Rajwinder Singh Bains said there was no conflict of interest in him appearing as a prosecutor in the same case. He alleged opposition to his appearance as a special public prosecutor in the police firing cases was a tactical move to cause delay in the start of a proper trial in these cases to take these to a logical conclusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-defence-counsels-oppose-special-prosecutors-appearance-in-court-326687
20-10-2021||Muktsar||Farmers end protest outside Punjab FM Manpreet Badal’s residence||Farmers lodging protest outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here today ended their protest, announcing they will now start an indefinite protest outside the district administrative complex in Bathinda on October 25.Cotton farmers had been lodging protest at Badal village for the past 15 days, demanding compensation of Rs 12,000 per acre for the cotton crop loss. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-end-protest-outside-punjab-fm-manpreet-badals-residence-326688
20-10-2021||New Delhi||Centre assures 17 fertiliser rakes for Punjab in 3-4 days||Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha today said Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has assured 10 rakes of DAP (diammonium phosphate), five rakes of NPK (complex fertiliser) and two of SSP (single super phosphate) within three to four days to the state.Randeep Singh Nabha, MinisterGetting lesser quantityThe Centre has allocated only 1.97 LMT of DAP, against demand for 2.75 LMT in October. We have apprised the Centre allocating a much lesser quantity to Punjab in comparison to UP and Haryana.Considering Punjab’s demand, the Union minister also assured adequate supply of urea in November and December, Nabha said after the meeting. Nabha said he informed Mandaviya the total requirement of DAP for rabi crops was 5.50 lakh MT, of which 4.80 lakh MT was required during October and November for timely sowing of wheat crop. “DAP is an essential input for ensuring optimum productivity of wheat, which is sown on an area of about 35.00 lakh hectares in Punjab,” he said.Alleging “step-motherly treatment towards Punjab”, he said the Centre had allocated only 1.97 LMT of DAP, against demand for 2.75 LMT in October. “Punjab had 0.74 LMT opening stock of DAP on October 1, as compared to 3.63 LMT last year (October 1, 2020). It is being felt likely shortfall of this crucial input may appear for the sowing of wheat crop and only 20-25 days are left for complete sowing of wheat,” he said, demanding an additional allocation of 1.50 LMT of DAP in October expeditiously, he said.According to Nabha, Punjab got only 80,951 MT DAP against an allocation plan of 1,97,250 MT, which is 41 per cent of the total allocation, while Haryana got 89 per cent (supply plan 58,650, despatched 52,155) of total allocation. Uttar Pradesh, he said, got 170 per cent (supply plan 60,000, dispatched 1,02,201) and Rajasthan 88 per cent (supply plan 67,890, dispatched 59,936).“We apprised the Union Minister that Punjab is being allocated a much lesser quantity of DAP in comparison to UP and Haryana. We have been writing to the Centre for the past six months on this sensitive issue,” he added.Nabha said the minister told him the shortage of DAP was due to “non-availability of the fertilisers in the international market and the Centre would ensure adequate supply of DAP to Punjab”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-assures-17-fertiliser-rakes-for-punjab-in-3-4-days-326689
20-10-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Govt has surrendered half of state to Centre: Akalis||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said there was literally no government in Punjab and due to the ongoing ‘power tussle’, fate of the state and its people hanged in balance.During his daylong visit, Badal participated in a road show and interacted with people. Interacting with mediapersons, he charged the Congress government, headed by Charanjit Singh Channi, with meekly handing over nearly half of the state to the Centre without expressing any formal protest over the extension of jurisdiction of the BSF in border states, including Punjab.“The Congress government has taken the direct attack on federal structure lying down for which Punjabis will never pardon it,” Sukhbir said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-has-surrendered-half-of-state-to-centre-akalis-326690
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jurisdiction row: Centre’s move will hit trade in border areas, says minister Rana Gurjeet||Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Tuesday said the state was first ignored while grant of a special package of incentives for capital investment subsidy and now, the extension of BSF jurisdiction from 15 km to 50 km was yet another jolt to Punjab.This had created a sense of insecurity among investors. “How will the investor go to the 25,000 sq km border belt which is under the jurisdiction of the BSF?” Rana asked. Even the adjoining industrial units of home-grown industries would consider shifting to “safer” places, he claimed.He lashed out at the Modi government for step-motherly treatment with the agrarian state. The agriculture sector, especially in the border areas, was already under stress and extension of the BSF jurisdiction would further add to the difficulties, Rana said. He further said he would request the Chief Minister to convene a one-day session of theVidhan Sabha to pass a resolution and to take up the matter with the Centre to reconsider the BSF move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jurisdiction-row-centres-move-will-hit-trade-in-border-areas-says-minister-rana-gurjeet-326691
20-10-2021||---||SGPC to send three-member team to conduct inquiry into Singhu killing||Amritsar, October 19The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has decided to constitute a three-member panel, including a member from Haryana, to visit the spot and conduct an inquiry into the Singhu killing.“As the situation normalises, our panel will visit the site,” SPGC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said.She asked the Centre to conduct an impartial probe into the incident that led to the killing of Lakhbir Singh over alleged sacrilege charges.After the SGPC’s executive body meeting today, Bibi Jagir Kaur said the Singhu incident was an outcome of emotional religious sentiments as justice was never brought in the number of sacrilege incidents of the past. “Mostly, the cases were closed after declaring the culprits to be ‘mentally ill’ or under the influence of intoxication, while avoiding to go deep into the incidents to unveil the truth,” the SGPC president said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-send-three-member-team-to-conduct-inquiry-into-singhu-killing-326692
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP leadership maintains silence over meetings with Nihang leader Baba Aman Singh||The state BJP leadership, which had until recently been quite vocal over the lynching at the Singhu border, seems to have gone on the backfoot following the expose over Nihang leader Aman Singh’s meetings with top party leaders.Also read: ‘Secret’ meet: Money offered to vacate Singhu dharna site, claims Nihang leader Baba Aman SinghThe Tribune had on Tuesday carried the photograph of Aman Singh, whose group was involved in the killing over alleged sacrilege, meeting BJP leader and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Till two days ago, BJP leaders, including state president Ashwani Sharma, SC morcha chief Raj Kumar Atwal and others, had been issuing statements on the issue, taking on the Opposition and even farmer union leaders.In a statement, Sharma had directly put the onus on the Samyukt Kisan Morcha andhad even questioned the silence of state government.However, the BJP leaders have now gone silent. There was also no word on party’s official Facebook page. Sharma and state general secretary Subhash Sharma could not be contacted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leadership-maintains-silence-over-meetings-with-nihang-leader-baba-aman-singh-326693
20-10-2021||---||Will expose conspirators behind killing at Singhu border: Punjab Deputy CM||Chandigarh, October 19Reacting to The Tribune report on a meeting between Nihang leader Baba Aman Singh and BJP ministers, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today promised the government would identify and expose the conspirators behind the killing of a “sacrilege accused” at the Singhu border.Also read:Nihang Baba admits to secretly meeting Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, claims 'offered Rs 10 lakh' to vacate dharna siteNihang chief Baba Aman Singh may have been part of efforts to end stirExplain in what capacity Baba met TomarThe Nihang leader needs to explain in what capacity he met Agriculture Minister NS Tomar and whether he was mandated to do so by the farmers’ organisations. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy CMSeparately, a team of five advocates from Punjab, namely Navkiran Singh, Tejinder Singh Sudan, Yadvinder Singh Dhillon, Harinder Singh Ishar and Parminder Singh Maloya, today visited the Singhu border to collect information about the alleged sacrilege incident and murder of Lakhbir Singh. Navkiran Singh said the team met various Nihang leaders and had telephonic conversation with investigating police officials also. The team will release its report soon.In a statement, Randhawa said in view of the recent disclosures about one of the Nihang leaders having been in touch with Minister for Agriculture NS Tomar, the lynching incident had now taken an entirely different turn. The same Nihang leader is now defending the main lynching accused.“Lakhbir Singh, the Dalit victim, belonged to Cheema Kalan village and was poor. We need to find out who lured him to the Singhu border and who paid for his travel as he could not even afford meals,” Randhawa said.He said the Nihang leader would need to explain in what capacity he had met Tomar and whether he was mandated to do so by the farmers’ organisations spearheading the campaign against three “black” farm laws.The Deputy Chief Minister said as the Nihang leader was camping at and staging dharna at the Singhu border, it was mandatory on his part to keep the farm unions informed and updated about his meetings with the Union Minister.“This has raised genuine doubts and suspicion among the minds of people which will need to be cleared and the Punjab Government will do everything to reach to the root of the conspiracy and expose the culprits,” he said.Role of agencies suspected: JakharPCC ex-chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday alleged there could be a role of agencies in the Singhu killing. “There is certainly something more than what meets the eye,” he said, adding incidents of recent months point towards a concerted bid to paint the farm struggle as one of a particular community and create divisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-expose-conspirators-behind-killing-at-singhu-border-punjab-deputy-cm-326694
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s 32 farmer unions in huddle||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is holding a dharna at Singhu and Tikri borders seeking withdrawal of the three central farm laws for over a year, has convened a meeting of representatives of all 32 farmer organisations on Wednesday following reports that a Nihang group responsible for the killing of a man at Singhu had met BJP ministers earlier.Investigate killingA thorough probe be held into chain of events leading to Singhu killing… how Lakhbir reached Singhu and became part of Nihang group is a matter of probe. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, SKMIn a statement, the SKM leadership said: “New reports have emerged about a Nihang group leader meeting Union Cabinet Minister in July, ostensibly for the resolution of the farmers’ agitation. This leader is from the same group that was involved in the murder at the Singhu border on October 15. The SKM reiterates the murder appears to be a conspiracy to distract attention from the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. This needs an urgent and comprehensive investigation.”The statement further said: “While sacrilege in any religion and faith is not acceptable, and needs to be condemned, the SKM appeals to all citizens not to fall prey to distractions.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morchas-32-farmer-unions-in-huddle-326695
20-10-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||‘Secret’ meet: Money offered to vacate Singhu dharna site, claims Nihang leader Baba Aman Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Nihang leader Baba Aman Singh, who is at the centre of The Tribune exposé on his secret meeting with BJP ministers, reportedly admitted today in various media interviews that he met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and others.Also read: Nihang chief Baba Aman Singh may have been part of efforts to end stirSamyukt Kisan Morcha’s 32 farmer unions in huddleWill expose conspirators: Punjab Deputy CMSGPC to send three-member probe teamHe also claimed a “BJP leader (not minister) offered Rs 10 lakh in cash, besides some horses” for vacating the Singhu dharna site, but he declined.The statement came after mediapersons sought his reaction to a report published in The Tribune on his meeting with BJP ministers in July. Neither the BJP leaders nor the Nihang leader had made the meeting public earlier.Also read: BJP leadership maintains silence over meetings with Nihang leader Baba Aman SinghBaba Aman Singh claimed they did not take the money. However, “around Rs 1 lakh was offered at a gurdwara”.He claimed they would lift the dharna only after the “black” farm laws were withdrawn, continuance of the MSP system was assured, there was justice in the sacrilege incidents, and the cases were withdrawn.Baba Aman Singh did not respond to calls by The Tribune today. BJP leader Sukhminder Grewal also did not take calls on claims made by the Nihang leader.On media queries to Nihang Baba whether they discussed the meeting with farm unions, he reportedly said they did not have to talk to farmers. Claiming he did not go alone to meet Tomar, the Nihang leader said at least 10 members of their “fauj” were with him.The report has caused a stir with questions being asked on why the meeting took place. Four members of the Nihang group have been arrested since Friday for the murder of Lakhbir Singh, who was accused of committing sacrilege.The Nihang leader also told a media house that senior functionaries of the sect would meet on October 27 in New Delhi to decide whether to continue their dharna at the Singhu border or not.In response to queries on the purpose of the meeting and the presence of murder convict and dismissed cop Gurmeet Singh Pinki, the Nihang Baba said everything would become clear to the “sangat” in the next few days. He said for them, the fight for the religion was supreme and then came the farmers’ issue.Meanwhile, Randeep Singh Surjewala, national spokesperson for the Congress, has sought a high-level investigation into the meeting between the Nihang and BJP leaders.‘Refused’ to accept cash, horses||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/secret-meet-money-offered-to-vacate-singhu-dharna-site-claims-nihang-leader-baba-aman-singh-326696
20-10-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab’s financial health fine: OP Soni||Deputy CM OP Soni today said the financial position of Punjab was sound now and all populist decisions, including waiver of power and water bills and pro-employee decisions, could be taken.He was here to attend a “shobha yatra” organised to mark Valmiki Jayanti. “We are in a good financial position hence in a capacity to take all such decisions,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-financial-health-fine-op-soni-326697
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 years on, Punjab Speaker accepts Sukhpal Khaira’s resignation||Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh has finally accepted the resignation of Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira, almost three years after he first put in his papers in January 2019.With this, the Bholath Vidhan Sabha seat has fallen vacant. But there will be no byelection, as the elections to Vidhan Sabha are scheduled in another three months.Officials say Khaira had again submitted his resignation in June, but was told to submit the same in the prescribed format, which he did today. No decision has yet been taken on the resignation of the three other AAP MLAs, who had resigned and joined the Congress earlier this year. They are Nazar Singh, Pirmal Singh and Jagdev Singh Kamalu. Khaira had switched sides and joined the AAP before the 2017 elections and won as an MLA. He was also appointed as the Leader of Opposition by his party. But his differences with party chief Arvind Kejriwal widened within a few months and he rebelled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-years-on-punjab-speaker-accepts-sukhpal-khairas-resignation-326698
20-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala: Frequent transfers spook officials||Tribune News ServiceBatala, October 19Frequent “politically motivated” transfers and postings have unnerved officers, virtually forcing them to try every trick to ensure a status quo is maintained till the last week of December when the election code is likely to kick in.Batala is the playground of leading Congress politicians — Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Batala ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri. Officers and ministerial staff are perennially on the tenterhooks. “Tript was once all-powerful and used his influence to post officials of his choice. Later, ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh marginalised him and vested power in Partap Bajwa and Sekhri. Now, with the change of dispensation in Chandigarh, Tript has again become powerful. Consequently, he has again started bringing in his trustworthy officials,” said a senior bureaucrat.In the past two months, the MC Commissioner, chairmen of the Improvement Trust and Market Committee, SSP and a DSP have been shifted. Scores of middle-rung officials, too, have been shuffled.In August, Tript’s wings were clipped and subsequently Sekhri was crowned as the new “king”. After that Tript loyalist SSP Rachpal Singh was replaced with Ashwani Kapur. DSP (City) Palwinder Kaur, too, was shifted and in her place Lalit Kumar was brought in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-frequent-transfers-spook-officials-326699
20-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Sidhu back to picking PCC team||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Days after pitching for his 13-point agenda to be included in the party manifesto for the Assembly poll, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu today resumed the exercise of finalising the names of party’s district presidents and district-level working presidents.Sidhu chaired a meeting of his working presidents Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Nagra at Punjab Bhavan today. While fourth working president Sukhwinder Danny did not attend the meeting, PCC general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh was present. AICC observer Harish Chaudhary and Rahul Gandhi’s aide Krishna Allavaru, who were present at Punjab Bhavan, didn’t attend the meeting.A Sidhu aide said the new body of the PCC would be put in place soon. The list of district presidents in Doaba and Malwa to be sent to the AICC is learnt to have been finalised, but the one for the Malwa region may take some time. To speed up preparations for poll campaign, Rawat will chair a meeting of the PCC president and the working presidents next week. At least two companies to be hired for election campaign and field surveys have already been shortlisted.Sources said though Sidhu has been seeking the Advocate General’s (AG) replacement and arrest of big fish in drug trafficking, the high command has asked him to focus on bringing the party back to power.“We have to go into the elections with CM Channi and Sidhu, besides a prominent Hindu face. Apart from the issues, the campaign will focus on the three leaders,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-back-to-picking-pcc-team-326700
20-10-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur govt departments owe Rs 101 cr to power corporation||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 19Repeated reminders by the PSPCL to various government departments for the payment of monthly power bills have failed to move the authorities as an amount of Rs 101 crore is pending in Sangrur circle alone.There are five subdivisions — Sangrur, Sunam, Lehra, Dirba and Patran — in Sangrur circle. With Rs 43.70-crore dues, the Water Supply and Sanitation Department is on the top of the defaulters’ list, followed by the Rural Development and Panchayat Department (Rs 25.27 crore), Local Government Department (Rs 21.93 crore) and the General Administration Department (Rs 55 lakh). Besides, PSPCL officials are trying to recover money from the Departments of Higher Education, Transport, Sports and Youth Service, and Revenue Rehabilitation and Disaster Management among others.“Not a single government officer wants to delay the payment of his power bill. But the delay happens as we are not getting the required money from the state government. In many departments, the government is not allowing the collection of charges from residents, leading to the accumulation of power bills,” said a senior official.Another senior official said they had been trying for getting the required money released. “PSPCL officials have disconnected the power supply to many slum dwellers after they failed to pay exorbitant bills without any inquiry. But they have not taken any action against the government departments, which are not paying power bills of crores. Why these double standards?” asked Randeep Deol, Sangrur BJP chief.Rattan Kumar Mittal, Deputy Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Sangrur, said they had been trying their best for the recovery of the outstanding amount.DEFAULTERS’ LISTRs43.7 cr Water Supply and Sanitation DepartmentRs25.27 cr Rural Development and Panchayat DepartmentRs21.93 cr Local Govt DeptRs55 lakh General Admn Dept||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-govt-departments-owe-rs-101-cr-to-power-corporation-326701
20-10-2021||Aman Sood||Populist schemes add to PSPCL woes||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 19The popular government schemes to appease the voters ahead of the Vidhan Sabha poll due next year will financially hit Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), which solely depends on payments released by the state in lieu of various welfare schemes and arrears. Experts suggest delay in subsidy release, increase in subsidy bill and waiver of arrears are likely to hit the financial health of the PSPCL.A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCLRs 4,500-cr subsidy bill yet to be clearedAt present, the annual subsidy bill is roughly Rs10,600 crore. Recently, we were paid some of the pending subsidy amount while the remaining bill of Rs4,500 crore is yet to be cleared by the government.The power corporation reported a profit of Rs 1,446 crore for 2020-21 despite not getting the complete subsidy, including arrears as worked out by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. “However, it looks highly unlikely given the new subsidy schemes and expensive power purchase in the past three months,” said PSPCL insiders.As per the decision of the state government, the PSPCL on October 13 issued an order to waive the defaulting amount of consumers with a connected load of up to 2KW, which amounted to around Rs 1,200 crore. Further, the connections which have been disconnected for non-payment will be reconnected without any additional cost.“The additional cost to be incurred by the PSPCL to reconnect the disconnected ones are Rs 1,500 per connection, which means between Rs 10 crore and Rs 15 crore more subsidies,” said a senior PSPCL official. The government has also allowed the additional 100 units of free power to the SC/BC/BPL domestic categories, who were already getting 200 units per month. This will involve an additional expenditure of Rs 800 crore. On papers for both these welfare schemes, the government has committed to pay Rs 2,000 crore to the PSPCL. “However, these schemes will have to wait for an approval by the regulator, if the PSPCL has to make any change in the annual tariff plan before it can be implemented in the state,” said PSPCL insiders.Moreover, with additional schemes announced recently, the subsidy burden is likely to go up further. There are 72 lakh domestic consumers in Punjab. Of these, 53 lakh consumers have connected load up to 2KW. Around 22 lakh consumers with a load of 2KW are already getting free power of 200 units. Of these, 16 lakh are those whose average monthly consumption is less than 200 units per month and the rest 6 lakh have an average consumption of more than 200 units per month.Insiders in PSPCL further said with the enhancement of free power from 200 to 300 units per month, the consumers with connected load of 2KW using 300 units will increase to 20 lakh and those using more than 300 unit will be 2 lakh. VK Gupta, spokesman, All India Power Engineers Federation, said: “It’s also not clear whether any amount of coal washing charges of about Rs 1,600 crore was paid during the last fiscal.”Outstanding amountRs4,000 cr defaultersRs2,000 cr govt deptsRs1,500 cr consumers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/populist-schemes-add-to-pspcl-woes-326702
20-10-2021||Morinda||AAP MLAs seek funds for their constituencies||As CM Charanjit Channi is on a grant-distribution spree for developmental works in his Assembly constituency of Chamkaur Sahib, three AAP MLAs — Amarjit Singh Sandoa, Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Kulwant Singh Pandori — met him today and demanded that they also should be given funds for welfare works in their constituencies.During his visit to Chamkaur Sahib villages since yesterday, Channi has already distributed cheques for Rs 90 crore to 138 villages and announced developmental works to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore. Ropar MLA Sandoa said Channi had granted funds for development in his constituency. The other constituencies, especially in Ropar, also needed his attention, he said.The MLA said in many other states, the local area development funds worth crores were at the disposal of MLAs. “In Punjab, we have not been given even a single penny,” he said, as the three MLAs met the CM at Kalar village near Morinda. Representing Kotkapura in the Assembly, Sandhwan said people had been suffering in his constituency as the government had not allocated funds even for repairs. — TNSRs 90 cr for villagesDuring his visit to Chamkaur Sahib villages since Monday, Channi has distributed cheques for Rs90 crore to 138 villages and announced developmental works worth Rs1,000 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-mlas-seek-funds-for-their-constituencies-326703
20-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi’s largesse puts Rs 3K cr burden on exchequer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19As Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi completes one month in office on Wednesday, his decisions have already burdened the state exchequer by Rs 3,000 crore.At a time when the state is stretched to its limits because of the financial crunch, this largesse, given with an eye on the upcoming Assembly polls, will further add to the state’s burgeoning debt burden.Other than waiving the pending water user charges of domestic urban and rural consumers yesterday, the CM had earlier waived the pending electricity bills of consumers having less than 2KW load. While the decision to waive water charges will cost the state Rs 1,800 crore this year (and Rs 500 crore per annum from next fiscal), the decision to waive the power bills, which the CM inaugurated by burning the bills, will cost the state Rs 1,200 crore.A look at the fiscal indicators for Punjab reveals that the state’s revenue deficit in first five months of the fiscal — from April to August — has already reached Rs 5,028.20 crore. Since the two above mentioned sops have been announced thereafter, the deficit will increase by another Rs 3,000 crore, thus surpassing the targeted deficit of Rs 8,623.30 crore.Financially, the only saving grace for the government, though it is at the cost of the common man, is the increase in prices of retail fuel and the release of 15th Finance Commission grants, especially as no other efforts have been made to increase the revenue.The populist moves, which economists refer to as competitive populism or oligopoly, is going to be harmful for the state in the long run and increase the state’s debt burden, which is expected to be Rs 2.82 lakh crore by March 2022.“The debt servicing alone takes 30 per cent of the state’s revenues. We can’t blame any one political party for this mess, as each party is announcing similar sops ahead of elections, while the one in power has started granting the sops. This fiscally irresponsible behaviour by all parties has to stop,” says economist Sucha Singh Gill.RS Ghuman, another economist, too, says it is enough of populism and political parties should now try to go for development and growth. “The competitive political populism will hit the state hard. Knowingly or unknowingly, purchasing votes through populist measures is not in the long-term interest of the state. It will have adverse effect on public sector utilities and institutions and will incapacitate the people, who will then become permanently dependent on freebies,” he added.Fiscal trouble post sopsRs1,800 cr Water bills’ waiver of domestic urban, rural consumersRs1,200 cr Power bills’ waiver for consumers having below 2KW loadRs5,028 cr Revenue deficit from April to AugRs2.82L cr Projected debt burden by 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channis-largesse-puts-rs-3k-cr-burden-on-exchequer-326704
20-10-2021||New Delhi||Amarinder Singh says will launch his own party, open to seat arrangement with BJP||Congress leader and former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said he would soon announce his own political party and is hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP if the farmers’ issue is resolved in their interest.Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab last month after a bitter feud with Navjot Singh Sidhu and infighting in the state Congress. The party replaced him with Charanjit Singh Channi.‘Hopeful of a seat arrangement with @BJP4India in 2022 Punjab Assembly polls if #FarmersProtest is resolved in farmers’ interest. Also looking at alliance with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups, particularly Dhindsa & Brahmpura factions’: @capt_amarinder 2/3 https://t.co/rkYhk4aE9Y  “The battle for Punjab’s future is on. Will soon announce the launch of my own political party to serve the interests of Punjab & its people, including our farmers who’ve been fighting for their survival for over a year,” Singh said Tuesday.He also said he will not rest until he secures the future of “my people and my state”.“Punjab needs political stability and protection from internal and external threats. I promise my people I will do what it takes to ensure its peace and security, which is today at stake,” he was quoted as saying by his media adviser.“Hopeful of a seat arrangement with BJP in 2022 Punjab Assembly polls if Farmers Protest is resolved in farmers’ interest. Also looking at alliance with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups, particularly Dhindsa & Brahmpura factions,” Singh said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-singh-says-will-launch-his-own-party-open-to-seat-arrangement-with-bjp-326661
20-10-2021||Ruchika M. Khanna||Punjab Assembly Speaker accepts Sukhpal Khaira's resignation as MLA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana K P Singh had finally accepted the resignation of Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, almost three years after he first tendered his resignation in January 2019.With his resignation, the Bholath Vidhan Sabha seat has fallen vacant. But there will be no byelection, as the elections to Punjab Vidhan Sabha are scheduled in another three months. Officials say that Khaira had again submitted his resignation in June, but was told to submit the same in the prescribed format, which he did today.Interestingly, no decision has yet been taken on the resignation of the three other AAP MLAs, who had resigned and joined the Congress earlier this year. These are Nazar Singh, Pirmal Singh and Jagdev Singh Kamalu.Khaira had switched sides and joined AAP before the 2017 elections and won as an MLA. He was also appointed as the Leader of Opposition by his party. But his differences with the party supremo Arvind Kejriwal widened within a few months, and he rebelled within the party, taking along nearly half a dozen MLAs. He was removed as Leader of Opposition, but he continued to be an MlA and worked as leader of the rebel group.Khaira had also floated his own political party in January 2019, and contested the Lok Sabha election from Bathinda. He, however, was defeated and even lost his security deposit. Earlier this year, he had joined the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-speaker-accepts-sukhpal-khairas-resignation-as-mla-326645
20-10-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Nihang chief Baba Aman Singh may have been part of efforts to end stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18Baba Aman Singh, who heads one of the Nihang sects, and a Sikh group based in Ontario, Canada, may have had a role in the behind-the-scene efforts by the government to end the farmers’ stir.Read also:Baba Aman Singh is head of the Nihang group that allegedly killed a man at the Singhu border, by chopping off his hand. Four Nihangs of this group have already been arrested for the killing.Sources said Union Agriculture Minister NS Tomar, dismissed cop and murder convict Gurmeet ‘Pinki’ and Sukhminderpal Singh Grewal of the BJP Kisan Morcha had met at the bungalow of Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary in New Delhi in late July.“We have held meetings to find an amicable solution to the farm stir that could vitiate communal harmony in Punjab. Baba Aman Singh attended one such meeting. He too wanted the issue to be resolved.The Ontario Sikhs and Gurdwara Council has been helping us in our endeavour,” Grewal told The Tribune over the phone.Confirming his presence at the meeting, Gurmeet ‘Pinki’ said he had known the Nihang Baba since their days at the Central Jail, Patiala. Two members of the staff attached with the Agriculture Minister (who could not be contacted directly) said the Nihang leader was “not part” of the negotiations held with the farmers. Choudhary did not respond to calls or messages. Baba Aman Singh brushed away queries regarding the meeting, saying he met various leaders every day.Baba Aman has been spotted in photos with national BJP leaders, including Union Agriculture Minister NS Tomar and others where murder convict and one of the most controversial police cat turned dismissed cop Gurmeet Singh Pinki was also present in a lunch meeting||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nihang-chief-baba-aman-singh-may-have-been-part-of-efforts-to-end-stir-326296
