21-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD chief slams Punjab govt over Congress MLA beating up a youth||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday targeted the ruling Congress in Punjab over the thrashing of a youth by its legislator and asked whether its party leaders would slap anyone who question the government’s performance.A video on Wednesday had appeared on social media showing Punjab Congress MLA Joginder Pal and his security personnel thrashing a youth for asking what work the legislator had done for his village.Pal, an MLA from the Bhoa assembly seat in Pathankot district, on Tuesday had slapped the youth when the latter asked, “Tu ki kita (what have you done?)”             SAD chief Badal on Thursday tweeted, “Bhoa MLA Joginder Pal’s slapping of a poor boy who questioned him over his govt’s failure exposes the frustration of Cong leaders.”                  Bhoa MLA Joginder Pal's slapping of a poor boy who questioned him over his govt's failure exposes the frustration of Cong leaders. How far will the CM @CHARANJITCHANNI & @INCPunjab leaders run away- will they slap everyone who asks them - 'What have you done for Pb?' #TuKiKitta pic.twitter.com/SXlfRpcmiB  Badal asked how far Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress party leaders will “run away”.  “Will they slap everyone who asks them - ‘What have you done for Pb,” asked Badal.Meanwhile, members of the SAD and its youth wing Youth Akali Dal held a protest in Pathankot demanding the immediate arrest of Joginder Pal for beating up the youth. They also burnt an effigy of the MLA on the occasion.The protesters demanded from CM Channi to take exemplary action against Pal including seeking his resignation and suspending him from the Vidhan Sabha.Pathankot YAD president Jaspreet Singh said the chief minister should take decisive action in the matter or else it will seem that he is only indulging in photo-ops and has no intention of ensuring justice to the people of the state. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-chief-slams-punjab-govt-over-congress-mla-beating-up-a-youth-327629
21-10-2021||Bathinda||Caught on camera: Man shot dead in Bathinda||A man was killed and two others were injured in an attack by unidentified assailants in Punjab’s Bathinda district, police said on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Harmandeep Singh, a resident of Mahma Bhagwana village, they said.Harmandeep was shot dead by a group of seven unidentified assailants at Ajit Road. The assailants also attacked Butta Singh, a resident of Jandewala village, with sharp-edged weapons, leaving him seriously injured, the police said.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal in an attack on the Punjab government told Chief Minister Charanjit Channi to review the law and order situation in the state and put an end to gangster culture."I request CM @CharanjitChanni to leave photo- ops & review law & order situation & put an end to gangster culture which has claimed another life in Bathinda. Gangsters being allowed free reign in Punjab under Cong rule which has created a fear psychosis amongst ordinary citizens," he tweeted. I request CM @CharanjitChanni to leave photo- ops & review law & order situation & put an end to gangster culture which has claimed another life in Bathinda. Gangsters being allowed free reign in Punjab under Cong rule which has created a fear psychosis amongst ordinary citizens. pic.twitter.com/ssBJY6RQ2C  The incident was caught on CCTV camera.A shopkeeper was also hurt in the incident. The assailants managed to flee after committing the crime, they said.Superintendent of Police Jaspal Singh said an investigation is underway. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caught-on-camera-man-shot-dead-in-bathinda-327620
21-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sukhbir Badal contesting from Shahkot?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 20Even as Shiromani Akali Dal has already announced tickets for 74 of the 117 seats, there is a buzz that the party chief Sukhbir Badal could contest from two seats – his traditional seat Jalalabad from Malwa and Shahkot from Doaba.Since Doaba is the region from where the party got representation on five of the 15 seats that it had won in 2017, it is considered to be a safer bet for the party chief. Shahkot seat too has been traditionally a stronghold of Akali Dal as former minister Ajit Singh Kohar had won five consecutive polls from here. It was after his demise that byelections were held in 2018 and Congress leader Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia turned the tide, winning against the ex-minister’s son, Naib Singh Kohar.Though there are murmurs of Sukhbir coming here, but my advice to him is that his position would further fall in the larger area of Malwa if he attempts to contest from Doaba, which has just 23 seats. But if he still wants to contest from here, I am ready to face him. I have served my voters with utmost dedication and they will support me wholeheartedly. —Hardev Singh Laddi, Congress MLA, ShahkotWhile the Akali Dal has already announced candidates from five of the six seats it is contesting from Jalandhar, including Phillaur, Nakodar, Adampur, Jalandhar Cantonment and Jalandhar Central, it is only Shahkot, which still remains to be announced. The party insiders said Sukhbir Badal had already held a discussion on the matter with some prominent leaders of Shahkot and the impact that it could have.The party workers of Doaba are reportedly quite upbeat about the decision as they have said that it could not just have an overall impact on the seats from the region but also on those from surrounding areas of Malwa, including Zira, Dharamkot, Ferozepur and Moga. They also said that if not Sukhbir, Harsimrat too could contest from this seat. If any of the two leaders contest from here, it surely will spell trouble for Laddi, who had so far been quite comfortably placed.The party leaders also shared that announcing ticket for Kamboj leader Capt Harminder Singh from adjoining Sultanpur Lodhi seat was also a part of the same strategy as there is a good representation of Kamboj community in Shahkot too and the prospects from the seat could further increase. There also have been reports that ex-Finance Minister Balwant Singh’s son Rajanbir Singh could also be inducted soon in the SAD as a part of the same strategy.Among those from SAD who have already been in race for the ticket from Shahkot include Dr Amarjit Thind, CD Kamboj and ex-minister’s grandson Bachitar Singh Kohar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-contesting-from-shahkot-327454
21-10-2021||---||Eyeing polls? Harsimrat Badal does Karwa Chauth shopping in Jalandhar Cantt bazaar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 20As ex-Union Minister and Akali MP Harsimrat Badal on Wednesday visited the city to campaign for two of the party candidates including ex-MLA Jagbir Brar from Jalandhar Cantonment and Chandan Grewal from Jalandhar Central, she spent her entire day here shopping for Karwa Chauth in the market paying several other visits.She visited at least five holy shrines in the city, including Bajrang Bali temple and a gurdwara, in Jalandhar Cantonment along with party candidate Brar. With Valmiki leader Chandan Grewal, she went to three Valmiki temples today on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti. These included a temple in Banda Singh Bahadur Nagar and two temples in Basti Guzan.Taking half an hour round of Jalandhar Cantonment market area, she shopped for the coming Karwa Chauth festival. She bought few sets of bangles picking them personally from the stands after trying them.As she visited Pushpa Gujral Nari Niketan, she first paid homage to the founders AN Gujral and Pushpa Gujral. Accompanied by CEO Navita Joshi and general secretary Gurjot Kaur, she sat down to watch a cultural show put up by the girls there. She also gifted girls pack of sweets. She also announced to provide the centre a good sound system. Ex-Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia, district SAD president Kulwant S Manan, women wing president Parminder Kaur Pannu and YAD district president Sukhminder S Rajpal also went with her.She took lunch at the residence of Brar in Model Town. Prior to this, she also met the party workers at a palace in Jalandhar Cantt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eyeing-polls-harsimrat-badal-does-karwa-chauth-shopping-in-jalandhar-cantt-bazaar-327457
21-10-2021||---||Nihangs call for ‘mahapanchayat’ at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, October 20Nihang Sikhs have given an open call for “mahapanchayat” at Singhu Border on October 27 to decide their next course of strategy after the recent brutal killing of a man at the border.The Nihangs have decided to get public opinion on their stay at Singhu Border at the “mahapanchayat”.Baba Balwinder Singh of Panth Akali Nirvair Khalsa, Udna Dal of Moya di Mandi said Baba Raja Raj Singh and Kulwinder Singh of Tarna Dal had decided to hold an all-religion mahapanchayat at the place.Baba Balwinder Singh said they had given an open call to various persons and bodies that included all intellectuals of the Sikh community and the sangat of all relegions for the meeting. Farmers and their leaders could also join the meeting as it was an open call, he said.The decision, which would be taken by the sangat at the ‘mahapanchayat’, would be acceptable to all. If the sangat would ask us to leave the border, we would leave from here, he said.We had come here for the security of the protesting farmers and we are not among those who run away. We have accepted what we have done and our men in the court have also accepted it, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nihangs-call-for-mahapanchayat-at-singhu-327390
21-10-2021||Ravinder Sood||Kangra SP orders probe into thrashing of Amritsar pilgrims in Jwalamukhi||Palampur, October 20Khushal Sharma, Superintendent of Police, Kangra, today directed the DSP, Jwalamukhi, to probe the incident in which 10 devotees of Majitha, Amritsar, were beaten up by some locals at the Jwalamukhi bus stand on Saturday night. However, when the matter was reported to the police, they forced the pilgrims to reach a compromise.The Tribune had highlighted the incident in these columns on Monday. Later, a video of the incident had also gone viral on social media.Sanjay Kundu, DGP, took cognisance of the incident and asked SP Khushal Sharma to look into the matter. The police swung into action. DSP traced the addresses of the victims yesterday and spoke to them and assured them of action against the culprits. He also sought their cooperation. Later, the victims provided videos of the incident to the police.Two victims — Inderjit Marwaha and Ajay Kumar — who sustained head injuries, said they were brutally thrashed by some anti-social elements at the bus stand. Even women were not spared. They also released a video footage of the incident to the media.They said they had gone to the police station to seek protection, but instead of extending them any help, the police harassed them and forced them to sign the documents of compromise. Though medical check-up of six injured persons was conducted by the police in a hospital, no first aid was given to them. They were told by the police to leave Jwalamukhi immediately.The SP said the guilty would not be spared. Adequate steps were being taken so that such incidents were not repeated. He had asked the DSP to go through the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the police station and the local bus stand and initiate action without any delay.Meanwhile, a number of social organisations have condemned the incident and appealed to Jai Ram Thakur, Chief Minister to intervene to check the deteriorating law and order situation in Jwalamukhi keeping in view the safety and security of thousands of pilgrims visiting the holy shrine.Cops 'insensitive'||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kangra-sp-orders-probe-into-thrashing-of-amritsar-pilgrims-in-jwalamukhi-327323
21-10-2021||---||Captain Amarinder Singh ‘nationalist’, open to alliance with him: BJP||New Delhi, October 20Terming Captain Amarinder Singh a “nationalist”, BJP leaders today said the party was open to an alliance will all those who put the country and its interests first. “All parties who want to form an alliance with us on this agenda are welcome,” party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Dushyant Gautam was quoted as saying.Also read: Capt Amarinder Singh an ‘opportunist’, betrayed Punjab, says Sukhjinder RandhawaWe were right in removing Captain Amarinder Singh: CongressOn Capt Amarinder’s condition that the farmers’ issues must be first addressed, Gautam said the BJP was committed to the welfare of farmers, adding that nothing was final as yet.“Amarinder Singh needs to form his party and declare his stand. As a soldier, he knows the threats to the country. We have always appreciated his stand on matters of national security,” the BJP leader said, dubbing the ongoing farmers’ agitation as “politically motivated”.The former Punjab CM has hinted at the possibility of a pre-poll alliance with the BJP, subject to “a satisfactory resolution of the farmers’ issue”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-amarinder-singh-nationalist-open-to-alliance-with-him-bjp-327261
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab SIT to probe Singhu killing||The Punjab Government on Wednesday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the accusations of the family of Lakhbir Singh, who was accused of sacrilege and killed at Singhu border allegedly by a group of Nihangs last week.Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa, who ordered the probe, said ADGP and Director, Bureau of Investigation, Varinder Kumar, would head the SIT, which would have two other members —- DIG, Ferozepore range, Inderbir Singh, and Tarn Taran SSP Harvinder Singh Virk.The move comes in the wake of The Tribune expose about Nihang group head Aman Singh meeting BJP ministers in the presence of former police cat Gurmeet Singh Pinki.Baba Aman Singh is head of the Nihang group that allegedly killed a man at the Singhu border, by chopping off his hand. Also read: Nihang Baba admits to secretly meeting Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, claims 'offered Rs 10 lakh' to vacate dharna siteRandhawa said the killing and subsequent media reports suggested a deep-rooted conspiracy. The activities of the Nihang group led by Aman Singh and their meetings with a former police cat are under scanner.Four Nihangs have already been arrested by the Haryana Police for the murder. Randhawa said the Punjab Government had started investigating the case as Lakhbir was a resident of Punjab and his family was alleging that he was receiving calls from some unknown persons.Also read: Nihang leader, Gurmeet Pinki were never together in jail, says reportLiving in fear, says Singhu victim Lakhbir Singh’s sisterRandhawa said, “Media reports also suggested the background of Baba Aman Singh was shady as he was booked in a drugs smuggling case earlier. Eyebrows are also being raised about the main accused Nihang Sarvjit Singh (who has been arrested), as a video clip shows he has shorn hair, which goes against the Sikh religion.” — TNSAlso read: Nihangs call for ‘mahapanchayat’ at Singhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sit-to-probe-singhu-killing-327224
21-10-2021||Abohar||2 drug peddlers nabbed in Abohar||The police on Wednesday seized 14-gm heroin and Rs 1.37 lakh “drug money” from Sappy Gharu of Ajit Singh Nagar. A case has been registered. Jaswinder Singh of Chak 9-LMP was held in connection with a drug case filed on September 19. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-drug-peddlers-nabbed-in-abohar-327251
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Congress launches poll campaign ‘Punjab Da Bhavikh’||The Indian Youth Congress, in association with the Yuva Bhagidari Foundation, today launched ‘Punjab Da Bhavikh’— a platform that would encourage and give the youth of Punjab the opportunity to speak to senior Cabinet ministers, policy makers and prominent youth leaders in Punjab.Kiran Walia, a senior Congress leader, was present on the occasion. The events are scheduled to be held across the state from October 21. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-congress-launches-poll-campaign-punjab-da-bhavikh-327248
21-10-2021||Moga||75K tonne straw for biomass plants||The district administration of Moga has set a target of supplying 75,000 tonne paddy straw to biomass plants during the ensuing harvesting season.In a meeting with officials of various departments, DC Harish Nayar said as per the report of the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, it had been estimated that 18.78 lakh metric tonne of straw would be produced in Moga district this year, of which bales of 1.054 lakh tonne of straw would be made with automatic machines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/75k-tonne-straw-for-biomass-plants-327247
21-10-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab CM Channi pays homage to Naik Mandeep Singh||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi paid homage to Naik Mandeep Singh on the occasion of the ‘bhog’ of the martyred Army man at Chatha village today.Mandeep was killed in a gunfight with insurgents in J&K last week. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh, Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and senior officials of the district administration were present on the occasion.The state government had announced it would pay Rs 50 lakh to the deceased’s family, of which Rs 5 lakh was handed over by the CM to Mandeep Kaur, the deceased’s wife, today. “The remaining amount will be handed over once we receive the mandatory ‘Battle Casualty Certificate’ from the Army. Hopefully, this won’t be a long process and we hope to receive the same within 15 days or so,” said Mohammad Ishfaq, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner.Children of battle casualties are entitled to 100 per cent reimbursement of tuition and hostel fees till graduation anywhere in India. Tript Bajwa, in whose Assembly segment village Chatha falls, said the Punjab Government would construct a stadium in the name of Mandeep Singh.“A memorial gate will also be built in the village. The name of the government school will be changed to commemorate the soldier’s memory. Naik Mandeep Singh’s story should be written in golden letters. His mother Manjit Kaur just told me that she will ensure Mandeep’s son serves the country by joining the Army when he grows up. This is true nationalism and courage,” said Bajwa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-pays-homage-to-naik-mandeep-singh-327246
21-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Child’s welfare paramount in custody cases, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a child’s welfare was of paramount consideration in guardianship cases, even though the custody deserved to be handed over to the mother in normal circumstances in the case of an infant below five.The assertion came after Justice Suvir Sehgal refused to grant a child’s custody to a mother in a habeas corpus plea after taking into consideration the allegations of misbehaviour with the kid and the fact that she was undergoing treatment at a mental hospital.The mother had filed a habeas corpus petition for “locating” her three-year-old son before handing over his custody to her after alleging that he had been illegally detained by her husband and in-laws. Referring to the allegations, Justice Sehgal added the court did not deem it appropriate to pass “any such order” and was of the view that it would be in the fitness of things to relegate the petitioner to alternative remedy before the family court to seek the child’s custody.Taking up the matter, Justice Sehgal asserted a perusal of an FIR, though recommended to be cancelled subsequently, showed that there were allegations against the petitioner of beating up the child. Her father-in-law had submitted that the petitioner-mother may end up killing the child.Justice Sehgal added equally important were the averments in a divorce petition, wherein, it was specifically stated that the petitioner was arrogant and quarrelsome. She did not even spare the minor son. She had been beating up and ill-treating him, regarding which a “recording has also been prepared”.It was also alleged that she left behind the minor son with the father. She came back to the matrimonial home, when the matter was compromised. But her attitude and behaviour did not improve. It has also been mentioned that she was suffering from a mental ailment and getting treatment from an institute. The OPD card showed that the doctor consulted found the petitioner to be a probable case of borderline personality disorder before prescribing medicines to her. The dosage was increased on subsequent visits to the institute.“Though in normal circumstances, when a child is below five years of age, his/her custody deserves to be handed over to the mother, who is the best person to take care of the child. Yet, the welfare of the child is the paramount consideration and the court has to keep in mind all attending circumstances before passing any such order,” Justice Sehgal asserted.Kid beaten up: FIRTaking up the matter, Justice Suvir Sehgal asserted a perusal of an FIR, though recommended to be cancelled subsequently, showed that there were allegations against the petitioner of beating up the child. Her father-in-law had submitted that the petitioner-mother may end up killing the child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/childs-welfare-paramount-in-custody-cases-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-327245
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Making Punjabi ‘minor’ subject a plot: Pargat Singh||Education and Higher Education & Languages Minister Pargat Singh termed as unfortunate the decision to keep Punjabi out of the main subjects in the datesheet of Classes X and XII released by the CBSE. He appealed to the central board to reconsider its decision.He termed the CBSE decision to include all regional languages in minor subjects as a conspiracy to wean students away from their mother tongue. He said the step amounted to gross injustice to students of the state and was in contravention to the spirit of the Constitution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/making-punjabi-minor-subject-a-plot-pargat-singh-327244
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP demands cancer relief fund||AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema has written a letter to CM Charanjit Singh Channi, demanding immediate release of money from the CM’s Cancer Relief Fund for the treatment of cancer patients.He said: “The CM Cancer Relief Fund was set up by the government but for a long time no assistance was being provided to the patients, who are being forced to go to other states for treatment.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-demands-cancer-relief-fund-327243
21-10-2021||Abohar||Dengue larvae found in Abohar localities||Teams of the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation found dengue larvae in dozens of houses as well as Nehru Park here.Health Inspector Tehal Singh said larvae were found in a water tank and were destroyed on the spot. The team also checked earthen pots, hung by social activists from trees to provide water and feed for birds. Larvae spotted in the pots were also destroyed and caretakers were told to keep the place clean.The team said in the past two days, dengue larvae were found in 70 houses and challans were issued on the spot. To date, 30 dengue patients have been admitted to the special ward, which was earmarked in the Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital. “A report has been submitted to the MC regarding the dengue larvae found in large quantities in Nehru Park so that strict instructions are issued to the maintenance staff,” said SMO Dr Gagandeep Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-larvae-found-in-abohar-localities-327242
21-10-2021||Patiala||Outsourced lab employees go on strike, Covid testing hit in Punjab||The Covid testing in the state was affected after outsourced employees of VRDL labs in the state went on strike on Wednesday morning. Around 320 health professionals at seven Covid labs in the state staged dharna in front of the labs to mark their protest.The protesters stopped testing Covid samples from 8 am to 12 noon. Consequently, the Covid reports were delayed across Punjab. Due to the strike, there was a pendency of around 30,000 samples.A senior official at a VRDL lab said, “The strike has delayed the test reports. Each lab is testing around 7,000 to 8,000 samples daily.” The outsourced employees are demanding absorption into the Department of Medical Education. They said they had been working at the labs by risking their lives ever since the outbreak last year.Gagandeep Singh, chief adviser, Punjab Corona Lab Union, said, “The government had assured us that we would be at least given contractual jobs in the medical department. However, the government has now backtracked from its promise.”He said 55 data entry operators at three labs — Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Faridkot — had been sacked by the firm without giving any reason. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/outsourced-lab-employees-go-on-strike-covid-testing-hit-in-punjab-327241
21-10-2021||---||Huge cache of weapons, heroin recovered near Indo-Pak border||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 20The Punjab Police and the BSF have recovered a huge cache of weapons near the India-Pakistan border in the Khemkaran area of Tarn Taran district, an official said today.In a joint operation, the Counter Intelligence wing of the Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 22 pistols (most .30 bore Star mark), 44 magazines and 100 rounds of ammunition, besides a packet of heroin (934 gram), the official said, adding that these were packed in a black kit bag concealed in a paddy field.During the preliminary investigations and as per the modus operandi of Pakistani smugglers, this consignment was placed in Indian territory across the fence and it was supposed to be retrieved by their Indian associates.A case under Section 511 of the IPC, Sections 21, 28 and 29 of the NDPS Act, Section 25 of the Arms Act and Section 14 of the Finance Act has been registered at an Amritsar police station. “Efforts are being made to ascertain the identity of the Pakistani handlers and their Indian links who were expected to pick the consignment,” a police official said.This is not the first time when anti-national elements have tried to push such consignments through various channels across the border. In the past too, the Counter Intelligence wing had recovered from different accused a huge cache of illegal weapons meant to disturb the peace and harmony of the state.On June 10 this year, a consignment of foreign-made 48 pistols was recovered from Jagjit Singh alias Jaggu of Purian Kalan (Batala).In another operation, the Counter Intelligence wing had recovered 39 pistols from Barwani, Madhya Pradesh, which were to be supplied to anti-social elements in the state.Drone-dropped drugs seized in Asr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/huge-cache-of-weapons-heroin-recovered-near-indo-pak-border-327240
21-10-2021||Sameer Singh||Anticipating price hike, Punjab cotton growers hold back produce||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 20Even as cotton has started fetching as high as Rs 8,300 per quintal this season against the MSP of Rs 5,925, its arrival in the mandis across the state is delayed.The data gathered by The Tribune from the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) revealed that so far (till October 20) only 3.75 lakh quintal of cotton has been purchased at mandis against 7 lakh quintal purchased during the previous season around the same period. Experts have attributed the decline in arrival to farmers’ anticipation of further upward movement in prices of cotton in the market. They also blamed pink bollworm attack for the late arrival of the crop.A senior functionary of the CCI said: “Farmers are testing the waters before they can take the plunge. Like industry experts, they also study market trends and based on calculations and years of experience, make smart choices. Despite being well aware that they can fetch lucrative prices now, they are holding back the produce and bringing only smaller quantities to mandis. They are certainly anticipating a further hike in prices and if that happens, they will start bringing the produce in bulk.”He said after the demand for cotton increased in the international market, its price soared and private players started buying it on rates way above the MSP. “With prevailing market dynamics expected to persist in the coming months, it’s the cotton growers who are expected to reap rich dividends this season,” he added.After making a record purchase of 50 per cent of the total cotton produced in the state during previous procurement season, the CCI did not even enter the market this year as private players were already buying cotton at prices way above the MSP.Modan Singh, a buyer from Bathinda-based private cotton mill, said: “Last season, more than 1,000-1,500 quintals was sold daily at mandis in Bathinda and now the arrival has come down to 250-400 quintals. Even though quality of cotton is not that good as compared to the last season, still we are compelled to buy it at higher rates.”He said as there was pink bollworm attack on the crop in Malwa region this time, there was a sense of uncertainty whether they would be able to buy the required quantity of cotton this season or not. “But unfortunately, farmers are brining less and low quality of cotton to markets these days. Labour shortage is another factor that is on the minds of buyers as they would remain engaged in paddy harvesting in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anticipating-price-hike-punjab-cotton-growers-hold-back-produce-327239
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Relieve me of Punjab charge, reiterates Harish Rawat||AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat has urged the party high command to relieve him of the responsibility of the state, so that he could focus on Uttarakhand that was going to the polls around the same time as Punjab.There are reports that Rawat met party leader Rahul Gandhi in this regard. After meeting Rahul Gandhi, Rawat tweeted, “I have decided that I must urge the party leadership that in the next few months I can completely devote all the time to Uttarakhand so I should be relieved of my present responsibility in Punjab.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/relieve-me-of-punjab-charge-reiterates-harish-rawat-327238
21-10-2021||Faridkot||Sacrilege accused records statement in Faridkot court||About 80 days after Pardeep Kumar, an accused in three sacrilege cases of Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, was released on the bail, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the police produced him before the Court of Judicial Magistrate here for recording his statement under Section 164 of the CrPC on Tuesday.Pardeep Kumar was among the six persons arrested by the SIT on May 16. He was granted bail along with other accused on August 3 this year. As three prime accused in the cases — Pardeep Kler, Harsh Dhuri and Sandeep Bareta, the central committee members of the dera — are absconding, the SIT is facing problem in questioning Sirsa dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in absence of any linking evidence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-accused-records-statement-in-faridkot-court-327237
21-10-2021||Mohali||Shamlat land row: Ex-minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, MP Prem Singh Chandumajra in war of words||A war of words began between former MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra and ex-Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu over the alleged Mohali shamlat land lease scam.Chandumajra alleged that a piece of shamlat land worth Rs 90 crore was being given on lease of 33 years to a health company for merely Rs 2 crore on Balbir’s directions. He alleged that the gram panchayat had even given a letter to the ex-minister to stop the bidding process but the government was going ahead with it. Chandumajra said the bidding, to be held on November 25, would be opposed with full force. He alleged that in the past too, the shamlat land in Balongi, Dehri and Tangori villages had been lost in a similar way.Reacting to Chandumajra’s allegation, local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “The MP was active in depriving the people of Punjab, especially of Mohali, of world-class healthcare facilities by obstructing the land lease for establishing a hospital by renowned cardiologist Dr TS Kaler in Bari village. I have no link with Kaler Holistic Health Care Pvt Ltd. Also, I am ready to give six acres of my private land in Kurdi village near the Mohali airport to Dr Kaler for free so that the locals could get world-class health facilities.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shamlat-land-row-ex-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-mp-prem-singh-chandumajra-in-war-of-words-327236
21-10-2021||Bathinda||Jyoti Gondek Calgary’s 1st woman mayor; Edmonton elects Amarjeet Sohi||Former Federal Minister Amarjeet Sohi, 57, has been elected as the mayor of Edmonton while Jyoti Gondek will become Calgary’s first female mayor in Canada. Both have their origins in Punjab.Before entering politics, Sohi was a bus driver. He was elected to the Edmonton City Council in 2007. In 2015, he entered federal politics, got elected as a Liberal MP from Edmonton Mill Woods and defeated Tim Uppal to became the federal minister for infrastructure in the Trudeau Cabinet.“I am honoured and humbled that you have chosen me to serve as Edmonton’s first South-Asian mayor. I would like to take a moment to thank those who made this historic win possible,” Sohi said after his victory. Sohi, who hails from Banbhaura village in Sangrur, was arrested in Bihar’s Gaya Jail under TADA for about 21 months, but was released later in the absence of any evidence against him.Gondek was born in the UK to a family of Indian origin. Her family had moved to Canada when she was young, settling in Manitoba. She later moved to Calgary with her husband, where she worked in marketing and served as the director of the University of Calgary’s Westman Centre for Real Estate Studies. She has a PhD in sociology and sat on the Calgary Planning Commission before running for office. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jyoti-gondek-calgarys-1st-woman-mayor-edmonton-elects-amarjeet-sohi-327235
21-10-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Living in fear, says Singhu victim Lakhbir Singh’s sister||Tarn Taran, October 20Raj Kaur, sister of Lakhbir Singh of Cheema Kalan village here who was found dead at the Singhu border, alleged that the family, it seems, had been put under “home detention” with no fault of theirs.Also read: Lakhbir Singh booked on sacrilege chargeShe alleged that on October 16, members of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee prohibited them from cremating Lakhbir’s body as per the Sikh rituals, citing sacrilege of the holy book, and even stopped the villagers from attending the ceremony.“After this incident, we have been living under fear and didn’t step out of the house even to immerse Lakhbir’s ashes into the river. So, we had to bury the ashes in the village cremation ground,” Raj added.Narrating her tale, Raj said as the family follows Sikhism, they must have been allowed to perform the last rites of Lakhbir according to the Sikh “rehat maryada”. “Now, why the district administration and politicians are mum over our pitiable condition? And why we are facing social boycott?” asked Raj. Stating that the family has no source of income, she also sought due compensation.Lakhbir is survived by his father Darshan Singh (80), sister Raj Kaur and her 10-year-old daughter Jaspreet Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/living-in-fear-says-singhu-victim-lakhbir-singhs-sister-327234
21-10-2021||Bhoa (Pathankot)||Bhoa Congress MLA Joginder Pal ‘slaps’ youth at event||Known for his outbursts against officials, Congress MLA from Bhoa Joginder Pal is again in the thick of a controversy. This time for thrashing a youth who had dared to ask the legislator what he had done for the people ever since he became an MLA.Dy CM takes noteRepresentatives elected by people should mind their behaviour and language when they are in public. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Dy CMThe incident triggered strong reactions from both within and outside his party. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said “elected representatives should mind their behaviour and language when they are in public.”Late on Tuesday night, Joginder was addressing a gathering in Samrala village of his constituency when a youth expressed a desire to speak to him. The moment he said “Tu ki kitta? (What have you done for the constituency?)”, the MLA repeatedly slapped him. His security, too, joined in to thrash the youth. A video of the unsavoury incident went viral.Two days ago, the MLA could be seen gesticulating wildly at Pathankot ADC Sandeep Singh. A video of this incident, too, had gone viral.When CM Charanjit Singh Channi was on a tour of Pathankot on Monday, Joginder wanted him to visit his assembly seat too. According to the plan charted out by the CM’s office, Channi was scheduled to visit Bhoa but had to call off his programme due to unavoidable circumstances. The incident occurred at the helipad. ADC Singh was placating Joginder after the CM had declined his request. However, the MLA took out his anger on the officer.In October last year, Joginder blamed the Pathankot Civil Surgeon for declaring him Covid positive to prevent him from attending a meeting in Chandigarh. A few days before this incident, the MLA he had rattled the bureaucracy by saying, “I have the power to tear up the clothes of policemen. I will turn the DC, SSP upside down if they do not do their work.”“He needs to take a crash course in how to behave decently. He is slowly becoming a liability because of his nasty antics,” said a Congress MLA. — TNSAlso read: Cong MLA Joginder Pal abuses staffer, audio viral||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhoa-congress-mla-joginder-pal-slaps-youth-at-event-327233
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh betrayed Punjab for 4 years: Deputy CM||A day after Capt Amarinder Singh hinted at a pre-poll alliance with the BJP, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa described him an “opportunist”, who “betrayed the state for the past four and a half years”.Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy CMQuestions intentionsWhy didn’t he (Capt Amarinder) try to resolve the ongoing farmers’ stir when he was the CM? Referring to Capt Amarinder’s meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah last month, Randhawa asked why he did not try to resolve the ongoing farmers’ stir when he was the CM.He also blamed the former CM for the enhancement of the BSF’s jurisdiction in Punjab. “Punjab does not fear Pakistan or China. If Punjab today faces any threat, it is from Amarinder Singh,” he said. Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said after working as Congress CM for over years, it was unfortunate that Capt Amarinder had decided to form a separate party. He said the narrative of the fixed match with the BJP and the SAD, when Capt Amarinder was the CM, had been proved. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-betrayed-punjab-for-4-years-deputy-cm-327231
21-10-2021||---||We were right in removing Captain Amarinder Singh: Congress||New Delhi, October 20The Congress on Wednesday said the decision to replace Capt Amarinder Singh as Chief Minister was right and asked the former CM whether he was in cahoots with the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in bringing the three agricultural reform legislation in the first place.Also read: Captain Amarinder Singh ‘nationalist’, open to alliance with him: BJPCapt Amarinder Singh an ‘opportunist’, betrayed Punjab, says Sukhjinder Randhawa Raghav Chadha, AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge PM modi behind Amarinder’s move: AAPPM Modi is making every effort to prevent AAP from forming a government in Punjab. Now, the PM has given a green signal to Capt Amarinder to float a party to create hurdles for AAP.Responding to Capt Amarinder’s statements yesterday that he would soon float an independent political party and have seat arrangement with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections if the farmers’ agitation was successfully resolved, spokesperson for Congress Gaurav Vallabh today said, “The way public statements in respect of the BJP and the resolution of farmers’ issues are being made, the question is whether Amarinder Singh and the BJP were always in collusion over piloting the three black farm laws.”Vallabh also said 99 per cent legislators of Punjab could gauge the sympathetic tone of Capt Amarinder Singh for the BJP and the fact that “the former Chief Minister may have no problems in allying with the BJP.”“This proves the party’s decision to replace Captain was right,” said Vallabh.The Congress spokesman said without undermining Captain Amarinder’s contributions to the party in Punjab, the fact was that he had proved the skeptics right and was indeed soft on Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP like all MLAs were saying.“Captain is ready to go with a party that has been resisting legal guarantee for the MSP. He has proved the MLAs right,” the Congress said. Meanwhile, Captain Amarinder today said he was planning his next move keeping the security of a border state like Punjab in mind. “I want to work to ensure a stable government in Punjab which has seen enough bloodshed,” the former CM said.Ex-cm toed BJP line on all issues: SADThe SAD on Wednesday said after ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s announcement to float a new party it was clear he was toeing the BJP line during his tenure as CM. “Be it on the issue of Kartarpur corridor or creating a perception of threat of terrorism. For five years, he did not say a word against PM Narendra Modi,” said SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/we-were-right-in-removing-captain-amarinder-singh-congress-327230
21-10-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Nihang leader Aman Singh, Gurmeet Pinki were never together in jail, says report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Contrary to the claims made earlier by former police official Gurmeet Pinki and Nihang leader Aman Singh that they knew each other since they were inmates in the Patiala Jail, records show that they were never together in any prison.Baba Aman Singh is head of the Nihang group that allegedly killed a man at the Singhu border, by chopping off his hand.Also read: Nihang Baba admits to secretly meeting Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, claims 'offered Rs 10 lakh' to vacate dharna sitePunjab SIT to probe Singhu killingLiving in fear, says Singhu victim Lakhbir Singh’s sisterThe Jails Department has submitted a report in this regard to the Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today. The report lists the duration and location of their imprisonment. Randhawa told The Tribune that he had already said there was a deep-rooted conspiracy behind the various incidents involving the Nihang leader. “We are looking at the jail record report and will inquire further,” Randhawa said.The jail records show Pinki was in the Central Jail, Ludhiana, in 2006. He was shifted to the Central Jail, Patiala, in November 2007 where he remained till July 14, 2012. Later, he was shifted to Open Jail, Nabha, and his sentence was completed on June 23, 2016.Nihang leader Aman Singh was in Kapurthala Jail from June 9, 2017 to November 24, 2017 during which he was bailed out twice, but re-arrested. While Nihang leader Aman Singh could not be contacted, Pinki said he was either misunderstood or misquoted. “I had said that I was in Patiala Jail with Nihang Baba Surjit Singh, who had about 40 men with him in the prison.”  What record saysThe jail records show Gurmeet Pinki’s sentence was completed on June 23, 2016, whereas Nihang leader Aman Singh was in Kapurthala Jail from June 9, 2017 to November 24, 2017||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nihang-leader-aman-singh-gurmeet-pinki-were-never-together-in-jail-says-report-327228
21-10-2021||Amritsar||OP Soni wants Charanjit Singh Channi as CM face in 2022 Punjab elections||Voices demanding Charanjit Singh Channi as the Congress’ CM face in the 2022 Assembly elections were raised from the dais of Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal at Ram Tirath in Amritsar today.The CM was here to take part in a state-level programme of ‘pargat divas’ (birth anniversary) of Bhagwan Valmiki, composer of the epic Ramayana.Amid reports of trouble within the Congress with state head Navjot Singh Sidhu locking horns with the CM, Deputy CM OP Soni, minister Raj Kumar Verka, Speaker Rana KP Singh and MLAs Harpartap Singh Ajnala and Tarsem Singh DC, during their address, said the Congress would contest the ensuing Assembly elections under the tutelage of Channi. They said he was the CM not just for a four-month span, but for the next five years as well.The CM laid the foundation of a pictorial-cum-panorama worth Rs 25 crore in the shrine complex which would be instrumental in perpetuating the teachings, life and philosophy of the saint. He also announced a budgetary grant of Rs 5 crore annually for the already existing the Bhagwan Valmiki Ji Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University.Conceding the long-pending demand of ‘safai sewaks’, the CM announced a weekly off besides other gazetted holidays for them at par with the other government employees.Taking a dig on those who blame him for giving freebies at the cost of state exchequer, he said it was people’s money which was being used on their welfare. “I am crystal clear in my approach. The state exchequer money has to be spent on people. The Opposition leaders looted it for their personal gains,” he said.Making a resolve to fill over one lakh vacant posts in different departments shortly, Channi said all these vacancies would be filled purely on the basis of merit in a fair, impartial and transparent manner.For the poor and economically weaker sections of society, the CM said the process to allot five-marla plots would be completed shortly. “Me and my colleges aim to light earthern pots on Diwali to handover the symbolic possession to eligible beneficiaries under the Basera scheme,” he said. — TNSCM allows people sit close to him||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/op-soni-wants-charanjit-singh-channi-as-cm-face-in-2022-punjab-elections-327227
21-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||600 private buses set to lose ‘illegal’ permits in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The Punjab Government has initiated the process to cancel at least 600 illegally extended bus permits, affecting nearly 340 privately-owned transport companies on monopoly routes, including those owned by the Badal family. The action is being taken against the illegal extension to transport permits for over 10 to 15 years.Also read: Daily revenue of Punjab govt buses up Rs 45 lakh in 3 weeksAmrinder Singh Raja Warring, transport ministerFollowing court ordersThe Transport Department is following the court orders on illegally extended bus permits. The necessary action is being initiated.With effectively two months left before the model code comes into effect, the Charanjit Singh Channi government wants to show its “intent” to end the transport mafia — one of the key issues in the 13-point agenda flagged by PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu. After issuing the speaking orders, a stipulated time period has to be given to the affected transporter to file an appeal.Sources in the government said the orders against the illegally extended bus permits were in the process of being issued. Under scanner are near 1 lakh kilometres of route extensions, including 30,000 kilometres being covered by buses run by politically influential families.Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said in the case of illegally extended bus permits, the department was following the court orders. He refused to divulge further details. In the past few days, the Transport Minister has been earning praise from different quarters for the clampdown on private transporters to the advantage of the Punjab Roadways buses.With private bus operators withdrawing 38 petitions in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against Punjab’s permit cancellation notices, the Punjab Transport Department has initiated the process. The cancellation of illegal permits, which had been caught in legal wrangling for over three years since the first set of notices issued in February 2018 was struck down by the HC in May 2018, are expected to be issued by the STC in the next couple of days. Extension on 1L KM route under lensUnder scanner are extensions given on 1 lakh km of routes, including 30,000 km being covered by buses run by politically influential families||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/600-private-buses-set-to-lose-illegal-permits-in-punjab-327226
21-10-2021||---||Punjab police foil a major weapon and drugs smuggling bid via Indo-Pak border||Chandigarh/Tarn Taran, October 20In an intelligence-led operation, Punjab Police on Wednesday recovered huge quantity of arms and ammunition besides heroin during a search operation from near border fencing on Indo-Pak Border in Tarn Taran district.The operation was jointly conducted by Border Security Force (BSF) and Counter Intelligence Amritsar in the area of BOP Mianwali Hithaar, Khemkarn sector.Sharing details, officiating Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said the Police have received a secret information that some Pak border operatives have concealed a huge consignment of arms and heroin, following which Counter Intelligence Amritsar was sent to the spot and a search operation was planned with the BSF authorities.He said during the combing operation, the teams recovered 22 pistols (most of them .30 bore Star mark) along with 44 magazines and 100 live rounds besides a packet of heroin (weighing 934 gm) packed in a black coloured kit bag concealed in a paddy field.During the preliminary investigations, it has come to light that as ‘conceal and clear’ has been the most practised modus operandi of Pak smugglers, this consignment was placed by them in Indian territory across the fence and it was supposed to be retrieved by their Indian associates.The DGP said a case FIR No 19 dated 19.10.2021 under Sections 511 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 21, 28, 29 of the NDPS Act, section 25 of the Arms Act and section 14-Finance Act at Police Station SSOC Amritsar has been registered. Efforts are being made to ascertain the identity of the Pak end as well as their Indian links who were to pick this consignment, he added.Pertinently, this is not for the first time, the anti-national elements have tried to push such consignments through various channels across the border. In the past also huge cache of illegal weapons have been recovered by the Counter Intelligence wing from different accused, which were meant to disturb the peace and harmony of the state.On June 10, 2021, a consignment of foreign made 48 pistols was recovered from Jagjit Singh of Purian Kalan, Batala. In another operation, Counter Intelligence Wing had recovered 39 pistols from Barwani, MP, which were to be supplied to antisocial elements in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-foil-a-major-weapon-and-drugs-smuggling-bid-via-indo-pak-border-327087
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Video: 'What have you done for this constituency', youth questions Punjab Congress MLA Joginder Pal; gets thrashed by leader, his security men||A video has appeared on social media showing Punjab Congress MLA Joginder Pal and his security personnel thrashing a youth for asking what work the legislator had done for his village.As the incident left the party embarrassed, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Wednesday that a legislator has to serve the people and the MLA should not have behaved in this way.This is what happens when you question them on performancePunjab Congress MLA Joginder Pal assaulted a man who quizzed him over work done in his constituency pic.twitter.com/xYuOcAFkFC  In the video, Pal, an MLA from the Bhoa assembly seat in Pathankot district of poll-bound Punjab, is addressing a group of people on Tuesday.Then a youth, identified as Harsh Kumar, could be heard questioning the legislator as to what work he had done during his tenure.When a security man of the legislator held his arm to lead him away from the event, Joginder Pal could be heard asking the youth to come and speak to him.As the MLA gave him a microphone to speak, the youth asked, "Tu ki kita (what have you done?)" The youth's question left Joginder Pal furious and he could be seen slapping him in the video. The MLA, his two security personnel and another person then thrashed the youth and he was taken outside of the venue.Harsh Kumar on Wednesday said he had just asked a question to the MLA but he was badly beaten up by Pal and a few others.His mother said his son had only asked the MLA as to what he had done for the village and demanded justice for him. There was no reaction from the MLA. The BJP hit out at the ruling Congress in Punjab, saying it shows the intolerant face of the party."After Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra turned out journalists from their PCs for asking factual questions, it is turn of Joginder Singh, Congress MLA from Boha in Pathankot, to thrash a young man black and blue for just questioning him. This is the intolerant face of Congress," said Amit Malviya, BJP Nationional Executive member and in-charge of its Information and Technology Department. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/video-what-have-you-done-for-this-constituency-youth-questions-punjab-congress-mla-joginder-pal-gets-thrashed-by-leader-his-security-men-327080
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh an ‘opportunist’, betrayed Punjab, says Sukhjinder Randhawa||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa hit out at Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday, calling him an "opportunist", a day after the former chief minister announced he would launch his own political outfit.Randhawa also accused Singh of betraying Punjab for the past four and a half years.On Tuesday, Amarinder said he would soon announce his own political party and was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP if the farmers' issue is resolved in their interest.The two-time chief minister added that he would not rest until he secured the future of "my people and my state".Reacting to this, the deputy chief minister said, "Captain Amarinder Singh is an opportunist leader who only thinks about himself, his family and his friends."Referring to Singh's meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah last month, Randhawa asked why he did not try to resolve the ongoing farmers' stir.He also blamed Amarinder for the enhancement of the BSF's jurisdiction in Punjab."He (Amarinder Singh) says Punjab is a border state. I want to remind Captain Sahib that if it is a border state then why were tiffin bombs and drones coming (from across the border)? Why smuggling of arms and drugs could not be stopped?” he asked.Randhawa accused the former chief minister of betraying Punjab and siding with those who never thought about the welfare of the state."Punjab does not fear Pakistan or China. If Punjab today faces any threat, then it is from Amarinder Singh," he said.Randhawa said when Amarinder did not get the power he desired he got upset with the Congress. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-an-opportunist-betrayed-punjab-says-sukhjinder-randhawa-327076
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab forms SIT to probe Nihang leader controversies, background, Lakhbir Singh's murder||The Punjab government on Wednesday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe all angles involving activities of Nihang leader Baba Aman Singh's group, barbaric killing of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border, secret meetings between a police cat-turned-murder convict, and to find out the true identity of some Nihang leaders.Action follows in the wake of the Tribune expose about Nihang Aman Singh meeting BJP ministers in the presence of former police cat Gurmeet Singh Pinki.Baba Aman Singh is head of the Nihang group that allegedly killed a man at the Singhu border, by chopping off his hand.Also read: Nihang Baba admits to secretly meeting Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, claims 'offered Rs 10 lakh' to vacate dharna siteNihang chief Baba Aman Singh may have been part of efforts to end stirSamyukt Kisan Morcha’s 32 farmer unions in huddleSGPC to send three-member team to conduct inquiry into Singhu killing Besides, Punjab Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa also spoke to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and urged him to call a meeting of various Nihang groups to find out facts regarding activities of Baba Aman Singh and allegations that many fake Nihang leaders had come up.ADGP Varinder Kumar, Director Bureau of Investigation, would head the SIT, Randhawa told The Tribune after ordering the SIT.He said the government had started investigating the case as Lakhbir Singh was a resident of Punjab. Also, Aman Singh’s activities had a direct bearing on Punjab. The family of Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched by Nihangs at Singhu border, has also demanded an investigation into the killing. They alleged that Lakhbir was getting many calls on his phone and would secretly take them without sharing the details with the family. In a video out on Wednesday, Lakhbir is heard yelling out a phone number stating that he was prompted by that caller to desecrate the holy book.Randhawa said there seemed a deep conspiracy behind the incidents involving the Nihang group at Singhu border. "From the alleged sacrilege incidents to killing of Lakhbir Singh to the role of Nihang Baba with ex-police cat Pinki and others."The SIT will also investigate the background of Baba Sarvjit Singh, who had surrendered to Sonepat police for killing Lakhbir. Randhawa said it was strange that in a video shot by mediapersons he had his hair shorn as his turban accidentally fell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-forms-sit-to-probe-nihang-leader-controversies-background-lakhbir-singhs-murder-327073
