22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 29 fresh Covid-19 cases; active case tally reaches 230||Punjab reported 29 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday that took the infection tally to 6,02,163, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related fatality was reported in the past 24 hours, and the death toll stands at 16,551, it said.Of the new cases, Mohali reported five, followed by four in Rupnagar and three each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stands at 230, it said.Twenty-four people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,382, according to the bulletin.Chandigarh reported five new cases, taking the infection count to 65,320, it said, adding that the death stands at 820.The number of active cases in the city was 28, while the overall recoveries has reached 64,472. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-29-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-case-tally-reaches-230-328138
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab State Power Corp clears outstanding arrears of electricity bills worth Rs 77.4 crore||On the directives of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) has till date cleared the outstanding arrears of electricity bills worth Rs 77.37 crore of 96,911 domestic consumers having load up to two kilowatts.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said these consumers are from five zones across the state — border zone (comprising suburban Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, City Amritsar circles); central zone (East Ludhiana, West Ludhiana, Khanna, sub-urban Ludhiana); north zone (Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr); south zone (Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Ropar, Mohali); and west zone (Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Muktsar).The zones have as many as 15.85 lakh beneficiaries with a total outstanding liability of Rs 1,505 crore. Out of this, the outstanding arrears worth Rs 77.37 crore have been waived so far.Last month, the Channi-led Government had announced to waive power bills of those having electricity connection of up to two kilowatt. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-state-power-corp-clears-outstanding-arrears-of-electricity-bills-worth-rs-77-4-crore-328130
22-10-2021||Moga||Harsimrat Badal’s election meetings face protests in Moga||Protests met former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday as she made her way to Langeana village near Baghapurana town in Moga for a meeting with party workers.Several farmers held protests against Badal after Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call last month asking all political parties in Punjab to hold back their election campaigns. Their call came after a clash with Punjab Police in Moga district left several farmers wounded on September 2. The clash occurred during Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal’s rally.Harsmirat Kaur Badal, who’s a Member of Parliament from Bathinda; held public meetings at Maharaja Palace; met local businessmen, self-help groups, non-government organizations, and activists of the Balmiki community in the city; met representatives of backward classes at Nihalsinghwala town; held another meeting with local residents at Vikraj Palace in Nihalsinghwala town and met party workers at DM Marriage Palace at Langeana village near Baghapurana town.It was in her final destination that farmers gathered to protest against her. Several farmers have been accusing her of doing little when the central government passed the controversial agriculture laws last year.Harsmirat Kaur Badal, who was previously the Minister for Food Processing, quit the cabinet over the laws. The decision also resulted in SAD breaking up with the Bharatiya Janata Party, an old ally at the Centre as well as in Punjab.   “We won’t allow political parties to hold election meetings,” a farmer, Jasmel Singh, said at the protest. “We won’t support those who don’t support us.”Meanwhile, Kirti Kisan Union and BKU (Ekta) said farmer unions will hold discussions on whether they should boycott two of SAD’s candidates—Tirath Singh Mahla and Barjinder Singh Brar—during next year’s assembly elections after Harsimrat Kaur Badal campaigned for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-badals-election-meetings-face-protests-in-moga-328105
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls: SAD announces three more candidates||Shiromani Akali Dal announced candidates for three more assembly segments—Fatehgarh Churhiyan, Dera Baba Nanak and Malerkotla.S. Lakhbir Singh Lodhiangal, who’s the incumbent legislator for Batala, will be fielded instead from Fatehgarh Churhiyan; S. Ravikaran Singh Kahlon from Dera Baba Nanak and Yunus Mohammad from Malerkotla, SAD’s senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said.Ravikaran Kahlon has also been appointed the party’s general secretary of the party.This takes the number of SAD’s candidates announced so far to 77. Elections for Punjab’s 117 assembly seats are due early next year. SAD is contesting the elections in alliance with the  Bahujan Samaj Party—the Akalis from 97 seats, leaving the rest for BSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-polls-sad-announces-three-more-candidates-328091
22-10-2021||---||Punjab Agriculture Minister Nabha gives Rs 50-lakh cheque each to families of 5 Lakhimpur Kheri victims||Chandigarh, October 22Punjab Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha gave cheques as compensation to the families of the four farmers and one journalist who were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, in Lucknow on Friday.On behalf of the Punjab government, the minister gave cheques for Rs 50 lakh each to the five families.Eight people, including four farmers, had been killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-agriculture-minister-nabha-gives-rs-50-lakh-cheque-each-to-families-of-5-lakhimpur-kheri-victims-328053
22-10-2021||New Delhi||CBSE replies after Punjab Chief Minister criticises move to keep Punjabi out of major subjects||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday clarified that all regional languages have been kept in the category of minor subjects for first term exams for class 10 and 12.The clarification by the CBSE came following objection by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to keeping Punjabi out of the main subjects."I firmly oppose the CBSE's authoritarian decision to keep Punjabi out of the main subjects. This is against the federal spirit of Constitution, violating the right of Punjabi youth to learn their native language. I condemn this biased exclusion of Punjabi," Channi had tweeted.Responding to his objection, a senior board official said, "As it is known, the CBSE has declared the date sheet of the major subjects of classes 10 and 12 for term – I Examinations."              "It is clarified that the classification of subjects has been done purely on administrative ground for the purpose of conduct of first term exams  based on the number of candidates appearing in the subject and in no way reflects the importance of subjects as major or minor."Every subject is equally important from academic point of view. Punjabi is one of the regional languages being offered. All the regional languages have been put under the minor category for the purpose of administrative convenience in relation to the logistics required for the conduct of examinations," the official added.The board had on Monday announced that the first term board exams for class 10 will begin from November 30, while the exams for class 12 are scheduled from December 1.While the exams for minor subjects for class 10 will be conducted from November 17 to December 7, those for class 12 will be conducted from November 16 to December 30.Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus were part of the special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 CBSE board exams for 2021-22, which were announced in July in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The CBSE is offering 114 subjects in class 12 and 75 subjects in class 10. Out of these, 19 are major subjects in class 12 and nine in class 10.The exams will be objective and the duration of the tests will be 90 minutes. The exams will start from 11.30 am instead of 10.30 am in view of the winter season.The exams for the minor subjects will be conducted by schools, though the question paper will be provided by the board. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbse-replies-after-punjab-chief-minister-criticises-move-to-keep-punjabi-out-of-major-subjects-328044
22-10-2021||---||Brawl at PIMS leaves 3 MBBS students injured||Jalandhar, October 21Three MBBS students (2016-17 batch) got badly injured in a brawl that took place on the campus of Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) during the daytime on Tuesday.The parents of the students alleged that some outsiders entered the campus and thrashed their children with iron rods leaving their hands, arms and legs fractured. Though the parents took their children to the Civil Hospital and got their Medico-Legal Reports made, no FIR has been lodged yet.The video of the incident went viral today. The fight went on for quite sometime and even clothes of students got torn. The students, who got injured were hostellers and have gone back to their respective places. The parents said, “We cannot send our children back to an unsafe atmosphere till the offenders are identified and taken to task.”The college authorities have so far not taken any action against the offenders. Principal Dr Kulbir Kaur is learnt to be unwell for the last two days.Amit Singh, Director, PIMS, said, “We have checked all CCTV footages of the incident. We have not been able to identify all the offenders yet as none of these footages were clear. One or two students involved in the incident could be outsiders, but we are not sure. Action will definitely be taken against the attackers once the inquiry is completed.”SHO of Police Division Number 7 said the incident wasn’t reported and no case has been registered so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brawl-at-pims-leaves-3-mbbs-students-injured-327960
22-10-2021||---||15K teachers, 1,200 lecturers to be recruited by November-end, says Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 21Education, Sports and NRI Affairs Minister Pargat Singh on Thursday said the Education Department was set to recruit 15,000 teachers and 1,200 lecturers by November-end.Interacting with youths during ‘Punjab Da Bhavikh’ programme at the Government College For Girls, the Cabinet Minister said it was painful that recruitments were not carried out for many years in the most important department. But now, it would not be tolerated.‘Backlog of vacancies WILL be cleared soon’Interacting with youth during the ‘Punjab Da Bhavikh’ programme at the Government College for Girls, Education, Sports and NRI Affairs Minister Pargat Singh said it is painful that recruitments were not carried out for many years in the most important department. But now, it would not be tolerated. He said the recruitment process is being undertaken on a fast-track mode and this backlog of vacancies would be cleared soon.He said the recruitment process was being undertaken on a fast-track mode and this backlog of vacancies would be cleared soon.Further, he announced that the state government would introduce a skill-based curriculum, as per needs of the industry.Emphasising the need to enhance skills of students by starting new vocational courses, the Cabinet Minister said his department was already in talks with industrialists and a committee would be formed to make it a reality.Exhorting girls students to contribute towards nation building, Pargat said they had an unbounded potential to transform society and could take the nation to new heights.He said this generation could bring revolutionary changes in society with their energy.The minister said there was a need for youths’ active participation in country’s development programmes.Former Delhi Education Minister Kiran Walia also spoke to girl students and motivated them to scale new heights in their lives.Earlier, the minister took salute from the Guard of Honour given by the Ludhiana police at the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15k-teachers-1-200-lecturers-to-be-recruited-by-november-end-says-pargat-singh-327848
22-10-2021||---||High drama at Ludhiana CP’s office as Gursimran Singh Mand, Nihangs  face off||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 21A high drama today witnessed at the office of the Commissioner of Police (CP) where Gursimran Singh Mand, chairman, International Anti-Terrorist Khalistani Foundation, and Nihangs had a face-off.Several Nihangs belonging to different organisations had come to meet the Commissioner of Police in connection with an FIR registered against Anil Arora, who allegedly posted some derogatory message against Guru Nanak Dev. Nihangs had been seeking the arrest of the person against whom an FIR under Section 295-A of the IPC was registered at the Police Division 3 here on Tuesday.Mand had also come to meet the top cop regarding his property dispute.Mand accompanied by several gunmen was standing near the CP office where Nihangs were also present. Eyewitnesses said Nihangs and Mand were staring at each other following which arguments started between them.Both had challenged each other in the presence of police personnel. In no time, arguments took a ghastly turn and Nihangs ran towards Mand to teach him a lesson. Mand’s gunmen cornered him and took him towards the DCP office. While he was running for cover, his turban fell on the ground.Tension had prevailed at the CP office after the incident. Police personnel and people present at the spot had to intervene to calm down both parties.Mand said Nihangs had first challenged him while they alleged Mand had spoke Ill about them.“We had come to meet the CP and we had not spoke anything to Mand but he deliberately challenged us,” they alleged.Mand said he had sent a complaint to the CP and the DGP regarding the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-drama-at-ludhiana-cps-office-as-gursimran-singh-mand-nihangs-face-off-327849
22-10-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu, Capt Amarinder Singh in war of words over farm laws||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21As Capt Amarinder Singh prepares to float a political outfit, while trying to play a possible role in ending the farmers’ sir, a war of words has erupted between the former Chief Minister and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Favoured corporatesThe architect of three black laws, who brought Ambani to Punjab's ‘kisani’, who destroyed farmers, traders and labour to benefit one or two big corporates. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefIt’s diversificationYou are clueless about Punjab and its farmers’ interests. You clearly don’t know the difference between diversification and what agircultural laws are all about. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Ex-CMAmarinder hits back at RawatResponding to Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat over his secularism remark, Capt Amarinder Singh cited Congress’ alliance with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. “What’s this if not sheer political opportunism?” he said.The cricketer-turned-politician on Thursday termed the former CM the architect of the three central farm laws. “The architect of three black laws, who brought Ambani to Punjab’s ‘kisani’, who destroyed Punjab’s farmers, small traders and labour for benefitting one or two big corporates,” Sidhu tweeted.Hitting back at Sidhu, Captain Amarinder said: “It is obvious you are clueless about Punjab and its farmers’ interests. You clearly don’t know the difference between diversification and what the farm laws are all about. And yet you dream of leading Punjab. How dreadful if that ever happens.”Terming the PCC chief a cheat who is trying to link his 15-year-old crop diversification initiative with the farm laws, the former CM said he was still fighting on the issue and had linked with it his political future.Reacting to a video shared by Sidhu on the then CM talking of inviting corporate houses, Captain Amarinder said: “It is hilarious that you’ve chosen to post this video at a time when the Punjab Government is going all out to promote its upcoming Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit. Or are you opposed to that too?”Hitting back at Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat over his secularism remark aimed at Captain Amarinder, the former CM reminded him that Sidhu was part of the BJP for 14 years and Pargat Singh was in the Akali Dal prior to joining the Congress.Questioning Rawat, Captain Amarinder, citing the example of Congress’ alliance with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, said it was fine to join forces with so-called communal parties as long as it suited the Congress. “What’s this if not sheer political opportunism?” he said. The former CM said: “Today you’re accusing me of helping my rival Akali Dal for four and a half years. I have been fighting court cases against them for the past 10 years.”Captain Amarinder said the Congress was apprehensive that he would damage party’s interests in Punjab. “Fact is the party has damaged its own interests by not trusting me and giving its reins to an unstable person like Sidhu who’s only loyal to himself,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-capt-amarinder-singh-in-war-of-words-over-farm-laws-327639
22-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress assesses impact of Capt Amarinder's new party announcement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21While Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat maintains Capt Amarinder Singh’s announcement on forming a new party will not be a threat to the Congress in Punjab, the party leadership has started doing ground assessment of a possible impact of the move.Party has damaged own interests: ex-cmFacing anti-incumbency, despite replacing Captain Amarinder with Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister, party leaders admit the former CM may play spoilsport by poaching disgruntled leaders or those left out in ticket distribution. “Keeping the flock together is a daunting task for the leadership,” said a senior leader.Sources privy to the discussion said AICC observer Harish Chaudhary, who has been camping in Chandigarh, has been taking feedback from party MLAs and other sources on the possible fallout of Captain Amarinder going for a pre-poll alliance with the BJP, in the event of a favourable solution to the farmers stir.A feedback survey to assess the situation was also being tasked, it is learnt.Rajya Sabha MP and former PCC chief Shamsher Singh Dullo said despite changing the CM face, some of the tainted ministers were still part of the Cabinet. The mafia tag is still attached with the Congress government. “The surgical operation should have been for total revamp of the Cabinet”.With Sidhu spelling out his 13-point agenda, besides seeking change of the Advocate General and strict action in the drug trafficking case, it will be a challenge for CM Channi to shed off the “fixed-match” narrative attached with the former CM.“The party leadership is assessing the impact of the BJP giving a key role to Capt Amarinder in finding a solution to the farmers’ stir on the 2022 Assembly elections, especially in reserved and urban constituencies. It is being assumed Captain Amarinder could make a dent in the urban vote bank,” said a Congress MLA from Doaba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-assesses-impact-of-capt-amarinders-new-party-announcement-327640
22-10-2021||---||AAP questions BJP’s patriot tag for Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21The state unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today questioned the BJP for terming peacefully agitating farmers as “terrorists, separatists and Khalistanis” and certifying former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh as a patriot when he had kept a Pakistan-born person as a guest at his residence. Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, in a statement, said the BJP government at the Centre was seeing the farmers and labourers as terrorists, while in a bid to take over the reins of Punjab it was praising the former Chief Minister as a patriot, knowing full well he hosted the Pakistan national at his residence. Captain Amarinder had failed to punish culprits in the sacrilege and firing cases or crack down on major drug-transport smugglers, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-questions-bjps-patriot-tag-for-capt-amarinder-singh-327642
22-10-2021||Jalandhar||Capt Amarinder got Maur blast probe stalled: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today alleged that former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh got the inquiry into the January 2017 Maur bomb blast case stalled.Randhawa, who was attending a function to mark Police Commemoration Day at Punjab Armed Police Headquarters today, said it was a huge failure on the part of the ex-CM. “Since Captain Amarinder also held the home portfolio, he must explain why there was no headway in the matter. As the ex-CM now is talking about national security matters, he also must tell everyone as to why the perpetrators of the blast that left seven persons dead were allowed to go scot-free,” said Randhawa.He said, “We are set to order a re-inquiry into the case and will surely send culprits to jail.” Notably, the blast had taken place close to an election rally venue of Congress leader Harminder Singh Jassi. Two inquiries ordered into the incident had pointed to the involvement of the Dera Sacha Sauda. Jassi’s daughter is wedded to the dera chief’s son.Meanwhile, Randhawa also ordered DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota to deploy a dedicated police officer in each police commissionerate and police district, who will handle and resolve problems of families of martyred police personnel in a stipulated time period. Similarly, the next of kin of the gallantry award winning martyrs would be given one rank promotion.He also heard the problems being faced by families of martyred cops. “Now they (families) do not have to go to the offices themselves, but the department will reach out to them,” said Randhawa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-got-maur-blast-probe-stalled-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-327643
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Transport Dept’s income up 17%: Raja Warring||Completing 21 days in office, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today said due to concerted efforts the department has registered 17. 24 per cent increase in its income, which amounts to Rs 7.98 crore till October 15.Also read: Why no word on action against mafia, Raja Warring asks AAPTobacco ads removed from busesAdvertisements pertaining to tobacco have been removed from government buses. “If anybody finds any violation of transport rules, he can directly contact me on my personal number,” Warring urged the public.Inviting suggestions from Cabinet colleagues and MLAs for betterment of the department, Warring said the collection of Punjab Roadways and PRTC was Rs 46.28 crore between September 15 and September 30. It increased to Rs 54.26 crore during the period between October 1 and October 15, he said, adding daily collection of the department increased Rs 53 lakh, approximately.Stressing the action against tax defaulters and illegal permit holders was justjifiable, Warring said it was necessitated to reinstate people’s trust as the tax which the defaulter bus operators had been evading for the past 10 months was being collected from passengers in the form of tickets.He further said around 258 buses had been impounded/challaned so far due to non-payment of taxes, illegal permits, documents, etc. And, after strictness against defaulters, the department has collected Rs 3.29 crore as part of pending government tax and majority of the amount deposited by the big companies/operators.He said the department had conferred more powers to general managers (GM) of bus depots. Apart from RTAs, now GMs have been empowered to check the vehicles in the 500 meters surrounding area of the bus stand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/transport-depts-income-up-17-raja-warring-327645
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Why no word on action against mafia, Raja Warring asks AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today termed the claims made by Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring as pretentiousness.Party spokesperson Dinesh Chadha said the minister was enjoying the game of statistics, but he should state in his report card how many permits illegally extended to Congress and Akali leaders had been revoked, and how many FIRs had been registered and recovery of stolen tax made?Also read: Transport Dept’s income up 17%: Raja WarringHe said if Warring felt nothing was done in the past four and a half years, his predecessors Razia Sultana and Aruna Chaudhary should be immediately removed from the Cabinet for not take any action against the transport mafia.Chadha said, “The department has lost about Rs 3,000 crore in the past 15 years due to illegal buses.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-no-word-on-action-against-mafia-raja-warring-asks-aap-327646
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||EC: Monitor checking of EVMs||Deputy Election Commissioner Nitesh Kumar Vyas reviewed the poll preparedness for the forthcoming Assembly polls at the office of Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Punjab, on Wednesday.Nitesh Vyas directed the CEO, Punjab, to closely monitor the first-level checking of EVMs/VVPATs going on at the district level. He also directed the election officials to systematically track and respond promptly on the complaints received through toll-free helpline number 1950 and pay attention to the training of booth-level officers (BLOs).During the meeting, a brief presentation was made by S Karuna Raju, CEO, Punjab, highlighting status of preparedness. The current status of electoral rolls (voter list), rationalisation of polling stations, EVMs/VVPATs, training of all election officials, procurement of election material and law and order situation, etc, were discussed in detail.Raju said necessary steps had been taken to ensure minimum facilities such as availability of ramp, water facility and toilets at all 24,689 polling booths in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-monitor-checking-of-evms-327647
22-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||ID, address proof must for filing pleas: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made identity and address proof of petitioners a must for moving court. The Bench has ruled that petitioners’ identity and residential address would be verified prior to the filing of any matter by mentioning the details of documents considered authentic for establishing the identity of an individual, such as the Aadhaar card or the passport number.To be verified by counselThe Bench has also made mandatory the mentioning of the petitioner’s contact numbers and address. The same would be verified by their counsel before filing the petition.The direction by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came in a case where Sukhvir Singh Lather, posing as Bajinder Singh, filed a petition in public interest and obtained orders from the High Court in a fictitious person’s name.The matter surfaced after the Bench, hearing a petition by Anil Kumar, observed Bajinder had filed earlier petition CWP (PIL)-131-2020 based upon the same cause of action and against the same set of respondents.The Bench noticed Kumar in the petition claimed he had served the authorities with a legal notice dated July 2, 2020, before filing CWP(PIL)-131- 2020. The legal notice and an earlier order passed by the High Court revealed Bajinder was the only petitioner in that matter.His address was also found to be wrong and untraceable after he was sought to be contacted in connection with the matter. The Bench, under the circumstances, expressed doubt if Bajinder even existed and asked the counsel, common to both petitions, to produce the petitioners.The counsel, during the course of hearing, submitted that CWP (PIL)-131-2020 was filed on instructions of Sukhvir Singh Lather, who disclosed that Bajinder wanted to file a PIL. Lather initially claimed several persons would seek his legal advice for filing petitions and he would refer them to advocates. Bajinder was referred to the counsel now appearing for Kumar after he approached him.Dissatisfied with the affidavit, the Bench made clear its intent to get to the root of the matter after describing it as “extremely sensitive”. Lather then admitted he had posed as Bajinder.The Bench observed Lather, tendering an unconditional apology, stated the advocate was unaware of the facts. Kumar, on the other hand, was evidently negligent as he signed the petition verbatim as the first.Undoubtedly, the first petition was filed by the counsel without verifying the petitioner’s identity or true antecedents. Taking a cue from the situation, the directions were passed to protect the advocates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/id-address-proof-must-for-filing-pleas-hc-327648
22-10-2021||Ludhiana||Woman withdraws complaint against MLA Simarjit Singh Bains||The woman who had recently filed a sexual harassment complaint against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains has backtracked from her statement and withdrawn her complaint. In a written statement to the police, the woman stated a few months ago she had submitted a complaint against the Atam Nagar MLA but she now wanted to take back her complaint.“I had given a complaint at the behest of an anti-Bains group and have now realised by submitting a false complaint, I have maligned his image. I urge the police not to take action on my plaint,” it read.Also read: Lok Insaaf Party leaders burn Sukhbir Badal’s effigyShe said she had submitted the complaint at the behest an advocate, who planned to contest the elections from the Atam Nagar seat against Bains, a politician and his aide. She claimed the three had blackmailed her and forced her to submit the complaint.Joint CP J Elanchezhian said the woman had visited his office to withdraw her complaint and the process had been initiated. Bains is already facing a rape FIR registered against him a few months ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-withdraws-complaint-against-mla-simarjit-singh-bains-327650
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi struck from CBSE list, minister Vijay Inder Singla cries foul||Lashing out at the Centre, Public Works and Administrative Reforms Minister Vijay Inder Singla today said the exclusion of Punjabi from the main CBSE subjects in Punjab was an "act of provocation". He said there was a need to reverse the decision immediately.Also read: Making Punjabi ‘minor’ subject a plot: Pargat SinghAttack on rights of state’s studentsThe step of putting Punjabi in the ‘minor’ list is a clear indication of attack on constitutional rights of state’s students. — Vijay Inder Singla, Cabinet MinisterThe minister said Punjabi was the mother tongue of crores of northern Indians and the step of putting their mother tongue in the "minor" subject list was a clear indication of attack on the constitutional rights of the students.Singla said, "the interference into the state matters will not be tolerated at any cost and our government will oppose every such step of the BJP-led union government which is suppressing the powers of the states."The minister said that policies like giving extensive powers to the Border Security Force and removal of Punjabi from the CBSE list indicate the vested interests of the BJP government.He said the Modi government should immediately reconsider its decisions that were contrary to the spirit of the Indian Constitution.The minister said it was the bounden duty of every citizen to follow the rules and guidelines laid by the Constitution, but the Modi government had regularly been taking decisions for its political benefits without taking proper notice of the Indian Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-struck-from-cbse-list-minister-vijay-inder-singla-cries-foul-327651
22-10-2021||---||Perform or face transfer, says CM at first meeting with SSPs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday asked the police force to ensure effective, efficient and transparent policing across the state to instil confidence of people in the law and order machinery.Four ias officers shiftedPrioritising the challenges being faced by the state, Channi asked the entire police force, right from top brass to the bottom, to work in unison to eradicate corruption, break the drug supply chain, illicit liquor trade and the sand mafia with a heavy hand. The Chief Minister categorically said the police should develop a system to identify the peddlers/smugglers who were supplying drugs to our youth.Chairing the first meeting of SSPs after assuming the charge as Chief Minister here at the CMO, Channi asked the officers to discharge their duties with utmost dedication, honesty and professional commitment so that people feel the difference and a message to this effect must go down the line. The Chief Minister asked the police officers, especially the SSPs, to either perform or be ready to be replaced for their inefficiency as an efficient, clean and transparent administration were the hallmark of his government’s agenda.Showing grave concern over the adulteration of food products like milk, cheese and other dairy products, the Chief Minister asked the police department to launch a vigorous campaign in tandem with the Health Department to crack down on unscrupulous elements who were playing havoc with the health of people. He also asked the ACS (Home) to rope in the Vigilance teams to trap these adulterators indulging in such inhuman practices.The Chief Minister also asked the SSPs to issue detailed directions to all DSPs and SHOs to ensure that small shopkeepers, especially the vendors, should not be fleeced by taking money from them in lieu of allowing them to put up stalls for selling crackers and other items during Diwali. Earlier, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the police force was quite competent with enormous capacities and capabilities to face any challenge. He said, “If our police force could valiantly contain the decade-long militancy in the state, I am confident they will set an example to wipe out the drug menace besides other mafia.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/perform-or-face-transfer-says-cm-at-first-meeting-with-ssps-327653
22-10-2021||Patiala||Declared district, Malerkotla yet to get permanent govt offices||Almost five months after Malerkotla was declared the 23rd district of the state on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr following a long-pending demand of residents, the district administration and police department are yet to get permanent offices. Even sanctioning of posts in various departments is pending, leading to a delay in people-centric services.Renovation work under wayThere were teething problems initially but following sanction of funds and permissions from the government, renovation work is on at a fast pace. — Ravjot Kaur Grewal, SSPAccording to senior officials, the district administration is running from a building of the Punjab State Tubewell Corporation, which is located opposite to the Government College, Malerkotla. “Work on the new district complex will start soon. Offices will start functioning from that complex. The tubewell colony land which is lying vacant has been selected andthe tender process will start in a few days,” they said.Meanwhile, land has been transferred for the construction of an SDM office in Amargarh subdivision and the PWD has already invited tenders for it. The work for new office complexes will start at Ahmedgarh subdivision too as there is no government building there to shift the SDM office, which at present is running from a private place.Sources, however, said in addition to police, civil surgeon’s office, taxation department, power corporation, water and sanitation, municipal council and various other departments are also facing shortage of staff. “Once all these posts are filled and salaries against these posts can be issued, people will start getting benefits,” the sources said.Malerkotla SSP Ravjot Kaur Grewal told The Tribune they were presently working from a makeshift office and renovation work for a new office was already on. By year-end, their office would get a new building.Local residents claim with the district status being accorded, the unwanted travel to Sangrur for every small work had stopped as the police and DC offices were functioning from Malerkotla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/declared-district-malerkotla-yet-to-get-permanent-govt-offices-327654
22-10-2021||Aman Sood||Probe payment of land compensation  to wrong persons: Ghanaur villagers||Tribune News ServiceRajpura, October 21Residents of five villages in the Ghanaur Assembly segment have urged the Chief Minister to order a probe into the alleged “transfer of compensation” for land acquisition to politically connected individuals instead of actual tillers.Fake beneficiariesInstead of farmers who had been tilling the village common land for over a decade, those close to the ruling elite were shown as tillers to pocket the compensation. Ghanaur villagersTransparent processThere is no scam in compensation being paid to villagers. Every case was closely scrutinised by the local panchayat officer, SDM and DC before the full and final payment. — Madan Lal Jalalpur, Ghanaur MLAAlleging wrongful selection of individuals for payment of the compensation, residents, particularly of the Scheduled Castes and other backward classes, of Aakrhi, Sehra, Sehri, Takhtumajra and Pabra villages, have now demanded “an independent probe to ascertain the wrongdoings in the case”.In Ghanaur, panchayat land was acquired for the 1,012-acre Modern Industrial Park and Integrated Manufacturing Cluster.Alleging that many persons close to a local political lobby had been “wrongfully transferred lakhs of rupees”, Gurdhian Singh Seona, a senior leader of the Krantikari Kisan Union, said the five village panchayats were transferred money in crores for land acquisition. While Aakrhi village got Rs 51 crore, Sehra got Rs 127 crore, Sehri Rs 47 crore, Pabra Rs 50 crore and Takhtumajra Rs 14 crore.“A major chunk of the amount was spent without logic. Twentyone rooms were constructed at the Aakhri government school, having just 15 students, while sand was dug out from the playground to construct a huge marriage palace,” claimed social activist Neeraj Ranga.“Instead of farmers who had been tilling the village common land for the past over a decade, those close to the ruling elite were shown as tillers to pocket the compensation. In Aakrhi village, a panchayat member was allotted Rs 51 lakh compensation, despite not owning any land in his name,” claimed over a dozen residents who have now demanded an impartial probe into the case.Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said he would look into the matter. “Let me go through the documents. I will first ascertain the facts,” he said. Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur told The Tribune that there was no scam in compensation being paid to villagers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-payment-of-land-compensation-to-wrong-persons-ghanaur-villagers-327657
22-10-2021||Bathinda||BKU mobilises support in Malwa villages for protest over crop relief||Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) in Bathinda and Mansa districts are busy mobilising support ahead of its call to start an indefinite agitation over not being provided compensation for the pink bollworm-hit cotton crop. The agitation will begin outside mini-secretariat in Bathinda on October 25. BKU members have been holding regular meetings at village and block levels in these two Malwa districts.Jasvir Singh Burj Sema, a leader of the union said, “Today meetings were conducted by committees of 35 villages in Bathinda district. Members of the union also carried out a door-to-door activity in villages and exhorted residents to participate in the indefinite agitation in large numbers to make it a success.”Sema added, “We have been demanding Rs 60,000 compensation for the cotton crop damage on one acre for affected farmers and Rs 30,000 compensation to every labourer who couldn’t not get the opportunity to work in fields after the Malwa belt came under the pink bollworm attack this season. We also demand a strict punitive action against companies selling spurious seeds and pesticides. “The government must also provide compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to families of farmers who committed suicide after suffering the crop loss.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, president of BKU Mansa unit said: “We protested outside the Finance Minister’s residence for 15 days but government remained indifferent on the matter. So we have decided to start an indefinite agitation against it now. Preparations to that effect are in full-swing and we have been holding meetings regularly to mobilise support for the stir.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-mobilises-support-in-malwa-villages-for-protest-over-crop-relief-327658
22-10-2021||---||Singhu border killing plot to defame farm agitation: Lawyers’ body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21Asserting that the Singhu border killing was a manifestation of anger over failed injustice in past sacrilege incidents, the Lawyers for Human Rights International (LFHRI) today demanded a thorough probe into what seemed to be a conspiracy to derail the farmers’ agitation through such incidents.A five-member inquiry team of LFHRI, which visited the crime site earlier, released its report on the killing here today. Team member Navkiran Singh said their probe revealed there was a larger conspiracy to derail and defame the farmers’ agitation at Singhu border where Nihangs were providing protective cover to protesters. “We recommend Punjab to get the conspiracy theory investigated,” he said.Navkiran added people as well as Nihangs feel a large section of the Sikhs were fed up with sacrilege incidents since 2015 and the failure of the police and the lengthy judicial processes.Narrating the sequence of events of the killing on the basis of their finding, he said it was the Nihang dera of Baba Balwinder Singh — Jathedar of Panth Akali Nirvair Khalsa Udna Dal, where the incident of sacrilege had taken place. It is one of the eight deras of the Nihnags at the site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-border-killing-plot-to-defame-farm-agitation-lawyers-body-327659
22-10-2021||Bathinda||Implement HSRP scheme to help curb crime, says expert||Road safety expert Kamaljeet Soi today said there was need to strictly implement high security registration plate (HSRP) scheme to curb drug trafficking as in the most cases vehicles are used.Soi was addressing mediapersons during the launch of ‘Mission Safe Malwa’ here on Thursday.20L vehicles sans security platesThe HSRP scheme was initiated by the govt in 2012, but nothing much was done to implement it. As a result even today almost 20 lakh vehicles are still plying on the roads without HSRPs — Kamaljeet Sohi, Road Safety ExpertSoi, who is also a member of National Road Safety Council, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, said, “Unlike two other regions of the state, Malwa is most affected by drug trafficking, liquor smuggling and other crimes. A majority of these crimes are carried out by miscreants using vehicles. A strict adherence to high security registration plates can play a pivotal role in curbing the crime rate in the region.”“Shockingly, in case of deaths in road accidents, 35 per cent of vehicles never get identified. Consequently, the police close the cases. Some miscreants have also started affixing fake HSRPs on their vehicles which in turn are used for different crimes thereby making it difficult for the police to track them down. It’s a grave concern that needs serious intervention of the authorities concerned and government.”“The HSRP scheme was initiated by the state government in year 2012, but nothing much was done to implement it. As a result even today almost 20 lakh vehicles are still plying on the roads without HSRPs.” He exhorted the Transport Department to issue necessary instructions to its officials to start enforcing the scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/implement-hsrp-scheme-to-help-curb-crime-says-expert-327660
22-10-2021||Bathinda||Man shot in Bathinda park, two injured||Shots were fired in broad daylight in the Ajit road area of Bathinda. A man was killed while two others were injured in the incident. The latter were admitted to the Civil Hospital.As per information, a group of unidentified assailants attacked three persons at a park in the area. Apart from firearms, the assailants also used sticks to beat them. The assailants fled the spot in a car. The incident is said to be the fallout of personal enmity.The deceased has been identified as 30-year-old Hashandeep Singh, who sustained a bullet injury on his chest and died. Buta Singh and Jaskaran Singh, who were accompanying the victim, sustained leg injuries. SP (H) Surinderpal Singh said, “As per initial scrutiny of the CCTV footage, one of the assailants was identified as a resident of Bhokhra village in Bathinda.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-shot-in-bathinda-park-two-injured-327661
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Take anti-dengue measures: Dy CM||Giving a clarion call to people to join dengue-control efforts, Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health, asked people to observe a ‘dry day’ in the state every Sunday, unfailingly. “To check the surge of dengue, it is mandatory that people clean all sorts of water containers at least once a week and break the breeding cycle of the larva,” he said.Reviewing the status of dengue spread and control measures put in place in a virtual meeting with all civil surgeons and epidemiologists of the state, Soni said 12,80,645 households had been inspected and mosquito breeding was seen in 21,683 of them. So, it is mandatory that people check water accumulation in their houses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-anti-dengue-measures-dy-cm-327662
22-10-2021||Patiala||Ex-cop RS Khatra’s son quits politics||SAD leader Satbir Singh Khatra, 38, the son of former IPS officer RS Khatra, today quit politics. He was made the party’s halqa in-charge of Patiala rural early in 2017. The SAD has not yet named any candidate from Patiala rural.Khatra said he took the decision as he was perturbed over allegations by certain sections that the probe conducted by his father in sacrilege cases was botched. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cop-rs-khatras-son-quits-politics-327663
22-10-2021||Bathinda||Arrest Bhoa MLA for assault on youth, says SAD||Condemning the alleged thrashing of a youth in the Bhoa area of Pathankot, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said a criminal case should be registered against MLA Joginder Pal and he should be arrested immediately.Also read: Bhoa Congress MLA Joginder Pal ‘slaps’ youth at eventAddressing mediapersons in Bathinda, Sukhbir said: “An SC youth was beaten for asking the Bhoa MLA about his lack of performance. I want to ask CM Charanjit Singh Channi to tell people what message his government wanted to give to the youth of the state.”Meanwhile, the party’s youth wing held a protest seeking the arrest of Joginder Pal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrest-bhoa-mla-for-assault-on-youth-says-sad-327664
22-10-2021||Amritsar||SUV rams into Attari barrier||A speeding SUV rammed into the barricading put up by the BSF near the Integrated Check Post at the Attari-Wagah last night. BSF men later nabbed the driver.After preliminary interrogation, the BSF authorities handed over Inderjit Singh, a resident of Islamabad area here, to the Gharinda police for further action.Attari DSP Baldev Singh said as per the BSF, the incident occurred around 2 am on Thursday. However, nothing objectionable was found on him. A case was being registered against the suspect.“ Initial questioning by the BSF suggested he was under mental stress,” said the DSP.In a major security breach in 2015, a speeding SUV driven by a Canada-based NRI had crashed into the joint check post gate. Since then, heavy barricading was done near the ICP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suv-rams-into-attari-barrier-327665
22-10-2021||---||2 jail inmates flee custody||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 21A manhunt has been launched for two inmates who reportedly escaped from police custody in Faridkot today.They have been identified as Sazim (22) and Abdul Rehman (23), both residents of Bilhor village of Kanpur district in Uttar Pradesh. The escape took place around 7 pm when a police party was returning from Mukerian along with the inmates. The police party had taken the accused to Mukerian for their appearance in a criminal case.The prisoners managed to escape when the police vehicle transporting them reached near the Central Jail, Faridkot, and fled into the nearby bushes. Both inmates are involved in criminal cases. While Sazim is facing eight cases, Abdul Rehman is allegedly involved inseven. Further investigation is under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-jail-inmates-flee-custody-327666
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||ASI caught taking Rs 15K bribe||Safai workers end strikeAbohar: The Safai Sewak Union of the municipal corporation on Thursday agreed to end its week-long strike after its five-member action committee discussed the prevailing situation at a meeting with Mayor Vimal Thatai. The union had complained that workers were not being paid salaries on a regular basis. OCPrincipal suspendedFazilka: The Principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Mahmu Joyia village, has been placed under suspension for alleged negligence in duty. In a letter, the Secretary, School Education, has directed Brij Mohan Singh to report to the office of District Education Officer, Gurdaspur. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-caught-taking-rs-15k-bribe-327668
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh architect of ‘black’ farm laws: Navjot Sidhu||With Capt Amarinder Singh all set to float a party and championing the farmers’ cause, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday accused the former CM of being the architect of the three ‘black’ farm laws. “The architect of three black laws, who brought Ambani to Punjab’s ‘kisani’, who destroyed Punjab’s farmers, small traders and labour for benefiting one or two big corporates,” he tweeted.Also read: ‘What a fraud you are’: Capt Amarinder hits back at Navjot Singh SidhuCaptain Amarinder Singh ‘nationalist’, open to alliance with him: BJPAAP questions BJP’s patriot tag for Capt Amarinder SinghWhat they said...Destroyed Punjab’s farmers, small traders and labourers to benefit one or two corporates — Navjot Singh SidhuHe is clueless about Punjab and interests of farmers — Capt Amarinder SinghHitting back, Captain Amarinder Singh claimed that Navjot Sidhu was clueless about Punjab and farmers’ interests. “You clearly don’t know the difference between diversification and what the farm laws are all about,” he alleged. Targeting Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat over his secularism remark, the former CM reminded him that Sidhu had been with the BJP for 14 years and Pargat Singh was with the SAD prior to joining the Congress. — TNSAlso read: Capt Amarinder Singh to blame for more powers to BSF: Pargat SinghCapt Amarinder got Maur blast probe stalled: Sukhjinder Singh RandhawaWe were right in removing Captain Amarinder Singh: CongressCapt Amarinder Singh an ‘opportunist’, betrayed Punjab, says Sukhjinder Randhawa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-amarinder-singh-architect-of-black-farm-laws-navjot-sidhu-327636
22-10-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘What a fraud you are’: Capt Amarinder hits back at Navjot Singh Sidhu||Chandigarh, October 21Hitting back at Navjot Singh Sidhu for calling Capt Amarinder Singh as "architect" of the Centre's three farm laws, the former Punjab CM has said Punjab Congress president was “clueless about the interests of Punjab and its farmers”.“What a fraud and cheat you are Navjot Singh Sidhu! You’re trying to pass off my 15-year-old crop diversification initiative as connected with farm laws, against which I’m still fighting and with which I’ve linked my own political future,” Amarinder said after Sidhu posted an old video of the former CM.Read also"The architect of three black laws… Who brought Ambani to Punjab's kisani… Who destroyed Punjab's farmers, small traders and labour for benefiting one-two big corporates," Sidhu tweeted in an apparent reference to farmers' allegations that big corporates will dictate terms to agriculturists with the passage of these laws.‘What a fraud and cheat you are @sherryontopp! You’re trying to pass off my 15-year-old crop diversification initiative as connected with #FarmLaws, against which I’m still fighting and with which I’ve linked my own political future!’: @capt_amarinder 1/3 https://t.co/Eg1aPJ1isS  In his retort to Sidhu, Capt Amarinder said, “It’s obvious you’re clueless about Punjab’s and its farmers’ interests. You clearly don’t know the difference between diversification and what the farm laws are all about. And yet you dream of leading Punjab. How dreadful if that ever happens!”Amarinder went on add: “And it’s hilarious that you’ve chosen to post this video at a time when Congress govt in Punjab is going all out to promote its upcoming Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit. Or are you opposed to that too?”Amarinder Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. Charanjit Singh Channi replaced him as the chief minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/what-a-fraud-you-are-capt-amarinder-hits-back-at-navjot-singh-sidhu-327600
22-10-2021||---||Capt Amarinder hits back at Harish Rawat over secularism remark||Chandigarh, October 21Hitting back at Congress Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat over his secularism remark aimed at Capt Amarinder Singh, the former CM had pointed out that Navjot Singh Sidhu remained in BJP for 14 years and Pargat Singh was in Akali Dal, prior to joining Congress.Read also:Questioning Rawat, Capt Amarinder Singh while citing example Congress alliance with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra said, “It was ok to join forces with so-called communal parties as long as it suits Congress purpose. What’s this if not sheer political opportunism?”‘Stop talking about secularism @harishrawatcmuk ji. Don’t forget @INCIndia took in @sherryontopp after he was with @BJP4India for 14 years. And where did Nana Patole and Revnath Reddy come from if not RSS? And Pargat Singh was with @Akali_Dal_ for 4 years!’: @capt_amarinder 1/4 pic.twitter.com/h3f8ce4F6V  “Today you’re accusing me of helping my rival Akali Dal for four and a half years. I have been fighting court cases against them for the last 10 years,” said the former CM replying to charges levelled by Rawat.He further said, “Your apprehension I’ll damage Congress interests in Punjab. Fact is the party has damaged its own interests by not trusting me and giving in into the hands of an unstable person like Navjot Sidhu who’s only loyal to himself.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-hits-back-at-harish-rawat-over-secularism-remark-327591
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu calls Capt Amarinder ‘the architect of 3 black laws, who brought Ambani into Punjab to destroy farmers’||After lying low for a few days, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday termed former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh as the architect of three central farm laws. Sidhu’s reaction came a day after Amarinder announced to float a party and indicated at pre-alliance with the BJP, subject to favourable solution to the farmers’ agitation.Also read: Sidhu acused Amarinder of destroying Punjab's farmers and small traders.Sidhu tweeted: “The Architect of 3 Black Laws … Who brought Ambani to Punjab’s Kisani … Who destroyed Punjab’s Farmers, Small traders and Labour for benefiting 1-2 Big Corporates !!”The Architect of 3 Black Laws … Who brought Ambani to Punjab’s Kisani … Who destroyed Punjab’s Farmers, Small traders and Labour for benefiting 1-2 Big Corporates !!#FarmLaws #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/Yn0FIwtmPf||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-calls-capt-amarinder-the-architect-of-3-black-laws-who-brought-ambani-into-punjab-to-destroy-farmers-327575
