23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi stops his cavalcade near protest site, reiterates support to farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday reiterated his support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.The CM stopped his cavalcade when he saw a protest by farmers at a toll plaza near Jhallian village on Ropar-Chamkaur Sahib road.“Channi straightaway went to the site of the ‘dharna’ and expressed solidarity with the farmers, reiterating his support to the struggle being waged by the farming community,” according to a government statement.The chief minister said the Punjab government stands shoulder to shoulder with the farmers against these “draconian” farm laws.“We are duty bound to safeguard the interests of the farmers and will continue to wholeheartedly extend support to your agitation until the anti-farmer agricultural laws are done away with,” Channi was quoted as saying in the statement.He alleged the three laws are the “culmination of the conspiracy to subjugate India’s farmers for the advantage of a handful of crony capitalist friends of the Modi government”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-stops-his-cavalcade-near-protest-site-reiterates-support-to-farmers-328663
23-10-2021||---||Punjab police bust cross-border espionage network||Amritsar, October 23In the relentless drive to break the nexus of Pak ISI and perfidious armed forces personnel who supply sensitive information with the nefarious design to compromise sovereignty, integrity and security of the state, Punjab Police have busted a cross border espionage network.In an intelligence led operation, State Special Operation Cell Amritsar has arrested a serving Indian Army Jawan, Krunal Kumar Baria of Dhamnod, Panchamahalas, Gujarat. He is presently serving with the Indian Army at Ferozepur Cantt. He has been in touch with various Pak ISI agents through social media apps. Taking advantage of his deployment in the IT Cell, he has been passing highly sensitive and classified information about the Army to his Pak-based handlers. In lieu of the information, he has been paid money by the Pak agencies.During the preliminary investigations, it has come to light that accused came in touch with a lady Pakistan Intelligence Officer (PIO) namely Sidra Khan through Facebook in 2020. After connecting through Facebook and Messenger, they shifted to WhatsApp and other private messaging and calling apps. The accused was in touch with the PIO on her two Pak mobile nos. and one Indian no.It has been revealed that the accused was allured by the PIO through her treacherous tricks to work for ISI as a result of which the accused shared many classified documents with her via encrypted apps. During preliminary inspection of his mobile phone, many classified documents have been found.In this connection a case FIR No. 20 dated 24.10.2021 u/s 3, 4, 5, 9 Official Secrets Act, 120-B IPC, PS SSOC Amritsar has been registered. Army authorities have been appraised about the arrest. Investigations are being conducted to assess the actual amount of damage caused by the accused. It is also being ascertained if the accused was working alone or he has a team at his disposal. Accused has been formally arrested and will be produced in the court for police remand in due course.During the past also, Punjab Police has busted similar espionage networks. On March 14, 2019, one Ram Kumar of New Dussehra colony, Nalwa road, Jalandhar, then posted at MES (Military Engineer service) Jalandhar Cantt, was apprehended for sharing classified information with Pak Intelligence agencies. In this regards a case was registered at PS SSOC, Amritsar.Again, in January 2021, 04 Army personnel namely Manpreet Singh from Gurdaspur, Amritpal Singh, Lovejot Singh and Raman Kumar, all from Gurdaspur district were arrested who were sharing classified documents through pen drives. A case was registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-bust-cross-border-espionage-network-328656
23-10-2021||---||Amritsar woman who moved to Canada booked for defrauding husband||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22The police have booked a woman, along with her parents, for allegedly defrauding her husband after she moved to Canada. All expenses for sending her abroad were borne by her in-laws.Following a probe and after taking the opinion of the district attorney, the police have booked the woman, identified as Randeep Kaur, and her parents Parminder Kaur and Rajinder Singh, both residents of Vallah. Nobody has been arrested so far.Narinderpal Singh, a resident of Balsaran village, filed a complaint on March 31. He told the police that his son Harmanpreet Singh married Randeep Kaur in October, 2018. She had already cleared IELTS exams. After marriage, she asked her husband to send her to Canada saying she would invite him as well on spouse visa. He said he spent Rs 19 lakh on clearing Randeep’s paperwork for settling in Canada.He alleged that after shifting to Canada, Randeep’s attitude changed and she started using foul language with them. She refused to take Harmanpreet Singh to Canada on spouse visa. He said her parents also supported her.ASI Balkar Singh, Investigating Officer, said a case was registered following a probe conducted by Sub-Inspector Avtar Singh. He said a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC had been registered against Randeep and her parents, and efforts were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-woman-who-moved-to-canada-booked-for-defrauding-husband-328537
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhjinder Randhawa-Capt Amarinder duel gets personal||The war of words between former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress over national security vis-à-vis Pakistan got personal today with Deputy CM and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa terming former CM’s Pakistan friend Aroosa Alam a security threat due to her alleged ISI links.Will probe ISI linksWhy are you (Capt) so perturbed over probe on Aroosa and ISI links? Who sponsored her visa and everything concerning her will be probed. I do hope everyone concerned will co-operate with police in probe. — Sukhjinder Randhawa, Home MinisterHad govt clearanceYou were a minister in my Cabinet. Never heard you complain about Aroosa. She’d been coming for 16 years with due GoI clearances. Or are you alleging both NDA and UPA govts connived with Pak ISI? — Capt Amarinder Singh, Ex-CMRandhawa created a flutter in the political and administrative circles on Friday when he informed on his official Twitter handle that he had directed the DGP to probe Alam’s relation with the ISI. Later, Randhawa deleted the tweet and did not respond to calls.He has stepped up attack on Captain Amarinder after the latter’s unceremonious exit as Chief Minister. Only yesterday, he had called the Captain Amarinder an “opportunist” after the former CM announced he would launch his own political party and indicated at a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP in the Assembly polls if the farmers’ issue is resolved in their interest.Captain Amarinder said Randhawa is now resorting to personal attacks. “Alam had been coming to India for 16 years with due Government of India clearances, Or are you alleging both the NDA and then UPA government in this period connived with Pak ISI?” the former CM sought to know. In a piece of advice to Randhawa, Captain Amarinder said a month had passed since he assumed his office in the Channi government. “This is all you have to show to the people. What happened to your tall promises on Bargari and drugs cases? Punjab is still waiting for your promised action,” said the former CM, adding instead of focusing on maintaining law and order, the Deputy CM had put the DGP on a “baseless investigation”. In a series of tweets, Randhawa later rebutted Captain Amarinder’s charges, saying: “It was you who failed to take the probe in Maur blast, Bargari sacrilege and drugs cases to logical conclusions. Rest assured, all these cases will be taken to logical conclusion in coming days.” To silence critics, the ex-CM later tweeted an old photograph of Aroosa meeting party chief Sonia Gandhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhjinder-randhawa-capt-amarinder-duel-gets-personal-328221
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjab ministers fly to Delhi, meet AICC general secretary||Amid the infighting in the Punjab Congress and efforts to bridge the gap between Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Deputy CM and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, and Food Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu met AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal in Delhi on Friday evening. Both flew to Delhi in a state helicopter.The meeting created a flutter in political circles as Randhawa is stated not to be on the same page with Sidhu on the issue of appointment of the DGP and Advocate General (AG), besides other issues. However, party leaders tried to play down the meeting, calling it a routine affair to get feedback in the wake of the upcoming Assembly elections.Though Sidhu has resumed his work as PCC chief, he has not yet withdrawn his resignation. Recently, his media team had said he would withdraw his resignation only after the issues raised by him were resolved.During a recent meeting with CM Channi, Sidhu had once again raised the issue of the DGP and AG, besides asking Channi on the progress made in the sacrilege probe and drug trafficking case. Sources privy to the development said all ministers and prominent leaders were being called to Delhi in turns. Only two days ago, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra had met Venugopal.A senior party leader said the high command was taking views of the leaders on election-related issues as after replacing Capt Amarinder with Channi, the leadership did not want to take any chances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-punjab-ministers-fly-to-delhi-meet-aicc-general-secretary-328222
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Spell out action taken in Maur blast case: AAP||Responding to the statement made by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in the Maur blast case, the AAP today asked the minister to spell out the action he was taking in this regard.AAP senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema alleged the Maur blast during the 2017 Assembly elections was a conspiracy to defame AAP. He said Randhawa, who is also the Home Minister, was accusing former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of not taking any action in the case, but everyone knew that he was in the Cabinet and close to Captain. “Why didn’t he talk about it then?” he asked.Cheema said the Home Minister must tell in how many days all culprits would be punished by conducting a fair investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spell-out-action-taken-in-maur-blast-case-aap-328223
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction row: Restore status quo, Punjab CM Channi writes to PM||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to have a relook and restore the status quo that existed before the Centre’s October 11 notification so as to enable the BSF and Punjab Police to work together against anti-national forces for safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India. He also sought Prime Minister’s appointment on this issue.In a letter to the PM, Channi said the BSF was trained to perform its primary duty of guarding and securing the International Border and act as the first line of defence.He said policing in the hinterland was the duty and responsibility of the state/local police. Moreover, the Punjab Police were a professional force, competent to handle any law and order situation within the state.The CM reminded the PM that the state police had dealt with terrorism effectively in the past, which would not have been possible without effective coordination between state and central agencies. He said joint operations had been conducted successfully against drug traffickers and terror modules because of excellent coordination between the BSF and Punjab Police in the recent past.Meanwhile, the CM has called an all-party meeting on October 25 to discuss the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-jurisdiction-row-restore-status-quo-punjab-cm-channi-writes-to-pm-328224
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt gives Rs 2.50-cr to Lakhimpur victims’ kin||Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister Randeep Singh Nabha today handed over cheques for Rs 50 lakh each to the victim families of the farmers and a journalist killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on October 3.On October 7, CM Charanjit Singh Channi, on a visit to Lakhimpur Kehri, had announced Rs 50 lakh compensation to the victims’ families. Nabha met the aggrieved families in Lucknow and handed over the cheques. He welcomed the suo motu action taken by the Supreme Court in the incident and demanding a time-bound probe to ensure justice to the victims.“The Punjab Government has already given a government job each to a member of the bereaved families of 157 farmers who died during the ongoing agitation,” said Nabha. Four farmers — Daljit Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Nachhatar Singh — besides journalist Raman Kashyap had lost their lives in the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-gives-rs-2-50-cr-to-lakhimpur-victims-kin-328225
23-10-2021||---||Farmers immerse ashes of Lakhimpur Khiri victims in Sutlej||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur, October 22Thousands of farmers belonging to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) today reached Hussainiwala to immerse the ashes of the Lakhimpur Khiri victims in the Sutlej.The farmers led by Shingara Singh, state head, first visited the National Martyrs Memorial, Hussainiwala, to pay tribute to martyrs Bhagat Singh Rajguru and Sukhdev.Later, they went to the banks of the Sutlej to immerse the ashes of Daljit Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Nachhatar Singh and Raman Kashyap who had died in the Lakhimpur Khiri incident.Addressing the congregation, farmer leaders, including Shingara Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Janak Singh and Jagtar Singh, said farmers unions would take the ashes across the nation to awaken people against the “anti-farmer” policies of the BJP-led Central government.“For the past over one year, farmers have been protesting in adverse conditions along the Delhi border, demanding repeal of the three contentious agricultural laws. But their pleas have fallen on deaf ears,” they rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-immerse-ashes-of-lakhimpur-khiri-victims-in-sutlej-328226
23-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Singhu killing: SIT focuses on victim Lakhbir Singh’s contacts||The three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by the state government and the five-member investigation panel formed by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to collect relevant information on the killing of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border a week ago have started working on the ground.Collecting factsWe are collecting facts on how Lakhbir reached the Delhi border and who accompanied him. Harvinder Singh Virk, SSPThe mobile phone used by Lakhbir and those who came in his contact recently were the officials’ main points of attention. Not in the position to purchase a mobile phone, Lakhbir, a resident of Cheema Kalan village here, used to depend on his sister or other acquaintances to make calls.SSP Harvinder Singh Virk, a member of the SIT, today said they were collecting facts on how Lakhbir reached the Delhi border and who accompanied him.He said they were not working on the killing-related evidence as the incident took place in Haryana. “We have started working on the case and a report will be submitted after the investigation is over,” he said, refusing to divulge further details. Two of the five-member team formed by the SKM — Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu and Pargat Singh Jamarai — are also in the district to collect relevant information. Pannu said they were trying to find out as to who went to the Singhu border along with Lakhbir.Lakhbir’s sister Raj Kaur said: “He usually used my mobile phone. It was just around seven to 10 days before his death thathe established contacts with the ‘higher-ups’. He had taken Rs 50 from me to go to nearby Chabal town by bus.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-killing-sit-focuses-on-victim-lakhbir-singhs-contacts-328228
23-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal has his way, gets SAD ticket from Fatehgarh Churian||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 22Sitting Batala MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal finally had his way when the SAD shifted him to the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian, while Majha SAD (youth wing) chief Ravi Karan Kahlon, who was reportedly eyeing the seat, has been forced to contest from Dera Baba Nanak.Harsimrat faces farmers’ angerMoga: SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday faced the ire of farmers when she came at Langeana village in Moga to hold a party workers’ meeting on Friday. The Kirti Kisan Union they would boycott the political parties which would hold poll meetings defying their request.Akalis announce 3 more candidatesChandigarh: The SAD has announced three more candidates for the Assembly polls. Batala MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, will contest from Fatehgarh Churian and Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon from Dera Baba Nanak. From Malerkotla, Yunus Mohammad will be the candidate.Ravi is the son of ex-Speaker and four-time Fatehgarh Churian MLA Nirmal Singh Kahlon.In 2012 and 2017, Lodhinangal had expressed a desire to contest from Fatehgarh Churian. However, on both occasions the party virtually forced him to fight from Batala as “it could not afford to overlook the experience and expertise of an old warhorse like Nirmal Singh”.The factors that go in Lodhinangal’s favour are that after delimitation, a majority of villages falling in his old Assembly seat of Qadian got shifted to Fatehgarh Churian. His ancestral house is located just a km from Fatehgarh Churian town.“He wields considerable influence here. He knows all village heads by name even if they owe allegiance to other parties. Survey reports and field reports collected from grassroots level workers finally tilted the balance in Lodhinangal’s favour,” said a former SAD minister.Ravi Kahlon knows his opponent will be Deputy CM and Congress strongman Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. “This is the reason why as early as last year he had asked his supporters to fan out in the area. His father had given a lot of jobs to the youth when he was the Chairman of Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board and later as a Cabinet Minister. This will be the fulcrum around which Ravi’s campaign will revolve,” said an MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-mla-lakhbir-singh-lodhinangal-has-his-way-gets-sad-ticket-from-fatehgarh-churian-328229
23-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Be circumspect in allowing foreign travel during pendency||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the right of a person to travel admittedly cannot be curtailed, but the courts have to be “even more circumspect” while granting such permission if the person is to travel outside the country during the pendency of a criminal case against him.Canadian citizen was Booked in 2019The assertion by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul came in a case where the counsel for a Canadian citizen, booked in a criminal case in India, contended that the right to travel abroad could not be curtailed in view of presumption of innocence in the absence of conviction.The petitioner had filed the plea challenging the trial court’s order dated September 6, whereby his application seeking permission to go to Canada for a year was dismissed. The petitioner’s counsel, among other things, had contended that the petitioner was not only unable to join his job at Canada, but also meet his family since December 2018, due to the pendency of a criminal case against him. The Bench was told that an FIR against him was registered on March 5, 2019, for subjecting a married woman to cruelty and another offence under Sections 498-A and 406 of the IPC at the Payal police station in Ludhiana district.Referring to High Court judgments in two cases, his counsel contended the cardinal principle was that every person was deemed to be innocent till proven guilty. As such, his fundamental right to travel abroad could not be curtailed merely because of the pendency of a criminal case against him.After hearing the counsel, perusing the record and going through the case law relied upon, Justice Kaul said the petitioner was seeking permission to go to Canada for joining back his work. But he had not placed on record any supporting document to show he was actually employed in Canada. Not only this, the trial court while dismissing his plea rightly observed that his absence for a year would delay the trial.“Coming to the case in hand, it would be apposite to observe that since the petitioner is a Canadian citizen, his assertion that he should be permitted to travel abroad is devoid of any merit as India too is a foreign country for him, and there could be a likelihood that in case the petitioner is permitted to travel to Canada, he may abscond,” Justice Kaul concluded, while dismissing the plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-be-circumspect-in-allowing-foreign-travel-during-pendency-328230
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Quick response centres for NRI flyers: Pargat Singh||A 24X7 online quick response centres would be set up to deal with problems faced by NRIs at airports on their return home, said Pargat Singh, NRI Affairs Minister, today.Operational 24X7Presiding over a review meeting of the NRI Affairs Department here, Pargat said it had come to his notice that sometimes NRIs are stopped at airports due to paperwork, technical reasons or due to misunderstanding.In order to help the passengers in such cases, the state government would set up quick response centres which would be operational 24X7. Experts would be deputed to deal with the NRIs’ problems. The experts would contact the concerned party on the phone to resolve the problems.To address grievances of NRIs in property, criminal, matrimonial and other cases, he directed the department to liaise with the Revenue and Police Departments for working out a blueprint for the deployment of dedicated officers in each district.In view of the difficulties being faced by people in travelling to Chandigarh for verification, the minister asked the department to work on a proposal for applying online and getting the certificate from the Suvidha or Sanjh Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quick-response-centres-for-nri-flyers-pargat-singh-328232
23-10-2021||GS Paul||Won’t yield to pressure, mulling legal option: Shillong Sikhs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22Amid imminent eviction, nearly 350 Sikh families residing in Shillong stood to fight their own battle of existence against the Meghalaya Government’s move to dislocate them and take possession of their land, apparently for commercial purposes.Contempt of HC ordersAny intervention by any office will be the contempt of the orders of the Meghalaya High Court, which on April 9 issued directions to maintain status quo from both sides. The court has told the authorities categorically that the Harijan Colony residents should not be disturbed. — Gurjit Singh, Secy, Harijan Panchayat CommitteeThe dispute revolves around 2-acre plot on which the Punjabi Lane (Harijan Colony) is established, where they reside since their ancestors were brought in by the British in the 19th century. They claim that they were “gifted” the land by the Syiem (chief) of the area then. In modern era, this spot has turned out to be a multi-crore commercial hub.All efforts by the SGPC, DSGMC and the Punjab Government to shield the affected families proved to be a futile exercise. Stating that they will not succumb to any pressure, the Harijan Panchayat Committee (HPC), which represents the Sikh community members there, have conveyed to the Deputy Commissioner of East Khasi Hills that there should be “no intervention” by the district authorities as the matter was sub judice with the Meghalaya High Court and the Supreme Court.HPC secretary Gurjit Singh said: “We will proceed legally. Any intervention by any office will be the contempt of the orders of the Meghalaya High Court, which in its orders dated April 9 has directed to maintain status quo from both sides. The court has told the authorities categorically that the Harijan Colony residents should not be disturbed.”He said despite this, the state Cabinet took the decision on October 4 “to evict the Sikhs living in Shillong”, based on a recommendation made by a high-level committee (HLC) headed by Deputy CM Prestone Tynsong. The government agreed upon rehabilitation of those families who were employed with the Shillong Municipal Board (SMB), but their count is just 20. The rest were termed as “outsiders” with no right.Gurjit said neither the Sikh bodies nor the Punjab Government could help them. “Except for a few meetings with the Meghalaya Governor or leaders, which end with false assurances, nothing concrete has been done to safeguard the victims’ interests,” he said.Punjab Deputy CM and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had visited them twice with a delegation. “I have written to Home Minister Amit Shah about their cause, but he never cared to respond. We are helpless. The Meghalaya Government never cared about the National Minority Commission’s directions of not disturbing the Sikh families,” he said.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a delegation visited and met Meghalaya authorities in this regard earlier, but it did not yield results. “Soon, we will approach the Union Home Ministry again,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-yield-to-pressure-mulling-legal-option-shillong-sikhs-328233
23-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||New central Bill adds to drug makers’ woes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The 200-odd small pharma units in Punjab foresee a bleak future ahead, if the Centre were to bring into force the new Drugs, Cosmetics and Medical Devices Bill. The proposed law aims at centralisation of licensing and other regulatory procedures.Legislation Will hit small unitsThe small drug manufacturers do not have either the financial muscle or other resources to keep running to central agencies, or upgrading infrastructure each time a new licensing authority is created or rules changed. Labhnesh Jindal, Drug manufacturerSoni: Restrict sale of habit-forming drugs Having bled for over 12 years due to tax exemption in the neighbouring hill states, the Punjab-based pharma industry says that the centralisation will only add to their woes as they will be required to upgrade infrastructure and will also be subjected to red-tapism. The issue, they reason, is also against the spirit of federalism as the Centre is taking over a state subject.Drug manufacturers in the state say that a unified/central drugs authority is sought to be created by the proposed Act that will divest the states of the powers to licence drug industry. It is pertinent that earlier Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation was similarly sought to be empowered twice as per Drugs Act Amendment Bill-2007 and Drugs Act Amendment Bill-2013. Both times the Bills were rejected by Parliament.Talking to The Tribune, Jagdeep Singh, president of Punjab Drug Manufacturers’ Association, said it was after over 12 years that the pharma units in Punjab got a relief with the Goods and Services Tax rollout, which gave them a level playing field with the drug manufacturing units enjoying tax exemption in the hill states.“During these 12 years, the units in hill states made huge profits and upgraded their infrastructure, which units in non-tax exempt states like Punjab, were not able to do. The 200 small units in the state have an average turnover of Rs 10-15 crore. These will then have no option but to shut shop. This will also impact the generic drug market, catering to the common man,” he said.Labhnesh Jindal, a drug manufacturer in Ludhiana, said this was the third attempt at centralising the licensing. “Small manufacturers do not have finances to keep running to central agencies, or upgrading themselves each time a new licensing authority is created. The units in Punjab already suffered huge losses as buyers shifted to buying drugs from units in tax-exempt states before 2017, which could offer huge discounts,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-central-bill-adds-to-drug-makers-woes-328234
23-10-2021||Bathinda||2 suspects held for Bathinda shooting||The district police have arrested two of the seven suspects booked for shooting a man and injuring two others in a street on the Ajit Road last evening. The five others are at large.The two — Aman of Bhai Bakhtaur and Gurpreet Singh of Jassi Pao Wali — along with Baljinderpal Singh, alias Billa, of Bhokra village; Satnam Singh of Bathinda; Sukhdev Singh, alias Jassa, of Nehiawala; Surinder Singh of Balahar Vinju village and one unidentified suspect have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Arms Act.Investigations pointed to personal enmity between two groups as the possible cause of the murder. Two months ago, a group led by Buta Singh had assaulted members of the Billa Bhokhra group. To avenge it, members of the Billa Bhokhra group last evening allegedly attacked and injured Buta and opened fire at his companion Hasandeep Singh, a resident of Mahima Bhagwan village, Bathinda.Jaskaran Singh, who was passing by on a motorcycle suffered a bullet shrapnel. He was not linked to either of the groups. The suspects thereafter fled the scene in a car. The three injured were taken to the hospital, where doctors declared Hasandeep dead.An official said: “Two suspects have been arrested and we are raiding possible hideouts to nab the rest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-suspects-held-for-bathinda-shooting-328235
23-10-2021||Archit Watts||No specialist to treat dengue in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 22With the dengue count surging, 967 cases have been reported in the district till Thursday, but not even a single patient is admitted to any government medical facility. The reason is that there is no specialist (medicine) doctor in any government hospital.Ropar reports 34 more cases in 24 hours, tally 373On September 23, 328 dengue cases were reported in the district. This count has increased three-fold in a month, with the maximum cases being reported from urban areas. Of the 967 cases, 490 are from Malout urban, 229 Muktsar urban, 162 Gidderbaha urban, 28 Doda block, 21 Alamwala block, 19 Lambi block and 18 Chak Sherewala block. Of these, 534 cases were reported this month.Muktsar CMO Dr Ranju Singla said, “There is a surge in dengue cases. We have set up special wards in civil hospitals, but we don’t have any specialist (medicine) doctor in the district. At present, not even a single dengue patient is admitted to any government hospital in the district. A girl in Malout died. Besides, two suspected dengue deaths have occurred.”“An MD (Chest and TB) doctor posted at Badal village is handling the dengue cases in the district,” she said, adding: “We are taking steps to control the surge. Special teams have been formed for fogging operations, awareness drive and to destroy dengue larvae. Besides, we are doing free testing at civil hospitals in Malout and Muktsar.”A dengue patient’s relative from Gidderbaha said, “Private doctors are fleecing the patients. I donated blood and Rs 12,000 to get one plasma unit. The state government is just doing lip service. There is hardly any check on illegal practices in the health sector.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-specialist-to-treat-dengue-in-muktsar-328236
23-10-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Set up pharma park in Bathinda, Centre urged||Finance Minister Manpreet Badal today met Union Minister for Chemicals, Fertilisers and Pharmaceuticals Mansukh L Mandaviya seeking establishment of a pharmaceutical park in Bathinda.“The park will serve the country, particularly the northern region, including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, western UP, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh,” the Finance Minister said.He said it was equally important to diversify Punjab’s economy as well as its agriculture. Responding to Badal, the Union Minister said he would give Bathinda the highest consideration.Establishment of a pharmaceutical park at Bathinda would provide direct employment to around 1 lakh people and indirect employment to nearly 2 lakh people, Badal said.He underlined the presence of a fully operational ‘A’ level railway station, availability of 1,350 acres, and proximity to the Bathinda Oil Refinery, making the site ideal for establishing a pharma park. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/set-up-pharma-park-in-bathinda-centre-urged-328237
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Verka orders FIR in scholarship scam||Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Minister Raj Kumar Verkahas issued directions to register a case against the accused in the post-matric scholarship scam.Verka said the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab Government was committed to rooting out corruption and those involved in the scam would not be spared.Verka said around 100 colleges were involved in the wrongdoing and more than Rs 100 crore recovery was pending against these.He said the matter had been discussed by the Cabinet and the opinion of Advocate General had been received in this regard. The Supreme Court had asked for registration of a case for recovery of more than Rs 50 lakh. In this context, orders had been issued to register an FIR against those who cheated students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/verka-orders-fir-in-scholarship-scam-328238
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rs77 cr power bill dues waived so far||On the directives of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has cleared outstanding arrears of electricity bills worth Rs 77.37 crore of 96,911 domestic consumers having load below 2 KW to date.The Chief Minister’s Office said the consumers from five zones — border zone (Sub Urban Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and City Amritsar circles); central zone (East Ludhiana, West Ludhiana, Khanna and Sub Urban Ludhiana); north zone (Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr); south zone (Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Ropar and Mohali) and west zone (Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot and Muktsar) — had as many as 15.85 lakh beneficiaries with total liability of Rs 1,505 crore, out of which outstanding arrears worth Rs 77.37 crore had been waived so far.Giving the zone-wise breakup of beneficiaries with financial liability on this account, the spokesperson said the border zone had 4.27 lakh beneficiaries (with Rs 407 crore liability), central zone had 1.84 lakh beneficiaries (Rs 1.57 crore), north zone had 2.11 lakh beneficiaries (Rs 1.78 crore), south zone had 2.86 lakh beneficiaries (Rs 2 crore) and west zone had 4.76 lakh beneficiaries (Rs 5.62 crore). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs77-cr-power-bill-dues-waived-so-far-328239
23-10-2021||---||Crop hit by bollworm, Mansa farmer ends life||Tribune News ServiceMansa, October 22A 45-year-old farmer allegedly ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance at Moosa village in Mansa district. The deceased farmer, Gurpreet Singh, owned 1.5 acres of agricultural land.As per his family members, Gurpreet had sown cotton on the land and was stressed as the crop was completely damaged by pink bollworm. He was under a debt of Rs 8 lakh and feared he wouldn’t be able to repay it. Gurpreet’s family has urged the government to waive his entire debt and provide financial assistance to them.The police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPc and handed over the dead body to the family for cremation. Gurpreet is survived by his wife and three children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-hit-by-bollworm-mansa-farmer-ends-life-328240
23-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Minister: Soil health poor due to pesticide overuse||Soil and Water Conservation, Technical Education and Employment Generation Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Friday stressed the need to think about the gravity of depleting water table and unhealthy soil.Addressing mediapersons after laying the foundation stone of an irrigation project, Rana Gurjeet said soil health in Punjab was not good due to the use of pesticides.He said he would take up the critical issue with the Cabinet. “Drip irrigation is the only solution to rejuvenate depleting water table. We have to come out of traditional crop cycle. For installation of drip irrigation system, 90 percent subsidy will be sought,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-soil-health-poor-due-to-pesticide-overuse-328241
23-10-2021||New Delhi||Global honour for US-Indian doctor||Indian-American cardiologist Inder Anand has bagged the prestigious Heart Failure Society of America’s (HFSA) Lifetime Achievement Award for pioneering work in the field, including in areas of congestive heart failure and high altitude medicine and biology.PGI connectionAnand graduated from an Indian Rhodes Scholar to America’s top rated cardiologist and has a deep connection with PGI, Chandigarh, where he taught for long years before returning to the US in 1990s. Anand’s illustrious father Dr Santokh Singh Anand was one of the founders of the PGI, Chandigarh.Carrying forward his father’s legacy, Inder Anand bagged the Rhodes Scholarship in 1966 and got a D Phil in cardiovascular physiology from Oxford. There was no looking back since then.Anand returned to India and served at the PGI starting 1976. In 1991, he relocated to Minneapolis as Professor of Medicine and Director, Heart Failure Programme, at the VA Medical Centre. He remained there until retirement in 2015.It was in India where Anand developed a keen interest in heart failure and pursued high altitude medicine discovering two new syndromes in people living at higher reaches — infantile sub-acute mountain sickness in Tibet and sub-acute adult mountain sickness in Indian soldiers posted at altitudes of nearly 20,000 ft.Dr Anand’s more recent works focus on biomarkers in heart failure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/global-honour-for-us-indian-doctor-328242
23-10-2021||---||Month after wife’s murder, teacher held for killing fiancée||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 22With the arrest of a 40-year-old online mathematics teacher, the Patiala police claim to have solved two blind murders. Addressing the media today, SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar said Navinderpritpal Singh, son of a retired Lieutenant Colonel, used nitrogen gas to kill his fiancée and first wife within the gap of a month.‘Under stress due to multiple marriages’Bhullar said the accused killed his fiancée, Chupinder Pal Kaur of Bathinda, on October 13 — a week before their marriage. Chupinder had reached Patiala on October 11 for her pre-wedding shopping, but was reportedly killed two days later.CIA incharge Shamminder Singh said the accused misled the police by concocting a story that Chupinder had fought with him and had left on October 14.Shamminder claimed that it was a planned murder as the accused had already dug a pit in his bedroom to dispose of her body. “After killing her, the accused covered the pit with tiles and then put a carpet over it,” he said.The police said the accused during interrogation revealed that he had followed the same modus operandi while killing his first wife, Sukhdeep Kaur of Sangrur district, on the intervening night of September 19 and 20.They said the accused admitted that he killed her using nitrogen gas and convinced everyone that she had died of a heart attack. They had got married in 2018.“The accused said he killed both women as he was under stress due to multiple marriages. He is in six-day police remand now,” the police said.The CIA incharge said the accused had married a third woman in 2018 and was currently living with her at a rented accommodation in Patiala city. “The family members of the accused only knew about his first marriage. He never involved his family in any marriage-related ritual. His family has no idea that he was engaged to another woman until he was arrested,” he said.The police said another woman had died by suicide outside the residence of the accused in 2014. “Now, we will investigate that case too,” the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/month-after-wifes-murder-teacher-held-for-killing-fianc%C3%A9e-328243
23-10-2021||---||Simarjit Singh Bains case: Party men ‘rough up’ complainant||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 22A woman, who had levelled rape allegations and got FIR registered against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, was allegedly roughed up by women LIP workers during a protest march on Friday.After another woman withdrew her sexual harassment complaint against Bains, the LIP workers today organised a protest march against SAD leaders here. The protesting workers alleged that SAD and Congress were behind “false” complaints against Bains.The LIP workers also burned the effigy of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and party leader Harish Rai Dhanda.During the protest, the woman complainant also reached the spot along with her supporters. She started raising slogans against Bains. After which she was allegedly roughed up by women LIP workers. To control the situation, the police detained the LIP workers.Notably, two women had levelled rape/sexual harassment allegations against Bains. But, one of these two women had withdrawn her complaint, alleging that she was threatened by SAD and Congress leaders to lodge a false complaint against MLA Bains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/simarjit-singh-bains-case-party-men-rough-up-complainant-328244
23-10-2021||Ferozepur||Man in Army fatigues held along border||Sleuths belonging to BSF’s 29 Battalion have nabbed a man roaming under suspicious circumstances at a religious fair near Mamdot block.The suspect has been identified as Mandeep Singh, son of Jagjit Singh, a resident of Aali Ke Village in Bathinda district. As per information, the suspect was wandering in the fair in Army fatigues.Mamdot SHO Gurpreet Singh said the event was held annually near the LS Wala border post. “The suspect was roaming in Army fatigues. He was arrested under suspicion. During interrogation, he said he wanted to join the Army but couldn’t. However, he did not give satisfactory answer regarding his presence here,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-in-army-fatigues-held-along-border-328245
23-10-2021||Faridkot||Sacrilege: SIT submits handwriting samples of accused||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the sacrilege cases has submitted the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report of the handwriting samples of Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, who is accused of writing blasphemous posters.The SIT had collected the samples of handwritings of Sunny in June this year to negate a report of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) of the CBI in which the central agency had given a clean chit to Sunny.In regard to pasting of blasphemous posters at gurdwaras in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages in September 2015, the CFSL, in its report dated August 28, 2018, had claimed the authorship of the questioned writings could not be connected with any set of the writers, attributed to Sunny and 11 other accused in the case.However, claiming the comparison of the handwriting of the accused with the authorship of the posters was not made properly by the CBI, the SIT had approached the court here, seeking to collect the handwriting of Sunny so as to make its comparison with authorship of the posters. Before the investigation in the sacrilege cases was transferred to the SIT in January this year on the orders of Punjab and Haryana HC, it was being investigated by the CBI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-sit-submits-handwriting-samples-of-accused-328246
23-10-2021||Faridkot||Check misuse of antibiotics: NMC||Blaming the “misuse and overuse” of antimicrobials and antibiotics for development of drug-resistant pathogens, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has written to all medical colleges and attached hospitals to replace the syndromic management of infectious disease with laboratory evidence-based treatment to prevent overuse or misuse of antimicrobials.Forwarding a letter from the Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the NMC asked all medical colleges to have Hospital Infection Control Committees (HICC) and Antimicrobial Stewardship (AMS) committees.The letter said during the pandemic, many healthcare workers got infected with Covid-19 due to inadequate infection prevention practices and many hospitalised patients succumbed to healthcare-associated infections caused by antimicrobials resistance (AMR) pathogens. “All hospitals and medical colleges should increase the activity of both these committees and prepare guidelines of antibiotics use in their hospitals depending on prevalent organism and antimicrobials sensitivity,” the letter said. The hospitals and colleges have been told to ensure that AMS committees meet regularly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/check-misuse-of-antibiotics-nmc-328247
23-10-2021||---||6 cops booked as 2 inmates escape||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 22After two jail inmates escaped from police custody during their transportation from Mukerian to Faridkot, the police have registered a criminal case against six police employees, including three ASIs, a head constable and two homeguard jawans, for negligence.ASIs Gurdev Singh, Baljinder Singh and Kulwinder Singh, Head Constable Surinder Kumar and Home Guard jawans Mohinder Singh and Harmander Singh have been booked under Section 223 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-cops-booked-as-2-inmates-escape-328248
23-10-2021||Patiala||PAC seeks revised reply on CAG audit||The Public Accountants Committee (PAC) is miffed with the Labour Department for not complying with the observations of the Comptroller Auditor General of India (CAG) report submitted to the Vidhan Sabha last year.The report had highlighted financial irregularities of over Rs 80 crore in the audit of seven of the 23 circles of the Building And Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Welfare Board from 2013-18. The PAC had held a meeting with the Labour Department last month, wherein it had taken a serious view of the department not complying with the observations in the audit. The PAC had also advised the department to submit a revised reply because it was not satisfied with the earlier response of the department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pac-seeks-revised-reply-on-cag-audit-328249
23-10-2021||Bathinda||Teachers on strike||Members of Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association went on strike and sat on a dharna outside the Government Rajindra College here today. They demanded regular jobs and pay hike. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-on-strike-328250
23-10-2021||Abohar||Bodies of 2 missing youths recovered from canal||PPSC Chairman takes oathChandigarh: Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Friday administered the oath of office to PPSC Chairman Jagbans Singh Powar in the presence of CM Charanjit Channi. A Bachelor in Engineering (Civil Engineering) from PU, Powar also holds a diploma in Business Finance from the Institute of Chartered Financial besides Analysts of India IMF Certificate in Public Financial Management. TNS13-yr-old raped, two bookedAbohar/Sriganganagar: A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two youths in Rawatsar Hanumangarh. On the complaint of the victim's father, a case was registered against Vikas and Amit. The girl said she befriended Vikas online, who took her objectionable photos and started blackmailing her. Later, his friend Amit, who reportedly runs an NGO, called her to distribute gifts to children on behalf of the NGO and took her to a hotel room and raped her. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bodies-of-2-missing-youths-recovered-from-canal-328251
23-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers shown on Punjab Govt ads await compensation; Opposition lashes out||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 22Farmer Harpreet Singh of Katar Singhwala village in the district — whose picture with Punjab CM Charanjit Channi is plastered on hoardings that announce “adequate compensation for the damaged cotton crop” — has not received a penny in compensation as yet.Payment soonPhotographs of the CM’s visit to cotton fields are representational. A survey has been done. Farmers will be compensated soon. KK Yadav, Special Principal SecySimilarly, another farmer, Balwinder Singh, of the same village — whose photo with CM Channi hugging him in his field went viral on social media — also awaits compensation. On September 26, Channi had visited Katar Singhwala to check the cotton crop damaged by pink bollworm. He had assured farmers that compensation would be given to them soon after conducting girdawari.During this visit, Balwinder had told Channi that any compensation announced by the state government never reached them fully. On hearing this, Channi had hugged Balwinder and assured him that this time the compensation would come directly to the farmers.A month, however, has gone by, and they are yet to receive crop damage relief. Talking to The Tribune, both Harpreet and Balwinder expressed their unhappiness over the delay. Harpreet said he had taken 30 acres on contract at Rs 70,000 per acre. On 16 acres, he had sown cotton, which had been totally damaged by pink bollworm. Revenue officials had visited his fields, but he was yet to receive compensation.Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha tweeted: “A month has elapsed… farmers Balwinder and Harpreet whose pictures are plastered all over Punjab have not received a penny in compensation, let alone any other farmer of Punjab. Both feel cheated and used.” SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal tweeted: “Blatant lies by Punjab govt splashed on boards…. When girdawari hasn’t been completed, how can the CM claim that his government has compensated cotton farmers?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-shown-on-punjab-govt-ads-await-compensation-opposition-lashes-out-328173
23-10-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Harish Chaudhary AICC in-charge for Punjab||Ahead of the crucial Assembly elections, the Congress high command on Friday appointed Harish Chaudhary as Punjab affairs in-charge, relieving AICC general secretary Harish Rawat of the charge. The party has once again reposed faith in Chaudhary, who was AICC secretary, Punjab affairs, from 2013 to 2018. He had played a key role in Congress’ victory in the 2017 Assembly elections.Key challengeNow Revenue Minister in the Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan, he has been mediating between Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. “With stakes high in election-bound Punjab, the party has picked Chaudhary who has a thorough knowledge of Punjab politics,” remarked a senior party leader. Chaudhary has been working on a poll strategy for Punjab for the past few weeks, say sources.A Rahul Gandhi confidant, he was made observer midst the Punjab crisis after Amarinder Singh quit as CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-chaudhary-aicc-in-charge-for-punjab-328176
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Probe would be conducted to check if Amarinder's Pak friend has links with ISI: Punjab Deputy CM Randhawa||Punjab’s Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has said a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether Aroosa Alam, a Pakistani journalist who has been visiting former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for several years, has links with the ISI.Singh hit back at the Congress leader, saying Randhawa is now resorting to personal attacks.The Deputy Chief Minister said it “would be probed” whether Alam has any links with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), adding that he has asked the Director-General Of Police (DGP) to look into it.Singh said Alam had been coming to India for 16 years with due clearances from the Centre.“You were a minister in my cabinet@Sukhjinder_INC. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam.“And she’d been coming for 16 years with due GoI clearances. Or are you alleging that both NDA and @INC India led UPA govts in this period connived with Pak ISI?,” the former Chief Minister’s Media Adviser quoted him as saying on Twitter on Friday.Randhawa, who also holds the Home portfolio in Punjab, claimed that Singh has been friends with Alam for years, she stayed in India for many years and her visa was extended by the Centre from time to time.He told reporters in Jalandhar on Thursday that it was only after the recent developments in the Punjab Congress, which saw Singh’s exit as the Chief Minister, that Alam went back to Pakistan.Randhawa said when Singh was the Chief Minister, he kept saying that being a border state, Punjab always faced a threat, with several seizures of drones and ammunition coming in from across the border.“Aroosa was in India for four-and-a-half years and her visa was also extended from time to time. Why did Delhi not cancel her visa? Why did she leave India when we went against Amarinder Singh?” he asked, referring to developments in the Punjab Congress last month.“I think all this needs to be probed and Captain Amarinder too will have to give answers to these questions,” the Congress leader added.Hitting back at Randhawa, Singh said, “So now you’re resorting to personal attacks @Sukhjinder_INC. One month after taking over this is all you have to show to the people. What happened to your tall promises on Bargari & drugs cases? Punjab is still waiting for your promised action.”He said instead of focusing on maintaining law and order, the Deputy Chief Minister has put the DGP on a “baseless investigation”.“What I’m worried about @Sukhjinder_INC is that instead of focusing on maintaining law and order at a time when terror threat is high and festivals are around the corner, you’ve put @DGP Punjab Police on a baseless investigation at the cost of Punjab’s safety,” he said.Randhawa has stepped up the attack on Singh after the latter’s unceremonious exit as Chief Minister.He called Singh an “opportunist” after the former Chief Minister announced that he would launch his own political party.Randhawa also accused Singh of betraying Punjab for the last four-and-a-half years.On Tuesday, Singh said he would soon float his own political party and is hopeful of a seat-sharing arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in next year’s Punjab Assembly polls if the farmers’ issue is resolved in their interest.Randhawa had accused the former Chief Minister of betraying Punjab and siding with those who never thought about the welfare of the state.“Punjab does not fear Pakistan or China. If Punjab today faces any threat, then it is from Amarinder Singh,” he had said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-would-be-conducted-to-check-if-amarinders-pak-friend-has-links-with-isi-punjab-deputy-cm-randhawa-328102
23-10-2021||---||Harish Choudhary appointed new AICC in-charge for Punjab||New Delhi, October 22The Congress on Friday appointed Rajasthan Revenue Minister and Baytoo MLA Harish Choudhary the party in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh, relieving former Uttrakhand Chief Minister and AICC General Secretary Harish Rawat of the charge.Rawat continues as a member of the Congress Working Committee.Choudhary is currently a Minister in the Ashok Gehlot led Congress government in Rajasthan handling revenue, colonisation, command area development and water utilisation departments.A former MP from Barmer Jaisalmer Lok Sabha segment, Choudhary had lost the Lok Sabha election in 2014. He contested and won the 2018 state polls from Baytoo in Barmer district.A former AICC Secretary for Punjab, when veteran Himachal Congress legislator Asha Kumari was in-charge of the state, Choudhary was recently appointed observer when the Punjab Congress crisis was evolving after the ouster of Amarinder Singh as Chief Minister. Choudhary oversaw the installation of Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab Chief Minister and the structuring of the state Cabinet.A confidante of Rahul Gandhi, Choudhary replaces five-time MP Harish Rawat as Punjab state in-charge ahead of 2022 Assembly elections.Rawat had asked to be relieved of the charge ever since he became the Uttrakhand Congress campaign committee chief.Assembly elections in Uttrakhand also due in 2022.Punjab Congress remains volatile with ongoing tensions between state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Channi.Just a day after Congress President Sonia Gandhi told the members of the party working committee not to speak to her through any manner of media, Sidhu had posted a letter to Sonia Gandhi seeking proactive steps to “salvage Punjab.”Choudhary has his task cut out before the Punjab Assembly polls, his mightiest challenge being to get Sidhu and Channi to work together and ensure they do so publicly lest Rahul Gandhi’s decision to elevate a Scheduled Caste minister to CM’s position gets further undermined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-choudhary-appointed-new-aicc-in-charge-for-punjab-328076
23-10-2021||---||Another attack at Singhu border as Nihang 'assaults' man after he refuses to hand over rooster||Sonepat, October 22A Nihang on Thursday allegedly assaulted a labourer at Singhu border for refusing to give him a rooster from a poultry farm that he worked in.The Kundli police nabbed the Nihang after people caught him.The injured labourer, Manoj Paswan of Bihar, was the rooster supplier and worked in a poultry farm at Kundli.He alleged that on Thursday he took roosters on his rickshaw to supply in the villages nearby.Meanwhile, the Nihang Sikh demanded the rooster from him. He alleged that when he refused, he was beaten up with a ‘lathi’.The people at Singhu border caught the Nihang, a resident of Gagsina village in Karnal.Farmer leader Jagdeep Aulakh, in a video message, said he knew the Nihang and claimed that he was associated with the farmers’ protest for the past one year. Aulkah said it was a fight between two people and the incident should not be linked to the farmers' protest. A case has been registered and the Nihang arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-attack-at-singhu-border-as-nihang-assaults-man-after-he-refuses-to-hand-over-rooster-328048
23-10-2021||Amritsar||Exotic flowers embellish Golden Temple complex to mark Guru Ram Das Parkash Purb||On the eve of Parkash Purb (birth anniversary) of Guru Ram Das, the fourth Sikh master and founder of the holy city, the Golden Temple is decked up with aromatic flowers arranged from India and abroad.Also read: In photos: Parkash Purb of Guru Ramdas celebrated with religious fervourAlso read: Nagar kirtan marks Guru Ramdas Parkash Purb celebrationsA grand nagar kirtan, with devotees carrying Sri Guru Granth Sahib in a special golden palanquin, was carried out from Akal Takht. Quintals of different varieties of flowers, including some imported ones from Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore, have been arranged.Iqbal Singh, a devotee from Mumbai, said this time, 20-25 types of flowers had been brought to decorate the Golden Temple, including lilium, orcad, antonia and carnation. — TNSAlso read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinction||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exotic-flowers-embellish-golden-temple-complex-to-mark-guru-ram-das-parkash-purb-327655
