24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 20 fresh Covid cases; number of active cases stands at 229||Punjab on Sunday recorded 20 fresh COVID-19 cases that pushed its tally to 6,02,209, according to a medical bulletin.The death toll remained unchanged at 16,551, the bulletin stated.Of the fresh cases, five were reported from Jalandhar, four from Amritsar and three from Faridkot.The number of active COVID-19 cases in Punjab stands at 229, the bulletin said.Twenty-two more people recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,85,429, it said.Two test positive for Covid in ChandigarhChandigarh’s COVID-19 case count increased to 65,323 as two more people tested positive for the viral disease in the union territory, the bulletin said.No fresh deaths were reported. The death toll stands at 820, it said.There are 28 active COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh. So far, 64,475 people have recovered from the disease, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-20-fresh-covid-cases-number-of-active-cases-stands-at-229-329044
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi urges PM Modi to repeal farm laws||Former Punjab minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi on Sunday urged PM Narendra Modi to repeal the contentious farm laws so that farmers return to their homes before harsh winter, stressing hundreds of them have died during the course of their agitation.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been camping at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year, demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws.“The country has been witnessing farmers’ protest for over a year now. While we have seen farmers stand united and determined to have their voices heard, there are also those hundreds of farmers who have lost their lives while fighting for their rights,” the Congress MLA said.It is most unfortunate that the protesting farmers continue to live in extreme conditions without essentials, proper availability of sanitation and clean drinking water, he said.“Their persistence despite their continued plight has only shown their resolve that they will not settle down until a rational decision of repealing the controversial farm laws is agreed upon,” said Sodhi in a statement here.Sodhi urged the PM to reinitiate talks with farmers and withdraw the laws, so that farmers could return to their homes before the onset of harsh winter. “Also, considering that the festivities are approaching, it’ll only be fair that they celebrate the festival with their families and not on the roads,” said Sodhi.“It is our basic empathy that they should be able to celebrate this Diwali with their families and the coming year with fulfilment and prosperity,” he said.Sodhi said the withdrawal of the three farm laws in no way would reflect the “weakness” of the Union Government as argued by certain sections of society, rather it would show the Centre to be “large-hearted and magnanimous”.“I earnestly request PM Modi to kindly revisit the decision in favour and interest of our farmers,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-minister-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-urges-pm-modi-to-repeal-farm-laws-329028
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress govt used farmers as vote bank: AAP leader||The Congress government in Punjab never fulfilled promises made to farmers and used them as a vote bank, alleged state AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan on Sunday.Sandhwan, who is his party’s farmer wing president, said like former CM Amarinder Singh, the Charanjit Channi-led government neither waived farmers’ debt nor “compensated” them for crop loss.“The Congress government has never fulfilled its promises made to the farmers and used them only as a vote bank,” he said.Sandhwan demanded that the Channi government give full compensation to farmers whose crop was damaged by recent showers and pest attack.He said due to inclement weather, relaxation should be given on moisture content in paddy so that farmers do not have to face hassles in grain markets.Sandhwan claimed that the government agencies procuring paddy were not lifting the crop on the pretext of high moisture content and farmers were facing a lot of inconvenience.Sandhwan appealed to the CM to meet the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put pressure on the Union government for relaxation in condition regarding moisture content. Hitting out at the state and Union government, he said they were not paying any heed to farmers’ concerns.“These governments are limited only to tall claims in the name of the farmers. They have nothing to do with solving the problems of farmers,” he added. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-govt-used-farmers-as-vote-bank-aap-leader-329019
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Have never seen such chaos, anarchy as what is playing out in Punjab Congress: Manish Tewari||Amid sharp exchanges between Punjab Congress leaders and former chief minister Amarinder Singh over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, senior leader Manish Tewari on Sunday said he never saw “such chaos and anarchy” in the party’s state unit.Expressing dismay over the “guttural language” used against each other that “even fishwives would not use”, Tewari asked whether the party thought the people were not disgusted by the “daily soap opera”.Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had said a probe would be conducted to ascertain whether Alam has links with Pakistan’s spy agency ISI, prompting Amarinder Singh to accuse Randhawa of resorting to personal attacks.1/2 & anarchy as what is playing out in @INCPunjab today. Repeated open defiance of AICC by a PCC President,colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children.Guttural language against each other that even fish wives would not use.For the past 5 months it is @INCPunjab  State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu slammed Amarinder Singh on Saturday alleging that not a single posting of any official took place in the state without “money or gifts” to Aroosa Alam.In a series of tweets on Sunday, Tewari questioned the progress on issues like the 2015 sacrilege incidents, drug menace and power purchase pacts. He also hit out at Congress general secretary Harish Rawat over his reference in an interview.“Since you (Rawat) referred to me in this interview I also have great regard and respect for you going back to days when I headed the National Students’ Union of India and you the Congress Sevadal. However, in my 40 years plus in the Congress I have never seen such chaos and anarchy as what is playing out in INC Punjab today,” he said on Twitter.The Congress on Friday appointed Rajasthan Revenue Minister Harish Chaudhary as the Congress’ new in-charge for party affairs in the poll-bound Punjab, relieving Harish Rawat on his request.Rawat, a former chief minister, is spearheading the Congress’ bid to regain power in Uttarakhand by ousting the BJP.“Repeated open defiance of AICC by a PCC president, colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children. Guttural language against each other that even fishwives would not use. For the past five months, it is INC Punjab vs INC Punjab. Do we think that people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera?” tweeted Tewari.He also termed the Mallikarjun Kharge-led three-member panel formed by the Congress earlier to end factionalism in its Punjab unit as “a serious error of judgement”.“Irony is that those who complained loudest of transgressions and aberrations were unfortunately and continue to be worst offenders themselves. History would record that the appointment of the committee that ostensibly heard perceived and real grievances was a serious error of judgement.“Where is progress on the issues that agitated these MLAs and other eminences—bargari, drugs, power PPAs, illegal sand mining. Has there been any movement forward?” tweeted Tewari.Rawat played a key role in bringing in Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief despite strong opposition from then chief minister Amarinder Singh, who subsequently resigned alleging humiliation by the party.Rawat’s role was also crucial in Amarinder Singh being replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister of Punjab.But later, Sidhu resigned as the Punjab Congress chief while raising a question over the appointments of the state police chief and state advocate general. On October 15, Sidhu said that his concerns had been resolved and the Congress asserted he would continue as the head of the Punjab unit. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/have-never-seen-such-chaos-anarchy-as-what-is-playing-out-in-punjab-congress-manish-tewari-329009
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury drops as rains lash Punjab, Haryana||Rains lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday leading to a dip in the day temperatures.According to officials of the Meteorological Department here, Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, saw heavy rain since Sunday morning, leading to a drop in mercury by a few notches.Rain lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana as well, they said.The present change in weather in the region was caused by a Western Disturbance, a MeT official here said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mercury-drops-as-rains-lash-punjab-haryana-328991
24-10-2021||New Delhi||Aroosa Alam controversy: If there was corruption, why were you silent before, BJP asks Navjot Kaur Sidhu||The BJP has slammed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu over allegations that not a single posting of any official took place in Punjab without “money or gifts” to Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were “aware of all that happened but still, no action was taken”.  Stepping into the ongoing controversy over former chief minister Amarinder Singh’s friendship with Aroosa Alam, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh hit back saying that if Navjot Kaur knew of the corruption “why did she remain silent during the 58 months Captain was in power in Punjab”.“For the past 16 years you all are enjoying aunty’s dinner, gracing her drawing room and you are questioning us (BJP)…for 58 months you were in power (with Captain Amarinder Singh) and you are questioning them today?”“Why were you silent if money and gifts were taken for postings and transfers...if there was corruption, why were you silent when you were part of the government,” said Chugh, calling it an “old habit” of Navjot Singh and his wife.“This is your old habit…this double face. From 2007 to 2017, you (Navjot Kaur) enjoyed the benefits of our (Akali-BJP) government with all the perks and benefits of a ministerial post…official vehicle…bungalow…and never spoke against them."“For 58 months you are with them (Congress), you sing songs in Coffee with Captain, run the government with captain…have dinner with aunty and demand answers from us,” Chugh said.  The accusation by Sidhu’s wife came a day after Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether the Pakistani journalist, who had been visiting Singh for several years, has links with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aroosa-alam-controversy-if-there-was-corruption-why-were-you-silent-before-bjp-asks-navjot-kaur-sidhu-328988
24-10-2021||Pathankot||Forest department rescues leopard entangled in wire mesh near Pathankot||The forest department rescued a fully grown leopard that got accidentally caught in a wire mesh 15 km from Pathankot on Saturday evening, officials.The operation to rescue the 8-feet-leopard lasted 11 hours. Pathankot and Phillaur forest teams released the animal into a forest nearby, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forest-department-rescues-leopard-entangled-in-wire-mesh-near-pathankot-328960
24-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Claims pending, Punjab hospitals shut door on Ayushman beneficiaries||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 23All private hospitals in Punjab empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (or Sarbat Sehat Bima) have stopped admitting new patients in protest against the non-payment of claims by insurance firms concerned.Won’t take patients till dues clearedThe move followed an advisory issued by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to its members, asking them to stop admitting patients under the scheme till their claims are settled. Dr Vikas Chhabra, president, IMA (Bathinda), said, “Private hospitals are working hard to pass on the benefit of the ambitious PMJAY scheme to the underprivileged sections. But we are disappointed at the response of the insurance companies.”He said although every insurance company tries to minimise the claim, but since another company joined the scheme on August 20, 2021, things had worsened. Dr Saroj Aggarwal, president, IMA (Ludhiana), has similar views. She said an emergency meeting of the IMA-Punjab was called on October 10 in Ludhiana, which was attended by more than 300 members from all over the state. They later met Health Minister OP Soni and Principal Health Secretary Vikas Garg, who reportedly assured them of release of dues in a week. After getting no response, the members decided to suspend the scheme. Chhabra said, “Almost every hospital has numerous pending claims. It is not possible for them to meet their day to day expenses. We will now resume the scheme only after complete settlement of their pending claims.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/claims-pending-punjab-hospitals-shut-door-on-ayushman-beneficiaries-328762
24-10-2021||Amritsar||Army man posted at Ferozepur Cantt held for spying||Busting a cross-border espionage racket, the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) today arrested an Army man posted in the IT cell at Ferozepur Cantonment.Honey-trapped by a Pakistan intelligence officer (PIO) posing as a woman, Krunal Kumar Baria allegedly passed on sensitive and classified information about the Army to his cross-border handlers, thereby compromising national security.In a statement issued on Saturday, the SSOC authorities said Krunal was in touch with various ISI agents through social media. He was being paid by them for passing on sensitive information.They said the suspect came in touch with a “woman” PIO — Sidra Khan — through a social media platform a year ago. He remained in contact with her through two Pakistan mobile numbers and an Indian number. “The PIO allured him to work for the ISI as a result of which the suspect shared many classified documents with her via encrypted apps. During preliminary inspection of his phone, many classified documents have been found,” the official said.A case under Sections 3, 4, 5 and 9 of the Official Secrets Act besides 120B, IPC, was registered at the SSOC here. The Army has been informed about the arrest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-man-posted-at-ferozepur-cantt-held-for-spying-328763
24-10-2021||Jalandhar||Kapurthala: 15-kg sweets with excessive colour destroyed||Around 15-kg sweets were destroyed by a team of the Food and Drugs Administration during a pre-Diwali inspection in Kapurthala on Saturday. The colour used in the sweets was found to be beyond the permissible limit.The team also collected nine samples and sent them to the State Food Laboratory in Kharar. A legal action will be taken against the violators on the basis of the report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-15-kg-sweets-with-excessive-colour-destroyed-328765
24-10-2021||Sangrur||Three booked for cheating||Suspecting murder, Faridkot police exhume youth’s bodyFaridkot: A year after burial, the police have exhumed a body from a graveyard here for post-mortem. Makhan Singh, a Christian, had alleged his son was killed and friends could be behind it. “We have exhumed the body of Manpreet Singh, who died on November 8, 2000, on way to PGI,” said SHO Pushpinder Singh. tnsRs 2.50 cr for Barnala bus standBarnala: Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Saturday inspected the Barnala bus stand and PRTC workshop. He announced Rs2.50 crore to upgrade the bus stand. “We want to bring absolute transparency in the working of the department and zero-tolerance towards those looting the state,” he said. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-booked-for-cheating-328818
24-10-2021||---||Now, photo war erupts over Aroosa Alam||Chandigarh, October 23While PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s Twitter war with former CM Capt Amarinder Singh never got personal, former’s chief strategic adviser Mohammed Mustafa on Saturday shared a picture of Aroosa Alam with former DGP Dinkar Gupta and former Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.Also read: Former CM’s Pak friend called shots: Navjot Kaur SidhuBJP was closer to Capt Amarinder than ally: SADCaptain Amarinder’s Pakistan friend is in the midst of a controversy after Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa spoke about the need for a probe into Alam’s alleged links with the ISI.Hours later, Captain Amarinder’s media adviser shared pictures of Alam with Mustafa’s wife and Cabinet minister Razia Sultana.Quoting the former Chief Minister, he wrote: “And how about you explaining this @MohdMustafaips. Isn’t that your wife & daughter-in-law with the same lady? How low can you get? Mixing politics with friendship! #AroosaAlam personally cherishes these & many more such memories with your family.” Meanwhile, Maj Amardeep Singh, political secretary to the former CM, advised Randhawa not to hit below the belt as he questioned the Deputy Chief Minister on having met Alam numerous times over four and a half years.He also questioned Randhawa’s credentials as a “taksali” congressman and nationalist, while alleging his father had links to terrorists.Cryptic tweet by JakharAmid the Twitter war between Capt Amarinder and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa over Aroosa Alam, a tweet by Sunil Jakhar has created a flutter. It reads: “Another one bites the dust — eating his words while first one is still licking his wounds! Is it their own blustering nature that’s done them in? Maybe. Or victim of harmless looking one’s agenda.”Also read: Sukhjinder Randhawa-Capt Amarinder duel gets personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-photo-war-erupts-over-aroosa-alam-328742
24-10-2021||---||Former CM’s Pak friend called shots: Navjot Kaur Sidhu||Amritsar, October 23Amid the ongoing row, former MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu today accused former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of getting only those works done that were routed through his Pakistan friend Aroosa Alam.Levelling serious graft allegations, Navjot Kaur claimed: “Even bureaucrats and MLAs had to give costly gifts and briefcases to Alam for securing favourable postings and other matters pertaining to the governance during the Capt government. No police posting was done without her intervention.”She was interacting with mediapersons during a visit to the Amritsar East Assembly constituency, being represented by her husband and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu here on Saturday.She initially refused to answer queries on the issue, saying it was their personal matter. Asked who would be the CM face of the Congress in the upcoming Assembly elections, Navjot Kaur named both Sidhu and CM Charanjit Singh Channi. She then launched a scathing attack on Captain Amarinder.The Sidhu family has once again become active in the constituency, which was previously represented by Navjot Kaur. Their daughter Rabia Sidhu visited the constituency recently.Post the 2018 Dasehra train tragedy, they preferred to stay away from the constituency. Navjot Kaur was the chief guest at the Dasehra event where several norms were violated. Later, a prolonged tussle between Sidhu and the former CM kept them out of the constituency. She also expressed her willingness to contest the elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-cms-pak-friend-called-shots-navjot-kaur-sidhu-328743
24-10-2021||Jalandhar||BJP was closer to Capt Amarinder than ally: SAD||Claiming that the BJP always had good relations with ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal today said it was because of this reason he never faced any problem in getting clearances for his friend Aroosa Alam.Attending a series of programmes as part of his ongoing campaign here, Sukhbir said BJP’s relations with Captain Amarinder were even stronger than those with the Akali Dal, even though they were alliance partners.“We had started feeling so right after 2017 elections that the BJP had helped the Congress. While the Centre got Captain Amarinder in its grasp earlier, even new CM Charanjit Singh Channi is now in their control,” he said.The SAD chief said the state government was in chaos as of now and seemed to be divided into ‘misls’ (clans). “Among the various ‘misls’ are those of Channi, Navjot Sidhu, Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Randhawa,” he said, adding because of which, no work was being carried out as they were engaged in exposing one another.“We all know this is just a trailer. The ‘misls’ will further split at the time of announcement of ticket by the party for polls,” he remarked.“The CM is making fictitious announcements. He has already announced Rs 15,000 crore grants for Punjab and Rs 1,000 crore for Chamkaur Sahib, but no one knows when the grants are coming. A promise to farmers for enhancing Rs 360 crore per quintal SAP for sugarcane had been made two months ago but a notification is yet to arrive.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-was-closer-to-capt-amarinder-than-ally-sad-328744
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP questions govt over House session delay||The state unit of AAP today accused the ruling Congress of running away from public issues and questioned the government for not convening the monsoon session of the Punjab Assembly.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema urged CM Charanjit Channi to immediately convene the remaining monsoon session of the Assembly in order to discuss all remaining and public interest issues of Punjab. A 15-day session of the Punjab Legislative Assembly is required to be called to reach a permanent solution to these important issues related to common people. He said issues of sacrilege, Kotkapura firing, unemployment, loan waiver, PPAs, drug, sand, liquor, transport etc. remained unresolved.In a statement, Cheema said the ruling Congress was not only running away from pending public issues but also making fun of the Constitution and norms.Cheema said the Congress had dithered from convening the monsoon session under the guise of a special session dedicated to Guru Tegh Bahadur. The September 3 special session could not be technically and constitutionally added with the monsoon session. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-questions-govt-over-house-session-delay-328745
24-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Dengue patients from other states throng Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 23Amid the alleged shortage of beds, dengue patients from neighbouring states have already started coming to Patiala for treatment.It has been learnt that many patients from Kaithal, Ambala and Panchkula districts of Haryana and Chandigarh are undergoing treatment for dengue at both private and government hospitals in Patiala.NO CAUSE FOR CONCERNWe’re not stopping anyone. The situation is under control so far and there are enough beds available for dengue patients in the district. —Dr Sumeet Singh, District epidemiologistHealth officials said there was a shortage of beds in neighbouring states that led to the inflow of dengue patients from there. The shortage of blood platelets — that are required for serious dengue patients — in neighbouring states also contributed to the influx, the officials added.Health officials, however, claimed there was no cause for concern as there was no dearth of beds in the district.Meanwhile, the health officials said as many as 11,775 dengue cases had already surfaced in the state. Mohali is the worst-hit with over 1,900 cases reported till Friday, followed by Bathinda (1,700).The state has already reported over 40 suspected dengue deaths so far. Meanwhile, health officials of various districts have alleged the underreporting of the death count, which could be much higher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-patients-from-other-states-throng-patiala-328746
24-10-2021||Bathinda||Amid dengue case spike, official goes on inspection spree||In wake of dengue spike in Bathinda district, Health Department Deputy Director Dr Nisha Sahi visited the city to take stock of the situation on Saturday.Besides inspecting various units of the Civil Hospital, she visited residential areas, interacted with people and spread awareness among them. A few basic anomalies were found at the dengue ward and other units of the Civil Hospital after which Dr Sahi directed health officials to ensure quality treatment to patients in a hassle-free manner.Notably, more than 1,700 dengue cases have been reported in Bathinda this year, thereby making it one of the most-hit districts in the state.When asked about the need to establish a separate dengue centre in collaboration with private parties when a full-fledged ward was already functional at the Civil Hospital, Dr Sahi said, “I have to check the details first before commenting on the matter.”Meanwhile, social worker Radhe Shyam also met Dr Sahi and brought to her notice the anomalies at the laboratory unit of the Civil Hospital. In reply, Dr Sahi said, “We are working for the digitisation of labs after which patients will directly get the information on their phones.”About the lack of proper arrangements at the Civil Hospital, Dr Sahi said required steps would be taken to put things in order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-dengue-case-spike-official-goes-on-inspection-spree-328747
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bollworm attack: To speed up relief disbursal, Punjab CM seeks report from DCs by Oct 29||Assuring farmers of the cotton growing belt in southern Punjab of extending all possible help to mitigate their woes, CM Charanjit Channi has asked the DCs of districts affected by bollworm attack to send a report by October 29 so as to disburse compensation at the earliest.The CM also asked the cotton growers to be rest assured as the state government was committed to helping them out at this crucial juncture.Exhorting growers whose crop had perished in the bollworm attack not to be misled by Opposition propaganda, Channi said the state government would protect the interests of farmers. “Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa and I visited affected villages of Nasibpura and Kataar Singh Wala soon after taking over the responsibility of the state to express solidarity with farmers,” Channi said. Meanwhile, Financial Commissioner Revenue VK Janjua apprised the CM that the assessment of crop loss was under way and compensation would be distributed shortly.He said after receiving rough estimates of the loss, a special girdawari to assess the exact loss had been ordered in five districts. — TNSChanni meets protesting farmers in RoparCM Charanjit Channi on Saturday visited farmers staging dharna at the Ropar-Chamkaur Sahib toll plaza. In his constituency to distribute grants for development works, he asked his staff to stop the cavalcade at the dharna site near Jhallian village. He assured the protesters that the government was with them. “We are duty bound to safeguard the interests of farmers and will continue to wholeheartedly support your agitation until the three farm laws are done away with,” he said. He said the laws were a conspiracy to subjugate farmers for the advantage of crony capitalists. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bollworm-attack-to-speed-up-relief-disbursal-punjab-cm-seeks-report-from-dcs-by-oct-29-328748
24-10-2021||---||Amid shortage, farmers buy DAP above MRP||Amritsar/Tarn Taran/Gurdaspur, Oct 23Amid reports of DAP shortage, panicky farmers are ready to spend extra to just get a bag of the fertiliser required at the time of sowing wheat crop. Currently, they are buying one bag of DAP for at least Rs 1,400 against the printed price of Rs 1,200.Sellers are also forcing farmers to buy a bag of sulfur, phosphorus and a bio-fertiliser with each bag of DAP. Depending on the nature and quality of soil, farmers use at least two bags of DAP at the time of sowing.No crisis at allFarmers are still engaged in harvesting paddy, so there is no need for DAP right now. A total of 25 rakes will reach all districts before Oct 25. In Gurdaspur and Pathankot, there is no shortage. — Amrik Singh, Agriculture officerDon’t stock upI have warned farmers against illegal stocking of DAP. I have also formed a team of officials to fan out among the agriculture community and tell everyone there is no shortage. —Mohammad Ishfaq, DCLakhbir Singh Nizampura, president, Vegetable Growers Association, said: “Farmers managed to get the required quantity of DAP for sowing vegetables. Now, we are worried about the requirement for wheat crop and it has pushed up the prices. Farmers are ready to pay more as without DAP they will not be able to sow wheat.”Kuljeet Singh Malawali, another farmer, said: “Fleecing in the name of DAP shortage is a result of panic among farmers. We do not know if the shortage is real, but the panic wave is helping sellers earn the extra buck. The administration should take note of black marketing of the fertiliser.”In Tarn Taran, only 8,000 metric tonne DAP has arrived so far against the demand for 28,000-30,000 MT. Farmers say the dealers have run out of stock. Jagwinder Singh, chief agricultural officer, said: “Wheat sowing will begin after a week. We expect that the fertiliser will be made available in sufficient quantity before it.”In Gurdaspur, two DAP-laden rakes are expected to reach before October 25 and the supply is not that precarious as it was being made out to be.Amrik Singh, agriculture officer, said: “Farmers are still engaged in harvesting paddy, so there is no need for DAP right now. When wheat sowing season commences after October 31, two rakes will be made available. In Gurdaspur and Pathankot, there is absolutely no shortage. Actually, farmers, after reading media reports pertaining to the impending shortage, have got panicky. A total of 25 rakes will reach all districts before October 25.”Agriculture department officials said there would have been shortage had the Railways not made arrangements to send the rakes.Meanwhile, district administration officials warned farmers against hoarding. “I have warned farmers against illegal stocking of DAP. I have also formed a team of officials to fan out among the agriculture community and tell everyone there is no shortage,” said DC Mohammad Ishfaq.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-shortage-farmers-buy-dap-above-mrp-328749
24-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Use NPK instead of DAP, says Agri Dept||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23While private dealers in Jalandhar say they have run out of DAP stock, cooperative societies are left with just 4,610 MT of the fertiliser.Samsher Singh, a Makkowal-based farmer, says he has been trying to arrange DAP for over a week now, but to no avail. “I need at least eight sacks of DAP for my 9-acre fields. The fertiliser is nowhere to be found. I even went to Balachaur and Nawanshahr,” he said.Has same salt as DAPAdmitting the shortage, Jagjit Singh, Deputy Registrar, Cooperative Societies, said: “So far, Jalandhar has received 10,486 MT DAP against the demand for 11,457 MT. In the past over a month, around 5,870 MT has been sold and the remaining stock will be sold completely in a few days.”Good responseAfter converting the DAP demand into NPK, we have so far sold around 2,855 MT NPK against the intended 1,823 MT supply. —Jagjit Singh, Deputy registrar, Cooperative societiesHe said farmers who used to purchase the fertiliser from private dealers were also turning towards cooperative societies this time. “Hoarding in August is also to be blamed for shortage,” he said.Having exhausted the entire stock, Shiv Lal Jamsher, district president, Government Cooperative Societies Union, said: “Against the demand for 105 MT, my society received only 35 MT, which we sold in the first week of this month. We have been constantly raising concern over the disparity in the distribution of DAP among private dealers and government societies, but to no avail. We even staged a protest at the Jalandhar railway station against the urea shortage in cooperative societies and manufacturers distributing more fertilisers among private dealers, but nothing happened.”He alleged that private dealers first stored DAP and then amid shortage sold it for Rs 1,500 per bag.Now, the agricultural department has appealed to farmers to buy NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium), which has the same salt as the DAP. However, the cooperative societies said the Centre had increased the rate of NPK and the new stock would cost Rs 1,450 per bag. Till now, it was being sold at Rs 1,180 per bag (cheaper than a 50 kg DAP of Rs 1,200).Sukkha Singh, Deputy Registrar, Kapurthala Cooperative Societies, said the district witnessed DAP shortage while sowing potato, but now they were coping with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/use-npk-instead-of-dap-says-agri-dept-328750
24-10-2021||Archit Watts||Pink bollworm: Girdawari of cotton crop done, but officers order re-check||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 23The special girdawari of cotton crop damaged due to pink bollworm has been completed in Muktsar, but senior officers in the district administration, who are “dissatisfied” over the figures submitted by patwaris, have now marked a re-verification.A senior officer said the crop damage was assessed in 38 villages in Lambi block and a village in Gidderbaha block. “The cotton crop damage is negligible in two blocks — Malout and Muktsar. The farmers have picked cotton twice in these blocks, which suggests there is hardly any damage. However, the figures, which we have got from Lambi block, are to be re-verified. The fresh report of crop damage has been sought from other officers in the department,” said Balkaran Singh, district revenue officer, Muktsar.Meanwhile, another senior officer said: “We have got the figures, but these are to be re-verified. Till then, we can’t divulge the details.”Gurpreet Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, said: “Cotton was sown in 40,705 hectares in the district. However, we are yet to get the special girdawari report from the revenue department.” Cotton growers of five districts — Muktsar, Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Faridkot — are demanding Rs 60,000 per acre for the damage to their crop. Besides, they are demanding Rs 30,000 for every farm labourer. After protesting outside Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s residence for 15 days, they will now protest outside the district administrative complex in Bathinda on October 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pink-bollworm-girdawari-of-cotton-crop-done-but-officers-order-re-check-328752
24-10-2021||Phagwara||Gastro outbreak in Phagwara, 1 dead||A 52-year-old woman died at a Jalandhar hospital after a large number of gastroenteritis cases were reported from three localities here last night.Armitri Devi, a resident of Shiv Puri, was admitted to the local Civil Hospital and later referred to Jalandhar, where she died.More than 30 patients are being treated at different hospitals in and around Phagwara. As many as 100 persons, including women and children, have taken ill following the outbreak in Sham Nagar, Pipa-Rangi and Shiv Puri localities here since Tuesday.The patients were admitted to the local Civil Hospital, besides other health facilities here.Teams of the Health Department led by Senior Medical Officer Lehmber Ram and microbiologist Dr Ramanpreet Kaur visited the localities and took eight stool and six water samples.The SMO said many patients had been referred to Jalandhar due to their serious condition. The authorities suspect mixing of water with sewage following a leak in pipeline.SDM Kulpreet Singh instructed health officials to take care of the patients and instructed the water supply officers to check for any leaks.Meanwhile, a health team has collected water samples from hand pumps installed on residential premises and sent these for testing. A medical camp had been set up and teams were distributing ORS packets and medicines to affected patients.The SMO said the situation was under control and there was no need to panic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gastro-outbreak-in-phagwara-1-dead-328755
24-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Rumours trigger DAP hoarding, panic buying in Bathinda, Mansa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 23Sensing shortage ahead of wheat-sowing season, farmers in the region have started buying DAP from cooperative societies and traders in whatever quantity they are getting their hands on.They said since DAP had to be sprinkled at the time of sowing of rabi crops, any delay in its supply could have adverse effect on sowing of crops.It’s a Govt ployWheat sowing will start in November. The government and private companies are deliberately creating panic so that farmers buy it from private firms at higher prices. —Shingara Singh Mann, A farmer leaderAs per urvarak portal of the Department of Fertilizers, season requirement of DAP in Bathinda is 37,905 MT, while just 3,938 MT is the POS sales to date. In Mansa, season requirement is 24,180 MT, while 2,362 MT is the POS sale till Friday. However, apparent shortage of the fertiliser reportedly due to less import in the wake of spurt in global prices has triggered panic among farmers. Alleging artificial crisis, farmers say rumours of shortage are leading to stocking and panic buying in Bathinda and Mansa.Shingara Singh Mann, a farmer leader, said the government’s decision to reduce DAP limit for cooperative societies from 80% to 50% was also a “ploy” by the Centre to end cooperative societies in the state and hand over their control to private players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rumours-trigger-dap-hoarding-panic-buying-in-bathinda-mansa-328757
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu’s wife attacks Amarinder, alleges not a single posting took place in Punjab without ‘money, gifts’ to Aroosa Alam||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu attacked former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, alleging that not a single posting of any official took place in the state without “money or gifts” to her.Sidhu’s principal strategic adviser Mohammad Mustafa also took a dig at Singh, prompting the former chief minister to hit back at him.The accusation by Sidhu’s wife came a day after Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether the Pakistani journalist, who had been visiting Singh for several years, has links with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).STILL GRAPPLING TO GRASP THE "DESIGNS" BEHIND TWITTING CP -AROOSA PIC @CAPT_AMARINDER! PLEASE DO UNDERSTAND, GRANT OF VIZA BY UPA OR NDA DOESN'T INCLUDE "LICENCE 2 DOMESTICATE & OUTSOURCE"GOVERNANCE APPARATUS"TO 'VDESHI MEHMAN ' WID UNFETTERED LIBERTY 2 LOOT & LAUNDER! 1/N  “Not a single posting in Punjab took place without money or gifts to Aroosa Alam,” former MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu told reporters in Amritsar.She alleged that even in the police department, no posting took place without Alam’s consent and the Pakistani journalist “ran away” with all the money.To a question on Alam’s picture with Congress president Sonia Gandhi shared by Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral on Twitter on Friday, Navjot Kaur Sidhu said it was an old picture.Just by the way. (File photo). @Sukhjinder_INC @INCPunjab @CHARANJITCHANNI @INCIndia pic.twitter.com/NxrrZZT4ic  Singh hit back at Mustafa after the latter shared a picture of Alam with the former Punjab chief secretary and former director general of police.“Still grappling to grasp the ‘designs’ behind twitting CP-Aroosa pic @capt_amarinder! Please do understand, grant of visa by UPA or NDA doesn’t include ‘licence 2 domesticate & outsource’ governance apparatus to ‘videshi mehman’,” Mustafa said in a tweet.Reacting to it, Thukral also shared two pictures on his Twitter handle.‘And how about you explaining this @MohdMustafaips. Isn't that your wife & daughter-in-law with the same lady? How low can you get? Mixing politics with friendship! #AroosaAlam personally cherishes these & many more such memories with your family’: @capt_amarinder pic.twitter.com/rvC3u6laJb  “And how about you explaining this @MohdMustafaips. Isn’t that your wife & daughter-in-law with the same lady? How low can you get? Mixing politics with friendship! #AroosaAlam personally cherishes these & many more such memories with your family,” Thukral quoted Singh as saying.MY TIME TOO PRECIOUS TO ENGAGE PROXIES @RT_Media_Capt. THE DEPTH & DIMENSIONS OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH CAS ARE BEYOND EVERYONE'S COMPREHENSION, MILES ABOVE PURE COMMERCE. EVEN DURING BITTER FIGHTS WE DRAW A LINE, RAVEEN BHAI, NO SLF APOINTD SURROGATE WUD EVER UNDERSTAND THAT.  In response, Mutsafa wrote: “My time too precious to engage proxies @rt_media_capt. The depth & dimensions of our relationships with CAS (Singh) are beyond everyone’s comprehension, miles above pure commerce. Even during bitter fights we draw a line, Raveen bhai, no slf apointd surrogate wud ever understand that (sic).” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhus-wife-attacks-amarinder-alleges-not-a-single-posting-took-place-in-punjab-without-money-gifts-to-aroosa-alam-328661
24-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Non-payment of claims: Private hospitals in Punjab suspend Ayushman Bharat scheme||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 23All Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (Sarbat Sehat Bima) empanelled hospitals of Punjab have stopped taking in new patients in protest of reported non-payment of claims.All the branches of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have issued an advisory to its members to “put on hold the intake of new patients till the insurance company is holding your claim”.IMA Bathinda branch president Dr Vikas Chhabra said, “All PMJAY empanelled hospitals are working hard with government to pass on the benefits of your ambitious PMJAY scheme to the poorest of the society who otherwise could not think of getting treated at quality private hospital, but it is a sorry state that all are disappointed the way insurance companies are implementing the scheme.”He alleged that it was always a matter of concern that every insurance company tried to minimise the claim amount. “But since SBI General Insurance Co. has joined the scheme on August 20, 2021, the things have taken the turn for worse.”Annoyed with problems being faced by empanelled hospitals, an emergency meeting of the IMA-Punjab was called on October 10 at Ludhiana. More than 300 doctors from all over Punjab, who have their hospitals empanelled under the scheme, along with IMA branch officials, attended it and submitted an authority letter for quitting the scheme en masse.Later, they held a meeting with health minister OP Soni and principal health secretary Vikas Garg. Both listened to the grievances of the doctors and assured them of release of payments this week, but after they fail to get any claim by October 22, they took a decision to suspend Ayushman Bharat scheme in Punjab.“Almost every hospital has so much pendency of claims that now it’s impossible for small and medium size hospitals to meet their day-to-day expenses in the form of salary/electricity bills and likewise,” he added.Chhabra also stated, “We have sent emails to Prime Minister, Chief Minister of Punjab, Principal Health secretary, CEO State Health Agency Punjab and other officials requesting them to kindly take immediate steps to resolve problems and ask the officials to make payments of claims submitted up to October 7, 2021 as per guidelines of 15 days, by October 22, 2021.”He claimed that as “our legal and genuine demands are not met and we have been exhausted off our finances we have stopped taking new patients and will resume taking new patients only after complete claim payments are received and other issues are resolved”.Doctors alleged an insurance company and state government were responsible for the failure of the scheme in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-payment-of-claims-private-hospitals-in-punjab-suspend-ayushman-bharat-scheme-328647
