25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Police bust women snatchers’ gang; seize ornaments, car||The Ludhiana Police on Monday busted a women snatchers’ gang active in various parts of Punjab and Haryana by arresting four people, including three women.The police also seized eight gold bangles, two bracelets, chain and a car from them.The accused have been identified as Jeeto (60) of Jalaan village in Sangrur, Goga (45), Rajji (40) of Sheetanwal village and Sukhchain Singh (38) of Rauti Shanna village in Patiala.Ludhiana’s Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Jeeto is the kingpin of the gang, and has been facing four criminal cases in various police stations.Goga has been facing six cases and one case each was already registered against Sukhchain and Rajji, he said.Giving details about the modus operandi of the gang, the officer said Jeeto along with Goga and Rajji used to lure elderly women on the pretext of offering them lift or engaging the targets in a friendly conversation, claiming to be acquaintances or relatives.He said the gang has been involved in more than 100 snatchings in Ludhiana, Jalandhar rural, Amritsar, Kartarpur, Moga, Khanna, Jagraon, Hoshiarpur as well as in Haryana state.A trap was laid at Goanspur village in Malerkotla district where the accused were apprehended, Bhullar said.He said the police also seized fake registration certificates and number plates from the gang member. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-police-bust-women-snatchers-gang-seize-ornaments-car-329472
25-10-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Farmers gherao administrative complex, demand compensation for crops damaged in bollworm attack||Farmers gathered in large numbers in front of Bathinda district administrative complex on Monday to demand compensation for cotton crops lost to pink bollworm attack this summer.Farmers have been demanding a compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders Shingara Singh Mann and Kaka Singh Kotra, who led the protesters, said Monday’s protest was because of the administration’s lack of response to their demand. “We’d staged a protest outside Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s from September to 18 but the state government has so far been unresponsive to our demands. So we’re now gheraoing the district administrative complex,” the leaders said.Protesters closed the gates to the complex and said they would not budge until their demands are met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-farmers-gherao-administrative-complex-demand-compensation-for-crops-damaged-in-bollworm-attack-329440
25-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Navjot Sidhu says MHA's recent notification on BSF weakens federal structure||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu claimed that Union Home Ministry’s recent decision to empower Border Security Force to conduct raids and arrests up to 50 km from the International Border in Punjab amounts to an assault on the country’s federal structure.Sidhu was reacting to the central government’s notification to extend BSF’s powers up in not only Punjab but also in West Bengal, Assam, and Tripura. The decision was taken two weeks ago and has since drawn concerns and criticism from opposition parties over what they see as an attempt to undermine states’ police powers.  “Centre is weakening country’s federal structure, by creating “a State within a State” BSF means Border Security Force, What is definition of border? 50 Kms? Public order, which connotes public peace & safety is primarily the responsibility of State Govt,” he said in his tweet on Monday.A second tweet hours later said: "People of Punjab demand parties to collectively stand against unconstitutional actions of Centre that demean State’s executive/legislature using all resources at disposal be it persuasive powers of Vidhan Sabha & parliament, go to Courts leading a Satyagraha to reclaim our Rights".The notification by the central government said BSF is now authorised to take action under CrPC, Passport Act, and Passport (Entry to India) Act and extended its powers to 50 km up from 15 km previously. The same notification reduced BSF’s purview in Gujarat to 50 km from 80 km previously.  Apart from this, BSF will also be able to search and arrest in Nagaland, Mizoram, Tripura, Manipur, and Ladakh, it said.Section 139 of the Border Security Force Act, 1968, empowers the Centre to notify the area and extent of the border force’s operational mandate, from time to time.In the notification, MHA said: “The central government has revised the ‘Schedule’ specifying the border stretch where BSF would have powers of search, seizure and arrest under Acts like Passport Act, NDPS Act, Customs Act as well as Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, and Meghalaya; UTs of J&K and Ladakh; and 50 km-belt in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Bengal and Assam”.An officer of the rank corresponding to that of the lowest rank of member of the BSF is now empowered under the CrPC to exercise and discharge the powers and duties without an order from a Magistrate and without a warrant.Punjab’s Congress government voiced its strong opposition to the notification. West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress government under Mamata Banerjee has claimed that the decision was taken unilaterally without consulting the state government.“I strongly condemn the GoI’s unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision,” Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi had said.“We oppose this decision. This is an infringement on the rights of the state. What was the sudden need to enhance the BSF’s jurisdiction without informing the state government?” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh told PTI.People of Punjab demand parties to collectively stand against unconstitutional actions of Centre that demean State’s executive/legislature using all resources at disposal be it persuasive powers of Vidhan Sabha & parliament, go to Courts leading a Satyagraha to reclaim our Rights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-says-mhas-recent-notification-on-bsf-weakens-federal-structure-329425
25-10-2021||Aman Sood||NRI Darshan Singh Dhaliwal refused entry for ‘backing’ farmers' protest||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 24Indian-American billionaire Darshan Singh Dhaliwal, who has been helping the cause of farmers here, was not allowed to land in New Delhi on Saturday evening. Dhaliwal, who had flown in from Chicago, was allegedly told at the Delhi airport he would not be allowed to enter India, despite him carrying valid documents.“I was not allowed to land in India as I have been supporting the farmers’ agitation. I am running a langar at Singhu since January and I visit them every three months. On Saturday, when I landed at the airport, I was denied entry despite having valid documents. They did not give any reason,” Dhaliwal said. “They kept me waiting for five hours and put me in a 1.30 am flight back to Chicago,” he claimed.A Punjab intelligence officer said he had got a report on the issue. “We will take it up with Delhi tomorrow,” said ADGP Intelligence AS Rai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nri-darshan-singh-dhaliwal-refused-entry-for-backing-farmers-protest-329181
25-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Now, Punjab parties shift focus on OBC, Hindu voters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24In poll-bound Punjab, political parties are now scrambling to grab the sizeable non-Jat vote bank, the OBC and Hindus.After playing the Scheduled Card card in installing Dalit Sikh CM Charanjit Singh Channi, the Congress’ focus now is on the 31 per cent vote share of the OBCs and 12 per cent of the Hindus.May tilt election outcomeWhile the party leadership looks to reach out to its disgruntled Hindu and OBC leaders, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, having announced his decision to form a new political party, is also wooing leaders of the two communities.As the former CM has hinted at a pre-poll alliance with the BJP in the event of a favourable solution to farmers’ stir, the OBC and Hindu vote bank will play a key role in tiling the outcome of the results.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal is learnt to be trying to poach Congress’ second-rung Hindu and OBC leaders who have not been politically rehabilitated during the four-and-half-year Congress rule. Already, Sukhbir is said to be in parleys with prominent leaders who enjoy considerable support among the two communities. Cabinet minister and PCC working president Sangat Singh Gilzian said neither Akalis nor Captain Amarinder during their rule bothered about the OBCs. “Given the 31 per cent OBC vote share, due representation should be given to them in power sharing,” he said.Having influence in Anandpur Sahib, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Patiala and Ferozepur parliamentary segments, the OBC leaders are reportedly upset at not being rehabilitated in the political setup over the years.Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar said the division on caste and religion lines was against the spirit of the Congress. “The moment the caste and religion come in, the Congress will lose its character”.After Charanjit Singh, son of Congress stalwart Dilbagh Singh, quit the Congress in 2016, no OBC leader has been groomed from the Doaba region so far. “After late Gaini Zail Singh, the Ramgarhia community has been sidelined by the party,” said Rajpal Singh, a senior OBC Congress leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-punjab-parties-shift-focus-on-obc-hindu-voters-329184
25-10-2021||---||SAD-BJP allied with Capt Amarinder to keep AAP out: Harpal Singh Cheema||Chandigarh, October 24A day after SAD president alleged Capt Amarinder Singh’s proximity to BJP-RSS during the 2017 Assembly elections, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today accused Sukhbir Singh Badal of being the “mastermind” himself.Addressing mediapersons, Cheema said: “Sukhbir has spoken an incomplete truth. While everyone knows Captain-Congress, BJP-RSS and Badal family had formed an alliance to prevent the AAP from coming to power, the mastermind of this was Sukhbir himself.” Cheema claimed the Akali Dal had been seizing power in Punjab in alliance with the BJP-RSS. “Regarding the 2017 elections, Sukhbir should tell the whole truth that like the BJP-RSS, the SAD had voted for the Congress and Captain Amarinder through its workers,” he added. “The SAD, Congress and Capt Amarinder, BJP and RSS are still colluding to keep the AAP out of Punjab,” he claimed.Cheema said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had also made a deal with the BJP following in in the footsteps of Capt Amarinder Singh. This was evident from the fact that half of Punjab had been handed over to the Centre through the BSF, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bjp-allied-with-capt-amarinder-to-keep-aap-out-harpal-singh-cheema-329187
25-10-2021||Patiala||Patiala twin murders: Accused got idea from Hollywood flicks, claims probe||Forty-year-old Navninder Preet Singh of Urban Estate arrested for twin murders, including that of his wife and fiancée, revealed that he watched over 200 Hollywood movies and did extensive research on the Internet to zero in on nitrogen cylinder to kill his targets, the police probe disclosed.“For the past almost six months, the accused had made up his mind to murder the two women. So he turned to crime thrillers and did extensive research on the Internet to find a suitable way to murder without any bloodshed,” said SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar. “We have identified the accused who helped him get nitrogen more than twice,” he added.CIA incharge Shaminder Singh said: “All Navninder had to do was to place a tight mask over the face of his victims to ensure they don’t survive. He even tried the same method on himself for a short while to see the consequences and was sure that prolonged exposure will kill his targets.”Notably, the matter came to light during a probe into the murder of Chapinderpal Kaur (28) of Bathinda, who was asphyxiated on October 14. Chapinderpal was to marry Navninder on October 20 but he allegedly killed her and buried her body in his bedroom after she discovered that he was already married.In February 2018, Navninder married Sukhdeep Kaur (39) of Sangrur and started staying at a rented accommodation. “In September, the couple started quarrelling after Sukhdeep came to know about his marriage with one Lakhwinder Kaur of Bhawanigarh,” the SSP said. “On September 20, he brought home a nitrogen cylinder and told Sukhdeep that it contained oxygen and inhaling it will help the foetus grow. She died as soon as she inhaled the gas. The accused convinced Sukhdeep’s parents that she died of cardiac arrest.”A case under Section 302, IPC, was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-twin-murders-accused-got-idea-from-hollywood-flicks-claims-probe-329191
25-10-2021||Fazilka||Years on, 962 guest lecturers in Punjab await regular jobs, pay hike||Resentment is brewing among guest faculty assistant professors for being given meagre salaries in Punjab. They have been demanding regularisation and hike in salary, at par with part-time assistant professors.As per the information gathered by The Tribune, there are 962 guest faculty assistant professors, around 300 regular, 250 part-time and two professors deployed on contract-basis at state colleges. As per it, a regular professor gets a salary of Rs 1.5 to Rs 2 lakh per month, a contract-based professor gets Rs 59,000 per month, a part-time assistant professor is paid Rs 53,568 per month and a guest faculty assistant professor gets only Rs 24,000 per month.Prof Shamsher Singh of Fazilka said guest faculty professors had been running various government colleges virtually in the absence of regular staff but were being meted out with step-motherly treatment.Notably, not a single regular professor has been posted at a Fazilka government college.The professors claimed that former Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa had worked out a policy for pay hike and a proposal for the same was forwarded to the Finance Department, which didn’t clear it for the past about five months, resulting in fiscal hardships. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/years-on-962-guest-lecturers-in-punjab-await-regular-jobs-pay-hike-329192
25-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Punjab Diary: Unusual camaraderie||In fix after photo leakSangrur: After pictures of some Congress leaders meeting former MLA Arvind Khanna, who is likely to contest the Assembly election on SAD ticket from here, went viral on the social media, senior party leaders have been trying to convince the disgruntled lot. There is buzz about intentional leak of photos by some leaders, not convinced with the development brought about by minister Vijay Inder Singla. While it has worked for many, as the minister immediately asked his team to contact the leaders, for those who haven’t been approached by his team, tension is palpable. For they have started to believe the re-entry of Khanna into politics may get delayed.Wiki’s not always rightFazilka: Going by Wikipedia, Himanshu Jhuria is the incumbent Fazilka MLA, instead of Congress’ Davinder Singh Ghubaya. Further, Jhuria has been shown to have been elected to the state Assembly in 2021. Whether the name of the incumbent MLA has been inadvertently left out or was it a mischievous act is a matter of probe. However, one name that pops up on Google while searching for Himanshu Jhuria is that of Himanshu Dhuria, who won Rs 50 lakh in television show ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati’ (KBC). How Jhuria’s name has figured as the Fazilka MLA is anybody’s guess. Considered a relatively authentic source of information, Wikipedia is a free online encyclopaedia which can be edited as well.South Sudan peacekeeper DSP Sanjeevan GuruGurdaspur: As many as 24 Indian police officers serving as advisers, also known as peacekeepers, with the UN Mission in the Republic of South Sudan, were recently honoured by UN officials for their services during the ongoing peacekeeping operations in that country. One of them, DSP Sanjeevan Guru, belongs to the Punjab Police. He is deployed as an Operations Officer in the Bentiu state of South Sudan. “Being honoured by the UN is a great achievement. It has been a great learning experience for me. I hope to use the experience and expertise gained here for the benefit of the Punjab Police,” he told TNS from Bentiu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-unusual-camaraderie-329195
25-10-2021||Ludhiana||Pvt hospitals not to refuse Ayushman treatment||Deputy CM OP Soni on Sunday held a meeting with the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and SBI insurance company at the Circuit House here and amicably resolved the issues.The meeting decided that all private hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana won’t refuse treatment to the beneficiaries.Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health, said the insurance firm would pay Rs 30 crore to the hospitals in the next two days besides clearing the remaining payment soon. H said a grievance panel would be formed comprising officials of the Health Department, insurance firm and IMA representatives. “Soon, the ambit of health insurance scheme is set to be extended to cover an additional 1.5 million families.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pvt-hospitals-not-to-refuse-ayushman-treatment-329197
25-10-2021||Dhar (Pathankot)||Forest officials rescue leopard after 11-hr operation in Pathankot village||Officials of two forest divisions — Pathankot and Phillaur — managed to rescue an 8-feet long grown-up leopard after an 11-hour-long operation in Dorang Koti village of the Dhar block.Ironically, the wildcat got trapped in that very wire meshing that had been set up by farmers to keep animals away. On Saturday noon, Pathankot Divisional Wildlife Officer Rajesh Mahajan received a message from locals claiming to have spotted a “well-built” leopard 200 meters from a cluster of villages. The DFO immediately informed Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal. Minutes later, officials of the Phillaur division, carrying cages, a tranquilizing gun, darts, a laser rangefinder, nets, cameras and searchlights were on their way to Dhar.The 12-member team, led by Mahajan and Phillaur Range Officer Jaswant Singh, managed to locate the animal which had moved from the original place where it was first sighted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forest-officials-rescue-leopard-after-11-hr-operation-in-pathankot-village-329198
25-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jobless to protest at Pargat Singh’s house||Unemployed teachers who have been protesting outside ex-Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla’s residence in Sangrur for the past nine months have now shifted to Cabinet Minister Pargat Singh’s house here.After protesting outside Singla’s residence in Sangrur for nine months, members of various unions under the Berozgar Sanjha Morcha ended the stir on September 30 this year after Pargat succeeded the former.Despite promises made by the Capt Amarinder Singh government of “ghar ghar naukri” and job allotment cards during the 2017 poll, teachers say they have been left high and dry even after four years. Unable to meet Pargat outside his residence on Saturday, members of the TET Pass Unemployed BEd Teachers Union declared that they would hold an indefinite dharna there from October 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-to-protest-at-pargat-singhs-house-329199
25-10-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur man booked for Rs 32 lakh immigration fraud||The police have booked a Sangrur resident for duping a Moonak resident of Rs 32.5 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Canada. The matter is being probed by the police.ASI Bhagwant Singh said the victim, Balihar Singh, alleged that accused Jarman Singh took the money from him between 2017 and 2018. “After Jarman failed to send him to Canada, he started demanding his money back and when the accused did not return it, he lodged a complaint with the police.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-man-booked-for-rs-32-lakh-immigration-fraud-329200
25-10-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Parleys on with farm leaders, headway soon: Capt Amarinder camp||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24While former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp says it “expected something soon” from the discussions with farmers on resolving the long-drawn agitation, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has said it is not a part of any deliberations with the former CM.The camp of former Chief Minister maintains that talks with certain top farmer leaders were at an advanced stage and a formal announcement regarding ending the agitation was expected anytime now. A senior Congress leader, close to his camp, said, “We have been told that a formal end to the agitation is expected soon in New Delhi after announcement by a top BJP leader. Capt Amarinder Singh is expected to be in attendance at the function and he will announce his planned political front after that.”Rumours being spreadWe are not in touch with the former Chief Minister on any issue. These are just rumours being planted by the government. There have been attempts to derail our peaceful dharnas. —Balbir Singh Rajewal, Farm leaderA senior media functionary of the former CM said the “talks are on but I’m not sure about the announcement. But I am expecting something soon”. When asked for names of farmers in touch with Captain, the functionary said, “We would like to avoid revealing that for now.”At the same time, top leaders of the SKM have out rightly rejected any talks with the Capt Amarinder Singh camp. Senior leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “We are not in touch with the former Chief Minister on any issue. These are just rumours being planted by the government. We are witnessing that throughout the progress of the agitation, there have been different stories and one incident after the other to derail our peaceful dharnas. Rumours like differences among our morcha members, Lakhimpur Kheri incident and even the recent killing of a person allegedly by Nihangs are only being used to create a wrong impression that the flame of our agitation is dying down. We stand unaffected in our demand for the repeal of the black laws.”Darshan Pal, another senior SKM leader, also denied any parleys with the Capt Amarinder Singh office. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta), said, “We have not had any discussions with the former Chief Minister or anyone on his behalf on the farmers’ issue. All these messages are planted to send a message that we should be prepared for fresh terms to end our agitation. Our demands are very simple. We will not budge from our stand on anything less than the repeal of the farm laws.”Rattan Singh Randhawa, vice-president, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said: “If at all the Captain camp is in touch with any farm leaders and so sure about an early resolution, why are the names not being made public?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parleys-on-with-farm-leaders-headway-soon-capt-amarinder-camp-329092
25-10-2021||Ferozepur||Restart talks with farmers: MLA Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi to Modi||In an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Cabinet Minister and MLA Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said it was high time the farmers returned to their homes to celebrate the festive season with their families.“We have seen farmers stand united and determined to get their voices heard. Hundreds have lost lives while fighting for their rights. It is unfortunate that protesting farmers continue to live in extreme conditions without proper sanitation and clean drinking water,” said Sodhi, adding their persistence despite the continued plight had only shown their resolve.“The Modi government should immediately reinitiate talks with farmers to withdraw these laws so that the farmers can return to their homes,” he said.Sodhi also demanded the families of the farmers who sacrificed their lives during this protest should be extended financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh along with free education for their children. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/restart-talks-with-farmers-mla-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-to-modi-329094
25-10-2021||---||Stick to core issues: Navjot Sidhu to party men||Chandigarh, October 24Amid the Twitter war between certain Congress leaders and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over latter’s Pakistan friend Aroosa Alam, Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has reminded his party colleagues to focus on core issue of Punjab.In what appears to be a veiled message to ministers in the Congress government not to get trapped in “politics of deflection”, Sidhu today took to Twitter, saying: “Punjab must come back to its real issues that concern every Punjabi and the future generations.” Over the past few days, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, MLA Kulbir Zira and chief strategic adviser to Sidhu Mohammad Mustafa in an effort to puncture former CM’s nationalist image were seen questioning him about Alam. Even Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of the PCC chief, accused Alam of graft for giving favours in postings and other works on the government side.Need fiscal stepsHow will we counter financial emergency that stares upon us? I will stick to the real issues. Navjot Singh Sidhu, pcc chiefWhy no progress?Where is progress on the issues that agitated these MLAs. Has there been any movement forward? —Manish Tewari, cong MPHitting back, the former CM and his aides have taken on their critics by releasing Alam’s pictures with leaders questioning her.Trying to bring back the focus on the issues, Sidhu in a series of tweets said: “How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat.”He further said the choice was clear between irreparable damage and the last chance for damage control. “Who will bring back state’s resources to the state’s coffers, instead of these going to private pockets? Who will lead the initiative to resurrect our great state to prosperity?” Sidhu sought to know. The former cricketer-turned-politician further said: “Let the mist clear, reality shine like the sun upon the roadmap for revival of Punjab, shunning those who protect the selfish vested interests and focus only on the path that will lead to ‘Jittega Punjab’.”CM, PCC chief to share stage todayCM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu will share the stage at an all-party meeting called by the CM on Monday to discuss the Centre’s move to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stick-to-core-issues-navjot-sidhu-to-party-men-329095
25-10-2021||Chandigarh/Patiala||Personal attacks may ‘hurt’ Captain Amarinder baiters||Raking up Aroosa Alam’s name at this juncture will harm Capt Amarinder Singh’s detractors in the Congress more than politically damage the former CM, unless the allegation of wrongdoing against the former CM’s Pakistan friend and other aides is taken to its logical conclusion, feels a section of party leaders.A majority feels since Capt Amarinder is still in the Congress, personal attacks over his Pakistan friend will amount to washing dirty linen in public.A Captain bête noire and Cabinet minister said it had only exposed the character of those raking up the issue. “Why didn’t they speak up for four-and-a-half years. They are speaking now when she is not here. Her existence was known to all.” While Rana Gurmit Sodhi, a former Cabinet minister and Captain confidant, refused to comment, another former minister said by launching a personal attack on Alam, party leaders had exposed themselves to questioning in public forum. However, defending the raking up of Alam’s name, MLA Kulbir Singh Zira said it would expose the former CM and bring all his close aides under the scanner as acts of omission and commission centred around her.On the other hand, the former CM’s hometown, Patiala, is not happy with the way politicians across party lines have targeted him personally to score political points. Residents and leaders feel there are so many other issues that need to be addressed for the betterment of the state.The issue has been raked up with Captain’s relationship with the Congress becoming bitter by the day ever since his resignation from the post of CM. Politicians in Patiala feel leaders across party lines should not indulge in personal mudslinging. “I firmly believe we should talk about development and what can be done to help Punjab youths, rather than waste our time and energy to demean anyone on personal relations they share with anyone,” said former Cabinet minister Surjit Singh Rakhra. “Such accusations help no one”, he said. District Congress chief KK Malhotra called it “a non-issue”. “We all have to be responsible while targeting someone,” he said. — TNSBitter relationshipThe issue has been raked up with Captain’s relationship with the Congress becoming bitter by the day ever since his resignation. Politicians feel leaders across party lines should not indulge in personal mudslinging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/personal-attacks-may-hurt-captain-amarinder-baiters-329097
25-10-2021||---||Rain wreaks havoc in Punjab, paddy drenched||Tribune News ServiceSangrur/Moga, October 24Despite tall claims, unseasonal rain of a few hours on Saturday night and Sunday drenched the paddy crop in many grain markets of Sangrur district and increased the moisture content.Farmers alleged they had not received any help from the Punjab Government authorities in covering their paddy while Agriculture Department authorities said this would further delay the paddy harvesting.“All claims of the government of arrangements for paddy purchase in various grain markets are only on paper as due to lack of required tarpaulins, the paddy got drenched. The farmers are already under huge debt and the damage to paddy will create more problems for them,” said Harjinder Singh, press secretary of the BKU Ugrahan’s Lehra block.Farmers, while talking to The Tribune, alleged their repeated requests to officials for arrangements to cover their paddy during rain fell on deaf ears.“It is the third loss I have suffered during the past one and a half years. Some months back, rainwater damaged our standing paddy crop, then pink bollworm affected our cotton and now, my harvested paddy has been affected by rain. If our paddy is damaged, we will be compelled to launch an indefinite agitation,” said Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer.“Our field reports suggest the recent rain will only delay harvesting and will not cause any damage to the crop,” Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal, Chief Agriculture Officer, Sangrur, said.Rain coupled with winds hit the procurement and lifting of paddy in Moga district as well. Paddy lying in the open and that filled in bags got drenched in rainwater at the grain markets of the district.An official of the administration said 2,06,495 tonne paddy had arrived in the grain markets in the district of which 1,84,208 tonne had been purchased while 22,287 tonne was lying unsold due to high moisture content.It was learnt the rice millers were reluctant to lift paddy due to the high moisture content. “Apart from damage, the weight of the grain also reduces when it dries out,” said a rice miller, adding they would suffer losses.In Sriganganagar , intense hailstorm and rain wreaked havoc. Sources said farm worker Banto Bai (55) died on the spot while carrying cotton she had plucked. While others ran towards a room and got shelter, she collapsed due to the heavy pack that she was carrying.Standing Crop inundatedRopar: The region witnessed heavy rain since 6 am, which continued till Sunday evening submerging the standing crop that was ready for harvest. Chief Agriculture Officer Avtar Singh said he had already sent a preliminary report of losses suffered by farmers due and the final report would be prepared only when the weather was clear. TNSAdmn promises actionSangrur: District Mandi Officer Mandeep Singh said they had been making all arrangements to help farmers in selling their crop. “If farmers are still facing any problem, we will take quick action,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-punjab-paddy-drenched-329098
25-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Farmers stop basmati trucks from UP, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24At a time when the Punjab Government is looking at attracting industrial investors to give a boost to the state economy, consignments of trucks laden with basmati paddy from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, meant for milling, have been forcibly stopped at the state’s borders by a group of farmers.The paddy, of PUSA No 1 and Sugandha, is needed by rice shelling units in the state to get basmati and further send it to their customers abroad. For three days now, the owners of these rice mills have been running from pillar to post, trying to get the government to intervene and resolve the issue, but in vain.CMO informedOfficials in Agriculture and Food and Supplies Departments said they were aware of the issue and it had been brought in the knowledge of the Chief Minister's Office. “We will resolve it at the earliest,” said senior officials in both departments.Owners of the mills say at a time when the atmosphere is politically charged and the farmers’ issue is a “political hot potato”, the government is not too forthcoming in resolving the issue and had left them at the mercy of protesters. “We have been told to resolve the issue at our own level,” said a Moga-based miller.The genesis of the problem lies in the freezing of the paddy procurement limit by the Government of India at 170 lakh metric tonne, forcing the state government to monitor the influx of paddy on their portal. The system was initiated on October 14, and since then, each consignment of paddy coming from other states to the rice mills in Punjab is tracked till it reaches the mills.But in spite of these trucks having requisite permissions to reach the mills in Punjab, the protesters have stopped the trucks at Shambhu, Pattran and Khanauri borders, saying if basmati crop from outside the state is brought for shelling, the basmati farmers here will not get higher price.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stop-basmati-trucks-from-up-haryana-329100
25-10-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab sees 10K dengue cases, 38 deaths in a month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24In the past 30 days, between September 24 and October 23, the state has reported over 10,000 dengue cases and 38 deaths, which according to health officials is the worst-ever spike.So far, around 12,500 cases have been reported in the state. State government departments seem to have failed in taking timely action to prevent the outbreak. Both the departments — local bodies in urban and rural development and panchayats — that are mainly responsible for curtailing the outbreak, were found issuing instructions for the purchase of insecticides at a time when the cases had already started hitting the peak.The state reported around 4,000 cases in just last one week. According to health officials, the figures this year could be the worst-ever in terms of the number of cases and fatalities. So far, 2017 has seen maximum infections with over 15,000 cases.The current dengue spike is likely to continue till mid-November, after which with dip in night temperatures, mosquito population falls and the cases would decline.Some districts are hit harder than others. There are four districts that have reported more than 1,200 cases. SAS Nagar tops the chart with 1,981 cases and 20 deaths, followed by Bathinda (1,760 cases and one death), Amritsar (1,311 cases) and Hoshiarpur (1,271 cases) and Pathankot district (1,215 cases).According to experts, the situation could worsen post-weekend rain showers as it will lead to accumulation of water and thus add to mosquito-breeding sites. Earlier, prolonged monsoon had led to soaring cases and fatalities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-10k-dengue-cases-38-deaths-in-a-month-329101
25-10-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Amid trust deficit, pvt labs minting money||With increasing number of dengue cases in Bathinda, private blood banks in the city are minting money. Even as a year has elapsed since the infamous HIV-positive blood transfusion fiasco, there is a huge trust deficit among people, who are finding it difficult to get blood transfusion done at the blood bank unit of the Civil Hospital here.Notably, five patients, including children and a woman, were transfused with HIV-positive blood at the Civil Hospital’s unit.Sources said while majority of the dengue patients (family members) are apprehensive and do not want to avail services or get blood transfusion done at the government hospital, it is the private laboratories that have been minting money. Private labs are charging Rs 5,000 to Rs 12,000 for a single unit of blood. More than 1,700 cases of dengue have been reported in the district this season so far.Sources added that patients from low socio-income groups, who are coming for treatment at the government hospital, are facing difficulty in arranging blood as they do not want to undergo blood transfusion at the Civil Hospital but at the same time cannot afford it at private labs that are selling it at exorbitant prices. The family members of such patients are running from pillar to post to arrange blood. As a number of residents have been suffering with dengue and seasonal viral, there is an acute shortage of donors these days.Akhtar Hussain, a patient’s kin, said they did not want to get the blood transfusion done at the government hospital but also could not afford to buy it from private labs.Meanwhile, Civil Hospital blood bank unit incharge Dr Ritika said, “We have 224 units of blood and been providing it to patients.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-amid-trust-deficit-pvt-labs-minting-money-329105
25-10-2021||Ludhiana||Petrol stations to shut early in Punjab from Nov 7- 21||From November 7 to 21, petrol station dealers across the state have decided to operate from 7 am to 5 pm in protest against lack of revision of commission despite a continuous increase in fuel prices.On November 22, they would observe a complete strike if the commission wasn’t hiked, said Paramjeet Singh Doaba, president, Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association.Prices of fuel had been rising constantly leading to an increase in input cost, but their commission had not been hiked, he said. “For the past five years, our input cost has increased five times, but our commission is same. We’ve been holding meetings with the government in the past but to no avail.”He said fuel stations operated 24x7, leading to huge expenses on account of power and other charges, but in comparison, their income had remained stagnant. They would now shut pumps early to help cut cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/petrol-stations-to-shut-early-in-punjab-from-nov-7-21-329108
25-10-2021||---||Congress calls key meet tomorrow, Punjab factionalism on agenda||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 24Days after the Congress Working Committee approved an ambitious programme to train party workers and leaders in its ideology among other things, a key meeting of top organisational leaders has been called this Tuesday to take the matter forward and discuss upcoming elections.AICC general secretary in-charge of states and party unit presidents have been asked to attend the meeting.Poll preparations Also On tableThe major agenda item will be state elections due in 2022 with the Congress facing an uphill task in Punjab where factionalism within the party is evident and growing.The Congress is concerned about the ongoing war of words between former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and a host of party leaders. Several leaders have voiced their concerns over Punjab affairs in private, while Congress MP Manish Tewari today articulated his angst publicly through tweets, objecting to the use of “foul language”.Elections in Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Manipur scheduled for early 2022 will also be discussed along with key campaign strategies and messaging.AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal in a letter to party office-bearers said, “The meeting has been called to discuss the membership campaign, preparations for the ‘jan jagran abhiyan’, proposed training programme and forthcoming Assembly elections.”The training programme cleared by the CWC is currently a major topic of discussion in party circles with respect to its scope. The meeting will also discuss public awareness campaign which the CWC announced on inflation. The campaign is to be held from November 14 to 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-calls-key-meet-tomorrow-punjab-factionalism-on-agenda-329110
25-10-2021||---||10 additional judges of  Punjab and Haryana HC made permanent||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 24The Centre on Sunday notified the appointment of 10 additional judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court as permanent judges. However, this will not change the actual strength of the High Court which is functioning with 45 judges – 40 short of its sanctioned strength of 85.According to a notification issued by the Department of Justice, the additional judges made permanent are Justices Suvir Sehgal, Alka Sarin, Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, Ashok Kumar Verma, Sant Prakash, Meenakshi I Mehta, Karamjit Singh, Vivek Puri, Archana Puri and Rajesh Bhardwaj.The Supreme Court Collegium, at its meeting on October 7, had approved the appointment of the additional judges as permanent judges. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-additional-judges-of-punjab-and-haryana-hc-made-permanent-329124
25-10-2021||---||Untimely rain damages standing paddy crop in Punjab and Haryana||Chandigarh, October 24The incessant rain lashing several parts of Punjab and Haryana has reportedly damaged the standing paddy crop at various places in Punjab and Haryana, officials said on Sunday.Paddy harvesting is also likely to be delayed because of the daylong rain, they said.Rain lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday leading to a dip in the day temperature. Rain and hailstorm had lashed some places in Punjab on Saturday.According to officials of the Punjab Agriculture Department, rain is likely to impact crop yield in areas including Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Rupnagar and Pathankot.The Gurdaspur district administration on Sunday ordered ‘girdawari’ for assessment of crop loss caused by heavy rain and hailstorm on October 23 and also asked the concerned officials to submit a report of any loss to the standing crop within a week.Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday visited Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur to take stock of the crop loss caused by hailstorm. He also promised all help to the affected farmers.Rain also brought misery for farmers who brought harvested paddy to grain markets for procurement by government agencies. There were reports of paddy getting wet at some places because of rain.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday directed the deputy commissioners to immediately put in place measures to ensure that farmers do not face any problem in mandis due to rain.“Any issue of water logging in mandis must be dealt urgently by Mandi Board, Municipal Corporations, Municipal Councils and Panchayats,” Channi said in a tweet.Untimely rain lashed various parts of Haryana and flattened the standing basmati crop in Karnal and Panipat districts. There were reports of paddy getting wet at some places because of rain.— with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/untimely-rain-damages-standing-paddy-crop-in-punjab-and-haryana-329035
25-10-2021||New Delhi||10, including 3 women, elevated as permanent judges of Punjab and Haryana High Court||Ten additional judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court were on Sunday elevated as permanent judges, the Law Ministry said.The Department of Justice in the ministry issued a list of additional judges elevated as judges.Those elevated include three women additional judges.Usually, additional judges are appointed for a period of two years before being made judges.According to October 1, 2021, figures available on the Law Ministry website, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has a sanctioned strength of 85 judges, but is functioning with 45 judges.The 10 additional judges, whose names have been notified, are Justices Suvir Sehgal, Alka Sarin, Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, Ashok Kumar Verma, Sant Parkash, Meenakshi I Mehta, Karamjit Singh, Vivek Puri, Archana Puri and Rajesh Bhardwaj.The Supreme Court collegium, in its meeting held on October 7, had approved the proposal for the appointment of the additional judges as permanent judges.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-including-3-women-elevated-as-permanent-judges-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-329005
25-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu: Let's focus on real issues||Apparently hinting at a Twitter war between Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress leaders, including Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, over Aroosa Alam, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Sunday that Punjab must come back to its real issues facing the state.Sidhu has so far not commented on the Pakistani friend of the former chief minister.In a series of tweets on Sunday, Sidhu said: “How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat”.He said future said: “The choice is clear between irreparable damage and the last chance for damage control. Who will bring back state’s resources to the state’s coffers, instead of them going to private pockets?? Who will lead the initiative for resurrection our great state to prosperity.”“Let the mist clear, reality shine like the sun upon the roadmap for revival of Punjab, shunning those who protect the selfish vested interests and focus only on the path that will lead to Jittega Punjab,” he said in the third of his tweets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-lets-focus-on-real-issues-328953
25-10-2021||Amritsar||In photos: Parkash Purb of Guru Ramdas celebrated with religious fervour||Also read: Exotic flowers embellish Golden Temple complex to mark Guru Ram Das Parkash PurbAlso read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinction||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-photos-parkash-purb-of-guru-ramdas-celebrated-with-religious-fervour-328623
