26-10-2021||Lahore||Ready to join probe by Indian agencies on allegations of links with ISI: Pakistan journalist Aroosa Alam||Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam said on Tuesday that she is ready to join any investigation by Indian agencies for her alleged links with the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) as she described the allegations against her as “outrageous and utterly disappointing”.Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio in the state Cabinet, last week said that a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether Alam has links with the notorious Pakistani spy agency.“I am ready to cooperate with the central agencies of India if they are opening any probe on the issue. India can even engage third-country investigators to probe the baseless propaganda against me,” Alam said.“Some 16 years ago when I was first refused an Indian visa over some reasons, the Indian government had conducted such an investigation and subsequently a visa was issued to me,” she said, adding that she last visited India in November and former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is still her good friend.“Despite this controversy, Capt sahib is still my good friend,” 67-year-old journalist said.She mocked what kind of ‘Raaz (secret)’ the ISI had through her.“The allegations are simply outrageous and utterly disappointing,” she fumed. On Randhawa’s statement that a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether she has links with the ISI, Alam alleged: “Linking me with the ISI can be a brainchild of Navjot Singh Sidhu’s chief strategist (Mohd) Mustafa. He might have advised Sidhu to play an ISI card after badly losing his bid to become the chief minister. The ISI card sells well in India”.She also questioned the jurisdiction of Randhawa to claim that he would probe her links with the ISI. “Randhawa does not know his jurisdiction. However, if he wants to investigate me, he is most welcome,” she said.Randhawa had claimed that Amarinder Singh has been friends with Alam for years, she stayed in India for many years and her visa was extended by the Centre from time to time.“Aroosa was in India for four-and-a-half years and her visa was also extended from time to time. Why did Delhi not cancel her visa? Why did she leave India when we went against Amarinder Singh?” he recently asked, referring to developments in the Punjab Congress last month.Amarinder Singh had hit back at the Congress leader, saying Randhawa is now resorting to personal attacks.“What I’m worried about @Sukhjinder_INC is that instead of focusing on maintaining law and order at a time when terror threat is high and festivals are around the corner, you’ve put @DGP Punjab Police on a baseless investigation at the cost of Punjab’s safety,” he said.Alam, who remained a member of the South Asian Free Media Association (SAFMA) and vice-president of National Press Club (Islamabad), further said she is no longer active in journalism.“Since Capt Amarinder Singh intends to form his own party and may seek alliance with the BJP, there has been mourning in the ranks of the Congress, which is a deeply divided house. Sidhu wanted to be the chief minister and he had told the party leadership not to make Randhawa chief minister,” she claimed.“Randhawa knows this and he has a grudge against Sidhu. And here comes a dark horse Charanjit Singh Channi who was given the reins of Punjab, which badly hurt Sidhu,” said Alam, who is the mother of known TV host Fakhar-e-Alam who is currently hosting a programme regarding Men’s T-20 ICC Cricket World Cup in Dubai on Ten’s Sports.Chiding Mustafa for embroiling her in this controversy, she said his wife Razia who had three ministries in the previous government now has hardly any in the incumbent set up. “After the setback, Sidhu has literally disappeared on the political map,” she claimed. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-join-probe-by-indian-agencies-on-allegations-of-links-with-isi-pakistan-journalist-aroosa-alam-329987
26-10-2021||Mohali||Punjab Chief Minister Channi assures industrialists of zero tolerance for political or bureaucratic corruption||Assuring the captains of the industry of creating conducive ecosystem for investment in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday reiterated his government’s firm commitment to act a true facilitator showing zero tolerance for political or bureaucratic corruption, negative attitude, or delays.Delivering the keynote address on the plenary session of 4th Progressive Punjab Investors Summit 2021 here at Indian School of Business, the chief minister said that Punjab would live up to their expectations as the state is the best place to do business in India.Expressing his gratitude to all the visionaries who joined virtually on the first day of two-day Progressive Punjab Investors Summit-2021 on October 26 and 27 with theme of ‘Progressive Punjab-A story of Partnership, Delivery & Growth: Investors Reassured’, the chief minister said their valuable suggestions and input would help the state government to further fine tune the existing industrial policy by incorporating some requisite amendments to make it far more investor friendly.The chief minister further said that he comes from a humble background and had gone through the grill of day-to-day challenges faced by a common man and has first-hand knowledge of their problems.Channi said, “I have also seen that aspiring young generation of Punjab which wants to do something big and I am committed to fulfil their dreams and unable to do this without you....without your support.”He termed the industrialists as wealth creators in the society and a source of opportunities to cherish the aspirations of state’s youth.Exhorting the tycoons of industry, Channi said, “You have the capital, you have the risk taking capacity and you have business ideas. I have the will, I have the intent and I have the commitment. I give my commitment to you all today that our government will work with you at every step to see that nothing from the government hinders your speed or create hurdles in your business plans. Come let’s team up to deliver the true potential of your organisation and the state. Let’s work together towards mutual growth and progress.”Channi aspired to further improve state’s ranking from top 10 to becoming top five states in the country in terms of attracting Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs).He said the state has developed a land bank of 6000 acres with plug and play facilities and created an efficient skill development ecosystem with active participation of industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-channi-assures-industrialists-of-zero-tolerance-for-political-or-bureaucratic-corruption-329983
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jaito MLA disqualified from Punjab Assembly||Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana K P Singh on Tuesday disqualified Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Jaito, Baldev Singh Kalyan, from the membership of the Punjab Legislative Assembly.The orders were passed by the Speaker on Tuesday in response to a disqualification petition filed by some constituents of his assembly seat led by one Simranjit Singh. The petition was filed in the year 2019, and after following due process, including giving hearings to the MLA, the speaker passed his orders today.Interestingly, Baldev Singh is the second rebel AAP MLA to lose his seat in the Vidhan Sabha this month. Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s resignation was also accepted by the Speaker earlier this month. Both had rebelled against the party in 2018—a year after being elected on the AAP ticket. He, like Khaira, had also contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Faridkot as Punjab Ekta Party candidate. He lost the election and had subsequently returned back to the AAP fold.Talking to The Tribune, Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh said that following the filing of the disqualification petition, hearings of the petitioners as well as Baldev Singh were conducted. “During the course of the hearings, the MLA himself admitted that he had contested elections from Punjab Ekta Party. Thus a decision to disqualify him was taken today,” he said.With the dismissal of Baldev Singh, the strength of AAP in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha has been reduced to 17, though they continue to be the single largest opposition party. Of these 17, three MLAs—Pirmal Singh, Nazar Singh, and Jagdev Singh Kamalu—have already joined the Congress, while another MLA Kanwar Sandhu continues to be a rebel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jaito-mla-disqualified-from-punjab-assembly-329953
26-10-2021||New Delhi||IT departments detects Rs 130 crore after raids on Punjab-based cycle, student immigration businesses||The Income Tax Department detected undisclosed income of about Rs 130 crore after it recently raided two Punjab-based businesses, one engaged in cycle trade and the other in providing immigration and visa services to students, the CBDT said on Tuesday.Searches on the entity engaged in cycle trade were carried out on October 21.“The action led to detection of unaccounted income of about Rs 150 crore,” the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), which frames policy for the tax department, said in a statement.Unaccounted cash of Rs 2.25 crore and gold worth Rs 2 crore were also seized during these raids, it said.“The group has been found to be involved in suppression of income by showing bogus intra-group transactions within group concerns,” the CBDT said, adding that: “The group was also found to have been involved in receiving a substantial part of sale consideration in cash and thereby, suppressing the turnover”.The “seized documents” reveal suppression of turnover of around Rs 90 crore per annum by a group concern of the cycle business, and “incriminating” documents related to undisclosed sale of scrap were also seized. The second group is based in Jalandhar and is engaged in providing immigration and study visa related services to students.  Raids on this group were carried out on October 18.“The searches found that the group used to charge a package, ranging between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh per student, depending on the country where the student wished to pursue education,” the CBDT said.“Almost the entire receipts of the group, aggregating to more than Rs 200 crore in the last five years are in cash,” it said.It was also found that the bank accounts of the employees were used to receive money, which was subsequently withdrawn in cash, the CBDT added.The statement said: “Profit earned from such receipts was never disclosed in the income tax returns (ITRs) filed”.“Only the commission received from foreign universities has been shown as receipts in the ITRs by the members of the group,” it said.Unaccounted income of about Rs 40 crore has been detected and Rs 20 lakh cash and jewellery of Rs 33 lakh has been seized, the statement said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/it-departments-detects-rs-130-crore-after-raids-on-punjab-based-cycle-student-immigration-businesses-329950
26-10-2021||New Delhi||Give compensation to farmers for damaged crops due to unseasonal rains, Kejriwal tells Punjab CM Channi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi to immediately provide an appropriate compensation to farmers of the border state for crops damaged due to unseasonal rains.The Delhi government had last week announced that it would pay Rs 50,000 per hectare as compensation to farmers in the capital who suffered crop losses due to inclement weather."Crops in many areas of Punjab have been completely damaged due to unseasonal rains. In Delhi, we have announced Rs 50,000 per hectare as compensation to farmers who have suffered losses. I appeal to Punjab CM Channi to provide an appropriate and immediate compensation to farmers in his state,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Last week, he had said that all SDMs and DMs in Delhi were surveying the sites where the crop was ruined."I hope that the survey will be completed within the next two weeks so that we can dispense the compensation within one and a half months after that," the Delhi chief minister had said.Unseasonal heavy rains and hailstorms damaged major crops such as paddy, sugarcane, potato and peas in many parts of northwest India last week. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-compensation-to-farmers-for-damaged-crops-due-to-unseasonal-rains-kejriwal-tells-punjab-cm-channi-329931
26-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab sees 200% rise in farm fires in a week||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 25With paddy harvesting gaining pace, the state is witnessing a sharp rise in stubble-burning incidents. As per the record, Punjab has witnessed 200% hike in farm fires in the past one week, with the tally reaching 6,025 from 1,946 reported till October 15.Punjab has reported highest 1,111 farm fires in a single day on October 22 while 620 incidents on Saturday. Earlier, 597 stubble-burning events were recorded on October 21, 788 on October 20 and 496 on October 19.With the harvesting picking up pace in the state, farm fires are bound to rise more sharply in the coming days.The Punjab Government has been claiming that all-out efforts have been made to encourage the farmers to shun stubble burning. However, a section of farmers has been demanding that instead of subsidies on machines, they should be provided a compensation of Rs 200 per quintal for managing stubble.With state elections round the corner, the Punjab Government is unlikely to annoy the farmers by registering cases against them for burning stubble like it did last year.Notably, the Centre recently released data showing that it has already provided Rs 1,050.68 crore for stubble management by farm mechanisation.However, the Punjab Pollution Control Board data clearly indicates that notwithstanding the government’s tall claims about the measures taken for the stubble management, farmers are continuously burning their crop residue with impunity in the district.Jasvir Singh, a farmer, said: “We know the adverse effects of burning crop residue but we have no other alternative as the government hasn’t made any arrangements to handle the situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-200-rise-in-farm-fires-in-a-week-329591
26-10-2021||Karam Prakash||In a first, health officials to study adverse effects of stubble burning||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 25Amid rising cases of stubble burning and more people reporting problems in breathing, the Health Department has decided to find out, if there is any, the correlation between the two.This is the first time that the government is conducting such a scientific study to see the extent of impact of stubble burning on human health. The department has already earmarked 11 hospitals in the state where officials would study the spike in the number of patients reporting breathing distress and the extent of stubble burning in the respective area.The initiative is being taken under the National Programme for Climate Change and Human Health. The department has formed a district environmental task force in 10 districts.As per the Crop Residue Burning (CRB) Information and Management System, the state has already reported 2,446 incidents of stubble burning until October 18.Nodal officer Dr Sumeet Singh said: “If the air quality worsens, we will advise the administration to take preventive measures after analysing the increase in the patient count. We have been holding meetings with other stakeholders to monitor the impact of stubble burning on human health.”He said the vulnerable population would be advised to avoid outdoor activities, especially during morning and evening, if the air quality index was between 200 and 300.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-a-first-health-officials-to-study-adverse-effects-of-stubble-burning-329592
26-10-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Concerted efforts must to check stubble burning in Punjab: Experts||Tribune News ServiceMoga, October 25Scientists and progressive farmers believe that the state needs to make combined efforts in ex-situ and in-situ management of paddy stubble to control air pollution and maintain soil health.Burning of 1 tonne of paddy straw releases 3 kg particulate matter, 60 kg carbon oxide, 1,460 kg CO₂, 199 kg ash and 2 kg sulphur dioxide. These gases aggravate eye, skin, heart and lung diseases.Sell straw to biomass plants for powerThe best way to prevent stubble burning is to make bales of straw with the help of balers and sell them to biomass plants for power generation. Dr Jaswinder Brar, ScientistAgro-scientist Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar said 1 tonne of paddy straw contains approximately 5.5 kg nitrogen, 2.3 kg phosphorous pentoxide, 25 kg potassium oxide, 1.2 kg sulphur, 50 to 70 per cent of micro-nutrients absorbed by rice and 400 kg of carbon, which are lost due to burning.Under in-situ management, various machines, such as super straw management system attached with existing combine harvester, ‘happy seeder’, straw chopper or mulcher, rotary slasher, reversible MB plough, rotavator etc., have been developed and demonstrated to farmers in the fields by agro-scientists.After making bales of loose straw (ex-situ management), these machines could be used for direct sowing of the next crop (in-situ management) for sustainable agriculture growth, said Moga chief agriculture officer Dr Balwinder Singh.Sharanjit Sharma, a progressive farmer of Rode village, said ‘happy seeder’ or zero-tillage technology cuts paddy straw, sows wheat into the soil, and puts straw over the sown area ensuring that the nutrients in the soil are restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/concerted-efforts-must-to-check-stubble-burning-in-punjab-experts-329593
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Special girdawari ordered in Punjab to assess crop damage||To assess the damage caused to crops due to the recent unseasonal rains, Punjab Revenue and Rehabilitation Minister Aruna Chaudhary has directed the Revenue Department to conduct special girdawari in the state and asked deputy commissioners to submit report within a week.Give compensation, AAP urges centreChaudhary directed the deputy commissioners to ensure girdawari of damage to standing crop was done within the stipulated period so that affected farmers could be compensated at the earliest. She assured the farmers of state government’s support, saying it was committed to their welfare.Meanwhile, Financial Commissioner (Revenue) VK Janjuaa has asked the DCs to conduct special girdawari in a speedy and transparent manner and submit a detailed report regarding the damage to crops.He said once the report was received, it would be forwarded to the state executive committee headed by the Chief Secretary for compensation as per the prescribed norms.According to the officer, instructions had been issued to DCs to verify girdawari reports compiled by the Revenue Department within the set time frame. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-girdawari-ordered-in-punjab-to-assess-crop-damage-329595
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction row: Congress trying to politicise security issue, says BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia||The state BJP today boycotted the all-party meeting called by the government over the extension of jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF).Just before the meeting, the party at a press conference said the Congress government was trying to politicise the issue of national security, which was unacceptable.State’s rights Robbed: Sukhdev Singh DhindsaParticipating in the all-party meeting, SAD (Sanyukt) president and RS MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa opposed the Centre’s decision to expand BSF’s jurisdiction, calling it “blatant robbery of the rights of the state”.Manoranjan Kalia, former minister, said CM Channi should have instead called the all-party meeting on government’s failure to curb the drug menace, smuggling of illegal arms and ammunition across border, etc.Kalia said the NDA government had simply extended the area of operation from 15 km to 50 km under the BSF Act, 1968, which was passed by the Congress government at the Centre to stem the menace of smuggling of narcotics and other prohibited items, besides illegal entry of foreigners.The extension of BSF operations was required due to use of advanced technologies in illegal activities from across the border, he said.In the border belt, drones with GPS coordinates from Pakistan were being used, keeping the security forces on their toes. Most of these were being used to smuggle heroin and arms, asserted Kalia.“No less than three Pakistan telecom providers’ signal were available along the border. The use of Pakistan SIM cards diminished the risk of interception. Thus, the gravity of situation necessitated the move to check the nefarious activities from Pakistan,” said Kalia.The enhancement of BSF’s jurisdiction did not curtail the jurisdiction of the Punjab Police. “After a suspect has been detained or a consignment seized, the BSF can only conduct ‘preliminary questioning’ and has to hand over the suspect to Punjab Police within 24 hours,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-jurisdiction-row-congress-trying-to-politicise-security-issue-says-bjp-leader-manoranjan-kalia-329597
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ruling party puts up united face in all-party meeting||The all-party meeting called by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government on Monday gave an opportunity to the Congress top brass to send across the message of unity, amid efforts to defuse tensions among pressure groups within the state unit.State’s interests paramount: ChanniAsked by the SAD and AAP to clarify on meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah, CM Channi said it was the duty of every CM to meet the PM and Union Home Minister soon after assuming office. “You can cut my veins to ascertain my love of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat. If it is about the interest of my state and its people, I don't care two hoots about CM's position.”While PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu shared stage with the CM, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa and Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, besides attending the meeting, sat together at a press briefing thereafter. Subtle unease among the party leaders was, however, palpable.A senior party leader said given the opportunity to assert his point, Sidhu had his way as his long-pending demand for outright rejection of the three farm laws on the floor of the House was acknowledged with the government deciding to bring a resolution in this regard in the coming Vidhan Sabha session.“After days of reported differences between CM and Sidhu over the appointment of DGP and AG, besides other issues, newly appointed Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary and Youth Congress leader Krishna Allavaru have been working overtime to bring the two state leaders on the same page since little time is left for the elections,” said a party leader.Sidhu will also attend party’s meeting in Delhi on Tuesday. “In the coming days, another issue of bringing down the power rates and required action on the power purchase agreements was also being addressed. Action has been initiated against the transport mafia. Sidhu has been flagging the issues,” said a top functionary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ruling-party-puts-up-united-face-in-all-party-meeting-329599
26-10-2021||Bathinda||Cotton farmers from 8 districts start indefinite stir in Bathinda||Farmers from eight districts, under the banner of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan, today gathered in large numbers in front of the Bathinda District Administrative Complex (DAC) to demand compensation for cotton crop lost to the pink bollworm attack this summer.Job letters given to 7 Mansa farmers’ kinChandigarh: Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Monday handed over appointment letters to the family members of seven farmers of Mansa who lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the farm laws. The minister said the government had escalated provision of financial assistance of Rs5 lakh to bereaved families besides providing a job to a member.The protesters gheraoed the complex, blocked all four gates and started an indefinite stir demanding a compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre and Rs 30,000 per family for farm labourers for the loss to cotton crop due to the attack.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders Jhanda Singh Jethuke, Shingara Singh Mann and Mothu Singh Kotra, who led the protesters, said the dharna was organised due to the administration’s lack of response to their demands. “We had staged a protest outside Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s residence in Badal village but the state government has so far been unresponsive to our demands,” the leaders said.Bathinda Deputy Commissioner Arvinderpal Singh said the compensation would be given to farmers soon as per state government directions. “We are in touch with farmers and ready to arrange their meeting with the higher officials in Chandigarh,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-farmers-from-8-districts-start-indefinite-stir-in-bathinda-329600
26-10-2021||---||SAD leaders created mafia: Raja Warring||Tribune News ServiceMansa, October 25Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring today accused SAD leaders of creating a mafia not just in transport, but in several areas like sand, cable and drug in the past 15 years.Talking about the poor condition of buses, Warring said: “Ever since I took charge as minister, PRTC and Roadways have started generating income. If things had been better in the past, the profit would be Rs 2,700 crore in 14 years. Due to the loot, public buses are in a shambles.”It’s vendetta: akalisResponding to the Transport Minister’s charge, SAD leader Sikander Singh Maluka alleged transporters belonging to Akali Dal were being tragetted as part of political vendetta.Action against allBuses of more than 150 companies have taken off road, which includes that of Congress leaders as well. — Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, MinisterOn the issue of cleanliness of bus stands, he said the surprise checks were being carried out and anyone failing to maintain the standards would be dismissed. Further, he suspected officials’ collusion with private transporters as information about his visits was being shared with them. “This is a subject of investigation and we are investigating it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-leaders-created-mafia-raja-warring-329601
26-10-2021||Gurdaspur||Too many cooks spoiling Cong’s broth: Sukhbir Badal||The SAD today said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was not being allowed to function due to the internal squabbling in the Congress.Mind your businessWe know what we are doing. Sukhbir should mind his own business.  — Sukhjinder Randhawa, Deputy CMComparing the Congress government to a car being driven in three different directions, Sukhbir said: “CM Channi wants to drive the vehicle but Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and PCC chief Sidhu are not allowing him to do so. They want to be in the driver’s seat despite knowing that the seat has space for just one. It is a case of too many cooks spoiling the broth,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/too-many-cooks-spoiling-congs-broth-sukhbir-badal-329603
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder defiant, posts 14 file snaps of Pak friend||Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday hit out at his detractors who had been targeting his Pakistan friend Aroosa Alam.PCC Ex-president alludes to CzarIn a tweet, former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar tweeted: “It wasn’t Czarina or her nationality! It was corrupt/scandalous Rasputin wielding influence through her which led to an end of Czar Nicolas’ rule. Pray, beware of the Punjabi Rasputin(s), who seem not quiet done with ‘their liege’ yet, and are still digging deeper for him.”Posting as many as 14 file pictures of Alam on his Facebook page with various dignitaries, including Sonia Gandhi, former Union Minister Sushma Swaraj, UP ex-CM Mulayam Singh Yadav, former Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha, former Union minister Shatrughan Sinha, besides others, Captain Amarinder said: “I suppose they are all also contacts of the ISI. Those who say so should think before speaking.”Going a step further, he said: “Unfortunately visas are banned at the moment between India and Pakistan. Otherwise I would invite her again.” Seeking to put to rest the controversy, he said: “I am going to be 80 in March and Mrs Alam 69 next year. Narrow mindedness seems to be order of the day.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-defiant-posts-14-file-snaps-of-pak-friend-329605
26-10-2021||Fazilka||Farmers protest ‘exploitation’ during basmati purchase in Fazilka||A large number of farmers under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today gheraoed the office of Fazilka Deputy Commissioner (DC) to protest the alleged exploitation by private traders during the purchase of basmati in Fazilka grain market.Master Boota Singh, state press secretary, BKU (Kadian) and Harish Nadha, president, BKU (Dakaunda), alleged private traders had made a cartel and were buying the paddy at Rs 100 to 150 less than the actual price, causing financial losses to farmers.They alleged the produce of parmal variety was being rejected by procurement agencies on the pretext of hybrid variety. Farmersalso alleged paddy of some influential persons was being purchased without any consideration. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-exploitation-during-basmati-purchase-in-fazilka-329607
26-10-2021||---||Sacrilege: Faridkot court issues production warrant against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 25The court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) on Monday issued a production warrant against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, an accused in the sacrilege case of June 2015.Order after sit pleaThe court directed the special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police to bring him from Rohtak’s Sunaria jail where he is lodged after his conviction in three criminal cases and produce him before the court here on October 29.The order was passed after the SIT approached the court today, seeking the production warrant to make formal his arrest in the sacrilege case and for further legal proceedings.In the alleged theft of a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015, the police had registered a criminal case. In the beginning, the police had registered a case under Sections 380, 295A, 201, 414, 451 and 120B of the IPC (theft, outraging religious sentiments and causing disappearance of evidence of offence) against unidentified persons on June 2, 2015. But later, 12 persons, including the dera chief, were nominated as accused in the case.Gurmeet Ram Rahim was nominated as an accused on July 6, 2000, after Pardeep Kumar, a witness in the case, named him. In his statement with the SIT, Pardeep had alleged the crime of theft and sacrilege of ‘bir’ were committed on the directions of the dera chief.On October 18, the SIT had produced Pardeep Kumar in the court of the CJM for recording his statement. Before the formal nomination of the dera head as an accused in the sacrilege cases, the SIT probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases had secured the court orders to question Gurmeet Ram Rahim but it could not reach the Sunaria jail in the past two years to do so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-faridkot-court-issues-production-warrant-against-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-329610
26-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||No coal, Punjab brick-kilns use rubber as fuel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25Amid severe coal shortage, brick-kilns across the state have started using carbon powder as fuel, posing a serious threat to the environment.As the rates of coal have sky-rocketed, majority of the 2,600-odd kiln owners have started using finely ground rubber crumbs (called carbon powder in local language) as fuel. It is cheaper by almost Rs 11,000-Rs 12,000 per metric tonne as compared to the present cost of coal.Teams vigilant, action will be takenI have asked my teams to remain vigilant against the use of rubber crumble in kilns. The field staff has been asked to take strict action against those indulging in such malpractices. The use of this powder as fuel can be very dangerous. — Karunesh Garg, Member Secy, PPCBIncreasing gap in demand and supplyCurrent ratesRs7,000-Rs11,000/MT — Carbon powderRs19,000-Rs23,000/MT — Coal2,600 — Total kiln owners across stateSources in the trade confirmed to The Tribune that they were being regularly approached by dealers of carbon powder and offering it at Rs 7,000-Rs 11,000 per MT. Comparatively, the rate of coal available to them varies between Rs 19,000 and Rs 23,000 per MT.“As a result, many kilns have shifted to the cheaper alternative fuel, notwithstanding its harmful effects on the health and environment,” said a brick-kiln owner, whose unit is located onthe periphery of Ludhiana.It is learnt that many kilns in Ludhiana, Moga, Ferozepur and Bathinda have started using this highly polluting fuel. It has carcinogenic properties and particulate matter generated from its burning remains suspended in the air for a long time. This smoke contains several toxic pollutants such as carbon monoxide, cyanide, sulphur dioxide, etc, which is harmful for the environment as well as human health, especially for the old, pregnant women and those suffering from lung and heart ailments.Another kiln owner in Bathinda, requesting anonymity, said since the fuel was so easily available and there was no check on its trade or usage, many in the district had switched to the carbon powder.The Punjab Pollution Control Board, facing shortage of technical staff, is only reacting to complaints and is not taking any proactive step to check pollution.“Because it rained yesterday, kilns will not be fired for some days now. But once they resume operations, the use of this cheaper alternative to coal is likely to increase. While it is getting difficult to source coal, the “powder” is being delivered on the doorstep. Every day, we get messages fromdealers, requesting us to switch over,” he admitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-coal-punjab-brick-kilns-use-rubber-as-fuel-329616
26-10-2021||Amritsar||Plea to seek evacuation of Afghan Sikhs, Hindus||The issue of safe evacuation of stranded Afghan-origin minorities and Indian nationals from Afghanistan has reached the Delhi High Court.A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed by DSGMC former spokesperson and media adviser Parminder Pal Singh in the Delhi HC, seeking directions for the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to issue e-visa and security clearance to 227 Indian/Afghan-national Sikhs and Hindus to ensure their safe evacuation to India.Out of 216 applications, e-visa had been granted to just eight persons and the fate of remaining 208 applications is still unknown. Of these, seven persons, including four infants, do not possess a valid passport and a requisite passport application could not be filed due to non-operational government offices and thus special e-visa is the only way out for their repatriation.After the Taliban took reins in Afghanistan, its administration christened as the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan has allowed the Afghan Sikhs and Hindus to travel out of the country, provided they have valid travel documents, including a visa.The Indian Government has so far facilitated airlifting of 23 Afghan nationals, belonging to Sikh and Hindu community. India World Forum president Puneet Singh Chandhok, who too aided airlifting of stranded minority community members from Afghanistan, said the lack of political will was hampering the evacuation. He appealed to the DGCA for resumption of flights between the two countries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plea-to-seek-evacuation-of-afghan-sikhs-hindus-329617
26-10-2021||---||Drugs case: Punjab moves HC, wants SIT reports examined||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25The state of Punjab today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court for examining the status and other reports submitted by the special investigation team headed by DGP S Chattopadhyaya, including a report furnished singularly by him in connection with the drugs case. The reports are currently lying in a sealed cover with the Registrar (Judicial). Directions were also sought to pass “appropriate order” for enabling the investigating agency to proceed further in the matter.Reports in sealed coverIn its application placed before the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma in the ongoing drugs case, the state submitted there was exigency to file the present application in public interest “so as to control drug mafia operating in Punjab on an urgent basis so as to bring the delinquents to book”.Going into the background of the matter, the state submitted a direction was issued to the special task force headed by Harpreet Singh Sidhu to examine the “complicity of SSP-rank officer Raj Jit Singh to find the nexus between the law enforcement agencies and the drug traffickers”.The direction was issued considering the nature and gravity of allegations of Raj Jit Singh conniving with accused Inspector Inderjit Singh in a matter. The High Court on December 15, 2017, constituted an SIT comprising Chattopadhyaya, ADGP Probodh Kumar and then IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh after Raj Jit Singh moved an application expressing apprehensions of personal malice against Sidhu. The High Court made it clear that its order was “to the extent that the complicity of Raj Jit Singh in respect of his alleged association with Inspector Inderjit Singh be inquired into by the SIT”.The first status report dated January 30, 2018, submitted by SIT headed by Chattopadhyaya in a sealed cover, was opened and perused. It was followed by second report on March 15, 2018. The SIT submitted the final status report dated May 8, 2018, in sealed cover, along with another sealed report by Chattopadhyaya. It was not signed by the other two SIT members. The reports were presently in the Registrar-General’s custody.“In view of the fact that no effective order has been passed in this case since May 23, 2018, due to myriad reasons, the investigating agency could not proceed against the delinquent officers/persons, whose role has been inquired into at the asking of the HC,” the state added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-case-punjab-moves-hc-wants-sit-reports-examined-329618
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu victim’s kin meet Vijay Sampla||The family members of the Dalit man who was murdered at the Singhu protest site on October 12 met National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) chairman Vijay Sampla at its headquarters in New Delhi on Monday.Victim Lakhbir Singh’s wife Jaspreet Kaur, three daughters, sister Raj Kaur, father-in-law Baldev Singh and brother-in-law Sukhchain Singh urged the NCSC chairman to ensure justice.The body of Lakhbir was found hanging with severed hand, close to the main stage of the farmers’ protest site. “The family informed the NCSC they have got no support from religious or social organisations or the state government even after two weeks of the incident. However, the NCSC will ensure the accused are booked under the Prevention of Atrocities Act. The young daughters of Lakhbir will get free education and money for livelihood and wife will get monthly pension. Compensation of at least Rs 8.25 lakh will be ensured,” said Sampla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-victims-kin-meet-vijay-sampla-329620
26-10-2021||Faridkot||Only 220 candidates clear nursing retest||The unprecedented move of the state government to conduct an entrance test for the second time to fill around 4,800 vacant seats in 103 nursing colleges, which are facing closure, on Sunday failed to find “eligible” students.240 made cut earlierIn the entrance test conducted by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), only 220 of the 2,730 candidates, who took the test, qualified for the admission. Earlier, the BFUHS had conducted the entrance test for admission in BSc nursing course on August 29 and only 240 candidates qualified that time.Facing closure, many nursing colleges in the state had approached the state government, demanding to conduct the entrance test for the second time and that, too, with easy question paper, so that maximum number of students could qualify by scoring minimum 50 per cent marks, the condition mandated by the Indian Nursing Council. In the second test conducted on Sunday, 2,730 candidates had appeared against 3,878 applications.Sources in BFUHS said as a large number of students were interested in going abroad after Class XII on a study visa, not only the nursing colleges but all professional and academic colleges in the state were facing problems in filling vacant seats. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-220-candidates-clear-nursing-retest-329621
26-10-2021||---||Over 2 cr jabbed so far: Punjab Dy CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25Punjab has administrated more than 2.16 crore Covid vaccine doses to date — 1.56 crore people with the first dose and 59.61 lakh with both doses.Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, who also holds the charge of the Health and Family Welfare, said this here today. “The vaccination is being done vigorously throughout the state and special camps are being organised to jab workers at their workplace,” he said. On the active case scenario, he said as of now Covid-19 was almost under control with only 229 active cases. Three districts — SBS Nagar, Muktsar and Mansa — have only one case, while nine others have active cases in single digit — Gurdaspur (5), Pathankot (9), Kapurthala (7), Sangrur (3), Ferozepur (7), Fatehgarh Sahib (3), Moga (9), Tarn Taran (7) and Barnala (8) — till Sunday.“Though the positivity rate is declining, we cannot lower the guard even if a single active case exists in the state or the surrounding areas. So, this festive season must be celebrated with extreme caution. Spread happiness, festivity, but not virus. Observe full caution and adhere to Covid safety protocol,” Soni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-cr-jabbed-so-far-punjab-dy-cm-329622
26-10-2021||Ferozepur||Light show at Hussainiwala soon||The sacred soil of Hussainiwala, which has been a mute testimony to the unceremonious cremation of the gallant sons of the soil — Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev — will soon reverberate with the saga on the life and times of these martyrs through a Rs 5.7-crore hi-tech light and sound show.Talking to The Tribune, Special Chief Secretary (Tourism & Cultural Affairs) Sanjay Kumar said most of the technical work on the project had been completed, adding that the same was ready to be inaugurated in a month. Kumar, along with other officials, had visited here recently to review the preparedness of the system. The company entrusted with the task said they had completed the entire work at the ground. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/light-show-at-hussainiwala-soon-329623
26-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||No clarity on extension to Justice Girish Agnihotri||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25Two years after he was elevated as an Additional Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Girish Agnihotri’s name was missing from the cause list of cases to be heard by the Benches on Tuesday, indicating that he would not be holding the court. The cause list was released this evening.Justice Agnihotri was administered oath on October 26, 2019, and his term as an additional judge was to expire today. The Supreme Court collegium earlier this month approved the proposal for appointment of 10 additional judges as permanent in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. But his name was not included in the list.While the judges recommended by the Supreme Court for appointment as permanent were administered oath today, confusion continued to prevail regarding Justice Agnihotri’s status till late evening. So far, there is no clarity whether he has been granted an extension. This is the first time in recallable past that such a situation has arisen in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The only other recallable case in which an additional judge’s term was not initially extended was during the Emergency. Information suggests journalist Kuldip Nayyar was arrested under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act — an action challenged by his wife before the Delhi High Court.The matter was placed before the Bench of Justice S Rangarajan and Justice Rajendra Nath Aggarwal. It is believed the state simply refused to disclose to the Bench the material on the basis of which the detention order had been passed.The Bench allowed the petition and ordered his release, making it clear that the right to a writ of habeas corpus had not been suspended. Both the judges were “punished”. Justice Rangarajan was transferred to Sikkim and Justice Aggarwal’s term as an additional judge was not extended. As a result, Justice Aggarwal was reverted to his former position as a district judge in Delhi. The end of Emergency saw Justice Aggarwal’s elevation permanently to the Delhi High Court. He went on to serve as its Chief Justice.Meanwhile, Justice Sureshwar Thakur was today administered oath as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, following his transfer from the Himachal Pradesh High Court. Ten Punjab and Haryana High Court Judges were also administered oath as permanent. The judges included Justice Suvir Sehgal, Justice Alka Sarin, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, Justice Ashok Kumar Verma, Justice Sant Parkash and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-clarity-on-extension-to-justice-girish-agnihotri-329624
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Senior citizens entitled to get preference  in case hearing: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that senior citizens are entitled to get their cases decided on a preferential basis. The Bench further made it clear that expeditious trial was, in any case, the right of every litigant.Justice HS Madaan was hearing a case filed by a 67-year-old petitioner aggrieved by the slow pace of proceedings on his rent petition. The ruling comes at a time when 9,31,040 cases are pending adjudication in the courts across Punjab. Of the total, 4,77,040 or 51.24 per cent of the cases are up to one year old. The National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce the pendency of cases — indicates that 3,47,972 cases (37.37 per cent) are one to three years old. Another 20,602 or 2.21 per cent are awaiting adjudication for the past five to 10 years. No less than 92,558 cases, including 71,536 civil and 21,022 criminal matters, filed by senior citizens are pending before the courts.The problem of plenty is expected to worsen with the courts witnessing an unmanageable flood of litigation following the reopening for normal operations. Functioning in a restricted mode for more than a year following the Covid outbreak, the courts were initially hearing a limited number of cases through videoconferencing. Although physical functioning has resumed to a large extent in the subordinate judiciary, the process of hearing matters is yet to gain momentum.As a result of the inordinate pendency, it is suspected that many of the petitioners are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are listed, the counsels are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions. Attribute it to the shortage of judges in the subordinate judiciary or the filing of frivolous pleas and delaying tactics, the fact remains that the delay also tends to change the course of the outcome. Taking up the petition filed by Gurmeet Singh, Justice Madaan observed the petitioner had filed an ejectment petition against tenant Vipan Kumar on the ground of arrears of rent and personal necessity. The matter was pending before the Ludhiana Rent Controller. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-citizens-entitled-to-get-preference-in-case-hearing-hc-329625
26-10-2021||---||Woman posing as judge held||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 25The police arrested a woman for allegedly duping people by posing as a judicial magistrate-first class in Bathinda. The suspect has been identified as Jasvir Kaur of Kalyan Sukha village.The impostor, known as “judge Jasvir”, had put up a nameplate of the District Sessions Court on her car and had made a fake identity card.Nathana police station Assistant Sub Inspector Jasvir Singh said they got a tip-off that Jasvir Kaur was operating a gang with her husband Kulvir Singh, Pargat Singh and one other person. The suspects duped people with a promise of providing government jobs.The Assistant Sub Inspector said they were being interrogated and in the preliminary probe, it had come to the fore that the woman had duped more than 12 people of lakhs of rupees.A case has been registered under various sections against Jasvir Kaur, Kulvir Singh, Pargat Singh and an unidentified person at the Nathana police station. The accused would be produced in the court for further questioning, the ASI said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-posing-as-judge-held-329627
26-10-2021||Ropar||Officials defying CM orders: MLA||AAP MLA from Ropar Amarjit Singh Sandoa has alleged district officials didn’t give two hoots to directions issued by CM Charanjit Channi to reach office in time. Sandoa also alleged some officials even didn’t bother to resolve the problems being faced by people despite repeated requests.Channi has directed all government officers and employees at state, district, tehsil and block levels to reach their offices by 9 am and remain available till office hours. The MLA reached around 9.15 am at Water Supply and Sanitation Department and reportedly didn’t find Xen Harjit Singh. Officials present, however, claimed he had gone to attend an urgent meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-defying-cm-orders-mla-329628
26-10-2021||Sangrur||Scuffle at Sangrur college post India-Pak match||Some Kashmiri students scuffled with those from Bihar and UP at Bhai Gurdas Institute of Engineering and Technology, near Ghabdan village of Sangrur, after Pakistan’s victory over India in the T20 World Cup match last night.While both sides later tendered apologies, the authorities deployed police to prevent the situation from escalating. Sources said while most students were watching the match on their laptops in their rooms, some were seeing it on the TV in the boys’ hostel common room. As per allegations, the scuffle occurred after the match. “They had a minor scuffle and some furniture was damaged. Faculty members, warden and security staff reached the spot and prevented things from taking an ugly turn,” said institute chairman Dr Guninderjit Singh Minku Jawandha adding, “The matter has been resolved and we have not lodged any complaint.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scuffle-at-sangrur-college-post-india-pak-match-329629
26-10-2021||Abohar||3 peddlers nabbed||The police here seized 15 kg of poppy husk that Karan Singh Uthwalia of Jodhpur was allegedly carrying in a bag. The police also seized 24 kg of poppy husk from Bhim Sain of Hardaswali and Narinder Singh of Blochian village in Sriganganagar. A case was registered under the NDPS Act. Meanwhile, around 48 kg of poppy husk was seized when cops stopped a truck on NH-62 and searched the vehicle that was carrying glass bottles from Madhya Pradesh to Ludhiana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-peddlers-nabbed-329630
26-10-2021||Muktsar||6 private buses impounded||The Transport Department officials recently impounded six private buses and issued a challan to a bus for not having the required documents here. The officials said five buses were impounded at the Muktsar bus stand and one bus of the Northern Transport was impounded and another challaned in Malout. The Transport Minister had claimed PUNBUS and PEPSU were earning profit of Rs 40 lakh per day after strict action against illegal buses and mafia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-private-buses-impounded-329631
26-10-2021||Patiala||Engineers to hold protest||Religious congregationAmritsar: A total of 56 Sikh missionary colleges will participate in a ‘gurmat samagam’ (religious congregation) scheduled at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on Tuesday, in memory of the Gurdwara Reform Movement martyrs. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the programme has been dedicated to the centenary of the SGPC. tnsMan held with 3 pistolsMuktsar: The police on Monday nabbed a man with three illegal pistols, five magazines and 12 live bullets from Mehna village in Lambi Assembly segment here. The police said the accused, Badri Dass of Rajasthan, along with his accomplice Happy of Patiala, had planned a major crime in Ludhiana. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/engineers-to-hold-protest-329632
26-10-2021||---||Punjab parties oppose more powers to BSF, special Vidhan Sabha session in November||Chandigarh, October 25At an all-party meeting chaired by Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday, all prominent parties, barring the BJP, opposed the Centre’s notification extending the BSF’s jurisdiction from 15 km to 50 km along the international border. It was decided to convene a special session of the Vidhan Sabha in mid-November to reject the notification.Also read: BSF jurisdiction row: Congress trying to politicise security issue, says Manoranjan KaliaRuling party puts up united face in all-party meetingChanni said the government would take legal recourse by filing a petition in the Supreme Court against the unilateral move of the Centre. He said it was also decided to bring another resolution during the session to reject the central farm laws.PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was seen sitting next to Channi. He said the move was taken ahead of the state Assembly elections and was politically motivated. “The notification amounted to creating a state within the state. The law and order is a state subject,” he said, citing West Bengal where “the BSF was used to torture people during the elections”. Other leaders who attended the meet were AAP state unit chief Bhagwant Maan, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, senor Akali leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains.Blamed the Congress, Mann alleged, “The BSF Act under which the notification has been issued was brought by the then Home Minister P Chidambaram under the UPA regime. The then SAD-BJP government in Punjab did not oppose it.”Supporting the special session, Chandumajra and Cheema asked the Congress government “to set its own house in order”. They said former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had supported the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction. So did Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla and Rana Gurjeet Singh, they claimed.BJP stays away||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-parties-oppose-more-powers-to-bsf-special-vidhan-sabha-session-in-november-329580
26-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab cancels 806 bus permits, ‘monopoly’ routes included||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25In pursuance of its poll promise to put an end to the transport mafia, the Congress government in Punjab on Monday cancelled 806 bus permits extended illegally, affecting a large fleet of buses operated by 340 private companies, including those run by the Badals, on ‘monopoly’ routes. Among the companies whose permits have been cancelled are Rajdhani, Orbit and Taj Travels, sources in the Transport Department said.The orders would affect 1,00,000 km being covered by the transporters through these permits, including 30,000 km by buses run by politically influential families. A month’s time has been given to the affected transporters to file an appeal.To cancel the 806 bus permits, the State Transport Commissioner (STC) has issued 680 orders. In most cases the permits had been in operation for over 10 to 15 years. “The cancelled permits were being used to run ordinary buses and not super integral coaches”, explained a senior official. Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring confirmed that “speaking orders” for cancellation of the permits had been issued. The Transport Department initiated the process to scrap the illegally extended bus permits after private bus operators in July withdrew 38 writ petitions in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the government’s cancellation notices.A month for appeal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cancels-806-bus-permits-monopoly-routes-included-329579
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Under attack over friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, Capt Amarinder posts her pics with politicians, actors on Facebook||Amid a row over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday released her pictures with some politicians and actors on his Facebook page.Asking that if all these leaders and actors accompanying the Pakistani journalists are ISI's contacts, Singh asserted that he would have invited her again had there been no visa restrictions between India and Pakistan.Amarinder Singh, who had faced an unceremonious exit from the state government, has been under attack from several Congress leaders over his friendship with Aroosa Alam.Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had gone to the extent of saying that a probe would be carried out to ascertain if the former Punjab CM's friend Aroosa Alam has links with Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).Singh on Monday released purported pictures of Aroosa Alam with former Union ministers Sushma Swaraj, Yashwant Sinha, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav, actors Shatrughan Sinha, Dilip Kumar, film director Mahesh Bhatt and some other dignitaries.“I am posting a series of pictures of Mrs Aroosa Alam with various dignitaries. I suppose they are all also contacts of the ISI. Those who say so should think before speaking,” said Amarinder Singh on his Facebook page.“Unfortunately, visas are banned at the moment between India and Pakistan. Otherwise, I would have invited her again,” he further said. “Incidentally I am going to be 80 in March and Mrs Alam 69 next year. Narrow mindedness seems to be the order of the day,” he further stated.Amarinder had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu.Charanjit Singh Channi replaced Amarinder Singh as the Punjab CM. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/under-attack-over-friendship-with-pakistani-journalist-aroosa-alam-capt-amarinder-posts-her-pics-with-politicians-actors-on-facebook-329501
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab parties seek withdrawal of Centre's notification on BSF's jurisdiction||At an all-party meeting chaired by Punjab CM Charanjit Channi on Monday, all political parties, barring the BJP, unanimously resolved to ask the BJP-led Central Government to withdraw its notification to increase the jurisdiction of BSF from 15 km to 50 km.It was also decided to call a session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to outrightly reject the Centre’s notification, CM Channi said. The Union Government had recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the border guarding force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50 km stretch, up from the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.Extension of BSF’s jurisdiction attempt to interfere with federal structure: MamataAddressing reporters, Channi said the meeting was held in a conducive atmosphere and representatives of the political parties passed a resolution that the notification which extended the BSF’s area of operation should be rejected.“By calling the Vidhan Sabha session, all (the parties) will jointly reject the notification. All parties are unanimous on it,” Channi said while thanking representatives of all the parties for their complete support in the ‘Yagya’.Channi told the Central Government that the Punjab Government was capable of securing the state while asserting that law and order was a state subject.He assured all political parties that the posts of chief minister and ministers do not matter to them before the interests of Punjab.“We are ready to make any sacrifice but will not allow Punjab’s interests to be looted,” he said.The decision about convening the Vidhan Sabha session will be taken in the next Cabinet meeting.Channi further said the government will also approach the Supreme Court over this matter.PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the notification on the BSF was timed with coming state Assembly elections and it was politically motivated. The notification amounted to creating state within a state, he said.Sidhu said law and order was a state subject. He cited the example of West Bengal, where the BSF was used to inflict torture on people during the Assembly elections.Navjot Sidhu says MHA's recent notification on BSF weakens federal structureThe PPCC chief said as the BJP had been outrightly rejected by people in Punjab, the saffron party misusing its powers to “create trouble” in the state. Sidhu said the Centre had not taken the state into confidence while issuing the notification.Representatives of the SAD, AAP, Lok Insaaf Party and other parties attended the all-party meeting.The Punjab BJP boycotted the meeting. —with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-parties-seek-withdrawal-of-centres-notification-on-bsfs-jurisdiction-329446
26-10-2021||Sangrur||Scuffle between Kashmiri, UP, Bihar students at engineering institute in Punjab’s Sangrur after Indo-Pak cricket match||Some Kashmiri students scuffled with other students from Bihar and Uttar Pardesh last night in Bhai Gurdas Institute of Engineering and Technology, located near Ghabdan village of Sangrur district after Sunday's cricket match between India and Pakistan.Though both sides have tendered their apologies, police are still deployed in the area. Some sources said most of the students were watching the match on their laptops in their rooms while some were sitting in a common room of the boys’ hostel and watching it on TV.Problems began at the end of the match.“They had a minor scuffle and some furniture was also damaged. But our faculty members, warden, and security staff reached on spot within minutes and prevented the things from taking an ugly turn. Students from Bihar and UP have alleged that Kashmiri students started celebrating after the match, but Kashmiri students have denied it. The matter has been resolved and we have not lodged any complaint,” said Guninderjit Singh Minku Jawandha, the chairman of the institute.Security has been beefed up near the institution, and college management didn’t allow any student to interact with the press.  A video that went viral on Monday morning however shows a Kashmiri student alleging that the college security did nothing to prevent an attack on Kashmiri students.The same video also showed Kashmiri students voicing their satisfaction at the way the dispute was handled. “We are thankful to our college chairman and other members of management for taking prompt action. We have informed our parents also that we are safe and thankful to Sangrur administration for taking quick action. We request the authorities to take required steps to prevent such things in future” said Kashmiri students in a video.A delegation of BJP leaders who went to college has demanded strict action.“All students are equal for us as they have come to our district for education. But some Bihar and UP students have informed us that Kashmiri students raised Pakistan Zindabad and Hindustan Murdabad slogans and burst crackers after the match. Police must conduct inquiry and punish those, who did it” said Randeep Deol, Sangrur BJP chief.When contacted Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma, he said that situation was under control.“Our team quickly reached in institute last night after the incident and since then, we have deputed our cops there. Both sides have apologised and have not given any complaint to the police. They have also assured that such a thing would not happen in the future. But we are not taking any chance and have beefed the security there” said SSP Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scuffle-between-kashmiri-up-bihar-students-at-engineering-institute-in-punjabs-sangrur-after-indo-pak-cricket-match-329408
