28-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC ruling quoted to seek bail for Aryan Khan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Nearly nine months after Justice Jaishree Thakur of the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled that reliance could be placed on WhatsApp messages only after complying with the provisions of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence, the judgment was quoted while seeking bail for Aryan Khan.A report on the judgment was carried exclusively in these columns.Available information suggests senior advocate Amit Desai on behalf of Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan relied upon Justice Thakur’s judgment pronounced in an NDPS Act case. He submitted before the Bombay High Court that “Punjab and Haryana High Court and Bombay High Court have held that WhatsApp chats are inadmissible”.Justice Thakur had ruled that an investigating agency could rely upon WhatsApp messages during the course of probe. But reliance could be placed on the messages only after complying with the provisions of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence. The provision makes it clear that electronic records are required to be certified by a person occupying a responsible official position for being admissible as evidence in court proceedings.Justice Thakur was hearing a petition filed against the Union of India by Rakesh Kumar Singla through senior advocate R.S. Rai and Rubina Vermani for grant of regular bail to the petitioner in a case registered on June 12, 2020, under the provisions of the NDPS Act at NCB police station, zonal unit, Sector 25(W), Chandigarh. “Needless to say that the Narcotics Bureau would always be at liberty to rely upon the WhatsApp messages after due compliance of provisions of Section 65-B...,” Justice Thakur ruled.Justice Thakur asserted the answer was negative to Court query whether certificate under Section 65B was available to authenticate the messages. A recent Supreme Court judgment held that certificate Section 65B was required when reliance was being placed upon electronic record. As such, the message would be of no evidentiary value as on date.“The investigation in the matter is complete and the challan stands presented and therefore, this Court is of the opinion that no useful purpose would be served in keeping the petitioner behind bars. The instant petition is allowed and the petitioner is directed to be released on regular bail...,” Justice Thakur asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-hc-ruling-quoted-to-seek-bail-for-aryan-khan-331006
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder-Shah meeting over farm laws postponed||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the farm laws was postponed on Thursday.The meeting between both leaders could not take place as Shah was to leave for Gujarat, said a source close to the former Punjab CM.Singh was supposed to meet the Union home minister to discuss possible solutions to the ongoing farmers’ stir against the Centre’s three farm laws.The former CM on Wednesday had said he will be meeting Shah along with some agricultural experts.“Tomorrow, I am going to meet Home Minister Shah and 25-30 people will go with me,” Singh had said while addressing the media here.Singh had said he had met the Union home minister thrice in the past on farmers’ issues.Singh, who had faced an unceremonious exit from the state government, had said any seat arrangement that he might make with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would be subject to the resolution of the farmers’ issue in their interest.Singh had earlier also met Shah in Delhi and had discussed the prolonged farmers’ stir with him while urging him to resolve the crisis urgently with the repeal of the three farm laws.A large number of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been camping at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year, demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-shah-meeting-over-farm-laws-postponed-330990
28-10-2021||---||Arvind Kejriwal takes train to Punjab; will meet farmers in Mansa, traders in Bathinda||Chandigarh, October 28AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal is travelling to Punjab on a train on Thursday.Party’s Punjab affairs incharge Raghav Chadha is also on board the Shatabdi.Kejriwal will interact with farmers in Mansa on Thursday and with industrialists and traders in Bathinda on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-takes-train-to-punjab-will-meet-farmers-in-mansa-traders-in-bathinda-330907
28-10-2021||---||Unemployed teachers now move their protest to Jalandhar; climb atop water tank, demand jobs||Jalandhar, October 28Members of BEd TET-pass Unemployed Teachers’ Union on Thursday climbed atop an overhead water tank near Jalandhar bus stand demanding jobs for 9,000 unemployed youth.They have now moved to Jalandhar since it is the hometown of new Education Minister Pargat Singh.Two youths of the union - Manish Fazilka and Jaswant Gubhaya - have started their protest from atop the water tank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unemployed-teachers-now-move-their-protest-to-jalandhar-climb-atop-water-tank-demand-jobs-330893
28-10-2021||---||Golden Temple gets 525 kW solar plant||Amritsar, October 27Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhal Committee president Bibi Jagir Kaur inaugurated a solar power plant at the Golden Temple.She said the solar energy would not only be environment-friendly, but would bring financial benefit too.“Generating electricity using natural resources is very easy in today’s era of technology and this task has been initiated by the SGPC on a priority basis. A total of 3 mW solar power plant is being installed by the SGPC, for which the United Sikh Mission, USA, offered its services. At present, 525 kW plants could be installed on the rooftop of the headquarter and Dharam Parchar Committee office. The rest will be installed shortly.”She said the work of installing solar plants at Gurdwara Bir Baba Buddha Sahib, Thatha and Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj Baba Deep Singh, Sri Amritsar, is also underway. She also honoured chairman, United Sikh Mission, USA, Rashpal Singh Dhindsa and other delegates with the siropas (robe of honour).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/golden-temple-gets-525-kw-solar-plant-330831
28-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Buzz missing at Capt Amarinder Singh’s event||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27As the time is running out for former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to form his new political outfit, the usual hustle and bustle associated with the formation of a political party was missing in his camp today.Also read: New party after Election Commission clears name: Capt Amarinder SinghThe political developments in the Congress at Delhi forced his close party associates to desist from showing up with the former CM. A senior party leader said there was still no clarity on the resolution to the farmers’ stir and the course of action being adopted by the former CM to float his party. There is strong apprehension that to keep the Congress out, the former CM might have behind-the-scene tactical understanding with Akalis.Amid the Congress high command making concerted efforts to rein in the annoyed party leaders, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa were separately called for meetings by AICC leader Rahul Gandhi.“Ahead of the elections, efforts are on to bring truce between CM Channi, Sukhjinder Randhawa and Navjot Singh Sidhu. In the past few days, former ministers, sitting ministers and annoyed MLAs have been called to Delhi to ensure their suitable rehabilitation,” a senior leader said. One of the confidants of former CM, Rana Gurmit Sodhi, today shared his picture of a meeting with Rahul.In a veiled reference to Sodhi, PCC ex-chief Sunil Jakhar tweeted, “A picture is worth a thousand words. One posted today speaks volumes, about the fate of the most talked about new political venture in making. Rats are the first one to jump of a sinking ship”.Meanwhile, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, along with the party leadership, is brain storming in Delhi, on as to how to counter Capt Amarinder. Some political appointees by the former CM could be removed to make way for adjusting other leaders.Confidants follow Wait & watch policyGiving reason for the absence of Congress MLAs at the event, a close aide of the former CM said they were playing a wait and watch game amid pressure from the high command. “Things will become clear once Amarinder announces his party,” he said.Don’t make baseless statements: DhindsaTaking a serious note of the repeated statements made by Capt Amarinder Singh regarding contesting the 2022 Assembly elections with the SAD (Sanyukt), party leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa asked the former CM to refrain from making such “baseless statements”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/buzz-missing-at-capt-amarinder-singhs-event-330612
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu slams Capt Amarinder Singh, says he sold Punjab’s interests||Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday once again found themselves crossing swords with each other. The two leaders didn’t mince words to attack each other on Twitter.In a series of tweets, Sidhu said: “We the 78 MLAs of Congress could never imagine what we received — an arm-twisted, ED-controlled BJP-loyal Chief Minister of Punjab who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin! You were the negative force stalling Justice and development of Punjab.”Was loyal to BJPWe the 78 MLAs of Congress could never imagine what we received — an arm-twisted, ED-controlled BJP-loyal CM who sold the interests of Punjab. —Navjot Sidhu, PCCFocus on your jobWhy don’t you focus on your work instead of wasting your time attacking me all day long? Unless you’ve made up your mind to not rest till you’ve destroyed @INCPunjab. —Capt Amarinder Singh, ex-cmHe further tweeted: “Were you unceremoniously dumped for good governance? And 18-point agenda shoved down the throat of the poorest-performing CM of Punjab … you will be remembered as Jaichand of Punjab’s political history.”On the ex-CM forming the party, Sidhu said: “Last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes… people are again waiting to punish you for compromising on the interests of Punjab!” Hitting back, Capt Amarinder tweeted: “You do have the knack of putting your foot in your mouth! The 856 votes you are mocking came even after I withdrew my nomination from Kharar since I’d won unopposed from Samana. So what does that show? Or are you too dumb to understand.”He added: “So why don’t you focus on your work instead of wasting your time attacking me all day long? Unless you’ve made up your mind to not rest till you’ve destroyed @INCPunjab. And if that’s the case then you’re only making my task easier!” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-slams-capt-amarinder-singh-says-he-sold-punjabs-interests-330613
28-10-2021||Ludhiana||BSF jurisdiction row: Punjab CM calls House session on Nov 8, threatens to move SC||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today called a special Vidhan Sabha Session on November 8, asking the central government to withdraw the notification of increasing the BSF’s area of control from 15 km to 50 km.Won’t tolerate centre’s interferenceThe Centre’s interference won’t be tolerated… we cannot demoralise the Punjab Police. Such directives are akin to imposition of President’s rule. —Charanjit Singh Channi, CMHe made it clear if the notification was not rolled back, the state government would move the Supreme Court. “The central government’s interference in Punjab wouldn’t be tolerated. This is entirely the state’s right to decide the area of control. We cannot demoralise the Punjab Police. Such directives are like imposition of President’s rule in the state,” he said. Channi said during the Assembly session, the focus would also be on withdrawal of the central farm laws. “If these Acts are not withdrawn before November 8, the state government will intensify its protest,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-jurisdiction-row-punjab-cm-calls-house-session-on-nov-8-threatens-to-move-sc-330614
28-10-2021||Vijay C Roy||Day 2: Biz bigwigs to invest Rs 7K cr in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Notwithstanding the pandemic, industrialists are looking forward to stepping up their capital expenditure and investment plans in the state. On the second and concluding day of the fourth Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit, 2021, here today, they announced to invest a total of Rs 7,100 crore in the state.On Tuesday, several businessmen announced Rs 5,150-crore investment, besides opening a five-star resort, in the state. With this, the two-day summit attracted a total of Rs 12,250-crore investment, which is spread across various sectors.UK-based Meenu Malhotra, Chairman of Malhotra Group, unveiled plans to develop two integrated real estate projects with an investment of Rs 2,500 crore in Ludhiana. “I am pursuing two large real estate projects in Punjab with an investment of Rs 2,500 crore. All money will be deployed through inward investment and FDI,” he said. The development will be the group’s largest to date.Major plans on the cardsMalhotra Group Rs2,500 crI am pursuing two large real estate projects in Punjab. All money will be deployed through inward investment and FDI. —Meenu Malhotra, ChairmanCII member firms Rs2,500 crCII is working closely with the state and recently introduced new investor potential worth Rs2,500 crore. Investment worth Rs500 crore will be registered in the state by one of our prominent companies. —Bhavdeep Sardana, Chairman, CIINahar Group Rs1,500 crWe are keen on investing in textiles, ethanol, logistics park, solar energy and industrial park. —Kamal Oswal, Vice-chairmanVardhman Group Rs600 crWe will invest Rs400 cr to expand our Malerkotla unit and Rs200 cr to modernise the Ludhiana unit. The modernisation will help produce quality products with increased efficiency. —Suchita Oswal Jain, Vice-chairmanSimilarly, Kamal Oswal, Vice-Chairman and MD of the Nahar Group of Companies, said the group was keen on investing Rs 1,500 crore in Punjab across various sectors such as textiles, ethanol, logistics park, solar energy and industrial park. Currently, the group’s 70 per cent investment is in the state.Suchita Oswal Jain, Vice-Chairman and Joint Managing Director of Ludhiana-based Vardhman Textiles, announced her company’s expansion plans worth Rs 600 crore in the state. “We are in the process of investing Rs 600 crore in Punjab in a phased manner comprising Rs 400 crore for expansion of our Malerkotla unit and Rs 200 crore in modernisation at the Ludhiana unit. The modernisation will help produce quality product with increased efficiency,” she added.The group has six units in Punjab spread across various sectors such as yarn, textiles, apparel and steel.Bhavdeep Sardana, Senior Vice-President and CEO of Sukhjit Starch and Chemicals Ltd and also the CII Chairman, Punjab, said: “CII is working closely with the state and recently introduced new investor potential worth Rs 2,500 crore. Very soon, investment worth Rs 500 crore will be registered in the state by one of our prominent companies.”AS Mittal, Vice-Chairman of Hoshirapur-based International Tractors, announced to set up another tractor factory. Industry captains and analysts say a mix of factors such as accommodative monetary policy and lower interest rates, reduced corporate tax and environment conducive to trade are fueling optimism among companies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-2-biz-bigwigs-to-invest-rs-7k-cr-in-punjab-330616
28-10-2021||Ludhiana||No institutional tax, VAT assessment, Punjab CM woos industry||CM Charanjit Channi today said several industry-friendly decisions had been taken by the Cabinet, major one being the abolition of institutional tax.The CM also announced the VAT assessments of about 40,000 dealers, which were of the pre-GST years, had been done away with and now only 8,000, who have tax demand of more than Rs 1 lakh, would be assessed under one-time settlement scheme.He said traders and industry would not be harassed anymore and the “inspector raj” would be abolished. Channi said the government was going to bring a one-time settlement scheme for plot holders of Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation, who have been imposed enhanced charges.CLU certificate won’t be required to set up a unit in approved industrial areas and conditions will be waived to set up units in non-industrial areas. Fixed power charges will be waived by 50% for micro, small-medium industries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-institutional-tax-vat-assessment-punjab-cm-woos-industry-330617
28-10-2021||New Delhi||Day after Navjot Sidhu’s visit, Dy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa briefs Rahul Gandhi on sacrilege cases||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy Chief Minister, on Wednesday met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and briefed him on the progress made in the 2015 sacrilege cases and drug-related matters in the poll-bound state.The meeting came a day after Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said at a meeting chaired by party president Sonia Gandhi that justice in the sacrilege matter was crucial to beat anti-incumbency in the state.Takes swipe at ex-cmCaptain had joined the BJP long ago, but today he did it formally by holdingan event. —Sukhjinder Randhawa, Deputy CMWith the meeting between Rahul and Randhawa timed on a day when former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh held a press conference to announce plans to float his own party, the two leaders also discussed the evolving political and electoral landscape in Punjab and the potential impact Singh’s moves could have on the overall scenario and Congress’ prospects.Randhawa later said the meeting was a “courtesy call”, adding he had not met Rahul Gandhi separately after being elevated as the Deputy Chief Minister.The issue of extended BSF jurisdiction also came up for threadbare discussions at the meeting between Rahul and Randhawa. — TNSAAP asks cong why capt not expelledAAP Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh on Wednesday asked the Congress why it was not expelling Capt Amarinder, who was speaking the language of the BJP. He alleged Amarinder was speaking in favour of the BJP with the consent of Congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-navjot-sidhus-visit-dy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-briefs-rahul-gandhi-on-sacrilege-cases-330620
28-10-2021||New Delhi||Congress leaders endangering  national security: BJP||The BJP’s Punjab pitch for the upcoming Assembly elections built around the national and internal security appears to be falling in place.Praising Captain Amarinder Singh for “exposing the Congress party”, the saffron party today accused CM Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu of “endangering the national security”.Party’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh said the former CM had “exposed the Congress which will be completely wiped out in the upcoming Assembly election”. Though he did not elaborate on the much-anticipated tie-up with Captain, Chugh said for the saffron party, internal/national security of the country was of prime importance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-endangering-national-security-bjp-330621
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Congress leader Ashok Pappi Prashar joins AAP||In a setback to the ruling Congress, veteran leader Ashok Pappi Prashar from Ludhiana joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) along with his associates.During a press conference held at party headquarters here on Wednesday, AAP Punjab affairs in-charge and MLA Jarnail Singh said the joining of Prashar would definitely strengthen the party, as he had been playing an active role in socio-religious and other fields. He said that Prashar had held various posts, including the constituency in-charge of the Congress in Ludhiana and general secretary of the Punjab Congress. — TNSSAD announces 2nd woman candidateThe SAD has nominated Jasdeep Kaur as party’s candidate from the Khanna constituency for the 2022 Assembly polls. She is only the second women among 78 candidates announced by the party till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-congress-leader-ashok-pappi-prashar-joins-aap-330622
28-10-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Cotton farmers remove govt hoardings on relief||On Day 3 of their protest on Wednesday, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) activists blackened and tore hoardings of CM Charanjit Singh Channi in Bathinda city. The hoardings show him with farmers in cotton fields and claim “adequate compensation” for damaged cotton crop. Farmers also removed other hoardings showing CM and his government’s achievements.BKU leaders said when farmers had not been compensated, the Chief Minister’s hoardings claiming otherwise was like rubbing salt into their wounds. “We will not allow the government to do politics and spread lies,” they said. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they would continue their fight against the government until farmers get the compensation.Meanwhile, the work at the District Administrative Complex (DAC), Bathinda, remained suspended today, with farmers camping outside the building and not allowing anyone to enter it. — TNSDeputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said: “Alternative arrangements have been made to keep the work going. Even our Progressive Punjab meeting with industrialists at the DC office meeting hall was shifted to Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU) auditorium due to the ongoing protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-cotton-farmers-remove-govt-hoardings-on-relief-330623
28-10-2021||Morinda||Jobless teachers protest near Punjab CM Channi’s house||Security agencies were caught unawares when a large number of unemployed ETT and TET-pass candidates demanding jobs reached near the residence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi late on Tuesday evening.They, however, lifted the dharna after the authorities assured them of arranging a meeting with the CM.More than 10,000 ETT and TET-pass candidates are up in arms over the delay in getting jobs. Besides jobs for all, their demands include relaxation in age for those who have exceeded the age limit due to non-availability of posts. Unemployed teachers met Education Minister Pargat Singh and other officials during the day. Disappointed, they decided to gherao the CM’s residence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-protest-near-punjab-cm-channis-house-330624
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim files plea  in HC against ‘arrest’||Just about two days after a Faridkot court issued production warrants of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in connection with a sacrilege case, the Dera Sacha Sauda chief has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking bail in case of his arrest. He is currently lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail following his conviction in another case.In his plea listed for hearing on Thursday, the dera chief through senior counsel Vinod Ghai and advocate Kanika Ahuja has sought directions to the arresting officer to release him on bail forthwith in event of his arrest in connection with the FIR No. 63, registered on June 2, 2015, under Sections 380 and 295-A of IPC at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot district.Among other things, the dera chief argued that the special investigating team looking into the matter moved an application for his production warrants, “now with the change in the head of the state government”. This, he argued, was done belatedly after more than one year and four months.“This application is not only illegal but politically motivated keeping in view the coming Assembly election in the state,” he alleged.Referring to Section 267 of the CrPC, he added a warrant for producing a prisoner could only be issued for the limited purposes of answering a charge or giving evidence. It could not be issued for handing the prisoner’s custody to the investigating agency in the aid of an ongoing investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-files-plea-in-hc-against-arrest-330625
28-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||Amid national debate, Punjab and Haryana HC grants regular bail to drug addict||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Amid a nationwide debate on issues such as “conscious possession” and consumption following the arrest of Aryan Khan in a drugs case, the Punjab and Haryana HC has granted regular bail to a drug addict.The accused was booked after he was found standing next to a motorcycle from which contraband was recovered. Referring to the allegations regarding his involvement in other cases in which small quantities of contraband were allegedly recovered, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi made it clear that the aspect of recovery was to be examined in view of the fact that the petitioner was a drug addict and might be using the drug for his personal consumption.Petitioner not owner of vehicle: HCJustice Sethi was told the petitioner was seeking regular bail in an FIR registered on January 7 under the NDPS Act at the Malout Sadar police station.His counsel said the motorcycle did not belong to the petitioner. He was merely standing next to the vehicle, but was involved in the FIR. Appearing on the state’s behalf, Deputy Advocate-General Ramdeep Partap Singh submitted the investigation showed the motorcycle, indeed, did not belong to the petitioner, but he was also involved in other such cases.He added the petitioner, as such, appeared to be a habitual offender and a drug addict. The quantity of drug recovered from him in all those FIRs was five or seven gram, for which he had been given regular bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-national-debate-punjab-and-haryana-hc-grants-regular-bail-to-drug-addict-330626
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court to get 5 more judges||Five advocates of the Punjab and Haryana HC will be administered oath as judges following their elevation. The advocates to be sworn in are Vikas Suri, Vinod Sharma Bhardwaj, Pankaj Jain, Jasjit Singh Bedi and Sandeep Moudgil.The names were cleared for elevation by the Supreme Court collegium in September after being forwarded by the Centre in April this year. The HC collegium had initially made the recommendation for their elevation in August last year.In numbers50 No of judges, including 5 new85 Sanctioned strength7 Judges retired this year1 Will retire in December5 Will retire next year4L Cases pending in HCSuri and Bhardwaj have been practising on the civil side and dealing with constitutional matters. Among other things, Suri has been conducting cases for the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Chandigarh and its subordinate courts since March 2010. Jain has been the UT senior standing counsel with proficiency in service law and other civil matters. Bedi, on the other hand, is renowned for his practice on the criminal side and has been handling high-profile cases as well. Moudgil has been representing the state of Haryana as an Additional Advocate-General.The number of judges with their elevation will go up to 50 against the sanctioned strength of 85. The National Judicial Data Grid, the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases, indicates the pendency of more than four lakh cases in the HC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-get-5-more-judges-330628
28-10-2021||Malerkotla||No more personal attacks on former CM Capt Amarinder: Mohammad Mustafa||Former Punjab DG Police Mohammad Mustafa, who is the principal strategic adviser to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, on Tuesday night for the first time attended a political conference in Malerkotla city. Seeking votes for his wife and Cabinet minister Razia Sultana, Mustafa announced that he would not make any more personal attack on former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.“I am a free resident of the country and not bound to follow service norms of the police. I will now speak from my heart. Since Captain has become powerless, I will not attack him. I will not make personal attacks on him, but continue to speak politically against him. Captain Amarinder has backstabbed the Congress, which gave him power for many years,” said Mustafa.The former cop said his wife and he fulfilled all promises made with residents of Malerkotla in the last Assembly elections. “I have made Malerkotla a district and brought a medical college also here. My family and I had to make big sacrifices for both things and these did not come easy,” said Mustafa.“After the Punjab Government did not make me the DGP, I was offered various posts repeatedly, but I refused to accept because I have always fought for principles. Former CM Capt Amarinder asked Razia for a meeting with me, but I refused,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-more-personal-attacks-on-former-cm-capt-amarinder-mohammad-mustafa-330630
28-10-2021||---||Properties of Phagwara sugar mill directors attached||Jalandhar, October 27Since pending sugarcane dues of farmers have been a major poll issue, the authorities have started taking action for making recoveries. The Kapurthala district administration has attached personal properties of the directors of Wahid-Sandhar Sugars Ltd in Phagwara.The properties have been attached and Phagwara Tehsildar has even issued public notices asking people not to buy or sell these properties as these could be recovered to avail the pending dues. The mill reportedly has dues to the tune of Rs 49 crore, including Rs 42 crore of the last year. The attached properties include 104 kanal and 7.25 marla property in Jagatpur Jattan village, 45 kanal and 8.75 marla property in Nihalgarh, 7 kanal and 6 marla property in Phagwara Sharki, besides other properties in Dhandoli, Rawalpindi, Bir Dhandoli, Dhak Dhandoli, Bhullarai, Chak Bhullarai, Khurampur and Chak Khurampur villages.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal confirmed having attached these properties. A Tehsildar from Hoshiarpur also said the properties of a Phagwara mill directors at Khanaura village and Garhshankar too had been attached recently onthe orders of the Kapurthala administration. “Afterthey released some payment, we unattached them again as per the directives issued to us,” he said.Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee leader Surinder Singh said the Phagwara mill had dues to the tune of Rs 40-50 crore. “The payment has not been made to the farmers for the past two years. The farmers have been in grave trouble and attaching the properties of mill owners is a step in the right direction,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/properties-of-phagwara-sugar-mill-directors-attached-330631
28-10-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur: Principal’s room locked amid Akal Degree College tussle||The tussle between principal of Akal Degree College for Women, Sangrur, and the college governing body intensified on Wednesday when the body locked the room of Principal Sukhmeen Kaur. The principal then sat outside her office for official work.As per sources, alleging misconduct, on October 23, governing body president Karnvir Singh Sibia had placed Kaur under suspension, but the Higher Education Department set aside the suspension on Tuesday.“I had raised some issues pertaining to the welfare of our college with the government and the VC. Since it is the only college for women in the area, its development is must. Today, I found my office locked. But I will perform my duties sitting outside my office,” said Kaur.The Higher Education Department said the suspension order did not specify any charge or reason for the alleged misconduct and seemed mala fide. Sibia said they had not received the order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-principals-room-locked-amid-akal-degree-college-tussle-330632
28-10-2021||Vishav Bharti||Goat milk selling for Rs 500/ltr, doctors say not scientific cure for dengue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27While dengue cases are at an all-time high in Punjab, all unscientific claims and remedies are being offered to patients. From goat milk being sold up to Rs 500 a litre (normal price Rs 40 litre) to papya leaves, giloy juice and kiwi fruit, all such claims are being sold as a magic remedy to increase the platelet count.So far, Punjab has reported around 14,500 cases and over 50 deaths, which is the worst-ever dengue toll in the state. Taking advantage of the situation, goat farmers and traders are earning rich dividends. Gurjit Singh, a farmer from Burj Hari village in Mansa, says in normal days, the goat milk sells for around Rs 50 a litre but these days, people are paying even Rs 250 for it.Charan Singh, a farmer from Sondhewal village in Patiala, said the demand was huge and they were getting minimum Rs 100 a litre.Varun Sharma, a Mohali-based businessman, launched his own brand of packaged goat milk called ‘Bakriwala’. A 300 ml bottle is available for Rs 150. “I had launched the product around two months back as a healthy milk option. Now, the demand has grown 50 times with what we had started. But our intention was not to sell it as a remedy to fever as goat milk is not scientifically proven to help in dengue cure,” he said.Dr Ranvir Sharma, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, said science did not support the claim that goat milk could be helpful in dengue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/goat-milk-selling-for-rs-500-ltr-doctors-say-not-scientific-cure-for-dengue-330633
28-10-2021||Amritsar||Man held for spying in Amritsar||With the arrest of one Mandeep Singh, a resident of Sirsa in Haryana, the police claimed to have busted a cross-border espionage network today.The State Special Operation Cell (SSOC), Amritsar, said Mandeep, who was currently working at a stone crusher unit in Pathankot, situated near the Cantonment area, kept an eye on the military movements in the area and passed on the information to his Pakistan-based handlers.On checking his mobile phone, officials found several classified documents and photographs of Cantonment areas, which he had shared via encrypted applications. In return, he was being paid by Pakistan agencies through various means.During preliminary investigation, it has come to light that Mandeep, 35, got in touch with a woman Pakistan Intelligence Officer (PIO), Neha Singh, through Facebook a year ago. She posed as an IT professional working in a Bangalore-based IT unit of the Indian Army.Mandeep was lured to gather and share information about Pathankot, Amritsar Cantts and Pathankot airbase. He was in touch with the PIO via a UK-based phone number and two Indian numbers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-spying-in-amritsar-330634
28-10-2021||Faridkot||Sacrilege case: State lab junks CFSL handwriting report||Sub-panel for contract staffChandigarh: The government has formed a new Cabinet sub-committee to deal with the issue of regularisation of contract and ad hoc employees. Charanjit Channi and Sukhjinder Randhawa have been replaced by Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Raj Kumar Verka in the panel and it will continue to be headed by Brahm Mohindra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-case-state-lab-junks-cfsl-handwriting-report-330637
28-10-2021||---||New party after Election Commission clears name: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 27Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, former Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh hinted at possible seat-sharing with the BJP and breakaway Akali groups, claiming the Congress was nowhere in the picture and his fight in the coming Assembly elections would be with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Also read: Buzz missing at Capt Amarinder Singh’s eventMany are in touch with meIf Rahul Gandhi needs to hold back-to-back meetings with Punjab Congress MLAs, what does it mean? I will not mention names. Already my supporters are being harassed. Capt Amarinder Singh, former Punjab CMNone of his former Cabinet Ministers, MLAs or senior party leaders considered close to him showed up, but the former CM claimed many were in touch and they would come out in the open at the right time.“I will not mention names. Already my supporters are being harassed. I promise that we will contest all 117 Assembly seats”, he said.Asked how many MLAs were in touch with him, he quipped: “If Rahul Gandhi needs to hold back-to-back meetings with Punjab Congress MLAs, what does it mean?” Asked as to why he had not resigned from the Congress yet, he replied: “I have spent 50 years in the Congress, how does it matter if I stay for another 10 days?” Heading a delegation of agricultural experts, Captain is scheduled to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday to find a solution to the farmers’ stir.The ex-CM vowed to defeat Sidhu in the coming polls. Citing surveys, he claimed there had been a 25% drop in Congress’ popularity ever since Sidhu took over the reins of the Punjab Congress. He rejected the claim that a majority of MLAs had opposed his continuation in office, saying: “Once they (party leadership) made up their mind to replace me, these excuses were made.”Trashing allegations against his Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam, Captain said she had been visiting him for 16 years and he would invite her again. He shared with the media a booklet titled “Facts v/s Disinformation”, detailing achievements of his government.Navjot Sidhu, meanwhile, took another dig at him, calling him the “negative force” who had stalled “justice and development.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-party-after-election-commission-clears-name-capt-amarinder-singh-330533
28-10-2021||---||Singhu killing: Delhi Police crackdown on farmers supporting Lakhbir Singh’s kin||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 27Delhi police launched a late evening crackdown on hundreds of farmers gathered at Narela near Singhu Border here to support the family of Lakhbir Singh, who was recently killed by a Nihang Sikh man.Several protesters belonging to the Muzaffarnagar-based Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti were reportedly injured and several were taken into preventive detention by the cops, who lathicharged the farmers after they insisted on performing a ritual at the site where Lakhbir Singh was brutally killed recently.The farmers were gathered in solidarity with Lakhbhir Singh’s family, which was also present at Singhu Border today to perform a “havan”. On the behalf of the traumatised family, which belongs to Punjab, the members of Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti, demanded Rs 50 lakh compensation and a government job for the kin of the deceased farmer.Protesters who clashed with the cops said if the Punjab government could give compensation to the deceased farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri, why couldn’t it do the same for a farmer who belonged to Punjab and was “subjected to untold torture before being killed”.The late Lakhbir Singh’s family also sought justice and support from the Punjab Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singhu-killing-delhi-police-crackdown-on-farmers-supporting-lakhbir-singhs-kin-330465
28-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||You have a knack of putting your foot in your mouth, Capt Amarinder tells Navjot Sidhu||Former chief minister Amarinder Singh hit back at his arch political rival Navjot Singh Sidhu for his recent tweet mocking him over his new proposed party.Sidhu said in a tweet that Capt Amarinder, who’s announced he was going to float his own party soon, got only “856 votes the last time” that happened.“You wanted to close doors on me, as I was raising voice of the People, speaking truth to power! Last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes … People of Punjab are again waiting to punish you for compromising on the interests of Punjab,” Sidhu’s tweet said,In response, Amarinder, through his media adviser Raveen Thukral, said Sidhu had the “knack of putting his foot in his mouth”.“The 856 votes you are mocking came even after I withdrew my nomination from Kharar since I’d won unopposed from Samana. So what does that show? Or are you too dumb to understand,” the first of three tweets said on Wednesday evening.“If I could get those 856 votes just because my name was on the ballot paper after I withdrew from contest, do I even need to spell out what happens when I actually fight? In fact, all Punjab knows I’ve won LS polls twice & Assembly 6 times.”“So why don’t you focus on your work instead of wasting your time attacking me all day long. Unless you’ve made up your mind to not rest till you’ve destroyed @INCPunjab. And if that’s the case then you’re only making my task easier,” the third tweet said.This comes on a day when Amarinder Singh listed his achievements when he was heading the Congress government in Punjab. Capt Amarinder, whose resignation in September from the chief minister’s position threw the Congress into renewed crisis, has since announced he would be floating his political party before next year’s assembly elections and would be willing to enter into a seat-sharing agreement with the Bharatiya Janata Party.    Amarinder Singh however has yet to officially quit the Congress party.  ‘You do have the knack of putting your foot in your mouth @sherryontopp! The 856 votes you are mocking came even after I withdrew my nomination from Kharar since I’d won unopposed from Samana. So what does that show? Or are you too dumb to understand’: @capt_amarinder 1/3 https://t.co/WXwARektgC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/you-have-a-knack-of-putting-your-foot-in-your-mouth-capt-amarinder-tells-navjot-sidhu-330423
28-10-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes, Navjot Sidhu tells Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 27As former Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh held a press conference here on Wednesday, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu went on a tweeting spree against him.In one of his tweets, Sidhu said, “We the 78 MLAs of Congress, could never imagine, what we received an arm-twisted, ED controlled BJP loyal Chief Minister of Punjab…who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin! You were the negative force stalling Justice & development of Punjab.”We the 78 MLAs of Congress, could never imagine, what we received an arm-twisted, ED controlled BJP loyal Chief Minister of Punjab @capt_amarinder … who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin ! You were the negative force stalling Justice & development of Punjab  In another tweet, Sidhu said, “You wanted to close doors on me, as i was raising voice of the People, speaking truth to power ! Last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes…People of Punjab are again waiting to punish you for compromising on the interests of Punjab !!”You wanted to close doors on me, as i was raising voice of the People, speaking truth to power !Last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes … People of Punjab are again waiting to punish you for compromising on the interests of Punjab !!  In yet another tweet, Sidhu said, “There is no suffering that pity will not insult ! Were you unceremoniously dumped for good governance ? & 18 Point Agenda shoved down the throat of poorest performing CM of Punjab …You will be remembered as Jaichand of Punjab’s Political history, you are truly a spent cartridge.”There is no suffering that pity will not insult ! Were you unceremoniously dumped for good governance ? & 18 Point Agenda shoved down the throat of poorest performing CM of Punjab … You will be remembered as Jaichand of Punjab’s Political history, you are truly a spent cartridge||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/last-time-you-formed-your-own-party-you-lost-your-ballot-garnering-only-856-votes-navjot-sidhu-tells-amarinder-singh-330369
28-10-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Central interference will not be tolerated in Punjab, says CM Charanjit Channi||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 27Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here on Wednesday said the Central interference in Punjab would not be tolerated on the issue of BSF movement from 15 km to 50 km.He said it was the state government’s right to decide on this and the Centre’s intentions were uncalled for.Demanding the withdrawal of the notification, a special Vidhan Sabha session would be held on November 8, he said, adding that if the notification is not rolled back the state government would move the Supreme Court. “We cannot demoralise Punjab Police”, he said.Channi said that during this session, focus would also be on withdrawal of the “black farm laws”. If these farm laws are not withdrawn before November 8, the state government would intensify its agitation, he said.Channi said several industry-friendly decisions had been taken by the Cabinet on Wednesday. He talked about the decisions, including the abolition of institutional tax from Punjab. The CM announced that the VAT assessments of about 40,000 dealers which are of the pre-GST years had also been done away with and now only 8,000 assessees who had a tax demand of more than Rs 1 lakh would be assessed, and that too under the one-time settlement scheme.Channi said the state government is going to bring one-time settlement scheme for plot holders of Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation who had been imposed enhanced charges on their plots. Besides, change of land use certificate would not be required for setting up industry in approved industrial areas and conditions would be waived for setting up industry in non-industrial areas. Fixed charges applicable on electricity consumption would be waived by 50 per cent for the micro small medium.Giving respite to the industry in focal points, the CM said that for development of focal points Rs 147 crore would be released. Taxpayers would no more be summoned on petty issues, he said.An exhibition centre would be set up in Amritsar and a film city would come up in Chandigarh, the CM announced.He said traders and industry would not be harassed anymore and the inspector raj would be abolished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/central-interference-will-not-be-tolerated-in-punjab-says-cm-charanjit-channi-330362
28-10-2021||---||Congress is nowhere in picture in Punjab election; his new party’s fight will be with SAD, says Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 27Former Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday shared the report card of his tenure of four and a half years as CM.Addressing a press conference here, he clarified that the conference was convened not to announce his new political outfit but to share the report card of his tenure as CM.He said he was waiting for approval of the name and symbol of his new party by the Election Commission and would announce it once that is done.He said many Congressmen would join him once the party was formed. Claiming that many senior Congress leaders were in touch with him, he said his party would fight on all 117 seats.He said the Congress is nowhere in the picture in Punjab and their fight would be with the Shiromani Akali Dal. He said ever since Navjot Sidhu joined the Congress, the popularity graph of the Congress had dropped by 25 per cent.He said he never talked about an alliance with the BJP but seat-sharing with it or other parties. “I have been with the Congress for 52 years, but will leave it in the coming days,” he said.On the issue of farmers’ agitation, he said he was talking to the Union Home Minister and not to farmers. “It was the Union Home minister who was talking to the farmer unions. I will be meeting the Union Home Minister on this issue besides meeting the National Security Advisor,” he said.He contradicted claims of the Congress that 78 MLAs had signed for his ouster. He said rather 78 MLAs had written in his favour.Sharing a booklet of the achievements, the former CM said that by the time the government would complete its term in March 2022, everything would have been done, barring certain things.Without naming any minister, Amarinder said it was petty politics to say that nothing had been done in four and a half years.Hitting out at the ministers who had been questioning him on security concerns regarding Pakistan, he said as CM and Home Minister for nine years, he was well aware of the nefarious designs of the cross-border narco terrorism.Talking about the drones being sent from across the border, he said the drones were coming up to 31 kilometres inside. He said the increase in the jurisdiction of the BSF in this regard was misconceived by his critics.He said the BSF is not to take over Punjab but assist Punjab Police in checking the cross-border terrorism.On Pakistani Aroosa Alam, he said she had been coming here for 16 years and Sukhjinder Randhawa never objected to her presence. He said he was open to a CBI, Income Tax or ED probe into the allegations of her taking money out of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-is-nowhere-in-picture-in-punjab-election-his-new-partys-fight-will-be-with-sad-says-amarinder-singh-330356
