29-10-2021||Chandigarh||31 fresh Covid-19 cases, one death in Punjab||One coronavirus-related death was reported from Punjab on Friday, while 31 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 6,02,349, according to a medical bulletin.With one death reported from Gurdaspur, the toll reached 16,557, the bulletin said.Among new Covid-19 cases, Rupnagar reported seven, followed by five in Mohali and four each in Amritsar and Bathinda.The number of active cases was 253.Twenty-five more people recovered from the infection, taking the recovery count to 5,85,539 in Punjab, according to the bulletin.The Union Territory of Chandigarh reported five new Covid-19 cases, taking the infection count to 65,340.The toll stood at 820.The number of active cases in the city stands at 30, while the count of recoveries has reached 64,490. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/31-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-punjab-331549
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD flays Sonia Gandhi for appointing Tytler to Delhi Congress panel||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday hit out at Congress president Sonia Gandhi for naming Jagdish Tytler as a permanent invitee to the party's Delhi executive committee.Tytler's name had earlier figured in connection with the anti-Sikh riots of 1984."This is a brazen display of shocking insensitivity to the Sikh wounds by Sonia Gandhi and the Congress Party. They have chosen the eve of the painful anniversary of the massacre of Sikhs to announce this decision," Badal said in a statement."Could there be a worse way to rub salt into the deep, festering wounds of the Khalsa Panth than this decision and its timing," asked Badal, adding that the move comes just a couple of days before the 38th anniversary of the 1984 riots.Badal also dared Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit SIngh Channi to show the "moral courage" to oppose this decision and get it rescinded."Collapse of character stems from the compromise corner. Now come out of that corner, show the moral courage to at least speak the truth and prevent the collapse of your character," said Badal."Naming Tytler as one of the elite permanent invitee is an insult to the brave and patriotic Sikh community. Will Punjab Congressmen, including Navjot Sidhu, CM Channi, (Deputy CM ) Sukhjinder Randhawa and (former Punjab Congress chief) Sunil Jakhar now awaken their conscience, listen to it and save the collapse of their character by opposing this decision," asked Badal.Meanwhile, the SAD (Sanyukt) led by veteran leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa also hit out at the Congress over the move.SAD (Sanyukt) general secretary Karnail Singh Peermohammad said the Congress should reconsider its decision.Ahead of the Delhi civic body polls early next year, the Congress on Thursday had got its new executive committee.Congress national general secretary KC Venugopal in a press statement on Thursday said party president Sonia Gandhi has approved the formation of the executive committee.The list of permanent invitees included senior leaders JP Agarwal, Ajay Maken, Kapil Sibal, Janardan Dwivedi, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Subhash Chopra and Jagdish Tytler. PTI SUN VSDRDKRDK10292003NNNN||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-flays-sonia-gandhi-for-appointing-tytler-to-delhi-congress-panel-331517
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Will end Inspector Raj, make traders partner in Punjab’s progress: Kejriwal||AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said if voted to power in Punjab in next year’s Assembly polls, his party will put an end to the “Inspector Raj”, create a congenial atmosphere for industries to flourish and make traders a partner in the state’s growth.He also promised to clear the pending VAT refunds of traders and businessmen in three-four months and provide round-the-clock electricity to the industries in the state if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is voted to power.Addressing a gathering of traders and businessmen in Bathinda on the concluding day of his two-day Punjab visit, the Delhi chief minister said, “Our goal is to create a prosperous Punjab and lead it towards progress. We will provide a crime-free and corruption-free government.”         On the first day of his visit, Kejriwal had met farmers in Mansa.He had held a meeting with the industry representatives in Ludhiana last month.AAP’s Punjab affairs in-charge Raghav Chadha, Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Cheema, state AAP president and MP Bhagwant Mann and MLA Aman Arora were present at the event in Bathinda.Kejriwal said the AAP works with a clear intent.“We will give you an honest government in Punjab like in Delhi. We ended the Inspector Raj and the Raid Raj in Delhi,” he said.Kejriwal said Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has also said he will make traders a partner in the state’s growth and end the “Inspector Raj”.“Why doesn’t he do it now? Because they do not have the intent, their intention is bad,” he alleged.“When we did so many things during our 49-day stint in Delhi (AAP’s first term in the national capital), why can’t Channi? This is why I say to copy the Aam Aadmi Party is easy, but the implementation is difficult,” Kejriwal said.Responding to the concerns of some traders about the alleged “goonda tax”, he said after coming to power, the AAP will ensure that traders can run their businesses without any fear.“After our government comes to power in Punjab, from April 1, 2022, it will be our responsibility to ensure the safety of every businessman,” he added.Referring to his first term as the chief minister of Delhi, Kejriwal said despite the tenure being short, his government sent out a clear message from the top that corruption will not be tolerated at any level.“In that 49-day period, we put up hoardings across Delhi, telling people if anyone asks for a bribe, they should take out their mobile phones and send a voice recording of the person seeking bribe to my personal WhatsApp number. I sent 32 officials to jail and people used to ask those seeking bribe ‘phone nikaloon’,” he said.The AAP supremo said his party will do the same in Punjab as well to eliminate corruption.On the issue of electricity, he said Punjab is a power-producing state and still there is a power deficiency.“We will ensure 24-hour power supply,” he said, pointing towards the traders.“I am told that the VAT refunds are pending, we will clear those in three-four months after coming to power,” the Delhi chief minister added.He said small traders are the backbone of the country’s industry.Kejriwal said the other political parties think about the traders and businessmen “only at the time of polls because they need funds”.“But we do not need money from you. I have come to make you a partner in Punjab’s progress. We will create a conducive atmosphere so that trade and industry flourishes,” he told the traders and businessmen.During the difficult times of Covid-19, the AAP stood by the people and traders of Delhi, Kejriwal said.“Unfortunately, the Punjab government left the people and the traders to their own fate as the ruling party was busy in their fight for power,” he alleged.Taking a dig at the Channi-led Punjab government, which recently hosted an investors’ summit, Kejriwal said, “They invite big industrialists and say so much investment has come. But efforts are not made to save the existing industry, which is shifting out to other places.”    He said for Punjab’s development, farmers, labourers and traders are like its wheels.Appealing to the voters to bring the AAP to power in Punjab, which goes to polls early next year, Kejriwal said, “In the last 70 years, people gave so many chances to the Congress and even to the Shiromani Akali Dal and the BJP. We are seeking just one chance from you.”                He also said while the other political parties prepare their poll manifestos behind closed doors, the AAP goes to the public, seeks their feedback and incorporates what they want in its manifesto. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-end-inspector-raj-make-traders-partner-in-punjabs-progress-kejriwal-331514
29-10-2021||Amritsar||Punjab Police bust interstate drug smuggling racket||Punjab Police on Friday claimed to have busted an interstate drug smuggling racket with the seizure of a huge quantity of opium smuggled from Jharkhand.Acting on a tip-off, a police team intercepted two cars on Ram Tirath Road and searched them following which 17 kg of opium besides a pistol and Rs 1.10 lakh in cash were recovered, police said.Following the seizure, four people, all Amritsar residents, were arrested under the NDPS Act, police said.A case has been registered here in this regard, police said.During the preliminary investigations, it has come to light that one of the arrested accused was earlier involved in a case of recovery of 7 kg of opium last year, the police said, adding the case was registered at the Beas police station.It has been revealed that the accused came in touch with Jharkhand-based suppliers through their contact, presently lodged in Kapurthala jail.Further investigations are being carried out to unearth the whole network of drug suppliers, dealers and their buyers, police said.Efforts are on to identify the complete procurement and supply chain across different states, said police. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-bust-interstate-drug-smuggling-racket-331507
29-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||3 Congress heavyweights fail to lift prospects of party in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 28As the 2022 Assembly elections are around the corner, residents feel that the Congress government, does not have much to boast about development of the holy city.Despite recent reshuffle in Congress, including appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, OP Soni being made Deputy Chief Minister and Raj Kumar Verka inducted into the Cabinet, locals have little hope from them at the fag end of their term.The projects—surface-based water supply and Smart City mission—have yet not been fully implemented.The previous SAD-BJP government, which had faced criticism over sacrilege and drugs, had constructed Heritage Street, Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), War Memorial and renovated Qila Gobindgarh, to boost the tourism and economy of the city, said locals.Micheal Rahul, a social activist, said, “As compared to the previous government, the Congress shifted its focus from Amritsar to Mohali. They had promised to develop an IT- hub and uplift public health system. Other cities got AIIMS and PGIMER satellite centre, but Amritsar got nothing. Former Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal proposed to shift the bus terminal on the outskirts of the city, but the Congress government failed to do it. The Horticulture Centre, announced by late Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, has not come up.”He said Sidhu had announced to construct a worldclass sports complex in 2010 on Attari bypass, but the project has not moved an inch to date. Advocate Kuljit Singh, another activist said, “There is no accountability of government officials. Roads are crying for attention. Projects have been announced, but nothing is happening on the ground.”Sandip Kural, an environmentalist, said, “Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Amritsar (South) MLA Inderbeer Singh Bolaria, had promised to shift Bhagtanwala dum yard out of the city. The Congress government failed to fulfil their promise and the dump is still a headache for residents.”District Congress chief Jatinder Sonia said, “Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government waived power bills tio the tune of Rs 1,200 crore. We reduced water tariff. No other government can do this. During the first and second wave of Covid-19, we provided best medical facilities to patients. Huge amount of money has been spent on the overall development of the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-congress-heavyweights-fail-to-lift-prospects-of-party-in-amritsar-331197
29-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Bandi Chhor Divas: Nagar kirtan from Gwalior reaches Faridabad||Tarn Taran, October 28A nagar kirtan dedicated to the 400th anniversary of the ‘Bandi Chhor Divas’ started from Gurdwara Data Bandi Chhor, Gwalior (MP), on Wednesday and reached Faridabad (Haryana) on Thursday. The nagar kirtan is to reach Akal Takht, Amritsar, on November 3.Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, had arranged the nagar kirtan procession.It was accorded a warm welcome by the local sangat on its way. It stayed at the Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib (Guru ka Taal), Agra, from where it moved ahead today morning. Baba Sewa Singh and Baba Lakha Singh, including local sangat, planted four saplings here to commemorate the event.The procession would stay at Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Faridabad, tonight and will take a halt at the Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla, New Delhi, for one night. Guru Hargobind, the sixth Sikh Guru visited Amritsar after being released from the Gwalior Fort, along with 52 Hindu prisoners. They all were arrested by Mughal emperor Jahangir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bandi-chhor-divas-nagar-kirtan-from-gwalior-reaches-faridabad-331200
29-10-2021||Mansa||Tikri deaths: Farm unions allege foul play, seek judicial probe||Alleging foul play, family members of three women protesters, who died after being mowed down by a truck near the Tikri border, and several farm unions have demanded an independent probe into the incident by a committee of sitting judges of the Supreme Court.Also read: 3 Mansa women run over by truck at TikriLost husband 18 yrs ago, Tikri victim Amarjit Kaur raised kids aloneTo mourn the loss of lives, members of the Punjab Kisan Union, Sanvidhan Bachao Manch and Medical Practitioners’ Association met the family members of the deceased at Khiva Dialuwala village in Mansa district and paid condolences. Claiming that all women belonged to marginal groups who had debts running in lakhs of rupees, the representatives of these organisations demanded adequate compensation to them.Gurlabh Singh Mahal, leader of the Sanvidhan Bachao Manch, said, “The case requires intervention of the apex court. After constituting a committee of sitting judges, the Supreme Court must conduct an independent probe.”Also read: Tikri incident rekindles bad memories of Lakhimpur Kheri: FarmersBalkaran Singh Balli, leader of the Punjab Kisan Union, said, “There is possibility of foul play in the incident at a time when forces are trying to destabilise and sabotage the farmers’ agitation. And as per the statement of an injured woman, the truck that mowed down the women had only started from nearby. The women who got injured must also be compensated by the government adequately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tikri-deaths-farm-unions-allege-foul-play-seek-judicial-probe-331026
29-10-2021||Mansa||Lost husband 18 yrs ago, Tikri victim Amarjit Kaur raised kids alone||The life of 58-year-old Amarjit Kaur, one of the three women protesters who died near the Tikri border after being mowed down by a truck, has been a tale of utter grief, loss and misery.Also read: 3 Mansa women run over by truck at TikriTikri deaths: Farm unions allege foul play, seek judicial probeA resident of Khiva Dialuwala village in Mansa district, she had lost her husband 18 years ago (died of snakebite) and raised her son and daughter alone.These women protesters, after participating in the farmers’ agitation against the three agricultural laws, were coming back to Mansa when the incident took place. Just when the life was getting back on track and her daughter scheduled to get married in January 2022, Amarjit died. The preparations of marriage were in full swing at their house. Her son, Jaswinder Singh (25), who is serving in the Army, also met with a road accident in 2019 and sustained grievous injuries, leaving him speech-impaired.Also read: Tikri incident rekindles bad memories of Lakhimpur Kheri: FarmersJaswinder, who got married in April, was allowed to continue his service on compensatory grounds. With him continuing to serve the Army, it’s just his wife Sarbjit Kaur and sister Lakhwinder Kaur at their house in Mansa. The family owns five acres of agricultural land and had taken over Rs 10 lakh loan from a bank besides other debt running into lakhs of rupees from others.Balkaran Singh Balli of Punjab Kisan Union said: “Ever since Amarjit died, an uneasy silence prevails in the village. If the Centre had repealed the laws, these women would not have died.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lost-husband-18-yrs-ago-tikri-victim-amarjit-kaur-raised-kids-alone-331028
29-10-2021||---||Suicides: Kejriwal vows adequate farm relief||Tribune News ServiceMansa, October 28Urging Punjab farmers, labourers and workers not to resort to suicide over losses due to pink bollworm attack, rain and hailstorm, AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal today said if the Congress government failed to provide adequate compensation, the AAP government would pay the due relief to those affected by April 30, 2022.Kejriwal was here to meet farmers during party’s “Kejriwal’s Dialogue with Farmers” programme. He was accompanied by state party president Bhagwant Mann, Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan.The event began with a two-minute silence as a mark of respect to the three women of Khiva Dialuwala village (Mansa) killed in an accident at Tikri. Addressing the gathering, Kejriwal said: “After April 1, farmers and labourers in Punjab will not commit suicide due to crop failure. This is my promise and Kejriwal does what he says. By April 30, 2022, crop loss relief will be credited to the account of each affected farmer and labourer.”“When any farmer dies by suicide, it saddens me. Even after 70 years of Independence, the farmer is forced to kill self,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suicides-kejriwal-vows-adequate-farm-relief-331030
29-10-2021||---||Kejriwal meets party MLAs in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 28AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal today presided over a closed-door meeting with party MLAs at the residence of state unit president and local MP Bhagwant Mann and discussed issues related to the upcoming Assembly elections. Kejriwal, however, didn’t elaborate on the issues discussed.In Bathinda todayI have come here to meet farmers, as so far they have not got proper aid for their losses. I will be in Bathinda for another meeting tomorrow. — Arvind KejriwalLeader of Opposition Harpal Cheema, Sunam MLA Aman Arora, Barnala MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer and other party MLAs were present.“I have come here to meet farmers, as so far they have not got proper financial aid for their losses. I will meet farmers at Mansa and tomorrow I will be in Bathinda for another meeting,” said Kejriwal, as left the press conference midway.“Our party is undertaking preparations to take direct feedback from all sections of society. Some leaders have told me during the meeting, Kejriwal directed them to make only those promises that could be fulfilled,” said Avtar Ealwal, district president (intellectual wing) AAP.Earlier, Cheema caused a stir as he left shortly after the meeting started. He, however, returned sometime later. “I had gone to attend the bhog of a party worker and there is nothing more to it,” he said. Kejriwal had a lunch at Mann’s residence and also met his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-meets-party-mlas-in-sangrur-331031
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre ready for fresh talks with farmers, says BJP’s Gajendra Shekhawat||Sounding the poll bugle for the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections, state BJP’s election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the Centre was again ready for negotiations with farmers.Shekhawat stressed: “The government has already held 11 rounds of talks with the farmer unions, we are ready for a dialogue again. We are ready to listen and discuss with farmers with an open mind and open heart,” he said.He said the Centre had never escaped from negotiations but that should be held in atmosphere of faith.The BJP senior leader said some people out of their political aspirations and selfish interests were trying to use farmers and didn’t want the issue to be resolved.On Capt Amarinder Singh’s claims regarding mediating with farmers, he said anybody was welcome to mediate or resolve the issue at the earliest.He also claimed the BJP had brought paradigm shift in agriculture by making it profit-oriented instead of production-oriented. On Congress, he said the party was a broken house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-ready-for-fresh-talks-with-farmers-says-bjps-gajendra-shekhawat-331032
29-10-2021||---||CM Channi briefs Rahul Gandhi on ‘pro-people’ measures||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 28Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and discussed the prevailing political situation in the state along with the emerging electoral issues.The meeting, held a day after former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced plans to launch a new political party, learnt to have deliberated on the potential impact of Captain’s moves and how these might alter the electoral equations.The leaders also discussed progress on key Congress election promises, including justice in the 2015 desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and justice in the drugs matter. The Chief Minister briefed Gandhi about the recent pro-people measures taken by the Congress-led government and discussed future election strategy besides talking about the farmers’ agitation and its impact in the state.The leaders are further learnt to have discussed the extension of Border Security Force’s jurisdiction to 50 km in border states — a matter on which the Chief Minister has called a special session. Channi is learnt to have briefed Gandhi on the party’s stand in Punjab to move the Supreme Court if the BSF order was not withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-channi-briefs-rahul-gandhi-on-pro-people-measures-331033
29-10-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Days of mafia raj over: Punjab CM Channi||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said the days of mafia raj in Punjab were over and the rule of the people would prevail. Addressing a function organised to distribute cheques to the beneficiaries of various schemes here, he recounted his achievements as Chief Minister and said he would not rest until the 18-point agenda was fully implemented.He said all illegally operating buses were being impounded and the back of the transport mafia run by influential families had been broken. Similarly, he said, sand and cable mafias would meet the same fate.The CM had come directly from Delhi in a helicopter after meeting AICC leader Rahul Gandhi. He said he belonged to a middle-class family and knew all their problems and, therefore, would leave no stone unturned to improve their lot. Appreciating MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra for preferring to work for the party instead of becoming a minister, he said he had given him a blank cheque for his constituency’s development. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-of-mafia-raj-over-punjab-cm-channi-331034
29-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Akali old guard on way out in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 28A generational shift in the SAD means that almost all old guard leaders of the district who were faithful to Parkash Singh Badal are on their way out, giving Sukhbir Singh Badal absolute control over the party.Generational shiftSome have left on their own while others have been virtually forced to exit. There are also some like Sucha Singh Langah, once considered to be all-powerful, who has been pushed into the wilderness ever since a controversial video of his went viral in 2017. “His image in society has nosedived to the extent where the party is not at all keen to keep him in its ranks. He is trying to get a reprieve from Akal Takht so that he can make a comeback,” said a party MLA.Ex-Cabinet minister Balbir Singh Baath finds himself relegated to the sidelines for no fault of his. He has remained a three-time MLA from Sri Hargobindpur. Ever since the seat was reserved in 2012, the party has not been able to suitably adjust him. Observers claim he is one of the most erudite leaders in the SAD. “He was a party ideologue and at times, he was indispensable. We need leaders of his intellectual standing to revitalise our party cadre but unfortunately, that’s not happening,” said an MLA.Former Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon’s indisposition has come in as a handy tool for the powers-that-be to push him into oblivion. His son Ravi Karan Kahlon was made SAD Youth Wing (Majha) chief and later given the ticket from Dera Baba Nanak “in contribution for the senior Kahlon’s contribution to the party.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-old-guard-on-way-out-in-gurdaspur-331035
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bikram Singh Majithia’s ex-aide Parminder Singh Brar joins Congress||Student Organisation of India former president and once a close associate of Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, Parminder Singh Brar today joined the Congress in presence of AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal in New Delhi.Brar, a former OSD to former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, headed the IT wing of the SAD and was instrumental in party’s campaigns in previous elections. After being refused the ticket, he left the party. His joining has evoked mix reaction in the Congress, with some leaders stating his only asset was that he was once close to Majithia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-singh-majithias-ex-aide-parminder-singh-brar-joins-congress-331037
29-10-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda Congress leader Arun Wadhawan faces farmers’ ire||A Congress leader today faced the ire of farmers during a mega camp organised by the Punjab Government at the Adarsh School here to provide welfare schemes of various departments to people at one place.Congress Bathinda (urban) chief Arun Wadhawan faced protests by farmers. The police personnel had a tough time in ensuring his safety. The farmers alleged they had been sitting in Bathinda for the past several days seeking compensation for the damaged cotton crop but the government was not listening to them.Special girdawari begins in BarnalaTalking to The Tribune, Wadhawan said, “When I saw farmers are protesting against me, I immediately got out my car and talked to them. We are supporting farmers on all issues.”Meanwhile, the cotton farmers’ protest today entered the fourth day. The work has been lying suspended at the district administrative complex as farmers are adamant on their demands and not allowing anyone to enter the premises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-congress-leader-arun-wadhawan-faces-farmers-ire-331038
29-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC order quoted while seeking bail for Aryan Khan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Nearly nine months after Justice Jaishree Thakur of the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled that reliance could be placed on WhatsApp messages only after complying with the provisions of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act, the judgment was quoted while seeking bail for Aryan Khan. A report on the judgment was carried exclusively in these columns.The court rulingThe Punjab and Haryana High Court had ruled an investigating agency could rely upon WhatsApp messages during the course of probe only after complying with Sec 65-B provisionsAvailable information suggests senior advocate Amit Desai on behalf of Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan relied upon Justice Thakur’s judgment pronounced in an NDPS Act case. He submitted before the Bombay High Court that “Punjab and Haryana High Court and Bombay High Court have held that WhatsApp chats are inadmissible”.Justice Thakur had ruled an investigating agency could rely upon WhatsApp messages during the course of probe. But reliance could be placed on the messages only after complying with the provisions of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act. The provision makes it clear electronic records are required to be certified by a person occupying a responsible official position for being admissible as evidence in court proceedings.Justice Thakur was hearing a petition filed against the Union of India by Rakesh Kumar Singla through senior advocate RS Rai and Rubina Vermani for grant of regular bail to the petitioner in a case registered on June 12, 2020, under the provisions of the NDPS Act at NCB police station, zonal unit, Sector 25(W), Chandigarh. “Needless to say that the Narcotics Bureau would always be at liberty to rely upon the WhatsApp messages after due compliance of provisions of Section 65-B...,” Justice Thakur ruled.Justice Thakur asserted the answer was negative to court query whether certificate under Section 65B was available to authenticate the messages. A recent Supreme Court judgment held that certificate Section 65B was required when reliance was being placed upon electronic record. As such, the message would be of no evidentiary value as on date.“The investigation in the matter is complete and the challan stands presented and therefore, this court is of the opinion that no useful purpose would be served in keeping the petitioner behind bars. The instant petition is allowed and the petitioner is directed to be released on regular bail...,” Justice Thakur had asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-order-quoted-while-seeking-bail-for-aryan-khan-331039
29-10-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka: 4 truckloads of paddy intercepted||The Arniwala police intercepted four truckloads of basmati variety of paddy on the Fazilka-Malout road in the district today. Soon after the truck-trailers were intercepted, activists of farmers’ organisations reached the spot and allegedly refused to allow the vehicles to proceed for their destination.6.93 LMT procuredChandigarh: The government agencies procured 6,93,761.54 metric tonnes of paddy in Punjab on Thursday. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the govt agencies procured 93,95,999.15 MT paddy, while private millers 46,517 MT.SHO Balwinder Singh said the police stopped four paddy-laden trucks coming from Haryana on the inter-state barrier at Dhippanwali village in the district. After verifying the antecedents and quality of the paddy, the trucks were allowed to leave for a Fazilka rice mill. However, members of farmers unions refused to allow the trucks to leave.Narinderpal Singh Warer, vice-president, BKU (Qadian), claimed according to the bills, a comparatively lower quality of paddy had been purchased at a rate of Rs 3,100 per quintal and would be mixed with the local fine 1121 variety, being sold at Rs 3,300-3,400 per quintal.The farmers said mixing of lower quality paddy resulted in loss to farmers as the 1121 variety was exported and did not fetch the desired price.Warer said if the government allowed private traders to procure paddy from other states, they would oppose it and distribute the intercepted paddy among farmers. The farmers insisted on checking each bag of paddy being ferried. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-4-truckloads-of-paddy-intercepted-331040
29-10-2021||Aman Sood||2-hour cracker use allowed, Delhi traders eye Punjab market||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 28With the state government allowing a two-hour window to burst crackers on Diwali and Gurpurb, wholesalers in Delhi are dumping their stock in Punjab. Stock worth lakhs, ordered this year or left over from previous years, has become worthless for traders who deal in firecrackers in the Capital as there is a ban on the sale of firecrackers in Delhi and adjoining areas till January 2022.No other optionWhat else can we do? We have green crackers for which we placed orders last year, before a ban was imposed. We have two-year stock and discounts will help us clear it before it turns into scrap . Wholesale dealer from DelhiIllegal fireworks seized in BarnalaThe police have seized a huge quantity of illegal crackers near Dhanaula in Barnala district. “On Wednesday night, we confiscated illegal crackers worth lakhs. The police have registered a case and started further investigations,” said Barnala SDM Varjeet Walia. TNSThe cracker rates have already plummeted by more than 25 per cent despite the air quality in Punjab dipping every year during the festive season when paddy stubble burning is at its peak. “What else can we do? We have green crackers for which we placed orders last year, before a ban was imposed. We have two-year stock and discounts will help us clear it before it turns into scrap,” said a wholesale dealer from Delhi, who supplies primarily to Ludhiana and Amritsar.On Tuesday, Punjab ordered that only green crackers — considered less polluting — would be sold in cities and towns barring Mandi Gobindgarh and Jalandhar.Super stockists in Delhi are offering discounts on crackers exceeding 20 per cent, and with down payments in cash, it touches 38 per cent over andabove the discount.Wholesalers in Punjab are being offered heavy discounts, in addition to delivery of the crackers within the state for bulk orders. Subsequently, the rates of branded crackers have reduced by 20 per cent.“In case of down payment, the discount touches over 38 per cent above the existing discount,” said a wholesaler from Delhi, adding that the discounts on banned polluting items were even bigger.“We have to clear our stocks, whatever it takes,” said cracker supplier Jagdish Chadha of Delhi’s Sadar Bazaar. “Our stocks are stored in Haryana and if Punjab dealers want any items, ample stocks are available,” he said.The state government has authorised the police to ensure that only green crackers allowed by the court are sold. “The police can take action against anyone flouting norms or bursting crackers outside the permissible time limit,” said Karunesh Garg, member-secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-hour-cracker-use-allowed-delhi-traders-eye-punjab-market-331042
29-10-2021||---||Sacrilege case: Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim not to be brought to Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh will not be brought to Punjab in connection with a sacrilege case. Three days after a Faridkot court issued his production warrant in the matter, the state of Punjab today told the Punjab and Haryana High Court the police would go and interrogate/investigate the dera chief in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail.‘SIT plea motivated’In his plea, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has argued the SIT moving a plea for his production warrant is not only illegal but politically motivated as it seemed to have been done keeping in view the upcoming Assembly electionsThe court was hearing the dera chief’s plea seeking bail in case of his arrest. Taking up the matter, Justice Manoj Bajaj of the High Court issued notice of motion to the state. The state was representedby Punjab Advocate-General APS Deol and DeputyAdvocate-General Ramdeep Partap Singh.In his plea, the dera chief through senior counsel Vinod Ghai and advocate Kanika Ahuja has sought directions to the arresting officer to release him on bail forthwith in event of his arrest in connection with FIR No. 63, registered on June 2, 2015, under Sections 380 and 295-A of the IPC at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot district.Among other things, the dera chief argued the special investigating team looking into the matter moved an application for his production warrant “now with the change in the head of the state government”. This, he argued, was done belatedly after more than one year and four months.“This application is not only illegal but politically motivated and apparently seems to have been moved keeping in view the coming Assembly election in the state of Punjab. There is no change in the circumstances and also no further evidence has apparently come forth before the investigating agency to change its stand and move the application now. This fact in itself is sufficient to show the biased and vindictive attitude of the investigating agency towards me,” the dera chief has submitted in his plea.Referring to Section 267 of the CrPC, the dera chief added a warrant for producing a prisoner could only be issued for the limited purposes of answering a charge or giving evidence. It could not be issued for handing the prisoner’s custody to the investigating agency in the aid of an ongoing investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-case-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-not-to-be-brought-to-punjab-331043
29-10-2021||---||Simarjit Singh Bains case: HC raps Punjab over failure to complete inquiry||Chandigarh, October 28Virtually rapping the state of Punjab for its failure to complete the probe in the rape case against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to grant time extension for the purpose.As the matter came up for resumed hearing, an application was placed before the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Alka Sarin for extension of time to comply with earlier order dated September 15, vide which a direction was issued to complete within four weeks the investigation of FIR registered on July 10 for rape and other offences under Sections 376, 354A, 354, 506 and 120B of the IPC at Division No. 6 police station in Ludhiana.“Frankly, we are not impressed. However, without saying anything much, we do not deem it appropriate to grant this request, but in the interest of justice adjourn the matter with the expectation that by then the final report will be submitted to the court. Punjab Additional Advocate-General SPS Tinna has assured us that it will be done so. He is being cautioned that any infraction of his statement would not be met with any kind of leniency,” the Bench observed.In its detailed order, the Bench also directed the state of Punjab to file a fresh report on 42 cases under investigation against sitting and erstwhile MPs and MLAs. It was also asked to specify further the progress in the 32 cases against them in which challans had been filed. “Details may also be furnished about the eight cases wherein cancellation/untraced reports have been presented,” the Bench added.The direction came after an affidavit dated September 14 was placed before the Bench. Among other things, it said investigation has been completed in 40 of the 82 cases registered against sitting and erstwhile MPs and MLAs. Out of the total, cancellation or untraced reports has been presented to court in eight cases, whereas challan has been presented in 32.Before parting with the order, the Bench directed CBI senior counsel Sumeet Goel to file a detailed affidavit after observing that he had, on the previous date of hearing, assured the court that applications would be moved for vacating stay order in cases where stay on further proceedings had been ordered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/simarjit-singh-bains-case-hc-raps-punjab-over-failure-to-complete-inquiry-331044
29-10-2021||Amritsar/Ludhiana||Income Tax teams survey dry fruit dealer’s offices in Ludhiana, Amritsar||Suspecting tax evasion, sleuths of the Income Tax Department swooped down at the office of a prominent dry fruit trader at Majith Mandi area here today.Considered the dry fruit king of the region, his main office is in Amritsar and Ludhiana and branches across Punjab, besides being involved in the import-export trade in California.The raid during the festival season has led to panic among the trading community in the area — a famous dry fruit market. The Income Tax team landed in Amritsar late last evening and the raid continued till today afternoon. According to information, a simultaneous raid was also conducted at its Ludhiana office today. The firm owner could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.The officials took the sale-purchase record of the firm into possession and also took the details of the retailers and other wholesale traders dealing with the firm. It is learnt that the firm also had his trader in California. The firm owner was considered close to leaders of the SAD-BJP government in the past.In Ludhiana, panic gripped the Kesar Ganj complex when nearly 15 officials in three vehicles raided the local shop-cum-office of the dealer. The raids have been conducted on two leading dry fruit dealers, one of whom is based in Delhi and Amritsar, while the other one is in Jammu. Their network is spread across Ludhiana, Amritsar, Delhi, UP and Mumbai.According to sources, the raid is part of multi-state action of the I-T Department on India’s two leading groups engaged in dry fruit imports and trading. The raids have been conducted on the groups as they are suspected of evading tax by suppressing their actual sales and profits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/income-tax-teams-survey-dry-fruit-dealers-offices-in-ludhiana-amritsar-331045
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Now, trouble in Punjab Youth Congress||As Punjab Congress grapples with infighting, fresh trouble has surfaced in the Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) with a number of office-bearers boycotting the meeting of the state executive held at Ropar today. Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president BV Srinivas was the chief guest at the event.As the IYC president landed at the Mohali International Airport, a section of the office-bearers of the PYC, including a senior vice-president, general secretary district presidents, expressed annoyance with PYC president Barinder Dhillon.Welcoming Srinivas, the disgruntled Youth Congress office-bearers conveyed to him that they were boycotting the state executive meeting due to alleged dictatorial attitude of the PYC president. In the evening, a written representation against Dhillon was submitted to the IYC president.Rubbishing the allegation, Dhillon said hard working and deserving people were being promoted and there was no place for incompetence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-trouble-in-punjab-youth-congress-331046
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four policemen suspended after surprise check by Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa conducted an early morning surprise check at police checkpoints on the GT Road to assess the security and traffic situation on the highway today.He also ordered the suspension of four police personnel for negligence of duty. Of these, three were from Phillaur (Jalandhar) and one from Mandi Gobindgarh (Fatehgarh Sahib).Randhawa expressed displeasure over laxity in police arrangements for traffic at Mandi Gobindgarh in Fatehgarh Sahib.Following the checking, Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Sandeep Goyal suspended ASI Gurmeet Singh, posted as traffic incharge at Mandi Gobindgarh, and ordered a departmental inquiry. SSP (Jalandhar Rural) Satinder Singh suspended ASI Jaswant Singh, ASI Balwinder Singh and constable Kuljit Singh for dereliction in duty and a departmental inquiry was ordered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-policemen-suspended-after-surprise-check-by-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-331047
29-10-2021||Amritsar||Bid to hack SGPC website, services hit||In a grave development, attempts were made to hack the official website of the SGPC. This led to disruption of the online services provided by the committee.Before any major damage could be done, the SGPC’s internet wing closed down the server of the site and efforts were being made to repair the damage.SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said technical experts were on the job and the online services would be resumed shortly. Meanwhile, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said Charanjit Singh Channi was the CM of announcements only and his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh good for nothing. On the pending SC scholarships to SGPC-run educational institutions, she said both CMs made tall promises to release Rs 41 crore, but not a penny had actually been given. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-hack-sgpc-website-services-hit-331048
29-10-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur: Day on, Akal Degree College Principal allowed to rejoin after students protest||Drama over rejoining of the Principal of the Akal Degree College for Women here continued as the governing body of the college closed the main gate.Earlier story: Sangrur: Principal’s room locked amid Akal Degree College tussleBut after some students started protesting, officials allowed Principal Sukhmeen Kaur, who was suspended by the governing body on Saturday and her suspension was set aside by the Higher Education Department on Tuesday, to enter the college.Students alleged that when she reached the gate, the security guard did not allow her to enter, leading to some tension after which they protested. “The management wants to discontinue some courses. But since it’s the only women college in the area and we come from poor families, the Principal has taken a stand against the decision of the governing body. We are with the Principal, who is being harassed,” said a student.College Chairman Karanveer Singh Sibia said: “Around 11 am today, we received an email from the office of the DPI, Punjab, regarding revocation of her suspension. We complied with the orders and allowed her to rejoin immediately.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-day-on-akal-degree-college-principal-allowed-to-rejoin-after-students-protest-331049
29-10-2021||Amritsar||Court sends Pakistan ‘spy’ to 10-day police remand||Mandeep Singh, a resident of Sirsa, who was arrested by the State Special Operation Cell on Wednesday was produced in the local court, which remanded him in 10-day police custody for further interrogation.According to the SSOC, Mandeep was currently working at a stone crusher unit in Pathankot, situated near the cantonment area. He was keeping an eye on military movement in the area and had passed on information to his Pakistan-based handlers.On examining his mobile phone, officials found several classified documents and photographs of the cantonment area, which he had shared via encrypted applications. In return, he was being paid by Pakistan agencies through various means. “We have sent his phone for forensic examination to help the Punjab Police in ascertaining what type of information he had passed on to a Pakistan intelligence officer (PIO) posing as Neha Singh,” a police source said.Meanwhile, Army jawan Krunal Kumar was also produced in the court on expiry of his police remand. He was arrested by the SSOC four days ago on espionage charges. The court has extended his police remand by four days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-sends-pakistan-spy-to-10-day-police-remand-331050
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pargat Singh meets VCs, seeks advice on higher education||Higher Education and Languages Minister Pargat Singh today said a common system of education would be developed to guide the youth in right direction. At a meeting with the VCs of all state universities here, he sought suggestions on higher education and talked about forming a common view on higher education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pargat-singh-meets-vcs-seeks-advice-on-higher-education-331051
29-10-2021||Kotkapura (Faridkot)||Kotkapura: Protest against police inaction in mentally challenged girl's rape case||Accusing the police of shielding a person, accused of raping a mentally challenged girl, Kotkapura residents protested in front of the city police station and blocked traffic on Muktsar-Ludhiana-Amritsar-Bathinda roads today.They alleged that instead of arresting Sumeet Kumar Mangla, even over three weeks after registering a case against him, the police registered a case against the relatives and neighbours of the victim today to pressure them to withdraw the complaint. Ten relatives and neighbours of the victim have been booked on the complaint of Sumeet’s sister, who said 10 persons barged into the house of her sister-in-law (Sumeet’s wife), threatened and misbehaved with them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-protest-against-police-inaction-in-mentally-challenged-girls-rape-case-331052
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Helpline for senior citizens in Punjab||4-year-old drowns in canalAbohar: A four-year-old girl, who had accompanied her grandmother to Doda village here, died due to drowning in a sub-canal. The body of Ekam was recovered from the canal near Pattisadiq village. On Monday, when Jasbir Kaur of Anoopgarh was working in a field, Ekam reportedly slipped into a nearby canal. Some farm workers tried to rescue the victim but failed. ocClean air campaignChandigarh: The EcoSikh and Clean Air Punjab, a citizen’s collective working on the issue of air pollution, on Thursday focused on the citizen’s demand for clean air, highlighting the fact that Punjab is home to some of the nation’s most polluted cities, including Mandi Gobindgarh, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. EcoSikh president Supreet Kaur said for the first time, air pollution was being highlighted in citizen campaigns across the state. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/helpline-for-senior-citizens-in-punjab-331053
