30-10-2021||Fazilka||Man arrested with firearms, four hand grenades in Punjab’s Fazilka||The Punjab Police on Saturday arrested a man and recovered some weapons and four hand grenades from him in Fazilka district.Senior Superintendent of Police Hamanbir Singh Gill said that acting on a tipoff, the accused was arrested near Arni Wala Road here.The SSP said the accused has been identified as Ravinder Mohan alias Gora, a resident of Sirsa in Haryana.“The accused was booked in a brawl case following which he was sent to Mohali jail where he came in contact with gangster Ashish who was lodged there then. Ashish is a member of the Sukhpreet Budha gang which had links with Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF),” the SSP claimed.“Ashish persuaded Gora to bring the consignment of firearms which was to be sent from the Pakistani side. When released from jail, Gora picked up the consignment from the designated place. However, he was nabbed,” the police officer said.He said two pistols with four magazines and 47 rounds, and four hand grenades were recovered from him.Besides, Rs 50,000 in cash has been seized.The SSP said during preliminary investigation, the names of one Hardeep Singh, a resident of Canada, Arshdeep Singh, Ramandeep Bhullar and Rinku have surfaced.“All of these accused have criminal records and they have been involved in anti-national activities,” the SSP said, adding that gangster Ashish would be brought from Delhi’s Tihar Jail for further investigation in the matter. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-arrested-with-firearms-four-hand-grenades-in-punjabs-fazilka-332052
30-10-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu, Charanjit Channi owe explanation to Sikhs for supporting Jagdish Tytler: Tarun Chugh||Chandigarh, October 30BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Saturday demanded that Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC president Navjot Sidhu clarify if they endorsed the induction of 1984 anti-Sikh riots accused Jagdish Tytler as a special invitee to the Delhi Congress Committee.He wondered if Sidhu, who himself had said that he barely escaped the anti-Sikh riots in 1984, now felt proud of being a Congress leader.In a statement, Chugh said Tytler had been named as one of the key Congress leaders responsible for the killing of Sikhs in Delhi, but he, along with Kamal Nath and Sajjan Kumar, continued to be the blue-eyed men of the Congress.He said all Sikh leaders, including Channi and Sidhu, owed an explanation to the people of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-charanjit-channi-owe-explanation-to-sikhs-for-supporting-jagdish-tytler-tarun-chugh-332007
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||CCL limit for paddy enhanced||Farmers rue lower rateFazilka: Farmers of Ladhuka block on Friday staged a protest at the Ladhuka grain market, alleging payment of lower price for fine 1121 aromatic variety of basmati paddy by private traders as compared to nearby markets. They alleged private traders and rice millers had been offering prices up to Rs 200 per quintal lower as compared to nearby grain markets. ocAshu holds meet, staff protestSangrur: Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Aashu, who is also the District Grievances Redressal Committee, Sangrur, on Friday presided over a meeting here at the District Administrative Complex. Government employees protested outside the complex over their long-pending demands. Rajvir Badrukhan, district general secretary, Punjab State Ministerial Services Union, said they were being forced to launch an indefinite stir. — TNSNambardars’ stir on Nov 30Bathinda: Members of the Punjab Nambardar Union are mobilising support in villages ahead of their call for a state-level protest rally scheduled to be held on November 30. “Among our prominent demands is hike in the honorarium being paid to us from Rs 1,500 to Rs 5,000,” union president Baljinder Singh said. tnsCurb illicit liquor trade: AssnChandigarh: With the onset of the festive season, the International Spirits & Wines Association of India (ISWAI), an apex body of the premium alcobev sector, urged the Punjab Government for strict checks and enforcement to counter the illicit and spurious liquor trade. tnsCentral varsity signs MoUBathinda: The Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, signed an MoU with the Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal’s Research for Resurgence Foundation to promote research for developing innovative solutions to various problems of society and develop learner-centric teaching pedagogies as envisioned in the NEP-2020. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ccl-limit-for-paddy-enhanced-331760
30-10-2021||---||Faridkot deaths: Victim’s wife gives consent to cancel FIR||Faridkot, October 29In the nine-month-old case of three deaths in Faridkot in which a person had died by suicide after killing his two children and a criminal case was registered against the brother-in-law of a Congress leader, the wife of the deceased today gave her consent to the cancellation report, presented by the police in the case.Even an NGO which had approached the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Faridkot, on October 8 to oppose the police move of filing the cancellation report in the case to help the politically influential accused also agreed to withdraw the protest application.On September 17, the Faridkot police had moved an application in the court here, seeking cancellation of the FIR in the case. The court had summoned the brother and wife of the deceased for their statement in view of police’s cancellation report.While the brother of the deceased had given his consent to the police move on October 8, the wife gave a similar statement in the court today. However, a fresh application was filed by Akali leader Parambans Singh Romana in the court today, seeking the copy of the untraced or cancellation reports filed by the police so as to file detailed objections for further investigation.It is alleged on February 6, Karan Kataria, a Faridkot resident, had killed his two children in sleep before dying by suicide. As per the FIR, it is alleged that Dimpy Vinayak, a close relative of a Congress leader, had extorted Rs 1.22 crore from the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-deaths-victims-wife-gives-consent-to-cancel-fir-331757
30-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Abohar: Kin protest ‘inaction’ in teenager’s murder case||Abohar, October 29Relatives of a deceased school student, Komal, today staged a protest by burning an effigy of the state government and raised slogans against the police administration.The protesters said 18-year-old Komal, a Class XI government school student in nearby Dharampura village, was killed and his body was thrown into a canal nine months back. A case was registered at the Wahabwala police station but no arrest was made. For the past three months, his family has been staging a dharna outside the office of the DSP (Rural) demanding action, but to no avail.The deceased’s father, Mahavir, said Komal was kidnapped by some unknown persons and thrown into a canal. A murder case was registered but the culprits were free.The police said some people were questioned but the suspects were yet to be identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-kin-protest-inaction-in-teenagers-murder-case-331756
30-10-2021||Ludhiana||Crackdown on tax evaders in Ludhiana||In a fresh crackdown against tax evaders, mobile wing teams of the state GST Department carried out two-day investigations here. Stocks, including unaccounted gold and silver jewellery, which was to be sold in various districts ahead of Diwali, were confiscated.The drive was carried out as per the directions of Commissioner of State Tax Nilkanth S Avhad. As per information, two vehicles loaded with jewellery were intercepted on October 27 on the Mohali Airport road. The goods were being transported from the Mumbai airport to the Chandigarh airport. The tax and penalty of the unaccounted ornaments will be ascertained after completion of their verification.In another case, ply and timber buyers were found evading tax by purchasing goods without an invoice from Yamunanagar. The accused are being questioned and investigation is on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crackdown-on-tax-evaders-in-ludhiana-331754
30-10-2021||---||Sangrur:  Akal Degree College management booked on principal’s plaint||Sangrur, October 29The tussle between the principal of Akal Degree College for Women, Sangrur, and the governing body escalated as the police registered a case against the president and other members of the body on Thursday night.Also read: Sangrur: Principal’s room locked amid Akal Degree College tussleSangrur: Day on, Akal Degree College Principal allowed to rejoin after students protest “Unidentified persons stopped girl students from interacting with me by threatening them with punishment and blocked the main gate with iron benches to prevent my entry. They misbehaved with girls. They told the students that the college management had called them,” alleged the principal in her statement with the Sangrur city police station.A row had erupted over the rejoining of the principal as the governing body closed the main gate of the college on Thursday, but after students started a protest, they allowed entry to Principal Sukhmeen Kaur, who was suspended on October 23 for alleged misconduct.The police have registered a case under Sections 353, 186, 355, 294, 506,148,149 and 120B of the IPC against the president of governing body of the college, Karnvir Sibia, members of the management and unidentified persons.“The police have registered the FIR without verifying facts as on October 28, we received an email from the office of the DPI, Punjab, regarding revocation of her suspension by the office of Secretary, Higher Education, Punjab. We complied with the orders and allowed the principal to join back immediately. We will approach the higher authorities for an inquiry,” said Sibia. Gurvir Singh, SHO, Sangrur city, said they had started raids to arrest the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-akal-degree-college-management-booked-on-principals-plaint-331752
30-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Cheating case: Court summons Parkash Singh Badal on November 28||SAD patriarch and former CM Parkash Singh Badal has been summoned by a Hoshiarpur court in a case of cheating by presentation of two different constitutions to the Gurdwara Commission and the Election Commission.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and general secretary Dr Daljit Singh Cheema are out on bail in the case.The court of ACJM on Thursday summoned Badal to appear before it in person on November 28. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cheating-case-court-summons-parkash-singh-badal-on-november-28-331751
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Government likely to give Rs 12K per acre relief||The Punjab Government is likely to announce a compensation of Rs 12,000 per acre to cotton growers whose crop was damaged by hailstorm and pink bollworm.Agriculture Minister Randeep Nabha is likely to make the announcement on Saturday. Farm labourers, associated with cotton growers, are likely to get compensation at Rs 800-Rs 1,200 per acre.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-likely-to-give-rs-12k-per-acre-relief-331750
30-10-2021||Bathinda||Cotton growers end Bathinda sit-in||Cotton farmers, who had been protesting outside the District Administrative Complex in Bathinda for the past four days, today called off their agitation and announced the gehrao of Congress ministers and leaders from tomorrow.Even today when Finance Minister Manpreet Badal was on his way to Guru Nanak School in Dhobiana Basti, a large convoy of protesting farmers reached there. The minister had to cancel his visit.Farmer leaders Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, Shingara Singh Mann and others accused the government of ignoring their geniune demand for compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre for farmers and Rs 30,000 per acre for farm labourers. Upset, they said Congress leaders would now see similar protests as faced by the BJP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-growers-end-bathinda-sit-in-331749
30-10-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Tiff over Civil Surgeon’s post at Gurdaspur Civil Hospital||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 29The ongoing battle of supremacy between two senior doctors for the post of Civil Surgeon (CS) is threatening to snowball into a major controversy, even as the administrative work has gone for a toss amid the pandemic and the spread of dengue.On October 12, the Department of Health and Family Welfare transferred incumbent Civil Surgeon Dr Harbhajan Ram Mandy to Fatehgarh Sahib. In the absence of any clear directions on whom to hand over the charge, Dr Mandy extended his stay till October 19, when he proceeded on leave till October 25.Before proceeding on leave, he handed the charge to Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Bharat Bhushan. On October 19 itself, the department gave additional charge of the CS to Dr Vijay Kumar, who was working as District Family Welfare Officer. Dr Vijay Kumar, in addition to his duties, was posted as the officiating CS.In the meantime, Dr Mandy moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court contending that his “transfer was done in an illegal and arbitrary manner in clear violation of the general transfer policy issued by the Department of Personnel dated April 23, 2018, read with instruction of June 29, 2021”.The High Court stayed Dr Mandy’s transfer order with the observation that “the order was not legally sustainable”. The court also ordered that the status quo (existing state of affairs) be maintained.On October 25, armed with this order, Dr Mandy went to the civil hospital to take up his duties as the CS. However, since Dr Vijay Kumar was already posted there, he had no option except to return.Dr Adnesh Kang, Director, Department of Health and Family Welfare, disclosed that the file had been sent to the AG, seeking “some clarification”. On his part, Dr Vijay Kumar maintained that he had done no wrong and had assumed charge of CS only after the Health Department had asked him to do so.Dr Mandy has now written to the Principal Secretary (Health) to intervene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tiff-over-civil-surgeons-post-at-gurdaspur-civil-hospital-331748
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL floats tenders for solar power||On the directives of the Chief Minister, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has floated two tenders for procurement of 500 MW solar power to meet the rising demand in the state.The Chief Minister’s Office said one of the two projects, having capacity of 250 MW each, would be located in Punjab and the other outside the state.Chairman-cum-MD, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, A Venu Prasad said under the tender for procurement of power from projects outside the state, ReNew Dinkar Jyoti Private Limited had offered power @ Rs 2.33/kWh. Similarly, for the ones located inside the state, SJVN Limited had offered 100 MW power @ Rs 2.69/kWh and SAEL Limited @ Rs 2.69/kWh. The CMD said the PSPCL had signed the PSA with the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) under which 500 MW hybrid (solar + wind) power would be provided to the PSPCL from December in phases and was likely to be fully available by the end of fiscal 2021-22.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-floats-tenders-for-solar-power-331747
30-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||To scrap PPAs, Punjab Government to table Bill||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29The Punjab Government is all set to scrap or renegotiate the controversial Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with three independent power producers generating thermal power and some others generating solar power. A Bill, facilitating the same, is now in the works.Official sources in the Punjab Government have told The Tribune that following marathon meetings between two ministers and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi earlier this week with officials in the Power Department and the state’s Legal Department, it has been decided to bring in a Bill in the Assembly for the purpose. It is learnt that efforts are on to bring in the Bill in the upcoming one-day special Assembly session on November 8.Those privy to the meetings have told The Tribune the PPAs have also been legally examined by some top experts in the country. It is based on their advice that The Termination and Renegotiation of PPAs Bill is being proposed to be brought in the Assembly. A meeting on the issue was held again today.Sources say it is proposed to terminate the PPA with the GvK for the 540 MW Goindwal Sahib Power Plant, impose a fine on the 1,980 MW Talwandi Sabo Power Plant located at Mansa for failing to generate power to its optimum capacity during peak demand season this year; and renegotiate the rates of tariff (mainly fixed tariff) with the management of 1,400 MW Nabha Power Plant at Rajpura. It may be noted that as on date, the three power plants supply an average of 3,000 MW power to the state, as against the state’s own thermal power generation of average 1,100 MW.Other than this, the government is also looking at scrapping the PPAs with some solar power plants, which were sanctioned during the tenure of the previous Akali-BJP government. The rate at which the government is buying power from the solar power producers (through as many as 95 PPAs) is between Rs 2.67 and Rs 10.62 per unit, though in some cases, a tariff of as high as Rs 17 per unit is being paid.The previous political dispensation headed by Capt Amarinder Singh had initially proposed to bring down the tariff paid to the solar power producers by Re 1 per unit. However, nothing was done on this front before the change in government.Marathon meetings held by CMSources said following marathon meetings between two ministers and CM Charanjit Singh Channi with officials in the Power and Legal Departments, it has been decided to bring in a Bill in the Assembly for the purpose. It is learnt that efforts are on to bring in the Bill in the upcoming one-day special Assembly session on November 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-scrap-ppas-punjab-government-to-table-bill-331746
30-10-2021||---||Rajwinder Singh Bains not to be special prosecutor in sacrilege cases, Punjab Government tells HC||Chandigarh, October 29The Punjab Government submitted an undertaking before the Punjab and Haryana High Court today that senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains will not appear as a special prosecutor before the trial court in connection with several FIRs lodged in the firing incident linked to sacrilege cases.The undertaking, given before Justice Raj Mohan Singh, came in response to a petition filed by Amarjit Singh Kullar, an accused in the case. Kullar, a former Station House Officer of the Bajakhana police station, had contended in his petition that Bains had earlier appeared as a counsel for the complainant and the kin of the firing victim in two separate cases filed before the High Court.It was averred before the High Court that as per law, the public prosecutor was required to be independent and impartial, but advocate Bains’ prior engagements as counsel for the complainant and the victim apparently led to aconflict of interest.The counsel for petitioner Sangram Singh Saron further argued the appointment of Bains as a special prosecutor violated Section 24 of the Criminal Procedure Code as the fact of his representing the complainant and the kin of the victim as a counsel was not considered by the Punjab Government while appointing him asthe special prosecutor.Saron added there had been no consultations between the state government and the High Court on the administrative side of Bains’ appointment, which was a mandatory process.The Punjab Government had appointed senior advocate Bains on October 1 as the special public prosecutor in four FIRs pertaining to Punjab’s sacrilege cases, representing the state in two FIRs registered atKotkapura and two FIRs registered at the Bajakhana police station in Behbal Kalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajwinder-singh-bains-not-to-be-special-prosecutor-in-sacrilege-cases-punjab-government-tells-hc-331744
30-10-2021||---||5 take oath as Punjab and Haryana High Court additional judges||Chandigarh, October 29Pursuant to their elevation, five advocates, namely Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil, Vinod Sharma Bhardwaj, Pankaj Jain and Jasjit Singh Bedi, were on Friday administered oath as additional judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court by Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha.At a simple ceremony attended by sitting judges of the High Court, the judges swore to “bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established”. The number of judges has now gone up to 50 against the sanctioned strength of 85.Their names were cleared for elevation by the Supreme Court collegium in September after being forwarded by the Centre in April this year. The Punjab and Haryana High Court collegium had initially made the recommendation for their elevation in August last year.Suri and Bhardwaj have been practising on the civil side and dealing with constitutional matters. Among other things, Suri has been conducting cases for the High Court at Chandigarh and its subordinate courts since March 2010. Jain has been the UT senior standing counsel with proficiency in service law and other civil matters. Bedi, on the other hand, is renowned for his practice on the criminal side and has been handling high-profile cases. Moudgil has been representing Haryana as an Additional Advocate-General.The National Judicial Data Grid, the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases, indicates the pendency of more than four lakh cases in the High Court. As many as seven judges have retired this year and another is scheduled to retire in December. Another five judges are retiring next year.The process of appointing judges is lengthy and time-consuming. Once cleared by the states and the Governors, the file containing the names with Intelligence Bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court collegium when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to the Union Law Ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-take-oath-as-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-additional-judges-331743
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdaspur Nihang dies at protest site||A 95-year-old-Nihang died at Singhu border on Friday. The deceased, Sohan Singh of Muridke village in Gurdaspur, had stayed at the border with the Nihang groups since February.Said to be a cancer patient, Sohan had retired from the Army. The Kundli police handed over the body to his family after a postmortem at the General Hospital here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-nihang-dies-at-protest-site-331742
30-10-2021||Gurbaxpuri||SIT struggles to make headway in Singhu killing||Tarn Taran, October 29Raj Kaur, sister of Lakhbir Singh, of Cheema Kalan has expressed anguish over failure of the SIT to identify the source that established his contacts with the “high-ups” and the person who took him to the Delhi border.Lakhbir, 40, was murdered by Nihangs on October 15 at the Singhu border over alleged sacrilege. The state government had on October 20 formed a three-member special investigation team (SIT). Tarn Taran SSP Harvinder Singh Virk, an SIT member, has already made it clear the SIT has been mandated only to gather information regarding the contacts of the deceased and who took him to the Delhi border. He said as the FIR had been registered by the Panipat police, it was their mandate to probe the matter.The team today recorded the statements of as many as 40 persons from the village and nearby areas but nothing concrete had come out so far, said the SSP. Non-availability of a personal mobile set of Lakhbir was a major impediment in the investigation. His sister claimed: “My brother didn’t committ sacrilege as no video has surfaced to day to support the charge.” Meanwhile, a five-member ‘fact finding committee’ formed by the SKM too is clueless about those who took Lakhbir to Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-struggles-to-make-headway-in-singhu-killing-331741
30-10-2021||Amritsar||BSF jurisdiction row: Akalis hold bike rally||To protest the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction and express anguish against the state government for not doing enough to oppose it, the SAD today held a motorcycle rally.Thousands of motorcyclists, mostly from the border belt, led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal started off the march from Attari to the Golden Gate.“The Cabinet should pass an executive order directing the state administrations not to allow any interference of the BSF in policing beyond 15 km. Assembly resolutions will not help,” Sukhbir said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-jurisdiction-row-akalis-hold-bike-rally-331739
30-10-2021||Amritsar/chandigarh||SAD dares Navjot Singh Sidhu, Charanjit Singh Channi over Jagdish Tytler’s appointment||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today slammed Congress president Sonia Gandhi for naming Jagdish Tytler, one of the main accused in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, as permanent invitee to the Delhi Congress.Also read: Jagdish Tytler, 1984 riot case suspect, named permanent invitee to Delhi CongressHe dared PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and CM Charanjit Singh Channi to show courage to oppose the decision. “This is a brazen display of shocking insensitivity towards the Sikh community by Sonia Gandhi and the Congress. Could there be a worse way to rub salt into the festering wounds of the Sikhs than this decision and its timing?” said Sukhbir here, adding the decision comes just a couple of days ahead of the 38th anniversary of the tragedy.PCC ex-chief Sunil Jakhar said since the issue was close to the heart of every Punjabi, senior leader Ambika Soni and Channi must have given their advice. “They need to explain on this,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-dares-navjot-singh-sidhu-charanjit-singh-channi-over-jagdish-tytlers-appointment-331738
30-10-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Congress engaged in backend dialogue to placate Captain Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29Even as Capt Amarinder Singh has announced the launch of a new outfit, senior Congress leaders are learnt to be engaged in backend talks to persuade the former CM to stay in the party.A senior Congress leader from Haryana and an AICC general secretary are learnt to be involved in the exercise to convince the party leadership to retain the former CM. In this regard, the former CM has met at least two senior leaders and talked to some other leaders only recently.Though there is no official confirmation from the AICC in this regard, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is also said to be of the opinion that the former CM should be retained in the party.“We are weighing various options that may come into play should Captain Amarinder formally leave or remain in the party,” said a party leader.Party insiders say the leadership does not want the former CM to field candidates against the party nominees, as it will lead to division of cadre vote.“Since the former CM will be looking for disgruntled Congress leaders who are denied party ticket, it will result in eating into party’s cadre votes,” said a senior party leader privy to the discussions. Confirming that the former Chief Minister had received calls from a senior party leader, one of his close aides said he had not given his mind so far. He is waiting for the meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah and a favourable solution to the farmers’ stir.The ex-CM has already announced his decision to field candidates in all 117 segments or go for seat-sharing with the BJP or a breakaway Akali faction. Capt Amarinder has stated many Punjab Congress MLAs are in touch with him. A confidant of the former CM says they have asked the leaders to hold back till an amicable solution to the farmers’ stir is announced.Fears division of cadre voteList of district chiefs soon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-engaged-in-backend-dialogue-to-placate-captain-amarinder-singh-331737
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP looks to strike balance between farmers, traders in Punjab||The AAP may be keeping its cards close to its chest with regards to the chief ministerial candidate for the 2022 Assembly polls. But the party’s specific target on certain vote banks is creating a flutter in the political spectrum.While the party’s support to protesting farmers is no secret, the recent targeted meetings of its supremo Arvind Kejriwal with top industrialists is creating a buzz. After he met industrialists in Ludhiana and Jalandhar recently, Kejriwal held discussions with them in Bathinda.“Kejriwal is meeting industrialists and farmers so as to understand what they are looking for from a government, so that the manifesto of the party can revolve around their needs,” a senior party leader told The Tribune.Having learnt their lesson in the last state elections, when in spite of an initial groundswell in their favour, their chances of success at the hustings were frittered away, the party is now trying to create a balance between the left-oriented peasantry and the capitalist trade and industry, so as to keep both segments enthused.Besides, the repeated raising of issues concerning the Scheduled Caste community, including the post-matric scholarship scam, is helping the AAP touch upon SC voters. Even though the Congress has appointed Charanjit Singh Channi, a Ramdassia Sikh as CM, AAP leaders say it will have little impact on swaying Dalit votes.The main issue, however, remains the unwillingness of the party to name their CM candidate. So far, the only statement on the issue was given by Kejriwal a few months ago, saying the party candidate will be a Sikh. With the state’s ever-changing political dynamics, there has been a reverse polarisation of Hindu and Jat Sikh votes. The party is is mulling having a person from either of the two religions as its CM face. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-looks-to-strike-balance-between-farmers-traders-in-punjab-331735
30-10-2021||---||Will end inspector raj in Punjab, Kejriwal woos bizmen||Bathinda, October 29Alleging rampant corruption, crime and inspector raj in Punjab, AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today said their government would rid the state of criminals, the corrupt and mafia if voted to power in the 2022 Assembly elections.“After April 1, the AAP government will be responsible for the safety of every trader and businessman,” said Kejriwal during a programme with traders. Kejriwal said after April 1, 2022, the responsibility of security of every trader would rest with the AAP government. The AAP national convener said traders and businessmen were living in a state of fear. “How will businesses thrive in such an environment?”There was a need for businesses to flourish so that youth could get employment. An environment free from crime and corruption would be created in Punjab, he promised businessmen.Seeking their cooperation, Kejriwal urged the business community to become partners in the “honest” AAP government. “Unlike other parties, we have come not to take money from traders but to seek their cooperation and participation in governance,” he said.AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said: “Governments consider traders, arhtiyas and industrialists as thieves, while they are the ones who pay highest taxes. The businessman will gladly pay taxes to an honest government since he knows he or his family will eventually benefit from the taxes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-end-inspector-raj-in-punjab-kejriwal-woos-bizmen-331733
30-10-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur ex-MLA Ravinder Singh Sandhu succumbs to dengue||Ferozepur former MLA Ravinder Singh Sandhu (67), alias Babbal, died of dengue at a hospital in Ludhiana today. Babbal joined the Congress in 1975. He got elected as an Independent from the Ferozepur constituency in 1992. He was taken back into the party in 1996. In 2014, Babbal joined the SAD. Babbal is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-ex-mla-ravinder-singh-sandhu-succumbs-to-dengue-331731
30-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Dengue: Ailing kids forced to share beds at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 29The paediatric emergency ward of Government Rajindra Hospital is swamped with dengue patients, so much so that ailing children are forced to share beds. Attendants of these children have occupied the corridors of the hospital.Around 60 confirmed cases of dengue and over 100 suspected ones have been admitted in the ward in the last one week. The hospital authorities informed that a couple of kids had even succumbed to dengue.Acute shortageThe rush of children having dengue fever is overwhelming. We are running short of beds. The situation is critical. — Senior doctor, Rajindra hospitalA Patiala resident, who was waiting outside the ward, said, “There is no space to sit or stand inside the ward. The government should do something to accommodate patients.”An health department official said, “We are not maintaining any age-wise record of dengue patients. However, it is very likely that the admission of children suffering from dengue in hospitals is higher than adults."Dr HS Rekhi, MS, Government Rajindra Hospital said, “I have not been informed by the paediatric department regarding the situation of rising dengue cases. We will arrange new beds for children. We have successfully managed the Covid pandemic, we will manage the dengue too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-ailing-kids-forced-to-share-beds-at-government-rajindra-hospital-patiala-331728
30-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dengue surge: Dearth of kits; private hospitals make a killing in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29Amid a dengue outbreak, a severe dearth of blood units with SDPs (Single Donor Platelets) and the non-availability of SDP kits is hitting the common man. Both apheresis machines at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar are non-functional. The hospital is flooded with patients having low platelets who have been scurrying from hospital to hospital only to be sent back.As government healthcare services are unable to provide succour to them, “black marketing” of the SDPs has become rampant. Some private hospitals are charging exhorbitant rates (above the capped price) for a unit of the SDP. At some hospitals, doctors are asking for two or three units of SDPs which are costing Rs 22,000 to Rs 33,000, for a single patient. The Tribune has copies of bills of Rs 12,000 for a unit of SDP or those seeking two to three units of blood for a single patient.Collapse of govt healthcareShortage of SDP kits is hitting the common man. Some hospitals are demanding 2-3 SDP units for a patient, costing Rs22,000-33,000. With collapse of healthcare, private hospitals are having a free run. — Vinit Puri, gen secy, Hindustan welfare blood donors clubWhile a single unit of the SDP (platelets extracted from blood through an apheresis machine) costs Rs 6,720 at the Civil Hospital, at private hospitals, they are available for around Rs 11,000 (many hospitals are even charging more). The apheresis machine at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar has been out of kits for the past 20-25 days.Amandeep, could not arrange platelets from six private hospitals that he visited yesterday to save the life of his brother Gurjit Singh (26). Gurpreet Kaur (20) waited for over an hour at the Civil Hospital blood bank to arrange platelets for her father whose platelet count was down to 30,000. Murlidhar, whose son Kaushal Kishore’s platelet count was down to 12,000, and Prithvipal Singh, whose son Harpreet’s platelets were down to 85,000, also expressed helplessness in arranging the SDPs.Amandeep Singh said, “I visited six hospitals yesterday, and finally found SDPs at PIMS for Rs 11,000. Till then, my brother’s platelet count had got better. This morning, it dipped again. There are no SDP kits at the Civil Hospital. I met a man with his 1.5-year-old daughter from Nawanshahr who came for the SDPs at the Civil Hospital today. So many helpless poor patients are being charged Rs 11,000 or more by private hospitals.”Gurjit was administered PRPs (Platelet Rich Plasma) in an emergency this morning. PRPs add only 7,000 to 15,000 platelets in the blood of a patient.Dr Navneet Kaur, BTO, Blood Bank, Jalandhar, said, “The apheresis machine has been out of order for over two weeks. Until we get the supply of kits from the company, we can’t provide the SDPs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-surge-dearth-of-kits-private-hospitals-make-a-killing-in-jalandhar-331726
30-10-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Arvind Kejriwal vows to end ‘Jojo tax’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Friday promised to end “Jojo tax,” if his party was voted to power in Punjab. He was referring to Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal. Irked, Johal tweeted: “Will be filing a defamation suit against Kejriwal. I know you are a wimp and will not accept an apology from you”.Addressing a gathering of traders here, Kejriwal claimed that Punjab traders and businessmen were living in fear. “But after an AAP government is formed, beginning April 1, 2022, the responsibility of ensuring the security of every trader will be ours. Start planning for business and industrial development right now,” he said, adding that business must flourish to generate jobs. He appealed to the business community to “become partners in running an honest AAP government in Punjab.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-arvind-kejriwal-vows-to-end-jojo-tax-331582
30-10-2021||Saurabh Malik||5 lawyers administered oath as additional judges of Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29Advocates Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil, Vinod Sharma Bhardwaj, Pankaj Jain and Jasjit Singh Bedi were on Friday administered oath as additional judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court by Chief Justice, Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, pursuant to their elevation.At a simple ceremony attended by sitting judges of the high court, the judges swore to "bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established". The number of judges has now gone up to 50 against the sanctioned 85.Their names were cleared for elevation by the Supreme Court collegium in September after being forwarded by the Centre in April this year. The Punjab and Haryana High Court collegium had initially made the recommendation for their elevation in August last year. Suri and Bhardwaj have been practising on the civil side and dealing with constitutional matter. Among other things, Suri has been conducting cases for the Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh and its subordinate courts since March 2010. Jain has been UT senior standing counsel with proficiency in service law and other civil matters. Bedi, on the other hand, is renowned for his practice on the criminal side and has been handling high-profile cases as well. Moudgil has been representing Haryana as an Additional Advocate-General.National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases — indicates the pendency of more than 4 lakh cases in the High Court. As many as seven judges have retired this year and another is scheduled to retire in December. Another five judges are retiring next year.The process of appointing judges is lengthy and time-consuming. Once cleared by the states and the governors, the file containing the names with intelligence bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court collegium when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to the Union Law Ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-lawyers-administered-oath-as-additional-judges-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-331449
