31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 26 more Covid cases||Punjab on Sunday reported 26 fresh Covid-19 cases, which took the infection tally to 6,02,401 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.With one Covid-related death reported from Hoshiarpur, the toll reached 16,559, it said.Among the fresh Covid-19 cases, Pathankot reported six cases, followed by four each in Amritsar and Ferozepur.The number of active cases in the state is 251, the bulletin said.Twenty-five people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,591, it stated.Chandigarh, the common capital of Punjab and Haryana, reported five Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 65,351, according to the bulletin.The toll stood at 820.The number of active cases in the city is 36 while the number of cured persons was 64,495, the bulletin stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-26-more-covid-cases-332462
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia, govt job to next of kin of soldier killed in landmine blast||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh and a government job to the next of kin of Sepoy Manjit Singh, who died in a landmine explosion during patrolling near the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir.Extending his sympathies, Channi said Singh’s utmost dedication to defend the country’s unity and integrity by sacrificing his life would ever inspire his fellow soldiers to perform their duties with far more devotion and commitment.Singh, who died in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district, hailed from Khera Kotli village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district.He is survived by his parents, four sisters and a brother, an official statement issued here said.Lieutenant Rishi Kumar had also died in this landmine explosion near the LoC.“Two brave sons of India Lt. Rishi Kumar and Sepoy Manjit Singh got martyred in an explosion near LoC. The nation will remain forever indebted to their supreme sacrifices,” Channi said in a tweet.“The sacrifices made upholding the sovereignty and integrity of the nation are supreme most. Forever, we remain indebted,” he said in another tweet.Earlier, a wreath laying ceremony was held on Sunday for the two army personnel, officials said.After the ceremony held at a garrison in Rajouri town at around 2 pm, the mortal remains of Lieutenant Kumar and Sepoy Singh were dispatched to their home towns in Bihar and Punjab for last rites, they said.The two soldiers were killed and another critically injured when a landmine exploded near a forward post in Kalal area of Nowshera sector on Saturday.The officials said the bodies were brought to the army camp where a wreath laying ceremony was organised to pay homage to them. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-announces-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-govt-job-to-next-of-kin-of-soldier-killed-in-landmine-blast-332439
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar takes a jibe at Punjab government for no print ad on Indira death anniversary||Senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar on Sunday took a dig at Charanjit Singh Channi-led government in Punjab for allegedly failing to issue newspaper advertisements to remember Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary.In a tweet, Jakhar tagged a Punjab government advertisement issued last year under the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to commemorate the former Prime Minister.“I can understand BJP trying to erase ‘Iron Lady of India’ from history but don’t we still have a Congress Government in Punjab,” Jakhar tweeted.In another tweet, Jakhar made a veiled allusion to the appointment of Jagdish Tytler as a permanent invitee to the Delhi Congress’ new executive committee and wondered if government’s not issuing an ad to remember Indira had anything to do with it.“Or is it a case of ‘once burned twice shy’—in light of certain appointment two days ago?” Jakhar posted.Tytler was one of the main accused in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi.“PS. I know Capt Saab (Amarinder) won’t mind my using this PB Govt’s ad from last year, as none appeared today,” he added in another tweet.Indira Gandhi was assassinated on this day in 1984 by two of her own security guards.Opposition parties including BJP and SAD in Punjab have targeted the Channi led government over Tytler’s appointment.BJP leader Tarun Chugh on Saturday asked Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress’ state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to clarify if they endorsed Tytler’s appointment as a permanent invitee to the committee.“Tytler has been named as one of the key Congress leaders in Delhi, but he, Kamal Nath and Sajjan Kumar continue to be the blue-eyed boys of the party in spite of the fact that their role in riots against Sikhs has been always highlighted by many witnesses,” Chugh said.SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema asked Channi to tell Punjabis why he gave his “consent” for the appointment of Tytler to a “prestigious” Congress panel.Three days back also, Jakhar had made a cryptic comment when Channi was on a visit to Delhi and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal visited Punjab on the same day.“Punjab CM in Delhi, Delhi CM in Punjab, yet again! Must say, at least one of them has got his timing right,” Jakhar had tweeted.Kejriwal had responded with a smile icon. Before Congress propped up Channi for the top post, Jakhar was among the front-runners after the unceremonious exit of veteran leader Amarinder Singh as the state chief minister. — PTII can understand BJP trying to erase 'Iron Lady of India' from history but don’t we still have a Congress Government in Punjab. PS. I know Capt Saab won’t mind my using this PB Govt’s ad from last year, as none appeared today pic.twitter.com/yJSMIYQuPg||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-takes-a-jibe-at-punjab-government-for-no-print-ad-on-indira-death-anniversary-332409
31-10-2021||Tribune Web DeskLudhiana||Major fire at Ludhiana yarn mill||A major fire broke out at a yarn mill on Kakka road on Sunday, officials said.The fire broke out at the back of Modern Acrylics Private Limited, sources said, and firefighters were still trying to put it out when this report was filed.There was nobody inside the mill when the fire broke out, sources said. It’s still too early to give an estimate of how much damage the fire could have caused, although sources said that a large stock in the warehouse has likely been gutted.  Firefighters had to tear down the back wall of the structure to get in, sources said.The cause of the fire is still unknown.Aatish Rai, a sub-fire officer, said 25 fire tenders have been called to service so far and it could take up to two hours to put out the flames completely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/major-fire-at-ludhiana-yarn-mill-332384
31-10-2021||---||SP-rank officer to join Congress in November||Muktsar, October 30An SP-rank officer, Raj Balwinder Singh, who is presently serving as the Commandant of the 13th Battalion, Chandigarh, is all set to join politics. His son Sukhpreet Singh Marar, a block samiti member of the Congress, recently opened his office in Muktsar town.Raj Balwinder Singh, elder son of former MLA Sukhdarshan Singh Marar, said he had decided to take the political plunge. “My retirement is due in 2023 but I will tender my resignation in mid of November to contest the state poll next year from Muktsar,” said Raj Balwinder Singh. Notably, Raj Balwinder and his son had met Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi a few days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sp-rank-officer-to-join-congress-in-november-332082
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sugar mills to begin ops from Nov 15: Charanjit Singh Channi||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today met farm organisations from the Majha and Doaba regions in order to address their issues with regard to the sugarcane crop.The Chief Minister assured the organisations of initiating the process to ensure cooperative as well as private sugar mills across the state commenced operations from November 15 for the 2021-22 season.Earlier, the farmers while apprising the Chief Minister about their demands said sugarcane was the main crop of their regions and their economic wellbeing depended on it. However, this time, private mills in the state had not yet followed the calendar system and were non-committal on giving the date for starting the mills on time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sugar-mills-to-begin-ops-from-nov-15-charanjit-singh-channi-332083
31-10-2021||Fazilka||Cache of arms seized; man held||The police recovered an arms consignment, including two pistols, two magazine, 47 live cartridges, four grenades, and Rs 50,000 in Arniwala block area of Fazilka today. The seizure came on information provided by a suspect, Ravinder Mohan, a resident of Sirsa in Haryana, who was arrested at a checkpoint near Dhippanwali village here. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cache-of-arms-seized-man-held-332084
31-10-2021||Patiala||Goindwal Sahib PPA: Act against erring officials, say Experts||Power experts welcomed the CM’s decision to terminate GVK Goindwal Sahib Power Purchase Agreement (PPA).“It is good that the government has started acting. Despite paying hundreds of crores to these firms, Punjab faces power cuts during peak season. Such tough decisions were the need of the hour, especially when Punjab faced power cuts during peak paddy season and even after the season was almost over,” an expert said. “PPAs were drafted in such a manner that the government bore losses. We will now wait if any action is taken against officers who executed these PPAs,” sources said.“Lopsided PPAs, signed on the basis of over estimation of shortage and over projecting future demands, need to be revisited,” said a former chief engineer. A Cabinet minister said now the responsibility of the “erring” officers “would be fixed”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/goindwal-sahib-ppa-act-against-erring-officials-say-experts-332085
31-10-2021||Ludhiana||Heist bid at Muthoot Finance in Ludhiana, robber shot||An armed suspect was killed in exchange of fire during a robbery bid at the office of a gold finance company in Sundar Nagar here today. The manager of the company suffered a bullet injury.The incident occurred around 10.30 am when four armed suspects arrived at the office of Muthoot Finance on two motorcycles. Manager Sunny Sharma, three female employees and a guard were present inside when one of the suspects entered the office, located on the first floor, and enquired about gold loan.As the manager asked him to approach one of the female staffers, the suspect pulled out a gun. Thereafter, the others entered the office and asked them to hand over the gold and cash. The manager tried to snatch the weapon, but in the melee a shot was fired, injuring him in the shoulder. On hearing the gunshot, guard Surjit Kumar of Kahan Dhesian pulled down the shutter and opened fired at the robber, killing him on the spot. The other suspects escaped by jumping onto a nearby building from the rooftop. “The police will honour the guard for displaying courage and foiling the robbery,” Joint CP (City) J Elanchezhian said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heist-bid-at-muthoot-finance-in-ludhiana-robber-shot-332086
31-10-2021||Moga||CEO reviews poll preparedness||The Election Commission is fully geared up for the conduct of the 2022 Assembly elections, said Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju after reviewing preparations in Moga, Ferozepur and Faridkot districts on Friday.At a meeting of civil and police officials here, Raju said a special campaign had been launched at the village, ward and booth level to ensure all eligible voters were included in the voters’ list. “We will ensure every third gender voter is part of the voters’ list,” he said. Three lakh new voters had been added to the list, he said. Besides, postal ballot would be used to facilitate five lakh senior citizens this time. A campaign, ‘Your Vote, Your Strength and Your Pride’, was being launched for women voters, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ceo-reviews-poll-preparedness-332087
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Clarify stance on Jagdish Tytler decision: Opposition to Punjab CM||The AAP has opposed the appointment of Jagdish Tytler, accused in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, as a permanent invitee of the Delhi Pradesh Congress. The AAP also lashed out at the Punjab Congress on the issue and asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to clarify their stand on the issue.In a joint statement, MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur and party spokesperson Manwinder Singh Giaspura told the Gandhi family to “stop rubbing salt into the wounds of 1984 massacre victims”.BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh also asked Channi and Sidhu to clarify if they endorsed the Congress decision. He said Sidhu had himself confessed that he barely escaped the anti-Sikh riots in 1984 but today, he claimed to be a proud leader of the Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clarify-stance-on-jagdish-tytler-decision-opposition-to-punjab-cm-332088
31-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dengue surge in Jalandhar: Platelet machine repair delayed by 3 months||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 30As dengue cases hit the peak in Jalandhar, two apheresis machines, which separate blood into its various components, including platelets, at the Civil Hospital are lying defunct. While one had been out of order for quite some time, the other one was rendered useless 25 days ago due to dearth of kits.Though cases start reporting at the onset of the monsoon, the authorities took almost three months to write to the Punjab Health Systems Corporation, seeking repair of the machines. The delay aggravated the crisis. Due to the spike in reduced platelet cases, many patients have been making a beeline at the hospital and are being forced to buy single donor platelets at much higher price from private hospitals.Medical Superintendent Dr Seema said: “We had sought the repair and maintenance of the non-functional machine at least two weeks ago. The approval has been received and the machine will be functional in two-three days. The kits for the other machine have also arrived and will now be administered.”On what took the health officials so long to seek the repair of a machine critical for dengue patients, she said: “One machine was working. Things got out of hand only due to shortage of kits.”Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra blamed his predecessors for the delay. “I have just joined the hospital. The repair had to be sought by the previous teams. As soon as I came to know about it, I took up the issue with the Director and the approval was received the next day. The faulty parts of the machine will be replaced soon,” he said.Phagwara patients reach jalandhar too||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-surge-in-jalandhar-platelet-machine-repair-delayed-by-3-months-332089
31-10-2021||---||Punjab Govt scraps power purchase agreement with GVK Goindwal plant||Chandigarh, October 30Reiterating the government’s commitment to provide quality and uninterrupted power supply at affordable cost, CM Charanjit Singh Channi today approved the PSPCL’s proposal to terminate GVK Goindwal Sahib (2x270 MW) power purchase agreement (PPA).Also read: Goindwal Sahib PPA: Act against erring officials, say ExpertsCharanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinisterIn people’s interestThe step has been taken to safeguard the interest of consumers of the state by way of reducing the burden of costly power.Subsequently, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has issued termination notice to the company. The PSPCL today served a preliminary default notice to GVK for cancellation of the PPA due to high power cost and falling lowest in the merit order, procurement of energy from GVK that had been restricted only within the range of 25%-30% during most of the times a year, resulting in higher tariff of about Rs 7.52 per unit for last year.Channi said the step had been taken to safeguard the interest of consumers of the state by way of reducing the burden of costly power.A spokesperson for the Chief Minister’s Office said the basic premise of entering into a PPA by GVK with PSPCL was to provide cheaper power. GVK had been generating energy by arranging coal from Coal India Limited under SHAKTI policy. “As per the PPA, GVK was required to arrange a captive coal mine, but it failed to do so even after lapse of more than five years of synchronisation with the grid,” he said.The spokesman said the capacity charges were being decided by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission based on the capital cost of around Rs 3,058 crore, which was equivalent to about Rs 1.61 per unit of fixed cost.Going against this decision, the spokesman mentioned that GVK had moved the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity to claim higher fixed cost to the tune of Rs 2.50 per unit based on the claims of capital cost of about Rs 4,400 crore, which is pending adjudication. As per claims made by GVK, the spokesman pointed out that variable cost was around Rs 4.50 per unit and fixed cost was around Rs 2.50 per unit. Thus, the total claim of GVK under tariff came out around Rs 7 per unit, which further increased due to surrender of its costly power.Therefore, the intention of GVK was clear that it required charging higher tariff, which was not the basic premise on which the PPA was entered into with the PSPCL. This made it commercially un-viable for PSPCL to continue the PPA with GVK.The GVK also defaulted on loan dues. Consequently, it became a “stressed asset” and a resolution plan was required to be implemented by GVK, which it failed to do so.25-30% Energy procurement during most part of yearRs 7.52 Per unit cost last year (Rs4.50/unit variable cost, Rs2.50/unit fixed cost)Moved tribunalDefaulted on loan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-scraps-power-purchase-agreement-with-gvk-goindwal-plant-332090
31-10-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi to turn goalie at hockey tourney||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Jalandhar, October 30Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who donned the hockey’s goalkeeper kit and practised at the Balbir Singh (Senior) Hockey International Stadium in Mohali, may end up playing an exhibition match along with Punjab Sports Minister and Hockey Olympian Pargat Singh, on the sidelines of the Surjit Hockey Tournament, in Jalandhar on Sunday.While preparing for the exhibition match, Channi spent time practising at the nets at the Mohali stadium with former hockey players Prabhjot Singh, goalie Baljit Singh Dadhwal and trainees of the Punjab Institute of Sports. “There’s a high possibility that he will play an exhibition match in Jalandhar. Pargat Singh and other ministers can also play. So, Channi decided to practice for a while before the match. He stayed at the stadium for 45 minutes,” said a source. Expressing his love for sports, Channi tweeted about his innings as a handball player during his college days. “At the university level, I was a handball player. Felt great while playing with these young players at the hockey stadium today. These youngsters are the future of hockey and I am fascinated by their love for the game,” “He is a keen sports lover. One may term it as a publicity stunt but he did show keen interest today. He was good in judging the ball and even tried stopping penalty corners by professional players,” said a senior official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-to-turn-goalie-at-hockey-tourney-332091
31-10-2021||---||Mandate 2022: No going back to Congress, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 30Even as a section of Congress leaders is keen on persuading Capt Amarinder Singh to stay in the party, the former Chief Minister on Saturday ruled out rapprochement with the party.Grateful to Sonia, but won’t stay in partyI am grateful to Sonia Gandhi for her support, but will not stay in the Congress now. I want to build a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab and its farmers. Capt Amarinder Singh, former CMCaptain Amarinder said he had decided to part ways with the Congress. A statement issued by his media adviser said it had been stated that the former Chief Minister would soon launch his own party and would hold talks for seat-sharing with the BJP, breakaway Akali factions and others for the upcoming Assembly elections once the farmers’ issue was resolved. “I want to build a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab and its farmers,” it said.Asserting that the decision to part ways was taken after much thought and that it was final, the statement said: “I am grateful to Sonia Gandhi for her support, but will not stay in the Congress now.”The former Chief Minister is expected to meet Home Minister Amit Shah along with a delegation of non-political agriculture experts. The meeting scheduled last Thursday was postponed due to the Home Minister’s prior engagement.Though the Congress has not commented on Captain Amarinder ruling out rapprochement with the party, it is learnt Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is of the opinion that Captain Amarinder should stay in the party. The party leadership does not want the former Chief Minister to field candidates against party nominees, as it would lead to division of the cadre vote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandate-2022-no-going-back-to-congress-says-capt-amarinder-singh-332092
31-10-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Crop damaged, it’s ‘black’ Diwali for us: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 30The ongoing protest against the three farm laws and damaged cotton crops hint at a lacklustre Diwali in the agricultural heartland of the Malwa region this year.The delay in receiving compensation for the damaged crop has worsened farmers’ debt due to which financiers are unwilling to advance new loans to them, making any new purchase this Diwali difficult. The rural income scenario is in many ways representative of the mood in Punjab’s economy, but farmers have been battling for compensation and repeal of the three farm laws.BKU Ekta Ugrahan’s Shingara Singh Mann said: “This year, it’s ‘black’ Diwali for us as we are still protesting at the Delhi borders. It has been 11 months and around 600 people have died so far. The state government is not giving adequate compensation for the damaged cotton, so our protests at all places will continue on Diwali as well.”Amit Kapoor, president, Punjab Beopar Mandal, said: “All shopkeepers are worried as they are witnessing a major slump in their business. Buyers are not spending money. In fact, they do not have the money to spend. Traders are facing double whammy as farmers are not making many purchases due to crop loss and other buyers have been lured away by huge discounts offered by e-commerce giants.”He said every year, shopkeepers used to wait for the festival season in the hope of more sale. “We sincerely hope the market will improve in the coming days. Otherwise, it will be very difficult for businessmen to sustain in the present scenario,” he said.Sanjay Kumar, a wholesale dealer, said every year during the festival season, farmers borrowed money from arhtiyas in advance or had money after selling their crops, which they spent on purchase. “However, this time, due to protests and crop loss, farmers have vanished from the market,” he said, adding: “The arhtiyas are also not ready to give money to farmers whose crops have been damaged as their account has turned into bad debt. Even lenders seem to have disappeared from the market.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-damaged-its-black-diwali-for-us-farmers-332093
31-10-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||To prevent fraud, subsidy for stubble management machines after verification||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30In a first, the Punjab Government is conducting a physical verification of all stubble management machines bought by farmers, panchayats, cooperative societies and custom hiring centres (CHCs) on November 1. It is only after the verification that the subsidy amount will be disbursed to beneficiaries on November 2.A decision to this effect has been taken by Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha in order to ensure there is no misuse of subsidy, and only those buying the machines get the subsidy amount (80 per cent of the subsidy cost is paid to panchayats and CHCs while 50 per cent is paid to the individual farmer buying the machines).All 10,300-odd farmers, panchayats and CHCs, who had applied for the subsidy and bought the machines subsequent upon getting approvals, have been asked to bring the equipment bought by them to the offices of the block agriculture officers on Monday. “It is only then that the government will transfer the subsidy of Rs 105 crore directly in the accounts of these beneficiaries. We want to ensure complete transparency in the system,” Nabha told The Tribune here today.It may be noted that two years ago, a number of farm machinery banks had claimed subsidy for buying the machines, though they existed only on paper. This year, the state government is granting subsidy for buying 31,970 agri machines or equipment to combat the menace of stubble burning. These include 10,023 machines for individual farmers, 15,498 for CHCs, 5,543 for panchayats and 906 for primary agriculture cooperative societies. These include happy seeders, paddy straw chopper/ shredder/mulcher, super straw management systems, super seeders, etc, for in-situ management, besides balers and rakes for ex-situ management. In the past three years, 76,626 machines have already been given to farmers.Officials in the Agriculture Department said the widespread use of stubble manage machinery was actually helping in control farm fires. “The latest government data shows there is a drop of one lakh hectare area where stubble is burnt between last year and this year. Against 3.11 lakh hectare area where stubble burning was reported, it is just 2.11 lakh hectares now,” Financial Commissioner (Development) DK Tiwari said.Spray decomposers ineffective: DeptThe spray decomposers, recommended by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, are being tested on 3,000 acres across the state by the PAU for decomposing paddy stubble. Department officials, however, say initial experiments have found these to be ineffective.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-prevent-fraud-subsidy-for-stubble-management-machines-after-verification-332094
31-10-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Drop in farm suicides for second straight year: NCRB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30Farm suicides have recorded a decline for the second consecutive year in Punjab with a marginal increase among agricultural labourers, as per the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).However, experts and farm leaders say they do not give much weightage to the report as it is based only on police data, which does not reveal the true picture on the ground.Data manipulatedThe data is manipulated. FIRs are not registered in all cases. The government wants to cover up its inefficiency. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan)The NCRB report says 257 farm suicides (both farmers and labourers) were reported in 2020, against 302 in 2019 and 323 in 2018. The decline began from 2019. The state was witnessing a rise since 2015, when 124 suicides were reported. The number rose to 280 in 2016 and further to 291 in 2017.Among agricultural labourers, the number has seen an increase against last year, but it is lower in comparison to 2018. The NCRB report says 83 agricultural labourers died by suicide in 2020, against 63 in 2019 and 94 in 2018. The number is still higher compared to 2015, when 24 such cases were reported.The number of male victims is higher in the category. Of the 83 agricultural labourers dying by suicide, 77 were males and six females.Farm suicides has remained a big issue in the state for years, with farm unions organising protests across the state and Delhi. The government and farm leaders have made varied claims on such deaths.Reacting to the latest report, Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan of the BKU (Ugrahan) said the data was manipulated. “The government data is always manipulated. They do not register FIRs in all cases. The government wants to cover up its inefficiency,” he said.He said as per their surveys, at least one or two farmers died by suicide in Punjab every day. “On some days, the number goes up to three. How have they come up with 257 deaths,” he asks. He also claimed debt had risen three times in the state: “How can there be fewer suicides then?” he adds.Dr Ranjit Singh Ghuman, Professor of Eminence (Economics), said: “A survey conducted by three universities for the period between 2000 and 2016 pointed to 16,606 deaths among farmers and labourers. That makes it a little over 1,000 suicides per year. The NCRB or police numbers are always lower.” Both claimed more than 99 per cent of the farm labourers were Punjabis.Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had waived the debt of farmers to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore, while the actual debt was pegged at over Rs 70,000 crore on state farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drop-in-farm-suicides-for-second-straight-year-ncrb-332095
31-10-2021||---||Pink Bollworm: Rs 416 crore relief for cotton growers: Punjab Govt||Chandigarh, October 30To provide relief to farmers and labourers in the cotton belt, the Punjab Government has announced release of a grant of over Rs 416 crore to compensate for the damage to crops due to the pink bollworm attack.The announcement was made by Revenue and Rehabilitation Minister Aruna Chaudhary and Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha in a joint press conference at Punjab Bhawan here today. Both Cabinet Ministers said the pink bollworm had caused severe damage to cotton crops in Mansa, Sangrur, Bathinda, Muktsar and Barnala districts and to compensate farmers, the government was releasing an amount of Rs 416 crore. They said 10 per cent of the amount would be provided to cotton-picking workers as relief and the compensation amount would be sent to the accounts of respective Deputy Commissioners before Diwali. The respective district administrations would then directly transfer the aid to the bank accounts of farmers.The ministers said this time, cotton was sown on 7.51 lakh acres in the region of which around four lakh acres had been damaged by pink bollworm. Nabha said compensation was being paid at the rate of Rs 2,000 per acre for 26 to 32 per cent loss, Rs 5,400 per acre for 33 to 75 per cent loss and Rs 12,000 per acre for 76 to 100 per cent loss, which was the highest-ever amount paid to farmers for crop loss.According to the ministers, 1,51,335 acres of crop in Mansa district had been damaged from 76 to 100 per cent and an amount of Rs 1,81,60,21,050 was being released for the district. In Sangrur, 145 acres suffered loss of 26 to 32 per cent, 3,693 acres 33 to 75 per cent and 180 acres 76 to 100 per cent loss, and a provision of Rs 2,24,01,328 had been made for this. In Bathinda district, 683 acres suffered loss from 26 to 32 per cent, 85 acres33 to 75 per cent and 1,88,308 acres 76 to 100 percent loss for which a compensation of Rs 2,26,15,23,700 was being paid.Replying to a query regarding the damage caused to crops by the recent rains and hailstorms, Chaudhary said girdawari orders had been issued in this regard and as soon as the reports are received from the Deputy Commissioners, steps would be taken to give compensation. The respective Deputy Commissioners had been directed to send crop damage reports within a week.Nabha said a state-of-the-art technology was being introduced by the government to prevent bollworm attacks. Expressing his commitment to farmers, he said that appointment letters had been issued to 157 members of the families of farmers who lost lives during the agitation against the agricultural laws. Earlier, farmers in various districts of Punjab under the banner of the BKU Ugrahan blackened the photos of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and other hoardings put up to claim adequate compensation for cotton growers. Meanwhile, farmers under the banner of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan on Saturday gheraoed Finance Minister Manpreet Badal in Bathinda.Criteria to calculate compensation Rs 2,000 per acre for 26% to 32% lossRs 5,400 per acre for 33% to 75% lossRs 12,000 per acre for 76% to 100% loss||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pink-bollworm-rs-416-crore-relief-for-cotton-growers-punjab-govt-332096
31-10-2021||Vishav Bharti||16,000 cases, 61 deaths: Punjab in grip of dengue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30The Punjab Government seems to have been caught napping, with the state recording highest ever dengue cases this year. So far 16,129 cases and over 60 deaths have been reported.Earlier, the highest number of cases and fatalities in a calendar year were reported in 2017, when 15,398 persons were infected and 18 died due to dengue.Between September 30 and October 30, the state reported 12,000 cases and over 50 deaths, which, according to the health authorities, is the worst-ever spike in 30 days. Though the officials claim that the cases have started declining, experts say not much relief can be expected for at least another month till there is a steep decline in night temperature. SAS Nagar is the worst-affected district with 2,457 cases and 31 deaths, followed by Bathinda (2,063 and 4), Hoshiarpur (1,465), Amritsar (1,461) and Pathankot (1,434 and 1).The experts said the Local Bodies and Rural Development Department as well as village panchayats failed to take timely action to prevent the outbreak of this vector-borne disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-000-cases-61-deaths-punjab-in-grip-of-dengue-332185
31-10-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘Time for rapprochement is over’: Capt Amarinder dismisses reports of backend talks with Congress||Chandigarh, October 30Terming as incorrect reports of backend talks with the Congress, former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the time for rapprochement is over.“The decision to part ways with party was taken after much thought and is final. I'm grateful to Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now,” Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral quoted the former chief minister as saying.‘Reports of backend talks with @INCIndia are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. The decision to part ways with party was taken after much thought and is final. I'm grateful to #SoniaGandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now.': @capt_amarinder 1/2 pic.twitter.com/FbO7Toj28V  Capt Amarinder reiterated what he has been saying in the past. “I will soon launch my own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with BJP, breakaway Akali factions and others for Punjab Elections 2022 once farmers' issue is resolved. I want to build strong collective force in interest of Punjab and its farmers,” the former CM said.He had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/time-for-rapprochement-is-over-capt-amarinder-dismisses-reports-of-backend-talks-with-congress-332027
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi approves termination of PPA with GVK for the Goindwal Sahib Power Plant||Reiterating his government’s firm commitment to provide quality and uninterrupted power supply at an affordable cost to the consumers, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday approved the PSPCL’s proposal to terminate GVK Goindwal Sahib (2x270 MW) Power Purchase Agreement. Subsequently, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has issued a termination notice to the company.Notably, a preliminary default notice has been served by PSPCL to GVK today for cancellation of PPA due to high power cost and falling lowest in the merit order, procurement of energy from GVK that had been restricted only within the range of 25 per cent to 30 per cent during most of the times of a year resulting in higher tariff of about Rs.7.52 per unit for last year.Chief Minister Channi said that this step had been taken to safeguard the interest of consumers of the State by way of reducing the burden of costly power.Divulging details, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said that the basic premise of entering into PPA by GVK with PSPCL was to provide cheaper power to PSPCL. GVK had been generating energy by arranging coal from Coal India Limited under SHAKTI Policy. As per PPA, GVK was required to arrange a captive coal mine but it failed to do so, even after a lapse of more than 5 years of synchronization with the grid, he added.In addition, the spokesman said, the capacity charges are being decided by Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) based on a capital cost of around Rs 3,058 crore, which is equivalent to about  Rs.1.61 per unit of fixed cost. Going against this decision, the spokesperson mentioned that GVK had moved to Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) for claiming higher fixed cost to the tune of Rs.2.50 per unit based on claims of capital cost of about Rs 4,400 crore which is pending adjudication.As per claims made by GVK, the Spokesperson pointed out that variable cost is around Rs.4.50 per unit and fixed cost is around Rs.2.50 per unit. Thus, the total claim of GVK under tariff comes out around Rs.7.00 per unit which increases further due to the surrender of its costly power. Therefore, the intention of GVK is clear that it requires to charge a higher tariff which is not the basic premise on which PPA was entered into with PSPCL. This has created a commercially un-viable for PSPCL to continue PPA with GVK.Moreover, the GVK had defaulted for not clearing dues accrued to it timely, against the loans taken by it from various lenders. Consequently, it had become a Stressed Asset and a resolution plan was required to be implemented by GVK which it failed to do so. Accordingly, lenders have approached National Company Law Tribunals (NCLT) for a resolution plan for GVK which is under consideration before the Tribunal, the Spokesperson revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-approves-termination-of-ppa-with-gvk-for-the-goindwal-sahib-power-plant-332019
31-10-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||3 armed men try to loot cash and gold at Muthoot Finance company in Ludhiana; one of them killed in firing||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 30One of the three armed men who tried to loot cash and gold at the gold loan company Muthoot Finance at Daresi here on Saturday was killed in firing.There was an exchange of fire between the armed men and the security guard in which one of the armed men was killed while another managed to escape. The third was nabbed by the company employees and the people present.The company manager also suffered a bullet injury and the security guard was also injured.Senior police officials led by Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP) J Elanchezhian reached the spot.According to information, people present there tried to chase the robbers and nabbed one of them before handing him over to the police.JCP Elanchezhian said one of the assailants was killed and their attempt to loot cash and gold was foiled.CCTV footage from the site is being scanned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-armed-men-try-to-loot-cash-and-gold-at-muthoot-finance-company-in-ludhiana-one-of-them-killed-in-firing-331978
