05-07-2021||Bathinda||Pay commission proposals fraud on staff: Punjab traders||The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal has criticised the Congress government for causing “colossal damage” to employees, alleging that whatever emoluments it had decided to give to employees as per the sixth pay commission report were actually part of a “big fraud”.Beopar mandal senior vice-president Amarjit Mehta said the state government had been manipulating figures to project that employees had been given their due emoluments. He said the Congress Government had reduced the non-practicing allowance to medical practitioners, house rent allowance and rural allowance apart from denying the payment of DA to them. He said the hike given to employees was also negligible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/pay-commission-proposals-fraud-on-staff-punjab-traders-278346
05-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda couple ‘dupes’ doc of Rs33L, booked||A couple has been booked for fraud after ex-IMA president, Bathinda, Dr GS Shekhawat complained that he had been duped of Rs 33 lakh.Dr Shekhawat said the couple — Geeta Negi and Rajesh Negi — had not returned Rs 6 lakh he had given to them as loan and did not pay Rs 27 lakh rent of the school they were running from a building in his name.He said he had bought land in 2013. In 2016, his friend Rajesh urged him to build a school on it after his wife Geeta, who was running a school in Bharat Nagar, had to vacate the building there due to a dispute. Dr Shekhawat said Geeta started running a school in December 2016. He said they had opened a common bank account for the school, but in 2018 he realised that Geeta had stopped depositing money in it. He said to grab his land, Geeta was defaming him by pretending to be a witness in a case against him. However, Geeta said the matter was in the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-couple-dupes-doc-of-rs33l-booked-278332
05-07-2021||Ruchika M Khanna/ Sukhmeet Bhasin||Talwandi Sabo power plant’s 2nd unit shut, crisis deepens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/ Bathinda, July 4Punjab’s power crisis worsened further today as the second unit of Talwandi Sabo power plant developed a snag, causing a shortage of 660 MW. Consequently, the industry in several areas, shut down for two days, will be allowed to operate only partially from Monday.Already, one unit of the plant (660 MW) has remained shut for some time due to a technical glitch. A senior official at the plant said there was a technical glitch in unit No. 1 and it would be fixed soon. The official added work was on to put back the second unit into operation at the earliest.PSPCL issues noticePSPCL has issued a penalty notice to Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant for not ensuring the timely availability of its unit No. 3 in the ongoing paddy season when the demand for electricity is the highest“Due to failure of unit No. 3, PSPCL faced difficulty in providing eight hours of uninterrupted power supply to its agriculture and domestic consumers,” said PSPCL Chairman A Venu PrasadOutput drops to 66o mw from 1,980 MW The largest thermal power plant in North can generate 1,980 MW from 3 unitsTill Saturday, the plant was producing 1,178 MW, which is now down to 660 MWThe largest thermal power plant in North India, set up by Vedanta Limited at Banawala village near Mansa, has the capacity to generate 1,980 MW from its three units of 680 MW each. Till last evening, the plant was supplying around 1,178 MW to the northern grid.Reacting quickly, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) bought additional 1,100 MW from the Power Exchange to meet the demand, which touched 13,200 MW today. With the Government of India (Northern Regional Load Despatch Centre) allowing the state to increase its transmission capacity by an additional 400 MW today (to reach 7,800 MW), the state was able to get additional power from the Grid to meet its increased demand.Unscheduled power cuts on domestic and commercial consumers were again reported from many parts of the state, though the agriculture sector demand was largely met. The reason for unscheduled power cuts, say officials in PSPCL, is a leakage in the boiler tube of a 660 MW plant at Talwandi Sabo, which will be restored by Monday.Though officials in PSPCL insist that they supplied an average of nine hours of power to agriculture pumpset consumers and that there were no cuts on other categories, people in semi-urban and rural areas of Majha and Doaba complained of long unscheduled cuts.The power supply to industrial units in the Central Zone (Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khanna, Amloh and Sirhind) and the North Zone (Jalandhar, Phagwara and Hoshiarpur) was restored today. However, the continuous process industry in these zones will remain closed till Thursday. Industrial units in the Border Zone and Southern Zone will get only 30 per cent of the sanctioned power load, confirmed A Venu Prasad, Chairman, PSPCL.Even the industrial units fed power from mixed feeders will have to wait to begin operations. Units dealing in essential services, including poultry, rice shellers, telecom and call centres, have been exempted from restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/talwandi-sabo-power-plants-2nd-unit-shut-crisis-deepens-278278
