09-07-2021||Patiala/Bathinda||Protests against fuel price hike across Punjab||On a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers held protests against the central government over the hike in the prices of petrol, diesel and gas cylinders across the state on Thursday.Carrying gas cylinders on their shoulders with banners of farm unions in their hands, the protesters gathered at Samana, Patran, Patiala (urban), Patiala (rural), Nabha and Sanaur in Patiala district against the hike in prices.A farmer said, “We have gathered outside the office of the district administrative complex in Patiala in protest against excessive hike in the prices of commodities. We parked our vehicles on roadsides without obstructing the traffic.” Ranjit Singh Swajpur, Patiala president of the BKU (Krantikari), said, “The central government, with legislation such as the three farm laws, is working in the interest of corporate houses. People are getting poor as they have been rendered jobless.” In Fatehgarh Sahib, farmers led by local SKM leaders protested by making human chains on the GT road in Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amloh, Bassi Pathana and Khamano towns.Similar protests were held in Bathinda and Mansa districts. Farmers from the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) gathered at main roads in different locations on tractors, motorcycles, cars and jeeps and raised slogans against the Union Government.Harjinder Singh, a leader of the union, said, “With barely any control by the government, private companies are increasing the rates of petrol, diesel and gas cylinders time and again. Income sources of common man have shrunk after lockdowns were imposed but the government, instead of providing any relief, has resorted to hiking prices of petrol, diesel and other essential commodities thereby burdening people financially.” In Abohar, farm unions organised protests on the Abohar-Malout stretch of the NH-10 and Khuyiansarwer on NH-15 and slammed the central government for the unabated increase in the prices of LPG and other petroleum products. In Amritsar district, farmers parked their tractors, cars, two-wheelers, combine harvesters and other agricultural implements on roadsides at Rayya, Mehta, Mannawala, Nawa Pind, Kathunagal, Majitha, Attari, Ajnala, Chogawan, India Gate, Golden Gate and other places as a mark of protest. — TNSTwo debt-ridden farmers kill self||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/protests-against-fuel-price-hike-across-punjab-280211
09-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Kulbir Naruana ‘killer’ linked to Lawrence Bishnoi gang||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 8A day after gangster-turned-activist Kulbir Naruana was shot at his home in Bathinda, the alleged involvement of the Lawrence Bishoi gang has come to the fore.A message purportedly in Naruana’s former security guard and accused Manna Sandhu Talwandi’s ID has been posted on the social media, claiming responsibility for the killing. In the post, it has been claimed that Manna was connected to the Lawrence Bishoi gang and was close to his Canada-based aide Goldy Brar, which annoyed Naruana.The victim supported a gang opposed to Manna over a land lease money issue and insulted the latter, leading to the killing, claims the post.The post reads: “I take responsibility for Kulbir Naruana’s murder. People are accusing me of backstabbing a friend. Every story has two sides and I am telling mine. Kulbir invited me to his house alone under a conspiracy and insulted me in front of 10 people, who were my rivals. I could have just walked away or fought for my honour. I choose to fight.”The post ends by saying: “I clarify that I am part of Lawrence Bishnoi group and have nothing to do with anyone else. I have killed Kulbir because of my personal enmity and not at the behest of anyone.” The police said Manna, who was admitted to the Faridkot Medical College, would be questioned about the post. The police initially claimed the post might have been written by one of Manna’s aides.SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk said: “It is in our notice that a post from accused Manna Sandhu Talwandi’s account has been uploaded on the social media, but he is in our custody and is presently undergoing treatment at Faridkot Medical College. We are probing the matter.”The SSP said Manna was in touch with the Bisnhoi group and the police were probing the matter. A Madhya Pradesh-made pistol was used in the crime and a probe was on to identify the supplier, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/kulbir-naruana-killer-linked-to-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-280218
