12-07-2021||---||Revive old pension scheme: Punjab Govt employees||Bathinda, July 11Demanding the revival of the old pension scheme, employees from various government departments under the banner of Old Pension Bahali Sanghrash Committee today staged a protest at ITI Chowk here.Scores of protesters gathered at the venue and blocked the highway, raising slogans against the state government. The committee representatives said if the Congress government failed to revive the scheme, it would cost the party dear in the upcoming Assembly elections.Jasvir Singh, state convener, said: “Finance Minister Manpreet Badal had promised that the old pension scheme would be revived once the Congress formed the government. Even after four-and-a-half years in power, the party had not fulfilled the promise. If government dilly-dally continues, it will become difficult for its legislators and ministers to seek votes ahead of the elections.”Jarnail Singh, general secretary, said: “The condition of the elderly, who retired under the NPS scheme, is pitiable. It has become difficult for them to bear the cost of medicines with their meagre pension. They have given precious years of their life to the service of different government departments, and are now left to fend for themselves.”There was no mention of old pension scheme in the 6th Pay Commission report implemented by the government recently. If the scheme was not revived soon, they would be left with no other option but to intensify their struggle, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/revive-old-pension-scheme-punjab-govt-employees-281678
12-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda farmers worried as pink bollworm attacks cotton crop||Pink bollworm attack on cotton crop has been reported in some areas in Bathinda district. Farmers are claiming damage on the cotton sown earlier.The pink bollworm attack has been reported in Talwandi Sabo, Sangat and Rama blocks along with few villages adjoining Bathinda city.After learning about the attack, the farmers are quite worried about the safety of their crops. They alleged they informed Agricultural Department officials about the attack but they did not pay attention to their complaint. Later, they brought the matter to the notice of Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) officials, after which a team of five experts visited the affected villages in the district on Tuesday.Farmer Balwant Singh of Gurusar Sainiwala village said pink bollworm had started destroying cotton crops in Mehta, Jassi Baghwali, Rama Mandi, Sangat and Talwandi Sabo blocks in the district. He said as large numbers of farmers were busy in paddy cultivation, many were still unaware about the attack. PAU agriculture expert Dr Pathania said the area under attack was quite less. It had been found the attack had been reported in the fields where farmers did not take precautions like destroying crop residue.Dr Bahadur Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Bathinda, said, “We are conducting a survey. We have instructed farmers to start spraying insecticides to prevent further spread of pink bollworm in the region.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-farmers-worried-as-pink-bollworm-attacks-cotton-crop-281689
12-07-2021||Bathinda||Yuva Morcha leader Mohit Gupta bats for former BJP minister Anil Joshi||The Punjab BJP decision to expel two-term MLA Anil Joshi seems to have created fissures within the party with state BJP executive member and former Yuva Morcha state president Mohit Gupta condemning the move.Expelled BJP leader Anil Joshi to join farmers at SinghuHe said the decision was taken in a hurry and that many facts had been ignored. “Joshi was a dedicated party worker and had been instrumental in strengthening the party base. The decision has been taken by the state leadership in a hurry due to its personal interests,” he said.Gupta further said the decision to expel a committed worker would not only discourage others. Rather, it could be counter-productive for the party as it might benefit the Opposition.He urged the BJP high command to reconsider the decision and send a strong signal among workers to ensure party’s good show in the Assembly elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/yuva-morcha-leader-mohit-gupta-bats-for-former-bjp-minister-anil-joshi-281692
12-07-2021||Bathinda||Groups of farmers leave for Delhi||With the paddy sowing season almost over now and the second wave of the pandemic subsiding, the farm unions have started mobilising support for the ongoing agitation against the three agricultural laws at Delhi borders.Groups of farmers have started leaving for the protest venues at Delhi borders now. In a state-level meeting held in Bathinda on Sunday, Kirti Kisan Union (KKU) leaders said they had started mobilising support for the agitation and exhorting farmers in villages to visit the protest sites.Addressing the gathering, KKU president Nirbhay Singh said: “Now that farmers are getting free from sowing, the participation at Delhi borders has started increasing again. Hordes of farmers are leaving for the protest venues these days. Farm union leaders at the block, village and district levels have been conducting regular meetings to mobilise support and chart out strategies to further strengthen the stir.“Groups of farmers from different unions have been leaving for the protest venues from Bathinda and Mansa districts on a daily basis these days.”“Our struggle will continue until the farm laws are repealed. It is high time that we stay united and protest the central policies aimed at favouring corporates. The farm laws will not only affect farmers, but almost every other sector equally,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/groups-of-farmers-leave-for-delhi-281693
