15-07-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda to get free legal aid clinic||Bathinda is set to be the first district in Punjab, where the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) will have a legal aid clinic to provide free services to the needy, round the clock. This was stated by District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Kanwaljit Lamba today during the quarterly meeting with the district administration.Presiding over the meeting, he told the civil and police administration officials to lend support for the National Lok Adalat to be held on September 11, so that the needy could avail free legal services.Lamba told the Additional Deputy Commissioner to decide a suitable place for the legal aid clinic to be set up in the district.He directed the officials of the Police Department to not keep any complaint pending for more than seven days. He said if the police wanted to take remand in a case, then they should ensure the accused was represented by a lawyer. In case, an accused did not have a lawyer, he should be provided one through the free legal aid clinic.Lamba told the district administration to sensitise people to the provision of free legal services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-to-get-free-legal-aid-clinic-283437
15-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||100 state-of-the-art libraries in Bathinda soon||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 14The Bathinda district administration has planned to open 100 state-of-the-art libraries for the youth in the district at a cost of Rs 15 crore. Under this project, the first digital library has already been set up in Bathinda city at Rs 90 lakh, which is getting a good response from students.The hi-tech air-conditioned library is a multipurpose facility equipped with all facilities concerning the users of the modern era.The library has quality study and reference material, and competitive books as well to help students prepare for competitive exams.Apart from books, the library has a lab with 20 computers, a recreation area, a pool table and a music room with a hi-tech piano. This is the model, on which other libraries in 100 villages would be set up in the district.Bathinda Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Paramvir Singh, who is the brainchild of this project, said: “The district administration library at the Zila Parishad office is lying defunct, so I decided to open a modern library to provide youth with a platform to get quality knowledge.”The ADC said, “The project is aimed at rediscovering how public and academic libraries move forward and adapt to the new technologies and users’ needs.”He said they had fixed the membership fee at Rs 500 per month to make it a self-sustainable project. At present, the library had a seating capacity of 70 as they had targeted 100 members initially, he said. “We are seeing a good response as membership number has reached 160 so far, and we have started extending the facility. A library will come up at the ground floor as well to increase its capacity,” he said. The second library at the third floor of the Zila Parishad office would have a capacity of around 200, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/100-state-of-the-art-libraries-in-bathinda-soon-283419
15-07-2021||Bathinda||CPM rules out pact with SAD||Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon, state secretary, CPM, ruled out the possibility of a pre-poll alliance with the SAD, while addressing a press conference in Bathinda on Wednesday.Sekhon said, “We refute the claims by SAD that their alliance with communist parties is in the final stages. We want to clarify our stand that there will not be any pre-poll alliance with the SAD until the party clarifies its stance regarding Sikh hardliner and Khalistani forces. Then only, we can ponder over an alliance with the party.”Lashing out at the Centre over increased prices of petrol, Sekhon said, “Owing to its anti-people policies, the common man is suffering during the pandemic and the economy has hit its lowest ebb.” On the 6th Pay Commission report and power cuts, he said, “The employees are entitled to NPA and it must not be snatched or reduced,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cpm-rules-out-pact-with-sad-283336
