28-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to DGP: Explain why cheating case pending for over eight years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the DGP to explain the dragging of a case, involving “public money of crores”, for over eight years. The state police chief has been asked to furnish his “own” affidavit in the matter. Describing the fact as “disturbing”, the High Court also made it clear that the matter required a thorough probe.The case was brought to the notice of Justice Anil Kshetarpal’s Bench after Sukhdev Singh filed a petition against Punjab for the grant of anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on September 30, 2013, for cheating, criminal breach of trust and another offence under Sections 406, 420 and 34, IPC, at Dayalpura police station in Bathinda.Justice Kshetarpal asserted the prosecution’s case was that the petitioner was a partner in firm running a rice mill. There was shortage of 22,309 bags of paddy. The estimated value of the paddy, belonging to a PSU and assigned to the rice mill for de-husking, was Rs 1,36,00,000.Justice Kshetarpal took note of the contention by the petitioner’s counsel that the rice milled on receipt of the paddy had already been supplied and the shortfall, if any, was regarding the previous year. The petitioner was in custody in a case involving NDPS Act, 1985, on June 8, 2013. As such, the petitioner couldn’t be said to have caused the deficiency.As per the allegations, the public money was involved. Apparently, there was no reason for the investigating agency in not taking appropriate steps for completion of the probe during these eight years. As such, the explanation could only be given by the investigating agency.“Hence, the DGP is directed to verify the correct facts and file his own affidavit, explaining the reasons as to why the investigating agency dragged this matter for so long,” Justice Kshetarpal directed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-dgp-explain-why-cheating-case-pending-for-over-eight-years-289154
28-07-2021||Bathinda||Landless labourers seek loan waiver in Bathinda||Activists of several associations, under the banner of Pendu Khet Mazdoor Union, protested outside Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office here on Tuesday.Activists of Punjab Mazdoor Sabha, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor, Mazdoor Mukti Morcha and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha submitted a memorandum to Manpreet’s representative at his office. Holding a rally, they raised slogans against the state government. Later, they took out a protest march to Manpreet’s office.Addressing the rally, leaders said the Congress government had failed to deliver on its poll promises of providing jobs, households, waiving labour debts and power bills and increase pension, etc. “They also failed to deliver on its promise of giving packets of tea, sugar, pulses and ghee from ration depots along with wheat.” They said during the Congress rule, the social oppression of the workers had increased many times. They announced that if the government did not waive the debt and power bills and increase the old age pension to Rs 5,000, then workers would join the dharna from August 9 to 11 at Patiala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/landless-labourers-seek-loan-waiver-in-bathinda-289156
28-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Low supply of doses hits inoculation in Bathinda district||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 27The shortage of doses has derailed the vaccination drive in the district. As per the health department, so far only 25 per cent people have been given the first dose of vaccine, while only 5.9 per cent the second one in the district.As per record, 2,51,483 persons have been given the first dose and 59,099 the second out of around 10 lakh people, who have to be vaccinated.The drive has come to a halt as the district ran out of stocks. Nobody was inoculated at the district hospital today. An official said the department had not received the fresh consignment, so they had to stop the drive. “The existing stock has been exhausted and we are awaiting fresh consignment. As soon as it reaches Fazilka, we will resume the process,” he added.NGO Naujawan Welfare Society president Sonu Maheshwari said: “We are facing a huge problem as earlier we motivated residents to come out to get jabbed by announcing gifts and creating awareness, but now when they have started coming out, we don’t have vaccine.”He said the stocks were limited but the number of people who wanted to get vaccinated was huge, which usually led to heated arguments many times. “Due to this many NGOs have even refused to hold camps,” he said.Teachers, employees of banks and other sectors are reportedly facing problems as they have to be vaccinated before rejoining work, but vaccines are not available. Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “The pace of vaccination is slow as the supply is less. Whatever stocks we get from the state, we use it. In total, 3.10 lakh doses have been given to people so far in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/low-supply-of-doses-hits-inoculation-in-bathinda-district-289159
