29-07-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda: Doctors back in OPDs, stir ‘loses steam’||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 28Doctors’ protest, which began on a high note around a month ago against the cut in their Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) following recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission, seems to have “run out of steam” recently.Fear of reprimandAfter suspending OPD services completely, the doctors had threatened to stop work in the emergency unit as well. But now they can be seen examining patients in their respective OPDs. Earlier, they used to attend patients at parallel OPDs at the protest venue. Now, the business continues as usual after a few doctors hold a protest for half an hour in the morning.The doctors held protests and suspended OPDs initially after the Health Department transferred the Bathinda district president of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA), the government doctors’ association spearheading the protests across the state.A source said: “Things have started subsiding now. The gradual shift in stance can be attributed to fear of official reprimand by the government, especially after a senior doctor and the PCMSA president was transferred from Bathinda amid the protests. Doctors first saw it as a pressure tactic to muzzle the protest and intensified their stir, but later thinking that one of them could be the next in line of fire, they have started falling in line now.”Another source said: “The government’s indifferent attitude and Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s visit to inaugurate a hospital in Bathinda on Monday are also the possible factors that coerced doctors to resume regular OPDs from their respective cabins in the Civil Hospital now.”Dr Jagrup Singh, acting president of the Bathinda PCMSA, said: “During our state-level protest, the Health Minister had assured us that the government will take up our issue and resolve it on priority. So, we decided to conduct OPDs from our seats but patients are still being given prescription slips in the name of PCMSA and even medicines are being given for free.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-doctors-back-in-opds-stir-loses-steam-289647
29-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers’ protest: Spotlight on gender equality at Delhi sites||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 28Breaking all stereotypes, women have emerged at the forefront of the farmers’ protest against the farm laws at Delhi borders. This has led to a new awakening to gender equality among the male-dominated mindset in the state amid the farmers’ protest.Women of all ages are out in open along with their families as well as alone, demanding repeal of the farm laws. For the past six months, they have stayed put despite Delhi’s bone-chilling winter and now sultry hot conditions. Even though they are faced with issues of lack of toilets, privacy and hygiene among others, they are holding their ground.At the forefront of the protest, these women continue to impress everyone with their oratory skills by singing rebellious songs, giving fiery speeches and raising anti-government slogans.Shingara Singh Mann, secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said: “We have always believed that women should be given equal opportunities. They are no less than men in any aspect, due to which our union has mobilised women in large numbers to participate in the protest.”Mohinder Kaur, 80, of Bahadurgarh Jandian in Bathinda, who hit the national headlines after Kangana Ranaut twitted her photo, said: “I went to Delhi to participate in the protest to save our land.” Paramjit Kaur of Bathinda, who along with his 10-year-old daughter is at the Tikri border: “For us, land is everything. If we don’t have it, how will we survive? It is the fight for our survival, so we will be stay here until these laws are repealed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-protest-spotlight-on-gender-equality-at-delhi-sites-289631
