21-04-2021||Noida||One arrested in Noida for black marketing of Remdesivir amid Covid-19 crisis||The Noida Police on Wednesday said they have arrested a man allegedly involved in black marketing of Remdesivir amid a shortage of the crucial drug in the market due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The police recovered 105 vials of Remdesivir from the accused, Rachit Ghai, who was held by officials of the crime branch team and the Sector 20 police station on Tuesday, a senior officer said.According to the police, Ghai would sell Remdesivir for anything between ₹15,000 to ₹40,000 to people in need of the medicine for Covid-19 treatment.''Rachit Ghai lives in Sector 168 of Noida and was previously living in Peetampura area of Delhi. He was held near DPS School in Sector 29 here,'' Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Abhishek Singh said.''He was staying in Noida since March and was involved in black marketing of Remdesivir. He would procure the medicine from Delhi and Chandigarh. Other details are being gathered,'' Singh saidThe officer said 105 vials of Remdesivir injections and ₹1.54 lakh cash were seized from the accused's possession while his car has been impounded.An FIR has been lodged against him under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/one-arrested-in-noida-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-amid-covid-19-crisis-101618998468191.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Gunman in Noida falls from bathroom window while escaping police raid, dies||A criminal died after he allegedly fell from a window of a flat, where he was hiding, while escaping from the multi-storey building during a police raid in Greater Noida, officials said on Tuesday.The 31-year-old accused was hiding at the flat in Omnicron 1 sector of Greater Noida when the officials of the local Beta 2 police station raided the house on a tip-off on Monday night, they said.The police had reached the house while searching for Mohammad Imran, who was recently involved in a gunfight with the police, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said."The police found Imran's two brothers-in-law -- Lukman and Chand Mohammad -- at the flat and started questioning them but not Imran. During the questioning, Chand Mohammad went to the bathroom on the pretext of relieving himself," Singh said."But instead he tried to escape through the window of the bathroom. He crossed over to the other side of the wall hanging through the window which came off because of the weight of the accused," he added.The accused fell from the second-floor height and suffered injuries after which he was rushed to the private Yatharth hospital, where he succumbed after some time, the officer said.Chand Mohammad had over a dozen cases including those of loot and murder lodged against him and was a seasoned criminal himself who had been to jail also, the DCP said."He has 14 FIRs and was an accused in the Inspector Akhtar Khan murder case as well," Singh said.Further legal proceedings were being carried out by the Beta 2 police station officials, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gunman-in-noida-falls-from-bathroom-window-while-escaping-police-raid-dies-101618978656639.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Around 77,000 migrant workers sent home: Ghaziabad admin||The district administration here on Tuesday said around 77,000 migrant workers were sent home in over 1,500 buses.Though the workers had started returning home after a rise in coronavirus cases, their number swelled after the Delhi government imposed a week-long lockdown on Monday, an official said.According to District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, around 77,000 workers were sent to their destinations in 1,537 buses.Pandey said the buses were operated from the ISBT, Anand Vihar, Kashmir Gate, and the Kaushambi bus stand.Teams of officials from the Health Department and police were deployed for the task, which turned challenging due to the sudden announcement of lockdown in Delhi, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/around-77-000-migrant-workers-sent-home-ghaziabad-admin-101618963172572.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Scrap dealer falls to death during police raid||Greater Noida: A 27-year-old scrap dealer died after allegedly falling from his third-floor flat in Sector Omicron after a police team conducted a raid in search of a wanted criminal on Monday. The deceased was identified as Chand Quraishi. Police said that the team had visited Quraishi’s flat in search of his brother-in-law, Imran, who is wanted in a case of vehicle theft and firing at a police party. Police said that Quraishi was also involved in 14 criminal cases. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Imran had escaped during an encounter on April 7 this year. According to police, Imran and his accomplice Bandi had been spotted in a car on April 7 and asked to stop by a police team. Then the duo opened fire at the police team and sped up, but the team chased down the suspects and forced them to stop, police officials said. Police arrested Bandi while Imran managed to escape. The DCP said that the police team received information that Imran sometimes visits his in-laws’ place in Sector Omicron. “A police team on Monday conducted a search at Imran’s in-laws’ third floor rented accommodation, but found him missing. During the raid, his brothers-in-law Chand Quraishi and Lukman were in the flat. Quraishi got scared and he locked himself in the washroom and tried to climb down through a window. The window could not bear his weight and it broke and he fell to the ground,” the DCP said. Quraishi was admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida where he died, police said. However, Quraishi’s younger brother Lukman alleged that police caught him and his brother and thrashed them. “We were beaten up badly as we failed to tell Imran’s whereabouts to police. The police team then pushed my brother from the third floor,” he alleged. However, the police officials have denied the allegations. The DCP said Quraishi was also a co-accused in the murder of sub-inspector Athar Khan in 2017. Khan was killed in a shootout when he had gone to arrest another criminal, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/scrap-dealer-falls-to-death-during-police-raid-101618944760655.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Noida AOA cancels self-imposed lockdown after opposition from residents||NOIDA: In what could have been a glimpse of last year’s lockdown for the residents of Mahagun Moderne in Sector 78, its apartment owners associations (AOA) had on Monday announced a self-imposed lockdown in the housing complex. However, it was called off on Monday after strong opposition from a group of residents.The ”lockdown” was supposed to be from April 21 to April 26, during which domestic helps, car washers, and other handymen would not be allowed inside the residential complex. Non-essential guests were also banned from entering the premises. Only delivery of essential services was to be allowed. According to the AOA, Mahagun Moderne — which has over 2,500 flats — currently has 180 plus active Covid-19 cases.“Since April 1, Covid-19 cases here increased from just four to 180, on April 20. On Tuesday, a woman resident succumbed to her infection. In such a situation, as the AOA, we had to take strict measures to control the spread of the virus. There are hundreds of domestic helps, handymen, and car washers who frequent many houses in a day..., and also use common lifts and parks. Some residents also call non-essential guests, adding to the spread of the virus... The movement of people, who have to go to work, is allowed,” said Sandeep Chauhan, president, Mahagun Moderne AOA.As per Chauhan, the AOA had informed the administration about the decision, and had also carried out a polling by the residents. However, the opposition in the housing complex increased by Tuesday evening, following which the AOA decided to call off the decision. The residential complex has 35 towers, 96 lifts, 2,633 flats, and accommodates nearly 10,000 people.While some welcomed the decision, others opposed it. “It is an autocratic decision, and the residents are not bound by any rules to follow it. If the state government is not imposing a lockdown, how can the AOA do it?” asked Urvashi Chandiramani, a resident of Mahagun Moderne.“As a result of the absence of complete administrative guidelines, restrictions can be imposed in residential complexes, with a consensus of the residents. However, achieving consensus in large housing complexes is in itself a big challenge for the AOAs. Such decisions sometimes are needed to strike a balance between health and convenience of the residents,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NOFAA).Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, did not comment on this.On Monday, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration had asked its respective AOAs to appoint a “Corona vigilance officer” who would keep a track and report about Covid-19 cases in the district. “Every RWA and housing complex will appoint a Corona vigilance officer for each building/ tower. The vigilance officers will report about the positive cases, with lab reports, and any violation made by Covid-positive patients to presidents/ secretaries of RWAs and residential complexes,” according to the SOP.Meanwhile, SG Homes apartment in Ghaziabad Sector 3, Vasundhara, is also contemplating a similar decision. “There are some residents, who are not disclosing that they are Covid-positive and continue to call their domestic helps. These domestic helps then go to other flats and spread the virus. We have proposed a decision to bar all domestic helps to control this. However, the decision has not been executed yet,” said Alok Kumar, president, SG Homes AOA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-aoa-cancels-self-imposed-lockdown-after-opposition-from-residents-101618944579104.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Economic crisis to hit Noida as migrant labourers leave city amid lockdown||NOIDA: Realtors, factory owners, and other businessmen stare at the worst economic crisis as factory labourers and construction workers started leaving for their respective hometowns following the announcement of a week-long lockdown in Delhi, and weekend lockdown in Uttar Pradesh.According to the Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises (MSME), Gautam Budh Nagar, at least 20% of its workers have left for their hometowns last week, affecting the work. Even more are planning to leave the city to keep themselves safe from Covid-19 infection. Similarly, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI) and the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) said that their businesses are shut once again amid the abrupt rise in the coronavirus cases in Noida and Greater Noida.“The surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Noida, and other big cities has left the businesses gasping already, as the workers are leaving for their hometowns. Thirty out of 60 workers stopped reporting to work after Delhi chief minister announced the lockdown. Six others refused to come to work as they wanted to stay safe at their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh. The worst is going to happen soon as the remaining workers have also planned to leave the city... This time, unlike last year, workers are planning to leave the city via buses and other vehicles as they fear the wave will continue for a longer period of time this year” said Surendra Nahta, president, MSME, Gautam Budh Nagar chapter.The district has at least 600 ongoing realty projects, and the builders stare at the “worst crisis” as they have hardly seen sales for a month, as Covid-19 cases started increasing.“It took us almost a year to revive the real estate sector... since March 2020. We had started to witness normalcy in the market, but now, we stare at a bigger economic crisis once again, with Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly because of the poor health infrastructure. With most of our staff handling sales are Covid-positive, and the cases are on the rise in all the big cities, we have been seeing zero sales for the past one month. We fear that this time the impact on the business sector will be the worst,” said Prashant Kumar Tiwari, president, western Uttar Pradesh wing, CREDAI.Though the developers did not close their sales offices yet, around 50% of staff has not been reporting to work. “We can’t run the business without our staff, construction workers, and customers. Since all the three sections are struggling with Covid-19 infection, the ramification on the business is beyond imagination. The real estate sector now stares at the worst crisis ahead if the situation prevails,” said RK Arora, president, NAREDCO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/economic-crisis-to-hit-noida-as-migrant-labourers-leave-city-amid-lockdown-101618944459005.html
21-04-2021||Noida||No bed, 62-year-old man dies on road in Vaishali||Ghaziabad: A 62-year-old man from Delhi, suffering from a health complication, died on a road in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali on Monday evening, while his 37-year-old son was struggling to get him admitted to a hospital in Delhi or Ghaziabad. The victim’s family said that the man had tested negative for Covid-19, but his CT scan reports indicated a severe infection in his lungs, with almost Covid-like symptoms.The victim, identified as Surjan Singh, was a native of Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, and had retired as a lab assistant of the Delhi education department. His son, Yashvir Singh, said that he tried to admit his father to two government hospitals in Delhi, before successfully admitting him at a private hospital in East Delhi, where the doctors performed his CT scan.“I went to two government hospitals in Delhi on April 18, but they did not admit him due to the unavailability of beds. My father had tested Covid-negative. The CT scan reports indicated that he had an infection in his lungs, and the doctors at the East Delhi hospital asked me to admit my father to a Covid facility... He also suffered from blood pressure complications and diabetes,” said Singh, adding that he took his father to hospitals in Ghaziabad, Kaushambi, and Vaishali on Monday, but couldn’t admit his father to a hospital.“One of the hospitals was helpful enough to provide him oxygen support for some time as the oxygen level in his body was constantly decreasing. We both were on a bike, and I had been monitoring his oxygen level every hour... The Vaishali hospital told us that no beds were available there, but I could see ambulances arriving at the premises with patients. While driving, I felt that my father suffered two shocks when we were at the internal main road in Vaishali, and I stopped the bike... My father died on the road,” he said.”With the help of some passersby, we took him under a tree. Then I called up my family members, and also a private ambulance. The local councillor of Vaishali, too, came for help. Finally, we reached Delhi with his body in the evening,” he added. Yashvir had lost his job at a pharma company in Sahibabad in 2020, and opened a photocopy shop in East Delhi, which is now closed amid the week-long lockdown in Delhi.Meanwhile, Manoj Goel, councillor from Vaishali, said that the family was running helplessly, and found no beds, and the patient died in unfortunate circumstances. “His father’s body was lying on the road, and people looked at it and passed by. Finally, an ambulance arrived, and the body was taken to Delhi,” Goel said.Dr Ashish Agarwal, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ghaziabad chapter, termed the incident as “unfortunate”, and said that the lack of bed availability is a major issue across Delhi-NCR. “Most of the hospitals are overburdened, and the lack of bed availability is a major issue. There are instances where asymptomatic patients get beds. Beds are also booked beforehand, through sources. And, when needy patients arrive, they struggle to get beds for treatment,” Agarwal said.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), said that there’s a shortage of ICU beds in hospitals. “The family, on some account, could not reach our control room or our health department. Otherwise, we could have arranged for a bed for the patient,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-bed-62-year-old-man-dies-on-road-in-vaishali-101618944338473.html
21-04-2021||Noida||UPSRTC sends 110 buses carrying migrants from Noida||Noida: As the Delhi government announced a six-day lockdown on Monday, a number of migrant workers gathered at the Noida Depot to go to their home towns in different parts of UP. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said they arranged 110 buses on Monday to send migrant workers to their home towns. R K Tripathi, assistant regional manager, UPSRTC Noida, said that a number of people had gathered at the Noida depot to go to different parts of the state on Monday. “We sent thousands of people in 110 buses,” he said. Some migrant workers were looking for public transport on Tuesday as well. 22-year-old Suraj Kumar was seen at the bus depot waiting for his bus for Kanpur on Tuesday afternoon near the City Centre. “I had come to Noida at my maternal uncle’s place on a vacation last month. The situation was better when I came here. Now, there is a sense of fear due to Covid,” Kumar said. Shyam Lal Gola, president of All India Luxury Bus Union, said that around 2,500 private buses were dispatched to different cities and states on Monday. “A number of migrant workers had gathered at the depot at Anand Vihar, Kashmiri Gate, Mori Gate, etc on Monday and Tuesday. These people had apprehensions that the lockdown will extend and they will be trapped again,” Gola said. Gola said that the bus operators are also facing problems in operation. “The police and transport department officials stop the buses at different places for checking and claim there is no social distancing and issue challans. The luxury buses consume a lot of fuel and it is viable to offer this service only when all seats are full. But they want us to ply with half capacity. If we double the ticket charges, the people will not be able to pay. We request the government to facilitate people reaching home hassle-free,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/upsrtc-sends-110-buses-carrying-migrants-from-noida-101618944219200.html
21-04-2021||Noida||GB Nagar records 8 Covid deaths, highest single-day toll so far||Noida: With eight Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded the highest number of deaths in a day on Tuesday, taking the toll to 114. On Tuesday, the district recorded 640 fresh cases with the overall tally at 31,597. Also, with 3,765 active cases, GB Nagar ranked eighth among Uttar Pradesh districts having the maximum number of infections.The district administration and development authority have been taking measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus, said the officials. Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer and Greater Noida authority CEO, said that the administration is adding beds in the hospitals, and making arrangements for oxygen colliders. “We have an integrated helpline number: 18004192211, which guides people about home isolation, availability of beds in hospitals, ambulance facilities, Covid-19 tests, police related enquiries, etc. The number of cases has increased in Gautam Budh Nagar, and other districts in Uttar Pradesh. But people should not be afraid. They should call the helpline number, which will guide them about the treatment and medical care systematically,” Bhooshan said.He also said that 150 beds were added in the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), and 320 beds in Sharda Hospital. Now, there are 400 beds in GIMS, and 720 in Sharda Hospital. Bhooshan said that people must maintain social distance and wear masks, which are two strong tools to break the Covid-19 chain.Meanwhile, the residents are troubled over the rise in Covid-19 cases with their housing complexes. We, here at Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77, are organising a five-day ‘mahamrityunjaya jaap’ as four persons died due to Covid-19 in the past two days, and several others are infected, said the residents.Nitesh Ranjan, general secretary, Apartment Owners Association (AOA), Prateek Wisteria, said that there are about 7,000 people in our housing complex. “The coronavirus wave has badly affected our society. There are 167 people suffering from Covid-19, and 100 of them are in home quarantine. Four residents succumbed to their infection on Saturday and Sunday,” he said, adding that one of the patients died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, an elderly woman in home isolation, and two others in a Gurugram hospital and a Noida hospital.He said that the association has decided to organise ’mahamrityunjaya jaap’ at the society’s amphitheatre for half an hour from Tuesday. “The prayers are played digitally through the loudspeakers. No gatherings are allowed at the spot,” Ranjan added.Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, did not comment on this on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-records-8-covid-deaths-highest-single-day-toll-so-far-101618944158436.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Migration continues from ISBT in Kaushambi||Ghaziabad: Migrant workers continued to pour into the Interstate Bus Terminal at Kaushambi for the second day on Tuesday. However, the number of passengers heading to their hometowns was less on Tuesday. Officials of the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said that on Monday they despatched 1,187 buses with full occupancy while they despatched 797 another buses till evening on Tuesday. The officials estimated that they ferried about 60,000 passengers on Monday.The migrants have started to arrive at ISBT, Kaushambi, in large numbers after the six-day curfew was announced on Monday by the Delhi government. On Tuesday, they continued coming in groups throughout the day. “I work at a bakery in Paschim Vihar in Delhi and its owner asked us to leave as the shop was closed down due to restrictions. Remembering the ordeal we faced last year during the lockdown, we are heading home in Uttarakhand,” said Bhawani Dutt, a native of Champawat in Uttarakhand. Like him, Mithun Kumar Sah, who works at a computer shop in Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar, was also going to his hometown in Begusarai district of Bihar. “I could not leave Delhi on Monday as I was arranging for money from my employer. Now, I am going to Bihar. The lockdown is announced for six days, but people are not assured that it will not get extended,” he added. Last year when the large-scale migration of workers started in March, the UPSRTC had to close down the ISBT at Kaushambi and shifted operations to Lal Kuan due to overcrowding. This time, the workers said that bus operation was regular, and buses were available. The officials of UPSRTC said that the occupancy in their 52-seater buses was over 100% on Monday and it was about 85-90% on Tuesday. “The crowd was less in comparison to Monday and we despatched a total of 701 buses from Kaushambi, 67 from Anand Vihar and 29 from Kashmere Gate on Tuesday. On Monday, 974 were despatched from Kaushambi, 181 from Anand Vihar and 32 from Kashmere Gate. We still have about 250-300 buses to cater to them. The priority is to ferry them safely to their destinations,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.Not only from Delhi, but migrants also left Ghaziabad for their hometowns in UP. “We engage in work of plastering of ceiling and earn ₹600 per day. Ever since the weekend curfew was announced in UP, our work also stopped. Last year I had to borrow money by pledging a part of my land at home. My colleagues left yesterday and now four of us leaving today due to uncertainty over the lockdown,” said Mohit Kumar, a native of Basti district in UP who stays with his colleagues at a rented room in Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/migration-continues-from-isbt-in-kaushambi-101618944159080.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Noida: District hospital runs out of testing kits||Noida: The district hospital at Sector 30 on Tuesday ran out of Covid-19 testing kits and the sample collection was stopped at 10 am while usually it goes on till around 1pm. Several people at the hospital said that they had been coming to the government facility for the past three days only to get an RT-PCR or a rapid antigen test done. A visit by an HT team to the district hospital found that sees a huge footfall of the Covid-19 symptomatic patients found the ground situation quite grim. The patients, many symptomatic and with children, said that they were also asked to get a photocopy of a local address proof if their Aadhaar cards did not carry a local address. “This is the third time that we have come to the hospital just to get the testing done. Day before yesterday, they told us to come on Monday, yesterday they told us that we will have to bring a local address proof since Aadhaar card had an address of Nainital. Today, we brought a photocopy of cooking gas connection but the guard asked us to come tomorrow. We are helpless,” said Diksha Negi, a 35-year old woman, accompanied by her two children, who visited the hospital for third day from her home in Sector 26. Vineeta Kundru, who lives in Gaur City, had come to the hospital with her ailing mother-in-law and faced the same issue. “We had been told to bring a local address proof. We came around 10.30 am but were informed that the testing had been stopped. My mother-in-law is having difficulty in breathing,” said Kundru. “I had the soft copy of my house rent agreement in my cellphone. But by the time we came back with its photocopy, the testing was stopped. A health worker here said that they have run out of kits. It feels like they are simply trying to suppress the sampling. I would go to a private hospital now,” said Kartik Sharma, a Noida-based engineer. Meanwhile, a health officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that they are unable to take samples for Covid tests as the hospital has run out of testing kits. “The truth is that we have run out of the testing kits. We have to face the patients and sometimes angry crowds,” said a health officer at the Covid testing centre of the hospital. Dr Renu Agarwal, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, could not be reached despite several calls and text messages. Meanwhile, GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri denied that there is any dearth of testing kits. “There are enough kits and there is no shortage at all. We are also not asking for any local address proof from any patients approaching a government facility to get their Covid tests done,” said Ohri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-district-hospital-runs-out-of-testing-kits-101618944038392.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Weekend lockdown in Ghaziabad, Noida||Ghaziabad and Noida will observe a weekend lockdown, from 8pm on Friday till 7am on Monday, starting this week, till further orders, state officials said on Tuesday.“During this period, there will be sanitisation and cleaning in different areas. Industrial units and essential supplies will continue and those travelling for examinations and for government work will be allowed upon the production of ID cards,” said Navneet Sehgal, UP’s additional chief secretary (information).On April 16, the state government issued directions for a shutdown from 8pm on Saturday to 7am on Monday.Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “We will implement the directions and night curfew will also be in place as directed,” he said.Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls seeking comment. Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city), said, “The closure will help control spread of infection and will also help us bolster our resources in the mean time. We are ensuring that supply of oxygen and other facilities to patients on time.”Experts welcomed the move. “This will help curb the spread of the infection. However, enforcement is equally important. Poor enforcement on the ground will mean the impact of the weekend closure will be lost, and the spread of infection will continue. It was a must for places like Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, where cases are on the rise,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/weekend-curfew-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-101618943978350.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, GB Nagar gasps for oxygen, Remdesivir||NOIDA: Amid an alarming surge in the Covid-19 cases, the hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar district are facing an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders. While the present requirement of oxygen in the district is 60 metric tonnes (MT) a day, the supply is less than 10 MT, officials said. Besides, the district is also facing a shortage of Remdesivir injections, which is used to treat Covid patients with moderate symptoms, the officials said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY admitted that as the demand of oxygen has gone up in the recent past, the hospitals are facing a severe crisis. “We are leaving no stone unturned to meet the rising demand of oxygen cylinders in our Covid-dedicated facilities. Though the factory of company -- Inox Air Products Limited -- that supplies oxygen to entire Delhi-NCR and western Uttar Pradesh is located in GB Nagar itself, it is unable to cater to the demand of oxygen in the district,” he said. “The state government has already ordered the factory to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to GB Nagar and other districts on top priority. The manufacturer has been asked to allow two working shifts in the unit, so that around 1,200 cylinders daily could be filled up, instead of present 700 cylinders in a single shift,” the DM said.Dr Shweta (who uses single name), in-charge of oxygen and medicines availability cell in the integrated Covid-19 control room in Sector 59, also said that the district has around 7 MT oxygen left against the present need of 60 MT.On Tuesday, GB Nagar recorded eight deaths due to Covid-19, which is the highest number of fatalities in a single day, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. With 640 new cases detected on Tuesday, the district now has 3,765 active cases.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that with the present stock of oxygen and Remdesivir injections, it will be really hard to deal with the rising number of positive cases. “On Tuesday, as per the official records, there was not even a single dose of Remdesivir in our stock. Also, around 20% of positive patients require help with breathing. The demand for oxygen has gone up at least five times after the second wave. We have informed the drug department about this paucity,” he said.When contacted, Vaibhav Babbar, the district drug inspector, said that the scarcity of oxygen is mainly due to widening gap between supply and demand. “The demand for oxygen has risen exponentially. We have asked the oxygen manufacturer to stop the supply of industrial oxygen to the factories in the district. The overall production capacity of this factory is 34 tonnes per day, of which around 30 tonnes per day is being produced at present. The manufacturer has been told to make supply of medical oxygen to the hospitals in the state. We are also arranging supply of oxygen from Modinagar,” he said.Babbar further said that Remdesivir injections are also being supplied to the hospitals. “But the supply is very low. We are trying to procure more injections,” he said.Doctors at different Covid-dedicated hospitals said that the paucity of oxygen is badly affecting the treatment of patients. A doctor of Sharda hospital, preferring anonymity, said that the average daily demand of oxygen, which was 10,800 cubic metres from January to March 2021, has gone up to 19,000 cubic metres in April. If the situation persists, it will really be tough time for us,” he said. When contacted, the head of medical supply at Inox Air Products Limited, Akash Kumar, refused to divulge the details of oxygen supply to GB Nagar district. “We are very much busy in ensuring critical supply of oxygen to our clients,” he said.Meanwhile, distress calls from Covid patients looking for Remdesivir and Oxygen continue across GB Nagar. On Sunday, a sector 52 resident admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida succumbed to the infection after his family could not find a dose of Remdesivir.“We had been posting on social media and calling up everyone we knew to get the patient Remdesivir which was prescribed by the doctors. However, there was no stock available anywhere. By evening, he passed away,” said Sachin Goyal, a relative of the patient and a resident of Sector 76.Residents are pulling all strings to arrange oxygen as well. Ashish Kapoor, a resident of Sector 30, was looking for an oxygen concentrator for his mother on Monday. “My mother is under home isolation, but on Sunday evening, her oxygen levels started dropping to about 85. After looking for it in Noida all Sunday, I ultimately had to go to Gurgaon to get the cylinder on Monday which was arranged by some contacts,” he said.Doctors say that there are no substitutes to Oxygen or Remdesivir for a Covid patient. “Remdesivir is only meant for moderate to severe hospitalised patients. On the other hand, if the patient has not been on oxygen ever in life (pre-Covid) and if they need oxygen for Covid management, they need to be admitted in hospital in appropriate level of care,” said Dr Mrinal Sircar, director (pulmonology & critical care), Fortis Hospital, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-gb-nagar-gasps-for-oxygen-remdesivir-101618943979086.html
