22-04-2021||Noida||Call centre duping foreign nationals on pretext of accident claims busted||Noida Police on Thursday arrested two persons who ran a call centre and duped foreigners of their money on the pretext of processing accident claims.The suspects were identified as Avnish Nagar, the owner and director of the centre, and Chandra Mohan Jha, the administrative head of the company, residents of Dadri and sector 44, respectively. According to police, the call centre had been operational since August, 2020 from H block sector 61.“A former employee of the company had approached the police after he was not paid. Following his complaint, a raid was conducted,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.“They had a contact in Australia who provided them with data of accident victims who were contacted through internet phone calls. The callers would offer to settle accident claims on behalf of the victims and would charge a certain sum from them following which they would stop responding to calls and move on. The amounts varied in each case and we are working on sorting the financials,” said the SHO.Police suspect there to be dozens of victims. Eighteen computer systems and phones were recovered from the spot and the equipment has been sent for a forensic probe following which the data will be analysed before further action is taken.The suspects were booked at the Phase 3 police station under sections 419 (Punishment for cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of IT Act.The duo was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/call-centre-duping-foreign-nationals-on-pretext-of-accident-claims-busted-101619115710914.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad’s home chefs, Good Samaritans come to the rescue of Covid patients in home isolation||Noida/Ghaziabad: With Covid-19 cases being reported from almost every locality, home cooks and Good Samaritans are stepping up and delivering meals to patients in home isolation. Sector 50 resident Parul Sachdeva, 50, has been getting over 30 to 40 calls ever since she started delivering food for Covid patients two weeks ago.“I get calls from Covid patients who want customised meals. Some want to have something light, while others just want soups. I serve them for ₹100 per meal. For senior citizens, the service is free,” said Sachdeva. She is listed on online delivery platforms to make deliveries across Noida and Greater Noida.Sector 29 resident Ashutosh Bhardwaj also started delivering home cooked food to Covid patients in home isolation last week on Friday. Bhardwaj was working in the hospitality sector in Rajasthan but due to coronavirus-induced curbs last year, he returned to Noida.“Since two weeks, there has been an explosion of Covid cases in the country. Being a hotel management professional, I thought doing something for the patients as I was just idle at home. I circulated a message on our local WhatsApp groups that I can deliver home cooked meals at residences of Covid patients in Noida. Soon, I was bombarded with calls,” said Bhardwaj. The 39-year-old has been making around 10 food deliveries per day since last week. “After a lockdown was imposed in Delhi, two of my helpers left for their home town and I was left with just one. Moreover, due to the night curfew in the district, I am only able to deliver lunch,” he said.Vishal Srivastava, a resident of Sector 137, was delivering home cooked food to his office colleague and his wife who got infected in the first week of April. “Now I am making around five deliveries around my apartment per day for ₹100 per thali which includes lentils, rice, roti and a mix vegetable with curd,” he said.Srivastava is one of the volunteers who signed up for an initiative started by Anupriya Singh, a home cook from Panchsheel Enclave, Delhi. “I decided to compile a list of all home cooks across Delhi-NCR who could volunteer to deliver meals for Covid patients. The list was circulated on social media last Friday and people across Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Delhi got connected,” said Singh who runs a platform for home cook called House of Kitchen.Indirapuram resident Farha Khadija also got connected through the initiative. “After my contact was circulated, I have been delivering 20 thalis per day to home isolation patients in Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara area. I have had to refuse to about 30 other queries as I do not have food in such a large quantity,” she said.Then there are those who do not cook thalis or light food but deliver snacks and supplements.Rajeev Malik, a resident of Sector 29, delivers snacks and Vitamin C supplements for free on Sundays.“I do not have resources to cook food but I wanted to do my bit for those affected by coronavirus. Hence, I decided to put together a small snacks packet with biscuits, some namkeen, glucose packet and vitamin C supplement tablets. However, soon after my number was circulated through WhatsApp groups, I started getting 75-80 calls a day,” said the 42-year-old who delivers the packets personally across Noida.Meanwhile, Kavi Nagar resident Mayank Chaudhary who runs a volunteer organisation Youth Network, delivers free food in Ghaziabad.“We spread the word about the initiative through social media on Sunday and since then we have been getting over 200 calls a day. We always ask callers to share their medical reports as we had some cases where people call just for the free food,” he said. The deliveries are contactless as the food packets are placed outside the house of the patients. He has been making deliveries in Kavi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Raj Nagar, Raj Nagar extension and Crossing Republik. Their volunteers also try to deliver medicines and other essentials to home isolation patients, which are chargeable. “We have tied up with a wholesale pharmaceutical manufacturer and try to deliver medicines prescribed to Covid patients in home isolation that are available. If the Covid patient also needs essentials, we deliver that as well. However, only the deliveries are free for this service and the cost of medicines and essentials has to be borne by the patients,” said Mayank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-s-home-chefs-good-samaritans-come-to-the-rescue-of-covid-patients-in-home-isolation-101619115651507.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Pregnant Covid positive women left with limited options in Noida||It took two days for Noida Sector 31 resident Utsav Kumar to find a bed for his pregnant and Covid positive wife Aditi Mittal and that too in Delhi.“She had a fever and her oxygen level was down to 93. She was earlier admitted at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida but we had to remove her from there as the staff was overworked and there was no one to look after her. We also tried to get admission at Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) hospital but no beds were available there as well,” said Kumar.In Gautam Budh Nagar, currently three hospitals -- GIMS, Sharda hospital and Fortis hospital -- are admitting Covid-19 pregnant women.Due to changes in their bodies and immune systems, pregnant women can be badly affected by some respiratory infections, according to the World Health Organization. Dr Nimmi Chutani, head of gynaecology department in Sharda Hospital admitted that the staff were under pressure. “We are getting at least four to five pregnant Covid patients at the hospital everyday and have conducted deliveries of three such women this month as well,” she said.At GIMS, officials say that there is a shortage of beds for all Covid patients. “The hospital currently has only 215 beds but there are 280 patients that we have to attend to. This includes four pregnant women,” said Prof. (Brig) Rakesh Gupta. He added that last year, pregnant women who tested positive for Covid were mostly asymptomatic. “This time, most pregnant women who test positive are showing symptoms. The situation is severe this time around,” he said.Dr Neha Mishra, associate professor at the department of obstetrics and gynaecology, GIMS, said that the hospital helped deliver three babies to Covid patients in the past three weeks who were also found to be Covid positive. She, however, could not confirm whether the virus was passed on from the mother. “We are getting four to five pregnant Covid positive patients per day but not all of them need to be admitted. Since the surge in Covid cases, we have helped eight such patients deliver,” said Dr Mishra.Officials at Fortis Hospital Noida also said that they are getting at least four to five Covid positive pregnant patients every day. “Since the hospital staff is overworked, we advise most of the mild and asymptomatic patients to take phone/video call consultations from our doctors so that they stay safe and can prevent spread of the virus further,” said Dr Aradhna Singh, senior consultant at department of gynaecology, Fortis Hospital Noida. The hospital has 100 beds in its Covid ward and there are two isolation beds in the labour room for Covid positive pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pregnant-covid-positive-women-left-with-limited-options-in-noida-101619115650949.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Private home isolation facility, at-home services help Covid patients in Noida||Noida: For 33-year-old Vikram Singh, isolating self after testing positive for Covid-19 in a two-bedroom flat with three other family members was proving to be a tough task. The Sector 62 resident, who works at a private firm located in the same sector, lives with his elderly parents and wife at Nirvana Apartments. “We started going to the office since January. In the second week of April, a colleague tested positive for coronavirus. Following this, all those who came in his contact were asked to isolate. I also got myself tested. On Sunday, my report came back positive and I also developed a fever. Doctors asked me to isolate myself,” he said.But Singh was finding it difficult to isolate in his 2BHK flat and decided to go to a private home isolation facility. “I found a private home isolation facility in Sector 58 where a room with an attached washroom, along with lunch and dinner, was available for ₹2,500 per day. Thinking about the safety of my wife and parents, I opted for it and moved there for a week,” he said.The private home isolation facility has been started in Noida by Your Space, a PG accommodation provider. With PG accommodations rendered empty, the rooms have been converted into a home isolation facility.“The home isolation facility is for asymptomatic to mild patients of coronavirus. We currently have a facility in Sector 58 which has 90 rooms and another one is coming up in Sector 62. Currently, 25 Covid-19 patients are using the facility in Noida,” said Venayak Gupta, head of growth, Your Space.Your Space is also running a home isolation facility with 35 rooms at Malviya Nagar in South Delhi, Gupta said. Meanwhile, at-home services like antibody tests are also gaining popularity among senior citizens in Noida. A private firm, Antara Assisted Care Services, is providing antibody tests and even X-rays at home for seniors in Delhi-NCR. With the recent wave of coronavirus, chest X-rays are done in order to be informed about any changes in lungs that may remain hidden from the patient in case of a false Covid test result.“The X-ray facility at home is available at a price of ₹2,500. Seniors no longer need to stand in long queues or change clothes before the test which allows for a hassle-free experience along with a minimized risk of infection,” said Vaibhav Poddar, CEO, Antara Assisted Care Services.Antibody tests are also being done at home for the senior citizens. “Antara provides this service to seniors at the comfort of their homes at a cost of ₹625. Antibody tests are a way to identify whether one’s body will be able to fight the virus. This helps seniors plan their future check-ups and medicine intake better. It acts as a warning for taking the necessary next steps,” said Poddar.Apart from this, the firm also provides pathology and rehabilitation services, and Covid nursing and attendant services for senior citizens.As Covid-19 cases increase rapidly, Antara officials said that the firms’ call centres are getting 800 queries a day from seniors, as against 100-150 calls a day earlier.“With the increase in cases, we are also witnessing an increase in demand for products such as oximeters, nebulizers, etc,” a statement from the firm said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-home-isolation-facility-at-home-services-help-covid-patients-in-noida-101619030984029.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Another fire at Behlolpur village, no casualty||Noida: Days after a massive fire gutted 150 shanties and claimed lives of two children in Behlolpur, another fire was reported from the village on Wednesday afternoon. The fire was reported around 3pm from a scrap godown in the area, police said, adding that there was no casualty in the incident.Police officials said that it took eight fire tenders to completely douse the fire. “The fire was controlled in about 40 minutes. There were no casualties in the incident,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.The officials said that some locals had burnt garbage in a vacant plot adjoining the godown and embers from that small fire got into the scrap causing the incident. There was no complaint in the incident either, they said.“Several industries are located here and people from Behlolpur and Chhajarsi villages often collect the leftover scrap that keeps accumulating. We will ask the Noida authority to look into the issue and take care of all illegal godowns. Some of them are a hazard waiting to happen,” said a senior police official.The Wednesday’s spot was near the place where 150 shanties had burnt down on April 11, leading to the death of two children. The incident had occurred due to a suspected short circuit and no FIR was registered in the case, police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/another-fire-at-behlolpur-village-no-casualty-101619030864086.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Man hoarding Remdesivir injections nabbed in Noida||Noida Police on Tuesday night arrested a man for allegedly hoarding Remdesivir injections and selling them at a high price.The suspect was identified as 30-year-old Rachit Ghai (30) from Delhi who had been residing in Noida’s sector 158 since March. According to police, he used to run a box manufacturing business in Delhi till last year, which went under during the lockdown.“He first sold the injections at a smaller profit margin to people he had come in contact through social media,” said Abhishek Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime.Ghai later allegedly sold the injections for between ₹15,000 to ₹40,000. The market price for the drug is between ₹899 to ₹4,000 depending on the manufacturer. Police said he sourced the injections from Chandigarh.“We are working on identifying who was providing him with the medicine and to how many people he had already sold the injections to. His accomplices, if any, are also being looked at,” said the DCP.In a joint operation of the sector 20 police with crime branch, Ghai was nabbed from near a private school in sector 29 on Tuesday night and police allegedly recovered 105 Remdesivir injections (100 made in India and five from Bangladesh) from his possession along with ₹1.54 lakh and a Santro car.He was booked at the sector 20 police station under sections 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Drugs and cosmetics Act and the Epidemic Act.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria on Monday asked doctors to exercise caution while prescribing Remdesivir to patients and said that the drug being used to treat Covid-19 was not a ‘magic bullet’. He advised doctors that the drug does not reduce mortality and is of no use if given to people with mild symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-hoarding-remdesivir-injections-nabbed-in-noida-101619030744093.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Noida traffic police make green corridor for oxygen tanker||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police on Wednesday afternoon created a green corridor for an oxygen tanker from Greater Noida to the DND Flyway, from where the Delhi Police escorted it to a private hospital in the national capital. The 30km green corridor was made from the factory of Inox Air Products Pvt Ltd, a leading oxygen supplier in Delhi-NCR, at Surajpur in Greater Noida to DND Flyway, officials said, adding that the tanker was carrying 14,000 litres of oxygen. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), GB Nagar, said that the oxygen manufacturer had requested the police to escort the tanker for safety. “A police team reached the firm’s plant in Greater Noida in the afternoon. The team made a green corridor and escorted the tanker to DND Flyway in 30 minutes. From there, a Delhi Police team escorted it to a hospital in the national capital,” he said. The DCP said that the traffic police will create green corridors for all oxygen tankers passing through Noida. The traffic police have also issued a helpline number – 9971009001 – for the oxygen cylinder providers if they need green corridor. “If people face difficulty in getting life saving medicines in their neighbourhood, they can also contact us. We will try to arrange the medicines and deliver to them,” Saha said. A senior official of the Delhi Police said that a green corridor is being made wherever there is a movement of oxygen cylinders in the capital.Despite repeated attempts, Abhishek Yadav, manager (sales) at Inox Air Products, could not be contacted for a comment. Meanwhile, according to news agency PTI, the Uttar Pradesh government has issued an order and stationed officers at the oxygen manufacturing plant in Greater Noida to check movement of oxygen cylinders. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY on Tuesday issued orders posting two senior officers round-the-clock at the Greater Noida factory of Inox Air Products. According to PTI, the officers will “be present at the company site during the allotted hours and ensure adequate supply of oxygen to Covid-19 hospitals” in the GB Nagar district, the order by Suhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-police-make-green-corridor-for-oxygen-tanker-101619030684199.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar allows industries to function during curfew||Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday registered four Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 118, according to the Uttar Pradesh health department bulletin on Wednesday. The district also recorded 536 cases taking the tally of positive cases to 32,133 and 4009 active cases. Government and private hospitals in the district faced shortage of oxygen. While the district required 60 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen a day, the supply was less than 10 MT. Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar, said that due to rise in the number of Covid patients, the oxygen demand had increased sharply. “There is acute shortage of oxygen in the hospitals but the supply has not stopped. We are trying to manage things with limited resources,” he said. Meanwhile, the GB Nagar district administration has allowed all the industrial units to function during the weekend curfew in the district. “The employees should produce their IDs when asked by the officials,” he said. The same will be implemented in Ghaziabad as well. The move comes after the Awnish Kumar Awasthi, addl chief secretary to UP government, issued a letter to the district administration and police on Wednesday. On April 16, the government had issued directions for shutdown from 8 pm on Saturday to 7am on Monday. On Tuesday, the government again issued the directions to extend the weekend curfew from Friday 8 pm till Monday 7am.Sudhir Shrivastava, Noida Entrepreneurship Association (NEA) vice president and spokesperson, welcomed the move. “The industries have already been closed for months and suffered losses. Now they function with limited workforce,” he said. NEA has around 3000 members who deal in various fields, like mobile phone accessories, ITs, garments, packaging, cable, etc. Shrivastava also said that the UP and Delhi government should make a coordination for enforcement. “We source some of our raw materials from Delhi, where the government has enforced a weeklong lockdown. We can’t buy any products from there now. If the enforcement continues, Noida industry will suffer. There should be a similar enforcement order for industries in both Noida and Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-allows-industries-to-function-during-curfew-101619030624053.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Private hospitals grapple with limited oxygen supply||Ghaziabad: The situation at St Joseph Hospital in Nandgram went out of hand for a brief moment when the hospital ran out of oxygen supply early Wednesday morning and officials were found running pillar to post to procure four cylinders and administer the life-saving gas to 25 patients on Covid beds. Lalit Goel, manager (operations) of St Joseph Hospital, said, “We ran out of oxygen around 4am. At least 25 patients were in need of oxygen at that moment. We somehow managed to arrange four cylinders from private sources and then reached out to the district administration for help. The oxygen supply was regularised later.” Goel added, “Nowadays, we require around 60-70 oxygen cylinders per day against the previous requirement of 30-35 cylinders. We are planning to install an oxygen generator that will be put in place in three to four days.” The shortage of oxygen supply has hit several hospitals in Ghaziabad. Officials familiar with the issue said the district needs about 46,000 cubic metre of oxygen supply per day but was getting only about 30,000 cubic metre of oxygen per day. An official familiar with the developments said that the city, on April 18, received about 12,700 cubic metre of oxygen supply, of which about 5,500 cubic metre was supplied to a single health care facility. Another private hospital, whose officials requested not to be named, said they were left with only five oxygen cylinders on Monday when at least 55 patients required the life-saving gas. “We repeatedly requested the authorities to regularise the supply and also arranged cylinders on our own from clinics and nursing homes known to us. On Tuesday, 70 more cylinders came and 50 were in operation,” said the officer from the second private hospital. In an official statement issued on April 20, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed that every hospital should have minimum 24 to 36 hours of oxygen backup with them. “We require about 400 cylinders of oxygen per day and the administration has assured that supply will be regularised. We are trying to add 20 more Covid beds. If we get the supply, we will be able to operate those beds at the earliest. Now, the oxygen supply to industries has stopped so we are expecting the supply to improve further. Our backup supply is being maintained as per cycle,” said Dr Sharad Agarwal, CEO of LeCrest Hospital in Vasundhara. Officials of the Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad, also held a a detailed meeting with the district magistrate and other officers on Wednesday afternoon and raised the issue of oxygen supply. “The hospitals are getting oxygen just-in-time and many hospitals have no backup of 24-36 hours. It is so as the demand has suddenly increased four times due to a surge in Covid-19 infections. There was sudden shortage at some hospitals in the last couple of days and we requested the administration officials to ensure such incidents don’t get repeated in future,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of IMA, Ghaziabad. During the meeting with IMA office-bearers, the administration said that they have formed a co-ordination committee comprising several officers, including IMA officials, to strengthen co-ordination. “The oxygen suppliers have been asked not to spread rumours that oxygen supplies are hampered. All the private hospitals are provided with oxygen supply as per their demand. It is also directed those private hospitals having minimum of 50 beds should reserve 10 beds for Covid,” read the statement from the administration. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and queries about the official figures of daily demand and supply, besides the issues being raised by the hospitals.  Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city) and nodal officer looking after oxygen supplies in the district, said the co-ordination committee will look after the demand and supply of oxygen to private hospitals. “There is gap but we are trying to manage during the times when demand suddenly increases. We have also made arrangements so that in case oxygen stock goes down in one hospital, nearby hospitals will be able to arrange oxygen for immediate help. We are trying to maintain demand and supply in the district,” he said admitting that the demand and supply figures were not readily available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-hospitals-grapple-with-limited-oxygen-supply-101619030325800.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Noida falls short on plasma, rarely any donors||Plasma banks in the city are running dry as very few donors have come forward, even as demand for the treatment is increasing.Plasma therapy involves removing antibody-containing plasma from the blood of a recently recovered Covid-19 patient and pumping it into a sick patient. Dr Satyam Arora, associate professor (research and transfusion medicine) at SSPHPGTI has been actively circulating messages and videos on social media to help encourage people to come forward to donate plasma. “In the past two weeks, the demand for plasma has surged heavily. However, there are barely any voluntary plasma donations. We receive over 10 requests from people looking for plasma but are able to fulfil the request of only 3 or 4 such people in a day. This is only after the attendant brings a donor of another blood group and then we exchange the plasma for the required blood group. Amidst this, there is nothing left for the bank as there are no voluntary plasma donations,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate launched a plasma bank on April 18 and tied up with Child PGI hospital to act as a bridge between plasma donors and those who require it. However, since it launched, only five civilians have come forward to donate plasma while over 400 requests have been registered at its helpline.“While five civilians came forward to donate, we could only take plasma from four of them as one of them was ineligible. From the police force, five personnel have donated plasma. The numbers are low because the eligibility criteria is that they should be recovered between March-April and the number is low. However, we are still under process to screen more personnel who will be eligible to donate,” said Meenakshi Katyayan, DCP, Gautam Budh Nagar Police.She added that those who have recovered between January to end of March this year are eligible to donate plasma. Between January 15, 2021 (24952 total recoveries) and April 15, 2021 (25703 total recoveries), 751 patients from Gautam Buddh Nagar district have recovered from coronavirus.She added that currently 85 police personnel are infected with Covid-19 and the officials hope that once they recover, they will donate to the plasma bank.The situation is similar at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida as well. As per officials, the plasma bank here has not had any voluntary plasma donations since January. “In the last two weeks, many of hospital doctors who had recovered from Covid ended up donating plasma to save lives of Covid patients,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson from Sharda Hospital, Greater Noida.He added that the plasma banks are rendered empty as to treat Covid patients today, plasma is required from a patient who has recovered anywhere between January to April 1. “Since Covid cases were very less at that time, hence not many people are even eligible to donate. However we hope Covid patients that leave after recovering shall come back to donate after 15 days in order to help others recover,” he said.Manish Kumar, a resident of Greater Noida west who has been helping friends and family arrange plasma for Covid patients, said that many are not coming forward to donate because of a scare of Covid. “To donate plasma, a person has to spend over 2 hours at a hospital. These days with Covid cases rising and happening to those too who had it earlier, voluntary donations are becoming lesser and lesser,” he said.The medical community, however, is divided over the efficacy of the treatment.“A patient benefits from plasma therapy if the he/she requires oxygen and his/her duration of illness is less than 10 days. The idea of Plasma donation is that we are transferring readymade antibodies in a sick person who’s own body will take time to make its own,” said Dr Mrinal Sircar, Director - Pulmonology & Critical Care, Fortis Hospital, Noida.“Studies have shown that plasma therapy has a limited role and is not of much use,” Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-falls-short-on-plasma-rarely-any-donors-101619030325145.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Denied test at Ghaziabad hospital, 65-year-old Delhi woman dies in ambulance||A 65-year-old woman from Delhi died in an ambulance at the MMG District Hospital on Wednesday afternoon after health care workers at the Sanjay Nagar combined district hospital told to go there for her Covid-19 test, her family alleged. The dead woman was identified as Sunita Kakkar, resident of Krishna Nagar. Sandeep Chaddha, her son-in-law who took her to Ghaziabad on Wednesday, said, “After not getting beds in Delhi on Tuesday, we turned to Ghaziabad and visited several hospitals but could not find a bed. We then reached the testing booth at Sanjay Nagar and the staff there asked us to go to MMG Hospital.” At MMG hospital, her sample was taken up around 12.15pm and she died around 12.30pm, he said. “Her oxygen supply in the ambulance had exhausted by then,” said Chaddha. “If the test would have been conducted at Sanjay Nagar booth, she would have been saved. Instead, we had to suffer traffic to reach MMG Hospital, which is about 5kms away. When her rapid antigen test report arrived, she tested positive for Covid.”Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar district hospital said that the testing booth staff, is attached to the office of the chief medical officer (CMO). CMO Dr NK Gupta said he will inquire into the incident. “We will get it inquired,” he added. The UP government recently issued directions on April 17 about “presumptive patients” and said that those having Covid-like symptoms but testing negative in reports, should be treated like Covid patients. When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and did not respond to detailed query sent to him about the issue. In another incident, a 62-year-old man from Vinod Nagar (East) in Delhi collapsed on a road in Vaishali on Monday evening after his son took him on a bike to hospitals in Ghaziabad in order to get him admitted. The state control room records indicated that the Ghaziabad district recorded a single day high of a total of eight deaths on Wednesday. With this, the overall tally of Covid-related deaths has gone up to 117. Overall 15 deaths have taken place so far in the month of April.“Of the eight deaths, two took place at Santosh Hospital while five took place at Rama Hospital. The patients were in critical condition. At our end, we are trying best to give treatment to patients,” CMO Dr NK Gupta, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/denied-test-at-ghaziabad-hospital-65-year-old-delhi-woman-dies-in-ambulance-101619030264179.html
