02-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Plea seeks mental health facilities in schools, colleges||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the city government on a plea for constituting mental health establishments, including clinics and centres in each district, schools, and colleges.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS) on the plea by a 17-year-old student seeking directions to implement the Mental Health Act, 2017, in educational institutions. The petition said that children and adolescents are vulnerable to mental disorders and pointed out that the healthcare system does not prioritise mental health.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Sonia Singh argued that stress, fear, depression, insomnia, disconnectedness and lack of self-confidence are widely prevalent among students.“There is no comprehensive assessment, evaluation, and diagnostics/protocols/standard operating procedures (SOP) regarding mental health of students in contrast with physical health where assessment and follow up is done at periodic intervals,” the petition read.The plea also said that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a huge psychological impact on students, resulting in “acute and chronic stress because of parental anxiety, disruption of daily routines, increased family violence, and home confinement with little or no access to peers, teachers, or physical activity”.It has sought mandatory presence of clinical psychiatrists, counsellors, social workers and mental health professionals in each school and college of the district to assess the mental health of students.It is also sought a direction to the authorities to implement the National Mental Health programme for the benefit of students and to conduct a mental health survey regularly.The matter will be heard on September 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-plea-seeks-mental-health-facilities-in-schools-colleges-101627928969210.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Sporadic rains continue in Noida, intensity to drop||Noida: Against the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall, Noida only received a light drizzle on Monday morning, although the mercury did drop from the previous day. According to the department, weather conditions are still in favour of rain but the intensity is likely drop over next few days.On Monday, the city received only 2mm rain, according to records collected from Sunday 5.30pm to Monday 8.30am. “Some of the areas of NCR did receive moderate rains, while most did not. There are chances of rains everyday however the intensity will be low over next three to four days. The rain would mostly be patchy as the low pressure monsoon trough is oscillating. The rainfall intensity may pickup from August 5. The mercury will remain below normal,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.“Tuesday is likely to be cloudy sky with possibility of light rain. The max temperature is likely to hover around 33 degrees Celsius,” said an official at IMD.On Monday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 33.5°C and was 26.8°C, respectively as against 35.7°C (max) and 24.6°C (min) a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 32.7°C, two degrees below the season’s average and 26.1 °C, one degree below the season’s average, respectively. The humidity oscillated between 95 to 76 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sporadic-rains-continue-in-noida-intensity-to-drop-101627928968623.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Noida black money case: Cops get custody of mastermind, more gold recovered||Noida police on Monday said they got custody of the alleged mastermind behind the theft of nearly 40kg gold from a flat in Greater Noida last year, the accidental discovery of which led police to believe that they had stumbled upon a black money racket.Police identified the mastermind by a single name as Gopal from Ghaziabad who surrendered before a Delhi court on July 10 following which the Noida police got a two-day custody on Saturday.“We got the custody extended till 5pm Monday and based on information we could gather from questioning him, managed to recover a 1kg gold bar from his home in Ghaziabad,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay SIngh.Police said the case was first discovered after two gold bars were recovered on June 11 from two suspects - Rajan Bhati and Arun alias Chatri - following a tip. Their questioning led to the arrest of four more suspects - Ajay Singh, Neeraj, Anil and Bittu Sharma. In total, police recovered nearly 13kg of gold from them and ₹57 lakh. Further investigations led police to a flat in Greater Noida owned by senior advocate Kislay Pandey and that the gang had stolen the items from there in August last year. But police records had no complaint reported in this regard leading police to believe that they may have discovered contraband.The Panday family has vehemently denied any connection with the gold.Police said Pandey had extortion cases against him filed in Gurugram and Delhi. They said that on June 26, they arrested a man named Sunny from whom they recovered more gold and property documents that purportedly belonged to Panday. Panday moved the high court stating that these had been planted by the police.Last month, the investigation was transferred from the Noida Sector 39 police to the Sector 20 police to allay any “apprehensions of bias”.Police said Monday’s search of Gopal’s home also threw up recently purchased property in Loni worth ₹65 lakh. Police believe there is more gold to be discovered from the theft and they were questioning Gopal for it.“Gopal told us that he got to know of the flat and its valuables from Panday’s driver Pradeep who was arrested earlier. He has also suggested the involvement of one of Panday’s friends whose role will also be investigated,” said Singh, adding that they are yet to clearly establish the origins of the gold.Two more suspects, who had been involved in the heist, are still at large and efforts are underway to nab them, said police.Noida police had also sent a notice to Panday on June 20 to join the investigation which they claim remains unanswered even now. “We are now consulting with our legal teams to take direct action against Panday,” said a senior police officer.Police believe the net worth of the stolen goods could be to the tune of ₹40 crore that the suspects may have distributed among themselves after the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-black-money-case-cops-get-custody-of-mastermind-more-gold-recovered-101627928909027.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Delinking of NPA: Doctors boycott work at Ludhiana’s govt hospitals||Up in arms against delinking of non-practicing allowance (NPA) from basic pay in line with the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations, government doctors at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon, and 10 community health centres have boycotted work for three days.All outpatient, inpatient and non-emergency services, including elective surgeries, will remain suspended from Monday to Wednesday with over 400 Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) doctors joining the protest on the call of the Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee.Only emergency, Covid, post-mortem and medico/vetro-legal services will continue uninterrupted.With no access to OPD services, hundreds of patients returned dejected from the civil hospitals on Monday. To register their protest, PCMS Association and joint committee members also locked the office of the civil surgeon for three days.Association member Dr M Bhasin alleged, “By cutting down the salaries of doctors, the government is turning healthcare over to private hands. We are not protesting for individual but public interest.”“Low-paying government jobs will not be lucrative for doctors. This will naturally impact the government health sector and the underprivileged will suffer,” said Dr Harpreet Sekhon, another member.Committee member Dr Rohit Rampal said, “Despite our protests, the government remains unmoved. So, we have decided to stop the functioning of the civil surgeon’s office as well.”Vets on strike for two daysJoining the protest, veterinarians at 110 government dispensaries across the district have also proceeded on strike till Tuesday.On Monday, they locked the office of deputy director, animal husbandry department in Civil Lines, and suspended work from 10am to noon.Only vetro-legal, emergency and postmortem services were provided. Department’s deputy director Dr Paramdeep Singh Walia and assistant director Dr Neelam Grover also participated in the protest organised by the Punjab State Veterinary Officers’ (PSVO) Association.“Veterinarians have been protesting for over five weeks, but the government has failed to pay heed. Delinking of NPA will result in reduction of basic pay. Further the allowances and incentives, calculated on the basis of basic pay, will also be reduced,” said association general secretary Dr Darshan Kheri.District president Dr Chatinder Singh said, “Our demands are genuine. We will intensify the agitation if the cabinet sub-committee formed by the government does not respond positively by Tuesday.”Besides the PCMS and PSVO doctors, members of the Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association are also protesting against the delinking of the NPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delinking-of-npa-goctors-boycott-work-at-ludhiana-s-govt-hospitals-101627928908517.html
02-08-2021||Gurugram||Fraud: 20-yr-old pays ₹9,000 for smartphone, gets glass slab||A 20-year-old Delhi resident who works in the city was duped of ₹9,000 by an unidentified person, who sold him a smartphone that later turned out to be a glass slab, at the Sector 52 crossing on Monday, the police said.Shivam Mishra, a resident of Rohini in Delhi, works as support staff at a private hospital in Sector 43. Around 2.30pm on Monday, he was waiting for an autorickshaw to travel from Sector 57 to the Huda City Centre Metro station when the phone seller accosted him.Mishra said the man was travelling on a scooter and intercepted him on his way. “He took out a pouch from his bag and showed me a new mobile phone worth ₹34,000 and offered it to me at a hugely discounted price. He told me that he is a Jaipur resident and works with a mobile manufacturing company. He said he was in urgent need of money,” he said.Mishra also inspected the phone and finalised a deal for ₹9,000. After paying the money, the seller left the spot before he could open it, claiming he was in a hurry. “He fled on a scooter. I tried to open the pouch but it got stuck,” he said.Mishra said that the pouch was sealed with hard adhesive and it took him 10 minutes to tear it off and find the glass slab inside it.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “Similar modus operandi was reported earlier in 2014 and six gangs were arrested. Many awareness programmes were launched and hoardings were installed but they are active once again.”The police said they are checking criminal records of repeat offenders and tracking their numbers to check for their involvement. Also, CCTV footage from the location is being checked, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fraud20yrold-pays-9-000-for-smartphone-gets-glass-slab-101627928847768.html
02-08-2021||Gurugram||MCG plans to redevelop ponds to mitigate waterlogging||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to redevelop ponds across the city to mitigate localised waterlogging and recharge the groundwater table, and is in the process of constituting a committee for the same, officials said on Monday.The matter of developing localised ponds was brought up by MCG ward councillor Anoop Singh during the civic body’s House meeting last Saturday.“Waterlogging has been a perennial issue in the city. However, the issue has worsened, especially in the past five years. Hence, MCG should ensure that the remaining ponds in the city are redeveloped so that they can hold rainwater and a committee should be formed in this regard,” Singh had said in the House.Following this, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that mayor Madhu Azad agreed to form a committee in this regard. Ahuja also sought details from MCG chief engineer, TL Sharma, on the total number of ponds falling within the MCG area.Sharma said that overall, there are 135 such ponds in the municipal area and the MCG has already taken up work on 37 ponds.Officials on Monday said that setting up ponds near Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, MG Road, Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road, New Railway Road, Old Railway Road, Basai Road and Dwarka Expressway will help residents.Azad said she has sought details from MCG officials on the exact number of ponds falling within the municipal area, as per the revenue records. “Most ponds, as per our knowledge, have been illegally encroached upon. The objective of the committee will be to examine water bodies that have the potential to be redeveloped, along with their catchment area, so that rainwater can be channelised towards it. Besides waterlogging, the ponds will also help check the depleting groundwater table,” said Azad.Gurugram’s water table has been falling at an alarming rate. As per agricultural department data, the city’s water table has fallen from 33.2 metres in 2018 to 38.7 metres in March this year.Azad said that the committee, consisting of councillors and officials, will submit a report on the matter by the end of this month.“Ward councillors have informed me about dried ponds in areas such as Sukhrali and Subhash Nagar that can be redeveloped to mitigate waterlogging in residential areas as well as key stretches such as MG Road, Old Railway Road and New Railway Road, among others. The matter is being taken up on priority,” said Azad.MCG officials said that the civic body has identified dried ponds near Baliawas village, Jhazgarh, Basai village, information of which will be shared with the committee once it is formed.“Due to their geographical locations, the aforementioned areas already have natural rainwater channels, the paths of which will have to be cleared, and the pond or catchment area excavated and cleaned. The committee can start with such areas before proceeding to other parts of the city,” a senior MCG, wishing not to be named, said.Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmentalist, said, “A committee of councillors and MCG officials alone wouldn’t be able to revive water bodies. They also need to include environmentalists and engineers with past experience of reviving water bodies. Otherwise, mistakes such as concreting Badshahpur drain would be made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-plans-to-redevelop-ponds-to-mitigate-waterlogging-101627928791519.html
02-08-2021||Other||BJP’s two new depts to arm cadres in UP with ‘knowledge power’||LUCKNOW Months ahead of the UP assembly elections, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set up two new departments to arm its cadres with knowledge about the party’s ideology and various initiatives undertaken by it for the poor, women and marginalised sections of society. These two departments – documentation vibhag (department of documentation) and granthalaya e-pustakalay vibhag (department for e-libraries) – to be set up across all party offices in UP will serve the twin purpose. “It’s important for the cadres to know their party, its ideology, initiatives and its history,” a senior BJP leader said while explaining the reason for setting up the new departments. Since 2014 Lok Sabha polls, various leaders not rooted in the philosophy of ‘vichar parivar’, as the RSS-BJP and affiliates ideologically aligned with it are referred to, have joined the party. “With 2022 UP polls due in about seven months’ time, more leaders from other parties could be imported. But once in BJP, these leaders would have to embrace the party’s ideology too,” party leaders said. The BJP has been setting up offices in all 75 districts of the state. It has set up offices in 53 districts so far, and by November, the party would have its offices in 69 districts. “As of now, we have procured 8,000 books for the e-library and soon all our district offices would have their own libraries,” a BJP leader said. “Cadres of a party with such a great legacy as ours have to know the past and of course, the golden present,” a party leader said. TD Degree College, Ballia librarian Ram Milan Ram, who has been named the state convenor of the ‘granthalaya e-pustakalaya vibhag’, said: “We have plans to procure books on all political leaders, great personalities including those from other political parties.” The libraries at the BJP offices would have books on all BJP greats, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a BJP leader said. “The libraries would also serve as resource centres to arm the cadre with details of various initiatives. The larger plan is to also have material on issues like farm laws, or the party’s service activity during the peak of Covid wave, available in these libraries so that the cadres could arm themselves with facts and counter the opposition bluff,” a BJP leader said. Rajkumar, convener of the documentation department, said: “Documenting the party’s rise since those initial days isn’t a one-time exercise. It’s an ongoing work, one that will help generation next stay abreast of the party’s struggles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjps-two-new-depts-to-arm-cadres-in-up-with-knowledge-power-101627928728784.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual staff’s strike to affect bus services in Ludhiana on August 3, 4||The Punjab Roadways and PRTC Contractual Employees Union has announced a two-hour strike from 10am to 12pm on August 3 and 4 to protest against the delay in regularisation of contractual staff. During the strike, the employees will close the entry gate of the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal in Ludhiana, denying entry to bus operators. Movement of over 100 buses is expected to be hit due to the strike. The union has also announced a three-day strike from August 9, as part of which a protest will be staged outside the house of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh or state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on August 10.Union’s district president Shamsher Singh said, “The government had promised to regularise the contractual staff before the 2017 Assembly Elections, but four years later no steps have been taken in this regard. State transport minister Razia Sultana had also assured to fulfil our demand in a recent meeting. We will start an indefinite strike if the government fails to act soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-staff-s-strike-to-affect-bus-services-in-ludhiana-on-august-3-4-101627928667850.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Rain chips away at phase 4 of Delhi-Meerut Expressway||The soil has given way at several places along the Delhi-Meerut Expressway due to the several spells of rain over the past few days causing some damage to the road, said officials from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The troubles are especially stark on the 32km phase-4 of the expressway between Dasna and Meerut, which was built after the authority moved in tonnes of earth to elevate the section. “I commute daily to Ghaziabad from Bhojpur and find such damage at several places on both sides of the road,” said Mahesh Sharma, a resident of Modinagar. “It is a risk for traffic, and especially for the bigger commercial vehicles that often park on roadside. At night, they may not even see the damage. It must be immediately repaired,” said Pintu Kumar, another commuter. NHAI officials acknowledged the problem but said the quality of construction was not in question. The expressway was opened in April this year and so this was its first monsoon test, they said. “We faced something similar when we opened up the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. The loose soil gave way because of the rain over the last few days. Our teams are working on the problem and it will be rectified within three days,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. “We have put up blinkers and safety signs at the spots to prevent any risk to commuters.”Since the monsoon was officially announced in the region on July 13, Ghaziabad has received an average of about 113mm rain, which is 54% below normal.The Dasna to Meerut stretch serves around 40,000-50000 passenger car units (PCU, which is a measure of traffic that covers different vehicles and makes) per day. It also provides bypass connectivity route for fast moving long distance commuters between Delhi, Uttarakhand and other parts of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rain-chips-away-at-phase-4-of-delhi-meerut-expressway-101627928607754.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Work on boundary wall around Noida airport project to begin soon||Two days after the Uttar Pradesh government handed over 1,334 hectares to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) for the international airport project at Jewar, the Noida International Airport Limited (Nial) on Monday allowed the company to construct a boundary wall around the site. YIAPL is a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International, the Swiss company that will develop the airport. “We have given permission to construct a boundary wall and other such works at the site to the concessionaire. The work on boundary wall is likely to begin within a week,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Nial, the UP government’s nodal agency for the mega project. On July 31, the state government signed a licence agreement with YIAPL, formalising the transfer of land for the construction of the ₹30,000 crore Noida international airport project. Officials said YIAPL, along with the Gautam Budh Nagar administration, is also preparing the foundation stone laying ceremony that is likely to be held by the end of this month. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath may attend the event. Meanwhile, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), in its board meeting on Monday, approved a master plan of the airport project after incorporating suggestions from the ministry of civil aviation and the Airports Authority of India about area of parking space and passenger utility services, among others, the officials said. Now, Nial will make sure work at the airport site begin as per the approved master plan, they said.Under the public-private partnership model, Zurich Airport International will get 40 years to design, build, finance, operate and then transfer the project to the government. The airport is likely to start operations in 2024 with two runways and will expand to have five runways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-boundary-wall-around-noida-airport-project-to-begin-soon-101627928607153.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces new set of Covid-19 relaxations: All you need to know||Maharashtra government on Monday announced a new set of relaxations to Covid-19 norms in 14 districts. The relaxations were issued to allow gradual resumption of economic activity in the state. However, 11 districts were excluded from the ambit of these relaxations due to high Covid-19 caseload and decisions regarding Mumbai, Thane and Mumbai suburban districts were left to the local administration.Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad, and Palghar continue to remain under strict curbs. However, Mumbai was later allowed relaxations as shops were allowed to remain open till 10pm on all days and restaurants were allowed to open till 4pm all days by the Brihanmumbai municipal corporation (BMC).Maharashtra recorded 4,869 fresh cases, taking its tally to 6,315,063. The death toll rose to 133,038 with 90 fresh fatalities. Mumbai recorded three deaths and 259 fresh cases on Monday. Maharashtra has 75,303 active Covid-19 cases.Here is all you need to know about the new relaxations:1. Shops can remain open till 10pm in Mumbai on all days2. Restaurants all allowed to remain open till 4pm on all days in Mumbai3. Shooting for films and television allowed during specific timings in Mumbai4. Cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres will remain closed in Mumbai as well as across the state5. Malls and theatres will remain closed in Mumbai6. Government and private offices can be operational with full capacity in the districts where relaxations were announced7. Local trains will be operational for people involved in essential services8. Private offices will remain open till 4 pm on weekdays in Mumbai barring those belonging to essential services9. Public grounds and gardens will remain open on all days between 5 am and 9 am10. Gymnasiums, yoga centres, hair cutting salons and beauty parlours will remain open till 8 pm on weekdays and till 3pm on Saturdays and open with 50% capacity11. All indoor and outdoor sports activities except for swimming pools and all other sports where close physical contact is required are allowed in Mumbai(With inputs from Swapnil Rawal and Mehul R Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-new-set-of-covid-19-relaxations-all-you-need-to-know-101627928317898.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Four snatchers land in police net||Police have recovered 27 mobile phones and two stolen vehicles with the arrest of four members of two different snatchers’ gangs.According to police, all accused are drug addicts and turned to crime to fuel their addiction.Two men – Kristan Saggu, alias Karan, of Sukhdev Nagar and Rahul Kumar, alias Bengali, of Mohalla Basant Nagar – were arrested by the Shimlapuri police on Sunday.“The duo was nabbed near Saggu Chowk following secret information. They were riding a motorcycle from Gurmukh Road to Gill Canal Bridge when a police team stopped them. On being questioned, they failed to produce the two-wheeler’s documents and confessed that they had stolen it to execute snatchings,” said Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2).On frisking them, the police recovered 11 mobile phones that they had snatched from across the city and also seized the two-wheeler.Similarly, the Meharban police arrested Murad Ali, alias Nani, of Basti Jodhewal and Vinay Kumar, alias Rinku, alias Sagar, of Prem Vihar, Tibba Road.“They were stopped at a naka on Rahon Road near Bajda village and a search of their scooter led to recovery of 16 mobile phones. The scooter also turned out to be stolen from the same area,” said ADCP (City 4) Rupinder Kaur Sra. She said the accused were active for the past three months and would snatch mobile phones from labourers after threatening them with sharp-edged weapons.Murad originally hails from Bhoota village in Nawanshahr. Separate cases of snatching and dishonestly receiving stolen property have been registered against the four accused. Police are looking into their past criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianafour-snatchers-land-in-police-net-101627928428679.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana govt schools reopen to poor attendance||Suspended over five months ago in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, physical lessons for pre-primary to Class 9 resumed at government and govt-aided schools in Ludhiana on Monday.However, even as it was the beginning of the new academic session, the attendance remained poor. In absence of vaccination, most parents, especially those of pre-primary students, were hesitant in letting their wards attend school. Other classes also reported lukewarm response.Classes 10 to 12 had already resumed on July 26. For students still not willing to attend school over Covid concerns, online classes will continue.At Government Primary School (GPS), Gobind Nagar, only 80 of the 500 enrolled students reported on Day 1. Students were accommodated while maintaining social distancing norms. Having a strength of 1,000 students, GPS, Chanan Devi, saw 100 students turning up, while at GPS, Model Gram, only two of the 114 students were present.Kanwaljit Kaur, the officiating in-charge of GPS, Gobind Nagar, said, “We contacted all parents, but several are away from Ludhiana in their hometowns. We are hopeful that the attendance will improve in the coming days.” GPS, Haibowal Kalan, welcomed the tiny tots with students of senior classes playing the band. School head Shivani Sood said, “We prepared bouquets for the students and also readied refreshments. The premises were sanitised for the children’s safety.” Here, as many as 529 of the 1,481 students showed up.Private schools also open their doors Some private schools also reopened for in-person classes on Monday. Nankana Sahib Public School on Gill Road reported 70% attendance in Classes 1 to 9. All branches of Green Land schools and DAV Public School, Pakhowal Road, reopened for Classes 10 to 12. DCM Presidency School resumed classes for students of Classes 6 to 9, with Classes 10 to 12 already underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-govt-schools-reopen-to-poor-attendance-101627928309215.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC launches crackdown on polythene, seizes 125kg bags||Aiming to rid the city of plastic waste, the municipal corporation kickstarted a drive against polythene bags on Monday.Nearly 125kg plastic bags were confiscated by MC teams during raids at shops and vegetable markets in Field Ganj, Khud Mohalla, Baba Than Singh Chowk and Chandigarh road.Of this, bags weighing around 85kg were confiscated from one Khud Mohalla shop alone. Fines totaling ₹1 lakh were issued to the defaulters.The shopkeepers resisted the MC action, but the drive continued in the presence of police force. Fearing seizures, several others downed their shutters.On July 21, mayor Balkar Sandhu had announced a ban on plastic carry bags from August 1. A 13-member team, led by MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon, was formed to carry out to enforce the ban and challan the defaulters.Sekhon said, “The shopkeepers need to settle the challans in three days, else these will be forwarded to court. The material seized will be disposed of. The drive will continue and violators will face action.”During the raids, the MC team also appealed to customers to bring their own fabric bags for shopping and acknowledged those who were seen already carrying them.Under the Solid Waste Management and Cleanliness and Sanitation Bylaws, 2020, a maximum challan of ₹20,000 can being issued if more than 5kg plastic bags are confiscated from a shop.Carrying even bags up to 100gm can invite a challan of ₹2,000.MC officials said soon a drive will also be launched to challan residents found carrying plastic bags.Though a ban on plastic bags has been in place in Punjab since April 2016, the Ludhiana MC has failed to rein in their use.Apart from to political interference, pressure from the plastic industry has also derailed MC’s efforts on multiple occasions, allowing plastic bag use to continue unabated. Even on Monday, shopkeepers tried to avoid action by calling up representatives of different political parties and local leaders.Ban on single-use plastic hangs fireThe municipal corporation (MC) General House had also approved a resolution against single-use plastic articles. However, in the absence of a notification regarding the list of items to be banned, the MC team has failed to commence a drive.The MC House had taken the decision over two weeks ago on July 14, citing damage to the environment and blockage of sewer lines due to dumping of plastic waste. But, a list of articles to be banned is still awaited.Sekhon said they will proceed with action once the higher authorities finalise the articles to be banned.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said various plastic items, like drinking straws, mineral water bottles, cups, plates and spoons, were meant for single-use and it will be a Herculean task to check their use.There’s also the question of materials made out of thermocol material.The official said along with plastic carry bags, the government had banned use of disposable thermocol items in 2016. But through an amendment use of some thermocol articles, like plates, cups, etc, was permitted. However, a fresh notification has not been issued in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-launches-crackdown-on-polythene-seizes-125kg-bags-101627928128542.html
02-08-2021||Lucknow||Feel blessed that my acting passion is helping others: Ravi||Lafangey Nawab and Shashank actor Ravi Sudha Choudhary chose the production route to become an actor. Already established in pharma industry, his itch toward the creative field made him make a switch. “The route to become an actor is actually very hard and had I taken the theatre or audition way, it would have taken ages. So, I started with making films and in the process of shoots and workshops, I kept learning. Having seen my work, I got chance to work with other makers and am doing their projects as well,” says Ravi on his visit to Lucknow where he has shot four projects. Hailing from Purania in Bihar, he tells us about his journey. “I started with production of Kashi to Kashmir directed by Sanoj Mishra which we shot in Lucknow, Varanasi, Srinagar and other cities. I did a character role in it to understand the nuances of acting. Then I did Lafangey… where I played an antagonist, gradually followed by Rasook and Luckywood — all of them different production houses.” The actor-producer also plays the protagonist in yet-to-release film Shashank which is based on a struggling actor inspired by late Sushant Singh Rajput and was also shot in the state capital. Ravi confesses that he started production to establish himself in acting but feels blessed that it’s benefiting other actors as well. “It’s true that I started making films to become an actor but now realise that so many artistes and technicians are getting work and chance to showcase their skill. I agree that one needs to do theatre and train himself, but if you have the fire and desire then you can achieve things in shorter time which people take decades to get. I was 122 kgs and lost 50 kgs of weight in a bid to become an actor, I have worked very hard on myself and learnt everything on the way.” His next web-film has also been shot in Lucknow, Sitapur, Kanpur, Mirzapur and Auraiya. “Film Sitapur: The City of Gangsters is inspired by real incidents that have happened in past.” The actor and film maker says his project is not inspired by highly successful Mirzapur series. “The similarity is that we too have a name of a city and it’s in same genre but our story is completely different so is the treatment. The story revolves around student politics, crime, revenge and love which is common everywhere,” he says and adds that he will be back in city soon to shoot another project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/feel-blessed-that-my-acting-passion-is-helping-others-ravi-101627927827682.html
02-08-2021||Other||Rename Firozabad as Chandra Nagar, demands panchayat||LUCKNOW In an apparent push to politics over change of names, the district panchayat of Firozabad passed a resolution demanding rechristening of Firozabad as Chandra Nagar. “A resolution seeking change in the name of Firozabad district has been passed in the district panchayat’s meeting,” said Deshraj Singh, an officer of district panchayat, without giving any further details about the proposal. Those aware of development said the block pramukh of Firozabad, Laxmi Narain Yadav, moved the proposal at the meeting of the district panchayat on Saturday. “I moved the proposal demanding renaming of Firozabad district as Chandra Nagar. This was the first proposal at the meeting and was adopted by a voice vote without any opposition,” said Yadav, former president of Firozabad district BJP and now the block pramukh of Firozabad. “This is the area of King Chandrasen. It was known after him as Chandravar Nagar till about 1560 AD. Later, a representative of emperor Akbar named Firoz Shah visited the area and the place was named after him as Firozabad. The demand to rename Firozabad as Chandra Nagar has been raised time and again. I have information that the district panchayat has already forwarded the proposal to the district magistrate and the same will be forwarded to the state government,” said Yadav. District panchayat president Harshita Singh was not available for comment. District magistrate (Firozabad) Chandra Vijay Singh also remained unavailable. The district’s official website, however, reads: ‘Firozabad was known in ancient times as Chandrawarnagar.” Known for making glass bangles, Firozabad is one among 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh. The district headquarters are situated in Firozabad city at a distance of about 285 km west of Lucknow and about 40 km east of Agra, the city of Taj Mahal. Major opposition parties reacted strongly to the demand to rename the district. “The district panchayat has passed resolution obviously at the behest of the BJP government that has been indulging in changing names. The BJP government has not been able to work on any other front including bringing about development,” said Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary. District Congress Committee (Firozabad) president Sandeep Tiwari said the proposal was a part of the BJP’s tactics to divert attention from the main issues. “The BJP wants to divert attention from main issues in view of 2022 assembly elections. Firozabad is facing problems on the power supply front and drains are overflowing due to rains. The party wants to divert attention from issues of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rename-firozabad-as-chandra-nagar-demands-panchayat-101627926507729.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon: Scattered rain to continue in Chandigarh||While many parts of Chandigarh remained largely dry on Monday, heavy showers were witnessed on the eastern fringes, with the airport observatory recording 70 mm rain.It led to waterlogging on Madhya Marg and other roads towards the eastern end of the city, and also rose the level of Sukhna Lake to 1161.4 feet. The danger mark for the lake is 1163 feet when its floodgates are required to be opened. In comparison, only 2.1 mm rain was recorded at the observatory of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Sector 39, which lies towards the city’s west.According to IMD officials, such scattered showers are likely to continue in the coming days as well. “Such scattered showers usually take place during the monsoons due to the cloud formations. Even in previous years, it has been observed that it may rain in some sectors while others remain dry,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh. He said such a pattern is likely to continue in the coming days, but heavy rain is unlikely as the monsoon trough is currently over Rajasthan.Meanwhile, maximum temperature in the city went down from Sunday’s 34.9°C to 32.2°C degrees on Monday. Minimum temperature saw a slight dip from 27.7°C to 27.6°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 33 and 34 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 26 and 27 degrees, according to the weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-scattered-rain-to-continue-in-chandigarh-101627926208233.html
02-08-2021||Other||Official notification for fee reduction to be issued by August 4||PUNE: Parents who have paid the full fee so far for this academic year will be reimbursed 15%, education department officials said. While the detailed official notification for fee reduction is yet to be issued, education minister Varsha Gaikwad earlier last week said that there will be a 15% fee reduction for this academic year.Earlier last week, Gaikwad said that the state cabinet has decided to cut school fees by 15%. “The criteria adopted by the state are on the lines of the Supreme Court’s order for Rajasthan. The decision will apply to all boards. We will issue an order soon. Parents will have to pay only 85% of the fees for this academic year. The decision will come as a relief to parents and even students. The SC had also asked the state government to consider a cut in fees, therefore, we have made this decision,” she said.About the official notification for fee reduction, Audumbar Ukirde, deputy director of the Pune division said it will be issued by August 4. “The notification will be issued soon. Moreover, those parents who have paid full fees will get reimbursement. Once the official notification is issued, the fee reduction will be implemented and private schools will be directed to reimburse the fee,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/official-notification-for-fee-reduction-to-be-issued-by-august-4-101627925789543.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC puts 500 property tax defaulters on notice||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has started issuing notices to property tax defaulters for the 2021-22 fiscal. So far, 500 property owners — 300 commercial and 200 residential — have been put on notice to recover ₹3 crore property tax. In the coming days, the civic body will issue more notices. For a financially struggling MC, property tax comprises a major chunk of its revenue. It has so far collected ₹36.06 crore with around 80,000 assessees paying up by June 30. The taxpayers with outstanding dues will now have to pay penalty as well as interest on the pending amount. “Of around 40,000 commercial property payees, only around 14,000 have paid the tax so far. Around 20,000 residential property owners are still to pay too,” said a senior MC official, who did not wish to be named. “In the latest list of notices, property owners with highest pending tax are in the industrial area with dues ranging between ₹10 lakh and ₹15 lakh. For residential properties, the pending dues are generally in thousands only.”There are 1.4 lakh properties under the jurisdiction of the MC, of which around 1.2 lakh are taxable. For the 2021-22 fiscal, the MC had extended the deadline to avail rebate on the payment of property tax from May 31 to June 30 amid the Covid-induced lockdown. Residential property taxpayers were eligible to get a rebate of 20% and commercial property taxpayers 10%. The MC had started issuing notices after the last date of rebate period ended on June 30, but the process picked up pace last week. Criticising the MC move, Pankaj Khanna, president of the Industries Association of Chandigarh, said: “The industry in the city has suffered major losses due to the pandemic and it is yet to recover from the second wave. The MC instead of issuing notices should have extended the last date of rebate period. This would have given much needed relief to the industry and residents.”UT admn biggest defaulter with ₹24-cr duesThe Chandigarh municipal corporation is yet to recover around ₹24 crore in outstanding property tax from the UT administration.“Revenue from property tax could have been higher if government offices had deposited the full outstanding amount of ₹27 crore. But, the tax reconciliation process with the UT administration helped us recover an additional ₹3.6 crore. We expect the administration to deposit more of its outstanding dues in this fiscal,” an MC official said. For the recovery of dues, the MC had issued notices to the estate office, UT Press Trust, State Transport Authority, sports complex, hockey and football stadiums, swimming pool, Traffic Police Lines, Bal Niketan, old age home, Sector-17 bus stand and a couple of police stations among others. The UT engineering department managing these buildings have defaulted on property tax payments.“We have recently got a reply from the UT engineering department. In response to it, we would have to issue a fresh notice of recovery,” the official said.The MC had also served a notice of ₹9 crore pending dues on the Panjab University. But, after submissions from the varsity, it has again started the survey of the properties for a reassessment of the tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-puts-500-property-tax-defaulters-on-notice-101627925789058.html
02-08-2021||Other||First waiting list under Right to Education (RTE) to be published on August 8||PUNE The first waiting list under the Right to Education (RTE) will be published on August 8. So far, in the first round, 10,233 students got admission to Class 1 in Pune district. Parents are demanding that the RTE admission process be faster, so that students don’t miss out on the academic year.Speaking about the first waiting list, Dinkar Temkar, in-charge of RTE Maharashtra said that 96,684 students have registered under RTE in the state.“There are 9,432 schools registered under RTE across the state. Under the first list of RTE, parents were expected to take admission till July 31. Due to the rising cases of Covid, there was a delay in the admission process. After the unlock process started in June, the admission for the first round started,” said Temkar.As per the education department, there are 985 schools registered under the RTE in Pune district.Under RTE, 25 per cent of seats of the unaided private schools are reserved for students from economically backward sections at the entry-level of preschool and Class 1.For the academic year 2021-2022, there are 982 RTE registered schools in Pune. Of the 55,813 applications, 14,567 students were selected in Pune during the online lottery. There is a vacancy for 14,773 students in Pune district. Of 14,567 students, 8,841 students have sought provisional admission and 10,306 students have confirmed their admission.Across Maharashtra, there are 82,129 students selected under RTE during the online lottery for this academic year. Of this, 46,328 students have sought provisional admission and 60,176 students have confirmed their admission in the state.Under the RTE Act, the distance between the residences of the student and the school should be less than three kilometres. The act states the limits of neighbourhood schools as one-kilometre walking distance from the habitation of a child at the primary level, that is for Classes 1 to 5 and within a three-kilometre walking distance for the upper primary level, that is for Classes 6 to 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-waiting-list-under-right-to-education-rte-to-be-published-on-august-8-101627925667038.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vehicle number 0001 auctioned for ₹9.33 lakh in Chandigarh||The vehicle registration number 0001 in the new CH01CF series fetched the highest bidding price of ₹9.33 lakh during the e-auction of fancy numbers conducted by the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), Chandigarh. The bid was made by Aman Sharma. So far, the highest bid for a 0001 number was made in 2012, when a Sector-44 resident bought it for his S-class Mercedes Benz for ₹26.05 lakh. The number belonged to the CH01AP series.In the present auction, the number CH01CF 0007 fetched the second highest bid price of ₹3.98 lakh. The number 0009 went for ₹3.56 lakh, 0003 for ₹2.36 lakh, 0005 for ₹2.32 lakh, 0002 for ₹2.26 lakh, 0004 for ₹1.55 lakh, 0008 for ₹1.51 lakh, 0010 for ₹1.31 lakh and 0006 for ₹1.14 lakh.The RLA earned a total revenue of ₹1.10 crore from the auction of fancy numbers in the new series along with the re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series. Only those who have purchased vehicles against a Chandigarh address were allowed to participate in the e-auction, which concluded on Monday.Successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered and deposit the bidding amount within one month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10% as well as interest at the rate of 10% on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment. The result of the auction has been put on the RLA website, and the successful bidders will also be informed through SMS and e-mail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vehicle-number-0001-auctioned-for-9-33-lakh-in-chandigarh-101627925367516.html
02-08-2021||Other||Punjab CM approves CLU for certain category industries||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday gave approval for the Change of Land Use (CLU) for certain categories of industries. The CLU will be allowed to green and orange industries at a distance of 100 metres and 250 metres, respectively, from Lal Lakir or nearby Abadi (minimum 50 pucca houses) on minimum Six Karam (30-33 feet) approach road, under the policy of permitting industrial activity in agricultural zone of master plans. Chairing the 42nd meeting of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Board through video conferencing, the CM said all green, red and orange industrial units must conform to the prescribed norms of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) with zero discharge, or must have consent of potential users for use of treated water. The CM has also asked the town and country planning department to have a re-look at the red category industry, directing it to earmark separate zones for it in all master plans. He accorded special permission for the expansion of the medical oxygen manufacturing plant in Mohali and also asked the town and country planning department to extend support to all such plants. In another decision, the CM has also allowed industries in mixed land use zones along highways at a distance of 4km from corporation limits of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar; 3km from other corporation towns and class-A towns and 2 km from other towns. The CM has also cleared the board’s proposal for industrial parks in Sector 101 and 103, to be developed by both private developers as well as GMADA in Mohali. He permitted the board to allow a residential colony in 50 acre in New Chandigarh, thereby reducing the minimum area requirement from 100-50 acres without disturbing the density norms. This amendment would be instrumental in ensuring proper use of left-out pockets in provide housing facilities in the new township. Prominent among those who attended the meeting included local government minister Brahm Mohindra; housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria; school education and PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla and chief secretary Vini Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-approves-clu-for-certain-category-industries-101627925311932.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, Panjab University senate is going to polls||Finally, elections to the Panjab University senate, which are pending for a year, will begin on Tuesday with polling for two constituencies.While five candidates are in the fray from the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges, which has 52 voters, four are contesting from the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges, which has 789 voters. The voting will take place at 28 polling booths that have been set up across Punjab and Chandigarh. Three members will be elected to the senate from each of these two constituencies.“We have already given training to the polling staff regarding the Covid-19 protocol. Presiding officers have been instructed to adhere to the norms, and observers have been appointed as well,” said PU registrar-cum-returning officer Vikram Nayyar.The senate, which is the varsity’s apex governing body, comprises 91 members, 47 of whom are elected from eight constituencies. The remaining are either nominated or ex-officio members. The four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020. Since then, PU has been functioning without a senate.The elections were first scheduled in August last year, but were postponed by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar due to the pandemic. The move and further delay even courted controversy with seven former senators moving the Punjab and Haryana high court on December 22, seeking directions to PU to hold the polls. After the high court (HC) in April this year pulled up the V-C for the delay, the polls were scheduled from April 26, but had to be postponed again in view of the Covid-19 second wave.On July 8, the HC had directed the varsity to place on record the senate election schedule by July 16. The revised polling dates were proposed by the varsity thereon and got the nod from Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the PU chancellor.After August 3, voting for the constituencies of professors and associate/assistant professors of the university teaching departments will take place on August 10. The registered graduate constituency, which is the largest with 3,61,869 voters, will go the polls on August 18 along with the constituencies of heads and associate/assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges. Voting for the constituency of faculties will be held last, on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-panjab-university-senate-going-to-polls-101627925067568.html
02-08-2021||Other||Four arrested for hacking man, 32, to death over unpaid debt in Manjri||PUNE: Crime branch officials of the Pune police have arrested four men for allegedly murdering a man, 32, in the Manjri Khurd area over unpaid debt. The arrests were made within a day of the murder being committed.The four alleged assailants – arrested by unit 6 of the Pune police crime branch – were identified as Shubham Ashok Gaikwad, 23; Ahijit alias Nana Sukhraj Mahale, 23; Hemant Kisan More, 32; and Govind Babasaheb Bansode, 26; according to a statement issued by the Pune police. The deceased man was identified as Vikas Lakshman Sonawane, 32, a resident of Manjri Khurd area of Pune.The four men attacked Sonawane first with sharp weapons, later bludgeoning him to death with stones, as per a complaint lodged by Mauli Murkute, 29.Sonawane and Murkute were drunk and returning from a wedding when Sonawane received a call from his friend identified as Amol Gaikwad. Gaikwad asked Sonawane to come to Borkar Chowk in Manjrigaon as a man named Hemant More was refusing to return the money Gaikwad had lent him, as per the complaint. Murkute and Sonawane reached the said place late at night after which the assailants took Sonawane and More in a Verna car near a graveyard. What started as a verbal spat turned violent at around 11.45pm on Sunday and the men killed Sonawane with long blades and rocks, according to Murkute (complainant) who followed them and was present when the murder was committed, as per his complaint.The four men were trying to flee in the same Verna car when a team of Unit 6 led by police inspector Ganesh Mane intercepted and arrested them early on Monday. A case under sections 302, 336 and rioting of the Indian Penal Code; section 4(25) of the Arms Act; section 37(1) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registerd at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-arrested-for-hacking-man-32-to-death-over-unpaid-debt-in-manjri-101627924766908.html
02-08-2021||Other||Chandrakant Patil slams Maha Metro for ignoring BJP at trials||PUNE: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president, Chandrakant Patil, has condemned the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha Metro) for not taking the BJP into confidence while launching metro trials in the city.The Maha Metro last week carried out a metro trial between Wanaj and Ideal Colony. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar gave the green signal to the metro for the trial.Commenting on this, Patil told media persons, “It is the BJP who brought and executed the metro in the city. But Maha Metro has not put any photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It did not even invite Pune MP Girish Bapat and me although the programme was held in my constituency.”“I condemn this and warn Maha Metro that if they came under pressure from anyone, we will not accept it. The Prime Minister should be invited for an event like launching the metro. The central government has provided the maximum funds for it. It is we who have given all clearances when Devendra Fadnavis was the state chief minister,” Patil said.The BJP also decided to support the traders’ agitation. “I am ready to lead the traders’ agitation to allow them to run their business for more hours. For how many days is the state government planning to close business. Despite taking two doses of vaccine, people are not being allowed to function. The state needs to open up the economy otherwise people will die due to the economic crisis. The BJP demand is to allow them to run their business or the state should give them Rs25,000 per month as compensation,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandrakant-patil-slams-maha-metro-for-ignoring-bjp-at-trials-101627924646951.html
02-08-2021||Other||Draft DP available at PMRDA HQ in Aundh; 30 days to file objections||PUNE The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) has published its draft Development Plan (DP) and invited suggestions and objections from citizens within 30 days, starting August 1. Metropolitan commissioners Suhas Divase said, “The chief minister has given the nod to publish the draft DP. We published it for the common public. It also includes the DP for the recently merged 23 villages. Citizens can file suggestions and objections. “PMRDA appealed to citizens file objections in writing at PMRDA’s main office, located at Aundh. Maps have been put up for the public at the Pandit Bhimsen Joshi auditorium in Aundh. PMRDA officials said that after receiving suggestions and objections, it would review the plan. PMRDA started preparation of the DP in 2017. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) objected to the plan and said that it is “illegal” to invite suggestions and objections for the 23 villages, which are part of PMC. BJP leader Ujwal Keskar and Suhas Joshi objected the plan and have written a letter to the Urban Development Department. Keskar said, “The plan should be available on the PMRDA’s website, but the authority as not uploaded it yet. Ideally, they should provide an email for submitting objections. We reserved our rights to file objections, but before announcing 30 days limit, PMRDA should make it available it for common people. It is not possible for all citizens to go to the PMRDA’s office to check the Development Plan. Whenever PMC or other corporations published a draft DP, it is available for common people.”Some Congress leaders are also unhappy with the DP for 23 villages but due to political compulsions not going on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/draft-dp-available-at-pmrda-hq-in-aundh-30-days-to-file-objections-101627924586889.html
02-08-2021||Other||PMC guidelines for Ganesh fest mirror state rules: idols at 4 feet, no processions||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Monday, issued an order related to the celebration of the Ganesh Utsav. The civic body announced that the Ganesh Utsav is to be celebrated according to the guidelines issued by the state government in June. The order has no mention of any relief from Covid-induced curbs in the city. The state government on June 29 had issued guidelines for the Ganesh Utsav to be celebrated in September. Under the guidelines, the height of idols has been restricted to just 2-4 feet. It has also been made mandatory for organisers to avoid advertisements or promotional items that may attract large crowds. Processions have been prohibited during the Ganesh Utsav. “In the light of pandemic, Ganesh Utsav should be celebrated with simplicity and with Covid- appropriate behavior. The state government has issued guidelines for this festival. Celebrations have to be in accordance with those guidelines,” said Vikram Kumar, municipal commissioner, PMC in the order issued by the civic body. As per guidelines, all mandals would need to take permission from the local authorities. The idol’s height has been capped at 4 feet for mandals in public places and 2 feet in homes. The state guidelines promote the worship of metal or clay idols at homes and immersion in artificial tanks prepared civic bodies. The processions on Ganesh Chaturthi and on the immersion day have been prohibited. This 11-day festival is to begin from September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-guidelines-for-ganesh-fest-mirror-state-rules-idols-at-4-feet-no-processions-101627924406909.html
02-08-2021||Other||Mumbai-Pune Expressway: 52% reduction in fatal accidents since 2016||PUNE The number of fatalities on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway has seen an overall reduction by 52% since 2016, when the ‘Zero-Fatality Corridor” project, a joint initiative of the MSRDC, Maharashtra Highway Police, Mahindra & Mahindra, and SaveLIFE Foundation was launched to reduce road fatalities. The expressway had witnessed a 43% reduction in road- crash fatalities, from 151 fatalities in 2016 to 86 fatalities until December 31, 2019. In 2020, the expressway reported 66 fatalities in 63 accidents, according to data collated by SaveLIFE Foundation. Though the figure demonstrates a 56% reduction in fatalities from the baseline of 2016, the project has taken the Covid-19-related impact into account and has marked a 52% reduction instead, taking the statistical averages from the first and last quarter of 2020, when there was relatively normal traffic movement on the expressway. In the first and last quarter of 2020, the expressway witnessed a total of 36 fatalities. Statistically extrapolating this to the entire year gives a figure of 72, which has been used to report the relatively conservative impact. Commenting on project, Dr Chandrakant Pulkundwar, joint managing director, MSRDC said, “Every fatality on the expressway is a matter of grave concern for us. Though Covid made things tougher with excessive burdens on emergency services, we will not rest till we get to zero preventable deaths on this crucial link between Mumbai and Pune.” MSRDC has played a very crucial role in implementing suggestions. So far, 3,000 engineering-related suggestions have been implemented by MSRDC. Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of Police, Traffic, noted, “The Zero-Fatality Corridor project has resulted in a 52% reduction in road accident deaths on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway between 2016 and 2020. However, the challenge as seen in recent crashes on the stretch is the behaviour of truck drivers to drive down slopes on neutral gear, leading to heating of brakes and loss of control. Highway police have been challenging such trucks and will continue to do so to prevent unnecessary accidents due to such practices. Over-speeding on the expressway, especially by buses, is another area that we will be focusing on.” Police have ramped up enforcement drives on the expressway to ensure specific human-risk factors are mitigated. Commenting on the way forward, Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO of SaveLIFE Foundation stated, “We remain grateful to Mahindra & Mahindra, MSRDC and Maharashtra police for their unrelenting support to the Zero-Fatality Corridor project. The model is now being replicated on multiple expressways and highways across the country and will contribute to saving lives nationally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbaipune-expressway-52-reduction-in-fatal-accidents-since-2016-101627924226895.html
02-08-2021||Other||Tarn Taran has 1,441 drug smugglers; 23 hotspots||Tarn Taran Police have identified 1,441 habitual drug smugglers in the district, of which 310 have been arrested over the past two months. The district, on the Indo-Pak border, has 166 smugglers in the A and B category. Those in category A have connections in Pakistan, while those on the B category list have been arrested multiple times with unjustified commercial quantity of drugs. Many of those who are yet to be arrested have shifted to bigger cities, police have said. Each individual on the list has two or more cases registered against them under the Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Some of them are facing 15 cases, with most coming from border villages. Twenty-three drug hotspots, including Havelian and Mehmoodpura villages, have been identified. Both villages are situated near the India-Pakistan border. While Havelian is a notorious village for drug smuggling where at least one member in almost every house has been facing at least one drug case, Mehmoodpura is the native village of Congress MLA from Khemkaran constituency Sukhpal Singh Bhullar. Ranjit Singh alias Rana alias Cheeta, who is the kingpin in the case pertaining to the seizure of 532-kg heroin haul that was smuggled in a truck from Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border in 2019 also belongs to Havelian village. “We scanned the record over past 10 years in every police station in the district to zero-in on suspects facing two or more cases under the NDPS Act. The intelligence department, the CID and the Guardians of Governance also gave inputs and names. The initial list has 2,200 names; we took the help of the technical wing to prune the list to 1,441,” said a senior official with the Tarn Taran Police, adding that 310 individuals on the list had been jailed since July 1. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said, “We have launched a crackdown against drug smuggling. In order to break and have already identified 560 persons for freezing their assets, accumulated through the drug trade. Property of 111 drug smugglers valued at around ₹130 crore has been attached. We have launched a special operation in the district, under which a gazetted officer leads a team to search residences of suspected drug smugglers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-has-1-441-drug-smugglers-23-hotspots-101627924108494.html
02-08-2021||Other||Konarknagar residents face risky commute due to PMC-landowners’ spat||PUNE The residents of Konarknagar have been left to deal with the pathetic condition of their road as it remains unrepaired since the last seven years. Due to the conflict between the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and landowners, there has been a stay on construction of the road for the past seven years, thus restricting any layering or patch-up work.However with the PMC Court lifting the stay on Friday, officials have swung into action even as the landowners – who want a written assurance regarding compensation – are not allowing the work to be carried out. As a result, all the material required for the construction of the road is now lying on the side of the road. There are nine landowners out of which three have given no-objection to the PMC while the remaining six have opposed construction of the road.Datta Deokar, one of the nine landowners with a share in the one-acre plot, said, “We want a written assurance from the PMC on granting us compensation. There is no clarity on whether we will be issued TDR, FSI or cash. We will not compromise on any aspect and we expect everything to be carried out as per the law. Once the formalities are completed, we are ready to give possession of the land.”Meanwhile, the spat between the PMC and landowners has rendered the daily commute of Konarknagar residents a hazardous affair. Konarknagar Housing Society is home to 15,000 residents and has around 119 row houses spread across 11 acres of land.Sandip Singh, chairman, Konarknagar Housing Society, said, “It is a 30-year-old road and since the last seven years due to the stay order, the PMC has not taken any action. The condition of the road is deteriorating every day. With Vimannagar being known for its five-star restaurants and shopping malls, the road poses a risk to the daily commute.” He added that the problem is not only for society residents but also for people who have to commute along the road every day. Konarknagar Housing Society has even run an online petition signed by 2,461 people but in vain.Regular commuter, Dalia Chakrabarty said, “I guarantee a situation like this is unheard of. Due to problems between private land owners and the municipal corporation, it is the common man who is suffering and the situation has been like this for years now - that too in a supposedly upmarket locality like Vimannagar.”Rahul Bhandare, corporator from Vimannagar and Somnathnagar ward, who played a key role in raising the issue before the standing committee which helped revoke the stay order, said, “We are taking regular updates from the PMC road department and will make sure residents get a good road since they have been suffering for many years now.”PMC superintendent engineer VG Kulkarni was not available for commentin on the whole issue while junior engineer from PMC said, “PMC on Monday as well tried to start rebuilding road, however they were not allowed to do same by the land owners. The PMC will taking police help to sort out the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/konarknagar-residents-face-risky-commute-due-to-pmc-landowners-spat-101627923926924.html
02-08-2021||Other||Potholes come undone due to hasty, shoddy repair; citizens complain||PUNE Given the heavy rain and with work on the water drainage system incomplete in some places and shoddily carried out in others, many a pothole has sprung up across the city with hastily covered ones opening up again.Several such hurriedly concealed holes have come undone in most of the peth areas, creating craters with a thick pile of sticky mud acting as road bumps which mislead riders bang into the water-logged cavities. Taking a round of the city, especially the parts where the roads department has carried out shoddy work, we came across many traffic snarls as riders and drivers tried to navigate these potholes and bumps. While areas such as Kothrud, Baner, Balewadi and Bavdhan in the west; Camp; and parts of Kalyani Nagar and Koregaon Park prove to be a smooth ride for residents, the trouble begins with the Lakdi Pul where as soon as the bridge ends in Alka Talkies chowk, motorists find themselves swinging up and down as they navigate a bump and a pothole.Parth Sidhaye, who broke his wrist during the first spell of rain after skidding near Tilak Road where workers had covered their works in a haphazard manner leaving mounds of mud, said, “These blind potholes filled with water are the most dangerous and if we brake hard on the scooter, we might skid and fall.”The peths are the most problematic areas with riders and motorists having to navigate bumps every 10 minutes while speeds are dropped as the drivers approach the turn from Shaniwar Wada. At Belbaug Chowk and Mandai where the metro work is underway, the hurdles get multiplied with incomplete works along the drainage lines resulting in half-open craters with mud flung on them. The stretch between Guruwar Peth and Timber Market also offers a bumpy ride. Abhijeet Sangle, a mechanic from Guruwar Peth, said, “We find many two-wheeler riders getting their wheels stuck in the mud near the potholes and help them out. The work on the drainage line began last year and with people now beginning to travel and go about their work, the holes have been shoddily covered with mud.”Other roads conspicuous by their abundance of potholes and the consequent inconvenience caused to motorists and riders are Gadital in Hadapsar and the Mundhwa Undri Road.V G Kulkarni, head of the roads department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), acknowledged the presence of potholes and bumps and said, “It is true that in many of the peth areas, people are finding it hard to travel as the 24/7 water drainage lines’ work is still not complete in places and wherever it has been completed, it seems the work has not been done properly. I assure you that there will be smooth roads for traffic within next week, where we will remove or flatten the bumps and potholes.” He also said that wherever the MSEDCL and MNGL has carried out work, there is no problem as roads are well maintained along the outskirts of the main city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/potholes-come-undone-due-to-hasty-shoddy-repair-citizens-complain-101627923746912.html
02-08-2021||Other||Results for all Engineering courses by Aug 15: SPPU||PUNE The second-semester examination of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is underway and final year students are now demanding that results be declared early. The SPPU examination department has started declaring results of engineering final-year students, as well as other streams, on priority, in order to allow students to take admissions to PG courses elsewhere. So far, 22,000 engineering results have been declared and all results would be declared by August 15. “The engineering examination started from July 12 of all streams and results of final-year engineering students are being declared by the university. We will be declaring results of all the engineering subjects by August 15. There are a total of 12 different streams and we have decided that results of final-year students would be declared on priority,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation. “Accordingly, we have declared results of over 22,000 students from engineering final year. Also we will be declaring results of bachelor of pharmacy, bachelor of architecture, and bachelor of business administration early, as most of these students take further post-graduation admissions abroad. The results will be declared this week and students can check their results through their login IDs,” he added. A total of 660,000 students are appearing for 4,200 different subjects for various courses under SPPU in this second-semester examination. The results are declared within 48 hours of the student appearing for the exam. These examinations are held online for students. The exam is of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ). University’s own SPPU Edutech Foundation is conducting this exam. While students are happy with the results being declared, Mandar Hiren, a B-Tech student said, “I have applied for my post-graduation course to an American university and for that I need my results immediately. If results are given early my further admission process would be done smoothly.” Symbiosis Institute of Geoinformatics wins award The Symbiosis Institute of Geoinformatics, Pune, received the ESRI India user award for 2021, presented to recognise exemplary applications of GIS technology. This year’s other winners included National Water Informatics Centre (NWIC), Punjab Police, Varanasi Smart City Ltd, Government of Meghalaya, and Indraprastha Gas Ltd. These awards were given at the ESRI India User conference 2021, a two-day virtual user conference held between July 28-29. Agendra Kumar, Managing Director, ESRI India, said that GIS technology has played a key role in the growth of economies across the world. “With the rising adoption of GIS in India, we are beginning to see its impact on Indian economy as well. GIS technology is playing big role towards achieving India’s vision of becoming a $5 trillion economy,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/results-for-all-engineering-courses-by-aug-15-sppu-101627923506835.html
02-08-2021||Other||43.2% report discrimination against people infected with Covid-19: survey||PUNE In a survey carried out by a private firm, in association with the government, it was found that of the 3,538 people surveyed, 40% said that they have come across incidents of discrimination against people who have been infected with Covid-19. Also a significant percentage still showed vaccine hesitancy and a nominal percentage said that they would not get vaccinated and not let their families be vaccinated. However, a majority of the respondents, 87.7%, are ready to take the vaccine. The Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices survey (KAP) was conducted on a document-based study by UNICEF-RedR India consultants and the Covid-19 awareness committee constituted for Pune region, which, apart from Pune, constitutes four districts under the Pune division - Kolhapur, Solapur, Sangli and Satara. The study covered 3,538 community-based respondents from municipal corporation areas, town panchayats and talukas in Pune division. The aim of the survey was to understand the knowledge and attitudes of people towards Covid-19 as a pandemic and as an infection, which has been a major challenge since 2020. The respondents belong to all age groups, both genders and different educational backgrounds. After almost 16 months now since the infection was first reported in Pune and in Maharashtra, over 99% of the respondents said that they are aware of the disease and its main symptoms like fever, dry cough, difficulty in breathing and loss of taste or smell, and they also know that it spreads through droplets. However a small percentage, 1-2% has misconceptions that the infection spreads through mosquito bites, unclean water, contaminated food or through sweat or via blood transfusion.Another important finding was that a nominal 3.3% said that they are not ready to get vaccinated or let their family members be vaccinated. Also, 12.3% showed hesitancy towards vaccination, of which 5.4% said they have a fear of the vaccine; 3.7% said they have doubts about the vaccine and 3.2% cited technical reasons like no identification card, no smart phone and didn’t know how to register for the vaccine. A significant 43.2% said that they have come across incidents of discrimination against a person who was infected with Covid-19. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to state government said, “There is not one person in this city who can say that they do not know or have not heard of anyone who lost their life to Covid19. It could be a distant relative or even a friend or a neighbour, but all of us have suffered directly or indirectly because of the Covid-19 infection. With regards to vaccine hesitancy, there have been multiple studies and examples which indicate that even though one can get infected after both doses of the vaccine, the severity of symptoms gets milder compared to those who have got one shot or no shot of the vaccine. Vaccinating as many people as possible is the only way to end the pandemic as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/432-report-discrimination-against-people-infected-with-covid-19-survey-101627923207636.html
02-08-2021||Other||HSC results to be declared on Aug 3 at 4pm||PUNE The results of the Class 12 board exam will be declared on August 3 at 4 pm by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). Class 12 students have been eagerly waiting for the results. Students can check their results online on websites including msbshse.co.in, hscresult.11thadmission.org.in, hscresult.mkcl.org and mahresult.nic.in.Around 1.3 million students registered for the examination this year and due to the rise in Covid cases, exams were cancelled by the state government. Assessments has been done using an alternative criteria. 40 per cent weightage is given to exams held in Class 12, 40 per cent will be derived from unit tests and first-semester exams, or practical exams. For the balance 60 per cent, 30 per cent is from Class 11 marks and the other 30 per cent from the average of the best three performing subjects of Class 10. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad tweeted, “The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary & Higher Secondary Education will declare results of Std 12th, 2021 batch on 3rd August at 4pm. Best of luck to all students. I thank all colleges, teachers for going beyond their call of duty and ensuring that the results are finalised in a short span of time. Thank you Teachers!”Results on websitesCheck msbshse.co.in, hscresult.11thadmission.org.in, hscresult.mkcl.org and mahresult.nic.in.Students having any issues or complaints in Pune division can call 9689192899||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hsc-results-to-be-declared-on-aug-3-at-4pm-101627923206899.html
02-08-2021||Other||Union ministry of health sends team to Pune district to help manage Zika situation||PUNE The Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare announced on Monday that a multidisciplinary team has been rushed to Maharashtra to monitor the Zika virus situation. On Friday, a first case of the Zika virus in the state was identified in Belsar village of Purandar tehsil under Pune district, forcing local administration to initiate a door-to-door survey to ascertain if there are more cases. According to the statement issued by the Union health ministry, the central team has also been tasked to support the state government with the management of Zika cases. The central team comprises of three members - a public health expert from the office of the regional director, Pune; a gynaecologist from the Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and an entomologist from the National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), ICMR, New Delhi.A statement issued by the ministry said that the team will work closely with the state health department. It would take a stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union health ministry’s action plan for Zika is being implemented. It would also recommend necessary public health interventions in the state to manage the Zika infections.After the first case was identified, the health department and district administration began containment measures in Belsar and seven villages within a five-km radius. Special teams have been formed to conduct household surveys. Prevention measures are also being taken in the villages to contain the spread of mosquito larvae. Pune Zilla Parishad authorities said that they would fully cooperate with the central team. “We will be working with the central team to ensure the Zika virus remains contained,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO Pune ZP. He clarified that he is not aware of the detailed programme of the central team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-ministry-of-health-sends-team-to-pune-district-to-help-manage-zika-situation-101627923086867.html
02-08-2021||Other||Harsh decisions will have to be taken to prevent casualties in future: CM in Sangli||PUNE Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, during his visit to the flood-affected areas of Sangli district on Monday, said that some harsh decisions will have to be taken during rehabilitation to prevent casualties during flooding. The CM also sought cooperation from locals to devise a “permanent solution” to the frequent flood crisis in the state and take some stringent steps towards it. The chief minister reached the flood-hit Sangli district in western Maharashtra where he visited Bhilwadi, Ankalkhop, Kasbe-Digraj and various other areas to take stock of the situation, and review steps taken by the administration towards flood management. “We have to work on two fronts - providing immediate relief to people affected by floods, and that work is going on. The administration acted in advance and evacuated people to safety,” he said. “Besides providing immediate relief, we will have to work on a permanent solution to the frequent crisis of floods in the region and for that, we will have to take some stringent steps,” Thackeray said. The chief minister added if some constructions are causing obstacles to the natural flow of water, they need to be removed. He also underlined the need for permanent rehabilitation of those affected by frequent floods and said people’s cooperation will be needed for this. “To address the issue of the flood situation in western Maharashtra, there is a need for effective flood management. I received some suggestions about diverting the flood waters to drought-hit areas. We are thinking about it also,” he said. Thackeray said a committee of experts will be formed for flood management. “There is a need to conduct a study of landslide incidents and relocate human settlements which are at the foothills of such landslide-prone areas,” he said. The CM said there is a need to continue the development works, but it is also important to analyse the pros and cons of such works. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/harsh-decisions-will-have-to-be-taken-to-prevent-casualties-in-future-cm-in-sangli-101627922546799.html
02-08-2021||Other||194 of 1,382 villages under Zilla Parishad report active Covid cases as of Monday||PUNE For the last 10 days, Pune rural has been reporting a positivity rate higher than the state average, and more number of fresh Covid-19 cases than the two municipal corporations – PMC and PCMC. Although the rural areas, including the 14 nagar parishads are under level four restrictions, the administration has stated that only a handful of villages have active cases and that 1,100 villages under the Pune Zilla Parishad do not have a single active Covid-19 case as of August 2. Of the 1,382 villages currently under the jurisdiction of the Pune Zilla Parishad, 194 have active cases as of Monday. There are 42 gram panchayats of concern which have shown an increasing trend. These villages are from the talukas on the periphery of the city, including Ambegaon, Haveli, Mulshi, Maval, Shirur and also Baramati, Junnar, Daund, Indapur and Khed. The highest jump in the number of new cases was recorded in the village of Takave Khurd in Maval taluka, where the last four days saw an average has 9.75 new cases. As per the Pune Zilla Parishad, a large chunk of the rural area is currently Covid-19 free. ZP chief executive officer (CEO), Ayush Prasad said, “Of the 1,382 villages that constitute the Pune Zilla Parishad, 194 have active cases and in those 194, 42 have shown a stable or increasing trend. The remaining villages, 1,188, have zero active cases and of those, 607 villages or gram panchayats have not reported a single fresh case in the past three weeks. This is proof that the public is responding to the ongoing lockdown in these villages and that the restrictions are being implemented effectively by the administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/194-of-1-382-villages-under-zilla-parishad-report-active-covid-cases-as-of-monday-101627922306787.html
02-08-2021||Other||No easing of Covid curbs in Pune city; traders angry, residents frustrated||PUNE The state government order denying any relief from Covid curbs for Pune city has upset traders and locals. As per state government notification issued on Monday, 11 districts, including Pune will not have any relaxations. This means shop will continue to operate till 4pm from Monday to Friday. Local citizens said the government should have considered the city as separate administrative unit and ought to have eased curbs. Traders and shop owners in the city were equally furious about the move while asserting that this order will make them more aggressive. The traders have decided to hold protest on Tuesday, while announcing that they will keep shops open till 7pm from Wednesday onwards, according to Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP). “From the last 1.5 years, traders and shop owners in Pune are going through a very tough situation and till now we were somehow stretching our business. But it has now become near to impossible to run a business with so many restrictions, despite taking all the Covid precautions. There are around 0.1 million workers and staff in Pune city, of which more than 20 per cent have been let go by owners, because they cannot afford to pay salaries,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of the association. As part of the “Ghanta Nad” protest on Tuesday, all shop owners will participate in the agitation at 12 noon outside their own shops. The demand of all the traders is to keep open shops from 11 am to 8 pm for the current system of 5 days, on all seven days between 11 am and 7 pm. “In the last one year, some of our traders have died by suicide as they cannot sustain the pressure of losses and giving salaries to their staff. In case the required changes in timings are not considered by the authorities then from August 4 all the shop owners will keep their shops open till 7pm and would be ready to face the consequences,” added Ranka. While the common public is unhappy with the state government’s decision, Priyanka Deshpande said, “For how many more months we are going to sit in our houses and wait for things to open up and even job opportunities. As shops, offices, malls and most of the things are closed or with limited timings, there is a certain impact on entire ecosystem. State government should rethink about the public sentiment and change their decision.” Another resident Bipin Gandhi said, “Covid cases in Pune city have gone down but the cases from the Pune district may be high, so why punish the city. Punekars are now fed up of restrictions and it’s high time to take a decision.” The BJP, which has supported traders’ protest, also criticised government decision calling it “unfortunate”. “The unfortunate reality of Maharashtra. Reducing restrictions in Mumbai, Mumbai suburbs & Thane district will be taken by their Disaster Management Authorities while #Pune & other districts remain at mercy of sinister motivations,” tweeted BJP legislator Siddharth Shirole||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-easing-of-covid-curbs-in-pune-city-traders-angry-residents-frustrated-101627922006838.html
02-08-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Parking fee of two cars reaches ₹2.50 lakh, owner refuses to pay||Manager of a multi-level car parking site at Civil Lines here has lodged a complaint with the Prayagraj traffic police against a man, who parked his two cars there over two-and-half-year back and has failed to take his cars away till date. The man has also refused to pay the parking fees of the two cars which have now reached around ₹2.50 lakh at a cost of ₹100 per day, according to police officials. However, the cars’ owner claimed that in June this year, he visited the parking site and met its manager Shashi Pandey. He assured him that he would take away his cars after payment of the pending fee. “But the parking manager has made an issue of the case by leveling wrong allegations,” said Mohd Ashraf, owner of the parked cars. According to police, the incident came to light when the man sent another car to be parked there but the parking manager demanded pending fee and documents of the parked cars. Pandey has now informed the police about the cars and has requested them to take appropriate action against the cars’ owner. Pandey said that the tender for parking the cars was transferred to his firm in September 2019, but the two cars were parked before that. Around one year back, a man came to park another car and informed that two of his cars were already parked there. On being questioned about the cars, he called one Ashraf who claimed to be their real owner. “On being requested to produce documents of the parked cars and pay their fee, Ashraf promised to come soon. However, even after one year Ashraf did not return to take the two cars, a Wagon R and an Alto. There is no registration number plate on Wagon R, the number on the other car is also poorly visible,” claimed Pandey. “On July 31, I again called Ashraf, but he refused to pay the hefty amount of the parking. On August 1, I again made a call, but he refused to make payment and instead asked me to file a complaint wherever I could,” said Pandey. He has now lodged a complaint with the Prayagraj traffic police in this connection. “The vehicles are attached with ‘Ola’ and have commercial permit. However, during anti-CAA protests one of the vehicles was parked by the driver at the parking as Internet was banned and no clients were available at that time. The second car was also parked after lockdown, last year. Since then, I am facing massive financial and other problems. Despite my father’s death in June this year, I have visited the parking site and met the manager Shashi Pandey and assured him that I will take away my cars after payment of pending fee. However, he has made an issue of the case by leveling wrong allegations,” Ashraf claimed. SP (Traffic) Akhilesh Bhadauria said that the issue had come to his notice, and it was being probed with the help of Civil Lines police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-parking-fee-of-two-cars-reaches-rs-2-50-lakh-owner-refuses-to-pay-101627921767630.html
02-08-2021||Lucknow||Mega vax drive today: Lucknow aims to cross 85,000-mark in a single day||The Lucknow health department has planned to administer 86,950 Covid vaccine doses, highest ever in a single day, with the (one-day) mega vaccination drive being organised on Tuesday, where people can also avail walk-in registration facility. “We have received the vaccine stock and allotted to each of the 85 vaccination centres where people will be inoculated via walk-in and online registration facility. Beneficiaries need to come with an ID such as Aadhaar or PAN card,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge of vaccination in Lucknow. He said, “Apart from these 85 centres, the regular vaccination at government hospitals and community health centres will also be conducted and together we hope to cross 85,000-mark in one day.” Till now, a maximum over 28,000 doses have been administered in Lucknow, in a single day, he added. “The camps will be held in each area of the district to ensure that none of the beneficiaries has to travel long distance and there is no crowd at the centres. People should ensure they get their vaccination by either booking a slot or walk-in facilities,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general Association of International Doctors. Lucknow has so far administered 1976236 doses since vaccination began on January 26, and this is the highest among all 75 districts. State has administered over 4.87 crore doses till now. The regular vaccination at other centres, including 12 district level hospitals such as Civil, Lok Bandhu, Balrampur hospitals, Lohia institute and KGMU, would continue on the basis of slots booked or walk-in, if allowed. In all, 147 vaccination centres would run 358 vaccination booths in the state capital on Tuesday with a vaccine dose capacity ranging from 300 to 2000. The maximum 2000 doses have been allotted to BBD University and Shri Guru Singh Sabha in Aishbagh. Centres with walk-in facility 
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: HSC results to be announced on Tuesday at 4pm||The results of the higher secondary certificate (HSC) exams will be announced by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Tuesday, at 4pm. Nearly 1.5 million students take the class 12 exams in the state every year. “The results will be announced online and students can log on to www.mahresult.nic.in for the same. Students can also log on to various other websites, including https://hscresult.11thadmission.org.in, https://msbshse.co.in, hscresult.mkcl.org for their individual scores,” said a statement released by the board on Monday evening.As per a Supreme Court order, all school education boards had been asked to adhere to the July 31 deadline for announcement of class 10 and 12 results. However, due to pending work, board officials said they had to extend the deadline by a couple of days to ensure all work is done before announcing results. This year, Covid-19 pushed all boards to rethink their decision of conducting board exams when the country was grappling with the deadly second wave. Scrapping of exams was unanimously accepted, and instead, grading students on a formula giving weightage to students’ performance of the past three years was accepted. The approved mechanism for CBSE Class 12 students was a 30:30:40 formula, which took into account a student’s performance in the past three examinations (the 12th pre-board, 11th finals, and 10th board), for the score of the theory component of the examination that could not be held. In case of CISCE, the formula will take into consideration the students’ Class 10 ICSE Board exam results, project and practical work in subjects, and best marks obtained in school exams in Classes 11 and 12. In the first week of July, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that for HSC results, 30% weightage each will be given to Class 10 and 11 marks and 40% to Class 12 internals marks and students’ performance in the year.“We have waited fairly long for the results and are hoping our scores will be at par with our counterparts from the other education boards. These marks will decide our future for us,” said Akriti Patel, an HSC student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrahsc-results-to-be-announced-today-at-4pm-101627921050962.html
02-08-2021||Other||MLA accused officer of hurling caste slur, files case||CPI-ML legislator from Agiaon in Bhojpur district, Manoj Manzil, on Monday filed a court case against Ara sadar circle officer for allegedly using caste slur against him, court officials said. The case was filed with Ara civil court against CO Praveen Kumar Pandey under sections of SC/ST (Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes) Act and Indian Penal Code. As per available information, the MLA had contacted the CO for releasing compensation amount to the family of CPI-ML leader Ranjan Yadav, who died in an accident on June 18 this year. “I, along with the wife of the deceased, met the CO on July 3, after which he approved the process. The CO then asked us to come on July 6 for getting compensation,” Manzil said.“When we went to meet the CO on the given date, he arrived late. When we confronted him, he used caste slur against me,” the MLA has said in his complaint.However, the CO handed over the compensation cheque to wife of the deceased.CO Kumar did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mla-accused-officer-of-hurling-caste-slur-files-case-101627920748908.html
02-08-2021||Patna||Fake currency worth ₹7.50 lakh seized, 9 held||The Bihar police has seized ₹7.50 lakh in fake currency notes of denomination ₹100 from Muzaffarpur and East Champaran districts, officials said on Monday, adding that nine persons, including a woman, were held in this connection. The Muzaffarpur police late on Sunday night intercepted a car on National Highway-28 at Ratanpura under Motipur police station area following a tip-off and recovered Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) with face value of ₹1 lakh from a gang’s kingpin and his wife, said Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayan Kant. Police also took the driver into custody for further interrogation. During investigation, police found that paper used for printing the fake notes was brought from Nepal, while the printing process was done at a house located in Sitamarhi’s Mezarganj, the SSP said . “A police team raided Ratanpura following information that a deal in FICN is likely to take place. The three accused were found in possession of ₹1 lakh FICN of denomination ₹200,” said the SSP, adding that following their arrest police raided East Champaran and caught six more persons and recovered ₹6.5 lakh FICN. An FIR was lodged with Motipur police in this connection and police were interrogating the arrested accused. The SSP said that the FICN was likely to be pumped into upcoming panchayat election and illegal liquor syndicate. Meanwhile, Tirhut inspector general Ganesh Kumar said the seized currency will be sent to Forensic Science Laboratory as well as the Reserve Bank of India for detailed examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fake-currency-worth-7-50-lakh-seized-9-held-101627920747399.html
02-08-2021||Patna||21-yr-old gets life term for murdering minor in 2016||A sessions court in Biharsharif awarded life imprisonment to a man on Monday for killing a 16-year-old boy in 2016. The accused was a minor too when the incident took place, police said.The court slapped a fine of ₹10,000 on the 21-year-old accused and directed the District Legal Services Authority to provide compensation to the victim’s parents.District prosecution officer (DPO) Dilip Kumar said that the court of additional district and session judge Kanhaiya Ji Choudhary on Monday convicted the accused and awarded him life term under the IPC Section 302 (murder), and Sections 15 and 18 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. “We sought life term for the then minor accused because he had committed a heinous crime,” said Dilip, adding that it was possibly the first such conviction in the state under the amended law, which became effective in January 2016. The 16-year-old victim was abducted for a ransom of ₹50 lakh and subsequently murdered on May 1, 2016. His decomposed body was recovered after five days from Pirbigha locality under Hulasganj police station of Jehanabad district. According to the FIR lodged by the victim’s father, three others, besides the main accused, were involved in the incident. A coaching institute owner allegedly provided a motorcycle to the accused for committing the crime. The accused took the minor to Jehanabad from Biharsharif on the pretext of playing cricket, following which he committed the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/21yrold-gets-life-term-for-murdering-minor-in-2016-101627920748103.html
02-08-2021||Other||CAG points to financial lapses in flyovers construction in Patna||PATNABihar’s capital Patna has seen a chain of flyovers over the last one decade, but the recent report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India for the year ending March 31, 2019 has underlined that “flyovers were being constructed without ensuring the availability of drawing and design, tenders were invited before obtaining administrative approval and payments were made prior to technical sanction”.“Such practices were also reported to the government by the CAG for the year ending March 31, 2010, and audit report (PSUs) for the year ending March 31, 2015. However, the Bihar government is yet to address these significant issues which go against the financial propriety and prudence,” says the report, tabled in the Bihar Legislative Assembly last week.“There is neither transparency in the selection of consultants nor was payment linked to deliverables/progress of work,” the report says, adding that it resulted in time overrun and undue benefits to consultants in violation of Bihar Finance Rules.The audit was carried out for three flyovers in Patna — multi-junction interchange at Bailey Road (Lohia Path Chakra), R-Block flyover and Karbigahiya flyover connecting to Chiraiyatand flyover — entailing a total cost of ₹588 crore. All three suffered from time overrun of 19-30 months.“Scrutiny of records in June 2019 revealed that while planning two projects (Karbigahiya and R-Block flyovers), no traffic survey was conducted to assess the requirement of flyovers. In the absence of any traffic census/data, it could not be verified whether these flyovers were properly designed and whether the number and width of traffic lanes provided in flyovers were sufficient to cater to requirement. It was noticed that the technical sanctions of the projects were accorded on a piecemeal basis as stage wise technical sanction was given. Even after four years of commencement of work, technically sanctioned drawing and design for the entire length was not finalised till December 2019, though agreements were entered into and payments made to contractors,” says the report, rejecting the argument of the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam in June 2020 that tenders were invited prior to administrative approval in the interest of work and to minimise time span.In case of Lohia Path Chakra, the audit objected to excess payment of ₹7.44 crore to a consultant appointed on nomination basis without any justification for single-source selection in violation of Bihar Finance Rules, to which the management of the Nigam did not offer any comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cag-points-to-financial-lapses-in-flyovers-construction-in-patna-101627920746735.html
02-08-2021||Ranchi||5 held in Ranchi advocate murder case||The police on Monday claimed to have cracked the recent murder case of a Ranchi advocate with the arrest of five persons.Police said initial investigation suggested land dispute as the reason behind the murder.Ranchi senior superintendent of police Surendra Jha said they have recovered the arms and vehicles used in the crime. Advocate Manoj Jha, a resident of Church road in Ranchi, was killed in Radgaon area under Bundu police station while he was overseeing construction on a piece of land owned by one of his clients, an educational institution, last week.“We have recovered the arms and the bike used in the crime. We have also recovered the vehicle they used to flee the city. We are looking for few more people involved in the incident. They will be arrested soon,” said Jha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/5-held-in-ranchi-advocate-murder-case-101627920686681.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Plea filed in Delhi HC seeking reopening of weekly markets or compensation for vendors||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the Delhi government to reply to a petition seeking resumption of all weekly markets in the city, with all precautions and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in place, or provide financial compensation to street vendors. The petition was filed by the Saptahik Patri Bazar Association.Also Read: As crowds surge, no leeway yet for Delhi’s weekly marketsAppearing for the petitioner, which is an association of several poor street vendors who hold weekly markets in Delhi, once a week, lawyers Rajat Wadhwa and Kartik Kumar Aggarwal argued that a compensation of ₹15,000 per month should be paid to each of the vendors who organise weekly markets within the jurisdiction of the respondents, i.e. the government of Delhi. They also urged the single-judge bench to quash the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's (DDMA) order dated June 13, as well as all subsequent orders, which, they said are "against weekly markets."The DDMA's June 13 notification allowed all malls and market complexes to open completely from 10am to 8pm, starting June 14. Weekly markets were also allowed to open with the condition that only one such market will open in only one municipal zone each day. Delhi has a total of 12 municipal zones.Also Read: Arvind Kejriwal eases Covid curbs. Shops, restaurants, malls can reopen"The respondent, despite opening all markets, malls, and other commercial complexes in Delhi, had discriminated by ordering that vendors shall organise one weekly market per week per zone," the plea mentioned, while also stating that these directions, on the face of it, are "discriminatory, arbitrary, whimsical, and without application of mind."Justice Rekha Palli directed the Delhi government to respond to the petition, and listed August 17 as the next date of hearing.A lockdown was in place in Delhi from April 19 to May 30 as the Capital, along with the rest of the country, was hit by a devastating fresh wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The restrictions, however, contributed to a decline in daily cases, prompting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to announce the first set of relaxations, beginning May 31. Since then, more relaxations have been announced though weekly markets continue to operate as per earlier orders.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-filed-delhi-hc-seeking-reopening-of-weekly-markets-or-compensation-for-vendors-101627914562318.html
02-08-2021||Kolkata||Mamata dribbles football at ‘Khela hobe’ programme launch; says slogan now popular across India||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was seen dribbling a football at the Netaji Indoor Stadium in Kolkata on the occasion of launching “Khela Hobe Divas” on Monday. A video posted on Twitter by news agency ANI showed the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo throwing footballs into the audience, while saying “ami kintu ball khelte pari” (I can play football).“Believe it or not ‘Khela hobe’ has become very popular. The slogan was raised in Parliament, too, and soon it would reverberate across India,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by ANI.During the event, Banerjee also said her government has granted ₹5 lakh each to 25,000 sporting clubs across the state. “We have done community development programmes to take sports forward. I believe to take forward ‘Khela hobe’ and we have to take it through sports,” she added.Banerjee further said that as many as one lakh footballs would be distributed among the sporting clubs in various districts of the state.#WATCH | West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee dribbling a football during launch of “Khela Hobe” program at Netaji Indoor Stadium,Kolkata. She says, " Believe it or not, "Khela Hobe" has become very popular. The slogan was raised in Parliament too, soon it'll be popular across India." pic.twitter.com/xDZYGtQKADOn July 21, while addressing the media on the occasion of Martyr's Day, the chief minister announced that “Khela Divas” would be celebrated across West Bengal every year on August 16.Banerjee also said that footballs manufactured by the state handicraft department would be handed over to various sporting clubs and children from economically-weaker section on August 16. She had also made a reference to her 2021 assembly elections’ slogan “Khela hobe”, thereby hinting at the faceoff between the TMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).BJP Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta, however, equated August 16 with Muslim League’s Direct Action Day that commenced in 1946, and led to the “great Calcutta Killings.”In retaliation, the TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh condemned the ruling dispensation at the Centre of “politicising a sporting event”.During her five-day visit to Delhi recently, Banerjee held discussions and talks with many opposition leaders with the aim to oust the BJP from power at the Centre. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, party leader Rahul Gandhi and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal were among the significant people she met. The TMC chief also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee meets Arvind Kejriwal in DelhiWhile in Delhi, Banerjee repeatedly pushed for the unity of Opposition ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The chief minister said that during the polls, the competition will be between PM Modi and the entire country.“It is essential for everyone to come together in order to defeat the BJP. Alone, I am nothing - everyone will have to work together. I am not a leader. I am a cadre. I am a person from the street,” she added.Also Read | 'Poore desh me khela hobe': Mamata on Opposition’s unity ahead of 2024 electionsBanerjee, however, evaded questions regarding the face of the Opposition in the 2024 general elections, saying that she is not a “political astrologer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-dribbles-football-at-khela-hobe-programme-launch-in-kolkata-101627913128403.html
02-08-2021||Patna||Pegasus row: Bihar CM seeks detailed probe into allegations of phone-hacking||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that a detailed inquiry must be conducted to bring out the truth regarding the allegations of phone-hacking, which have crippled the functioning of Parliament for the past few days. Talking to media persons after the customary Janata Darbar, Kumar said that the issue (allegations of snooping via Pegasus surveillanceware) should be debated, and the government must take appropriate steps in keeping with gravity of the matter. “Investigation of the issue is also important as it is not known who is after the phone tapping or hacking,” said Kumar. Regarding the Opposition’s demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe despite the government’s rejecting the charge, Kumar said that those with any concrete evidence of the snooping should show proof. Last week, the chief minister criticised any alleged attempt to hack phones of some journalists, political leaders and bureaucrats via Pegasus project and said there were some bad aspects of technical evolution. “Sometimes, technologies, which are largely beneficial, can be misused also,” said the CM. Also Read | Pegasus row: IT panel chief seeks action against officialsA consortium of media organisations began reporting a series of stories since July 18 on a leaked list of 50,000 phone numbers -- some belonging to politicians, journalists and activists -- around the world. The numbers are believed to have been selected for targeting for surveillance by clients of the NSO Group, which makes the military-grade mobile device spyware Pegasus. Of the 50,000 Amnesty International analysed 67 devices, and 37 of these confirmed a Pegasus infection. Dozens of numbers on the list were linked to Indian citizens, including opposition leader Rahul Gandhi, journalists, activists, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and the current electronics and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation into the alleged snooping explains, the presence of a number on the database of the alleged targeted numbers does not indicate an individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has, on multiple occasions, said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.CM bats for caste-based censusBatting for a caste-based census, the chief minister said that he would write to the Centre and seek an appointment to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon with a request. “The state legislature unanimously passed a resolution in 2019, seeking a caste-based census. A similar resolution was passed in the assembly again in 2020. The Opposition leaders have met me and urged to begin it despite Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s reluctance,” said Kumar, adding that parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary was pursuing the issue. Dismissing the perception that the declaration of caste census would create social tension, the CM said that all sections of the society would welcome it. “All parties (including the BJP) have agreed to the demand for caste census. However, it all depends on the Centre, whether it is willing or not,” added the CM. Rashtriya Janata Dal national spokesman and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha has urged the CM to stick to his demands. “I hope he does not come under pressure and his statements weren’t misinterpreted,” added Jha, speaking on the CM’s demand for a probe in Pegasus issue.BJP spokesman Ranjan Patel said that the party believed there was no such spying. “It is all Opposition’s baseless charges. They are not getting any issue, so their are raking up a non-issue. Our party and the government work with total transparency,” added the BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pegasus-row-bihar-cm-seeks-detailed-probe-into-allegations-of-phonehacking-101627911806760.html
02-08-2021||Other||No Covid death in UP in last three days: CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the Covid situation was in control in UP due to concerted efforts and it was extremely heartening that no one died of Covid infection in the last three days.Each day, the state was doing 2.5 lakh tests on an average and the positivity rate was a mere 0.01% and recovery rate 98.6%, he said at the Covid-19 review meeting.“Yesterday, 58 districts did not report any fresh Covid cases, 17 districts reported fresh cases in single digit and no district reported fresh cases in double digit. In the last 24 hours, 25 fresh cases of Covid were reported and 42 patients had recovered,” said Yogi.In July, 1.71 crore doses were administered in UP, and so far 4.84 crore doses had been administered, he added. PM to interact with UP beneficiaries: YogiChief minister Yogi Adityanath said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have a direct interaction with the state on Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyana Ann Yojna on August 5. He will also interact with some of the ration card holders. The programme will be organised through video conferencing at 80 places in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-death-in-up-in-last-three-days-cm-101627908926824.html
02-08-2021||Other||UP schools to reopen for classes 9-12 from Aug 16, with 50% attendance||LUCKNOW Secondary schools in Uttar Pradesh (classes 9 to 12) will resume physical classes from August 16, with 50% attendance. Apart from this, instructions have also been issued for commencement of classes in higher educational institutes from September 1, the UP government said in a statement.In a Covid review meeting on Monday, chief minister instructed officials to begin preparations for the commencement of new session of all educational institutes in view of the controlled situation of Covid in the state. “Students of high school (classes 9 and 10) and intermediate (classes 11 and 12) schools will participate in the 75th Independence Day celebrations on August 15. And on August 16, teaching-learning will commence in the schools with half capacity, while adhering to the Covid-19 protocol,” said additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal.As all the boards like ISC, CBSE and UP Board had declared Class 12 results, universities and degree colleges could now start admissions for undergraduate courses from August 5, said CM. Physical classes (for higher education) for second and third year students will resume from August 16 and for first year students from September 1.In institutes where entrance examinations are to be held, first year classes will begin from September 13. In institutes where annual examinations for second year students were held, classes will begin from September 13. Likewise, the classes for post-graduate first year will also begin from September 13. The institutes will remain closed for classes on Saturday and Sunday every week in view of weekend curfew. Ahead of resuming physical classes, educational institutions should make all possible arrangements for sanitizers, infrared thermometer, masks etc to contain the spread of Covid, said the directive. With the opening of educational institutions efforts should be made to intensify vaccination of all those who are above 18 year of age, it added. All government primary and upper primary schools of basic shiksha parishad should carry out cleanliness drive and sanitisation in classrooms and washrooms. The panchayati raj department must work in coordination with basic education department for carrying out cleanliness drive in government schools, said officials. (Inputs from PTI) BACK TO SCHOOLThe govt has cleared in-person classes, but with precautions.The schools will run in two shifts of four-hour duration each with 50% attendance. The first shift will be from 8am to12 noon and the second from 12.30pm to 4.30pm. Schools will run from Monday to Friday PRECAUTIONSSanitisers, temperature checks and masks mandatoryOnline classes to continueAttendance only with consent from parents/guardians||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-9-12-from-aug-16-with-50-attendance-101627907848659.html
02-08-2021||Kolkata||2011 Bengal hooch tragedy: Main accused gets life sentence till death||Kolkata’s Alipore court on Monday ordered life sentence for the main accused, Noor Islam Fakir, in the 2011 Mograhat hooch tragedy that claimed 172 lives and left many blinded in West Bengal. Fakir is to serve the sentence until death, ruled the court.This is the highest toll in a hooch related incident in the state’s recorded history. The incident took place on December 14 in 2011 at Sangrampur in the Mograhat police station area of South 24 Parganas district. A second case was filed at Usti police station since 48 of the 172 people died in that area. A third case was registered in the Mandirbazar police station. Fakir, who is physically challenged and cannot walk without crutches, ran the hooch trade. Also Read | On Raj Kundra’s plea challenging arrest, cops tell court evidence destroyedThe Criminal Investigation Department (CID), which probed the crime, found that methyl alcohol and some toxic chemicals were used to make the illicit liquor more potent, leading to mass poisoning. The charge sheet was filed within 60 days. Fakir, who surrendered after several of his associates were arrested, has been in judicial custody since 2012. He was pronounced guilty on Saturday by additional district judge Pushpal Satpathi who reserved the sentence till Monday. Fakir’s lawyer, Rampada Jana, said, “My client told the court that the trade was run by other people and he was not directly involved. We will move the Calcutta high court challenging the order.” Public prosecutor Tamal Mukherjee said, “The order has sent a strong message to the society.” In 2018, the Alipore court acquitted Fakir’s wife Shakila Bibi, Ayub Ali Laskar, Giasuddin Laskar, Khairunnesa Bewa, Moinuddin Gazi and Rabiul Laskar, but sentenced four others for life. The hooch tragedy took place months after Mamata Banerjee formed the government in the state with the Congress, ousting the Left Front which ruled Bengal for 34 years. She announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh for the kin of each of the victims. This led to a political debate with Left leaders alleging that money meant for victims of natural calamities was being misused for political reasons. The Trinamool Congress alleged that the hooch tragedy was a handiwork of the CPI(M).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/2011-bengal-hooch-tragedy-main-accused-gets-life-sentence-till-death-101627906226744.html
02-08-2021||Lucknow||Schools in UP to reopen for higher classes on August 16 with 50% capacity||Schools in Uttar Pradesh will resume physical classes for 9 to 12 with 50% attendance on August 16. The admission process of secondary level schools where students were promoted to the next level, may also start now, an official order issued by the state government stated.In a review meeting held by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Covid-19 on Monday, directives were issued to make necessary arrangements for reopening of educational institutions across the state. These were issued in view of a reduced number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. In a statement, the UP government also issued instructions to commence classes for higher educational institutes such as colleges and universities from September 1 onwards.Adityanath also said that as all the boards, including the CBSE, UP Board and CISCE have declared class 12 results, universities and colleges may now commence the admission procedure for undergraduate courses from August 5 onwards.Ahead of resuming physical classes, the educational institutions have been asked to make all possible arrangements for adhering to Covid-19 norms such as availability of sanitisers, infrared thermometers, and masks, among others, to contain the spread of virus among the students, teachers and staff.The state government has further ordered ramping up of vaccination drives among all citizens above 18 since educational institutions have now been permitted to resume offline classes. The state health department officials have been to look into the vaccination and ensure all arrangements are made for the same.This comes after schools for all classes resumed in Punjab on Monday in view of declining coronavirus cases in the state. Notably, Punjab government had on Saturday announced its decision to allow reopening of schools amid further relaxation of Covid-19 curbs in the state.Apart from Punjab, schools for classes 9 to 12 also reopened in Uttarakhand on Monday, while classes 6 to 8 will resume on August 16. Schools in Himachal Pradesh for classes 10 to 12 also reopened on Monday. Higher secondary classes along with colleges and universities resumed in Chhattisgarh as well on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/schools-in-up-to-reopen-for-higher-classes-on-august-16-with-50-capacity-101627904321152.html
02-08-2021||Other||Centre rushes three-member team to Maharashtra to contain Zika||A three-member Central team has been rushed to Maharashtra to help in effective containment of the Zika case reported in Pune. The team consists of a health expert from regional director of Pune, a gynaecologist from lady Hardinge Medical College, and an entomologist (someone who studies insects) from National Institute of Malaria Research. The team will work with the state health department to see whether the action plan for Zika management is being implemented and recommend necessary public health interventions, according to a release from the health ministry. Zika is transmitted by the bite of aedes aegypti mosquito that also spreads dengue, yellow fever, and West Nile. Most people who get the infection report mild symptoms such as fever, malaise, joint pain, and rashes. However, in pregnant women, the infection can lead to microcephaly in the foetus, or an underdeveloped brain and head of the child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-rushes-three-member-team-to-maharashtra-to-contain-zika-101627904366941.html
02-08-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt orders FIR against online game firm after boy dies by suicide||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra informed on Monday that the state government has filed a police case against developers of online game Free Fire after a 13-year-old boy, who lost ₹40,000 in the game, died by suicide in Chhatarpur district.Also Read | Class 6 student dies by suicide after losing ₹40,000 in online game“A sad incident took place over the Free Fire Game in Chhatarpur. An FIR has been registered against the company which created this game. Superintendents of Police across the state have been directed to initiate action against developers of such addictive games as these are disorientating the younger generation and playing with their lives. We have sought advice from the legal department to initiate legal action against such companies,” Mishra told reporters.Speaking on the issue, Rajesh Banjare, in-charge of Civil Lines police station in Chhatarpur, said an FIR under Section 305 (abetment to death by suicide of a child) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against developers of Free Fire. Banjare also noted that assistance of the cyber cell is being taken to zero in on monetary transactions in this case.The tragic incident took place last Friday. Police recovered a suicide note, written allegedly by the class 6 student, in which he apologised to his parents for spending ₹40,000 from his mother’s account while playing Free Fire. According to Sachin Sharma, Chhatarpur’s Superintendent of Police (SP), the boy’s father runs a pathology lab, while his mother works at the pathology department of the district hospital. On the day of the incident, she received a message, while on duty, informing her of transaction of ₹1500 from her account and, later, reprimanded her son for spending money on the game.The Chhatarpur Police are investigating whether the boy spent the money himself or did so as someone was threatening him.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-orders-fir-against-online-game-firm-after-boy-dies-by-suicide-101627903660260.html
02-08-2021||Jaipur||Amid talks of Rajasthan Cabinet rejig, Kumari Selja meets CM Gehlot||Amid the possibilities of a Cabinet reshuffle, Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja arrived in Jaipur and held closed-door meeting with Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Sunday. Selja is considered close to Sonia Gandhi and is believed to have conveyed a message from the party high command. Party functionaries in Rajasthan linked her visit to the upcoming Cabinet rejig. A senior leader, known to be close to Gehlot, said no one would know about the details of the discussions between the two. Also Read | Lab hired Rajasthan man to make fake test entries: Mahakumbh testing probeSources claim Selja’s visit comes immediately after AICC general secretary Ajay Maken met Rahul Gandhi on Sunday and briefed him about the three-day feedback meetings with MLAs and state executive. She met Gehlot on the directions of the high command as the CM disagreed on some issues. Selja is said to be a Gehlot supporter and was also the chairperson of the screening committee in the last assembly elections. Meanwhile Maken indicated that some members of the Cabinet may be dropped. A minister said, on the condition of anonymity, that it is a tradition that issues are resolved gradually. It is unlikely that the reshuffle would happen soon, besides bypoll dates are also to be announced in the coming days. However, MLAs close to Sachin Pilot claim that the reshuffle would happen in the coming 8-10 days. At present, there are 21 members in the Cabinet, including the chief minister, and nine slots are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/amid-talks-of-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-kumari-selja-meets-cmgehlot-101627902266596.html
02-08-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: To curb or not to curb; Maha state of confusion||For the past one week, the state government has been contemplating easing curbs in Maharashtra imposed in March to contain Covid. The Covid pandemic, as some ministers say, is under control in 25 districts, though the government is undecided about what, where and how to relax these restrictions. Despite multiple statements by ministers, the government is still going back-and-forth and hasn’t issued a notification yet, which may happen in a day or two. However, the delay and lack of clarity arising out of contradictory reactions from ministers and uncertainty at the government level has led to confusion among citizens and traders, already grappling with loss of income. This is only consistent with the government’s previous record. Be it imposing restrictions, or lifting them; handling Covid; or dealing with major projects, the trademark of this government, which is into its last few months of its second year in power, has been to stay confused and create confusion among people. Take Pune for example. The case was clear from the state government’s previous order that Pune is to be considered as three administrative units – Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and rural areas of the district. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar too, earlier during a Covid review meeting, adequately hinted that the city will get relief since there is a demand from every quarter amid cases going down. The first confusion was triggered when Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope spoke only about 11 districts – Pune included – where Covid positivity rate is higher than that of state average, a norm Tope said government has set. According to Tope, the state government was positive about extending the operating times for shops and establishments beyond 4pm and allowing theatres and multiplexes to function at 50% capacity. In reality, the city’s positivity rate between July 22-28 is 3.4%, which is lower than state’s average of 3.8%. For rural parts of Pune district and Pimpri-Chinchwad, the positivity rate stands at 5.6% and 4.3% respectively. Going by the government’s previous order, Pune city should qualify for relaxations. Tope’s unclear message perplexed many. Then Ajit Pawar, last weekend, took a stand saying respite will be offered to areas with a positivity rate less than 1%. With 518 square kilometres in area, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is largest in Maharashtra. It is also second most important centre after Mumbai when it comes to economic activity. With the state government not able to make up its mind on relaxations, traders and the business community is unhappy. The government is wary of another surge in cases in Maharashtra especially after reports of a rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, and a few other countries. The Centre too has cautioned 10 states including Maharashtra about the rise in Covid numbers in some districts. Ministers’ statements about the imminent order of lifting some of the curbs when the chief minister is cautiously taking a stand on the instructions of the state task force, which is against offering any respite, is leading to uncertainty. We witnessed a similar scene earlier in June when minister for relief and rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar hastily announced categorising all Maharashtra districts into five levels where relaxations were to be given according to their standing. The minister’s announcement was followed by a curt clarification from chief minister’s office, putting the state, and its business community, into a state of chaos. This wasn’t just about lifting restrictions. Last year during lockdown, there were confusing orders at every level. One order was followed by another, which only added confusion. And yes, this isn’t just about Covid. Doubts are being raised about the future of proposed international airport at Purandar in Pune. While speaking in Pune in the second week of July, Ajit Pawar was asked about the final site for the international airport. Pawar’s reply was that the site has not been confirmed yet, a clear contradiction to his earlier statements made in February 2021, that the newly proposed site for the airport was near the original site and would fall under Purandar tehsil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-to-curb-or-not-to-curb-maha-state-of-confusion-101627901007220.html
02-08-2021||Other||Thane forest dept issues notice to 1,299 houses in landslide prone areas||The Thane forest department has issued a notice to 1,299 houses in the three landslide prone areas of Kalwa in Maharashtra’s Thane district. The department has claimed that these structures are illegal and on steep slopes, thus dangerous. It has asked the residents to submit their property documents, or these structures will be razed. Forest officials have also formed ten teams to verify the property records of these structures. The houses that notices have been sent to are located in Aatkoneshwar Nagar, Waghoba Nagar and Gholai Nagar in Kalwa. The forest officials said they have also submitted the list of these houses to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Limited to ensure that the power and water supply to these homes are disconnected. Also Read | Surge in Covid-19 vaccination among 18-45 age group at Thane’s private centresAn officer from forest department said, “We started surveying the hillocks in Kalwa last week. As per the survey, there are 1,200 houses in extreme landslide prone areas. We are also checking since when was property tax levied on these slums, and when were water and power supplied.” He added that the department will demolish these structures if the residents do not respond to the notice. The survey has identified 425 hutments in Gholai, Parsik and Indira Nagar, 432 in Aatkoneshwar Nagar, Bhaskar Nagar and Paundpada, and 442 in Waghoba Nagar and Kargil Khonda. He added, “We will construct a protection wall after these houses are demolished to prevent further encroachment in these areas. A budget of Rs8 crore has been allotted for the same.” The concerned TMC officials said they have not yet received the notice, so no decision has yet been taken to disconnect the water connections. On July 19, five persons from a family, including three children, were killed in a landslide in Gholai Nagar, Kalwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-forest-dept-issues-notice-to-1-299-houses-in-landslide-prone-areas-101627897646654.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||SC to hear petition challenging Rakesh Asthana's appointment as Delhi Police commissioner on Aug 5||The appointment of senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner might come under the scrutiny of the Supreme Court as the court, on Monday, agreed to hear a contempt petition filed by a lawyer challenging Asthana’s elevation as the police chief, news agency ANI reported. The apex court will take up the petition on August 5.Supreme Court to hear on August 5, the contempt petition filed by a lawyer, against the Prime Minister, Home Minister, and Ministry of Home Affairs challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner pic.twitter.com/KA6kST3evmThe contempt petition challenging Asthana’s appointment was filed by lawyer Manohar Lal Sharma on July 30. Sharma, a 'serial litigator' who regularly files public interest litigations (PILs), argued in his petition that the decision is in violation of a July 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court which said that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) should, as far as possible, consider only those officers for such appointments who have two years of service left.Also Read | Contempt plea in SC over Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police top copAsthana’s appointment as Capital’s top cop was announced on July 27, just four days before he was scheduled to retire from service. The 1984-batch Gujarat cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was serving as the Director General (DG) of the Border Security Force (BSF) when he was moved to the national capital as the head of its law enforcement agency. He assumed charge on July 28.Also Read | Rakesh Asthana takes charge as police commissioner of DelhiMeanwhile, Sharma, in his plea, had also urged the court to declare the notification announcing the officer’s appointment as “illegal.” He had further argued that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah are both party to this contempt of court. “Respondent number 1 (PM Modi) is the head of the ACC and respondent number 2 (Shah) is the Minister of home affairs, who jointly made the appointment against the judgment of the Supreme Court,” the contempt plea had stated.The announcement of Asthana’s appointment was made by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC). The Delhi Police reports to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).Incidentally, also on August 5, the Supreme Court will take up three petitions demanding a court-monitored probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping scandal. The first petitioner in this case was none other than ML Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-to-hear-petition-challenging-rakesh-asthana-s-appointment-as-delhi-police-commissioner-on-thursday-101627897091429.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||DU researcher discovers new species of frogs, names it after former VC||A group of Delhi University (DU) researchers has named a new species of frogs from the Western Ghats after former DU vice-chancellor Deepak Pental to honour his work as a renowned plant genetist. Pental also helped establish the Systematics Labs at DU which conducts research on Indian amphibians.The species was discovered during a decade-long comprehensive study on a large group of Minervaryan frogs and has been named Minervarya pentali.Professor SD Biju, head of the department of environmental studies at DU, and a postdoctoral researcher at DU Sonali Garg discovered the new species of frog which belongs to the family Dicroglossidae. They discovered the frog from the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot that extends along the southwest coast of the Indian Peninsula, the researchers said.Also Read | Nations should compete over green list to measure efforts on conservation“It is a great privilege to name a frog species after professor Deepak Pental, the former vice-chancellor of University of Delhi, in appreciation of his tremendous support and encouragement for setting-up of the Systematics Lab at University of Delhi — where research leading to the discovery and description of nearly one-fourth of all known Indian amphibians has been carried out,” said professor Biju, who led the study.Lead researcher Garg said, “We discovered it from wayside vegetation int multiple localities in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, while surveying amphibians during the monsoon season. This species is also among the smallest known Minervaryan frogs, which is probably one of the reasons it was overlooked until now.”Researchers said the new species was identified on the basis of multiple criteria including “external morphology, DNA and calling pattern.” Biju said that the study has also resolved the identity and taxonomic status of all known members of the genus from Peninsular India and clarified the geographical ranges of species providing numerous new distribution records based on morphologically and genetically identified samples from a vast region.“The findings are published in a scientific article titled ‘DNA Barcoding and Systematic Review of Minervaryan Frogs (Dicroglossidae: Minervarya) of Peninsular India: Resolution of a taxonomic conundrum with a description of a new species’ in the international journal Asian Herpetological Research,” Biju said.The study was funded by DU, government of India’s department of science and technology (DoST) and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Critical Ecosystem partnership Fund from US, and Global Wildlife Conservation at US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-researcher-discovers-new-species-of-frogs-names-it-after-former-vc-101627895906159.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police bust Nepal-linked drug racket||An international drug racket was busted in Kapurthala on Monday with the arrest of three peddlers and the recovery of 15kg of ganja from them. The accused, Avtar Singh of Bhagalpur in Bihar who now stays in Jalandhar’s Ashok Nagar, Lakhwinder Singh and Gurpreet Singh of Chhota Surtanpur, Chamkaur Sahib, Rupnagar. Also read: Killed Jaish commander’s phone leads to Masood Azhar’s Pak terror empireKapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said that teams were formed under the supervision Phagwara SP Sarbjeet Singh Bahia along with DSP Paramjit Singh to keep a vigil on the activities of anti-social elements in the district. Acting on a tip-off, a team of the police’s crime investigation agency (CIA) that was patrolling the Phagwara bypass, stopped a private passenger bus (PB12-J-9252) headed for Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) and recovered the 15-kg ganja hidden in plastic packets. The police team arrested the three men and booked them under the NDPS Act. The SSP said during investigation, it’s learnt that the drug consignment was being smuggled from Nepal and three of them had links with peddlers of Nepal and Bihar. “We will bust the entire supply line and each and every person involved in the network will be arrested,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-bust-nepal-linked-drug-racket-101627893626284.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Deshmukh skips ED summons again, claims probe neither fair nor impartial||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has skipped the fourth summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Instead,the Nationalist Congress Party leader sent a letter to ED investigators on Monday, claiming the agency’s probe was “neither fair nor impartial”.ED had sent Deshmukh fourth summon last week, asking him to remain present before its officers on Monday for questioning in the money laundering case linked to the alleged bribery-cum-extortion racket run by him through (now dismissed) controversial cop Sachin Vaze.The NCP leader sent his legal representative to the agency’s office to hand over his letter. In his letter to ED, Deshmukh claimed that the fourth summons to him despite his matter being pending before the Supreme Court indicated that the investigation was not fair and impartial.The former minister said that the Supreme Court on July 30 adjourned hearing on his plea regarding protection from any coercive action in the money laundering case to August 3. And despite this, the ED issued fresh summons to him on the same day, asking him to appear before the agency just a day before the next hearing.In the writ petition scheduled to come up before the apex court on Tuesday, August 3, Deshmukh has urged that the very ED investigations are not only actuated with malice both in law as well as fact, but also the same stand vitiated on account of grave violation of the procedure established by law.He stated, “lt appears that the summons have been issued solely with an aim to create a prejudice so as to either serve the media or sensationalise the matter before the (Supreme) Court by alleging purported non-compliance thereof by me.”Also Read | Inquiries a vendetta for complaining against Anil Deshmukh: Param Bir Singh to HC“I shall abide by the orders of the courts of law and would submit myself to any appropriate direction or order that may be passed by the courts in due course of law. I am more than eager to associate with the purported enquiry/investigations being carried out by your office so as to lay bare the hollowness, falsity and lack of substance therein,” his statement reads.Deshmukh did not appear for the earlier three summons and sent his lawyer instead. His son Hrishikesh too didn’t appear before the agency on Monday despite three summons. The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered by ED after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh said the allegations against him are false. The central agency has alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that at Hrishikesh’s behest, the two brothers diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs. ED has also claimed that while collecting money from the bar owners, Vaze told them that a part of the amount was to go to an entity – ‘No 1’ – as well as the crime and social service branches of Mumbai Police. The anti-money laundering agency has also said that Vaze’s in his statement to ED said that he was called to Deshmukh’s official residence and directed to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishments. During investigation, ED has identified 24 private entities that are controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money had been transacted among them without any rationale. The agency then arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde on June 26, claiming that they had handled the money laundering linked to extortion for Deshmukh. In mid-July, the anti-money laundering agency provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties, worth ₹4.2 crore. The attached assets include a residential flat in Worli valued at ₹1.54 crore and 25 land parcels of book value ₹2.67 crore at Dhutum village at Uran in the neighbouring Raigad district. ED said its investigation has revealed that the Worli flat was purchased by the NCP leader in 2004 by making cash payment entirely by cash. It was registered in the name of Deshmukh’s wife Aarti, but the sale deed for the flat was registered in February 2020 after he became the home minister. The other seized properties too are held in Aarti’s name as well as in the name of company, Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd. Deshmukh said the allegations against him, made by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, cropped up only after the cop was shunted out over his poor handling of the Antilia and the Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deshmukh-skips-ed-summons-again-claims-probe-neither-fair-nor-impartial-101627893385905.html
02-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal to release 63 life convicts to decongest prisons during Covid-19 pandemic||The Mamata Banerjee government on Monday said it had ordered the release of 63 life convicts from prisons in West Bengal, considering the need to decongest jails to protect inmates from Covid-19 pandemic.“There was a need to decongest the prisons because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Section 432 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) empowers the state government to consider the premature release of life convicts who have already served 14 years in jail,” a senior official of the state government said on condition of anonymity.The state sentence review board recommended the release of these life convicts on humanitarian grounds considering their age and their conduct among other things. The officer said 61 male convicts aged above 60 years and two female convicts aged above 55 years were among those to be released after completion of formalities.“While the total holding capacity of our correctional homes is around 21,500, there are around 23,000 – 24,000 inmates in jails across the state,” said an official of the jail department. At present, there are 60 correctional homes in Bengal including seven Central prisons, five special jails and one women correctional home among others.The daily count of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal crossed 20000 in mid-May after the assembly elections ended, but it is now less than 1000. On Sunday, the state registered 701 cases. Till date, the state has registered more than 1.5 million cases, out of which nearly 11,000 have died.Earlier in May, taking note of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country, the Supreme Court directed decongestion of prisons across the country and ordered release of all prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-to-release-63-life-convicts-to-decongest-prisons-during-covid-19-pandemic-101627892725765.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccinated record 800,000 people in a day: Aaditya Thackeray||Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Monday the state has set a record of administering vaccines to 800,000 people in a day against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding it can conduct 1.5 million inoculations within a span of 24 hours. “Our effort is to make the vaccines available to the people as soon as possible,” Thackeray, the tourism and environment minister, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.His comments come as several districts in Maharashtra continue to grapple with a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses to inoculate people at the earliest. Authorities have till now administered vaccines to 44,672,654 people across the state of which 33,440,863 have received the first dose and the remaining 11,231,791 have been fully vaccinated.Maharashtra was the first state in India to administer both doses of the vaccine to more than 10 million people. However, the shortage of vaccines has led to the suspension of inoculation drives in recent months, including July.Last week, state health minister Rajesh Tope reiterated the demand for more vaccines by saying a majority of the Covid-19 cases are from Maharashtra and the death rate due to the viral disease is also high. “ We want to immunise the people as soon as possible. In this way, the effect of the third wave in the state would be less,” Tope said on July 28.Maharashtra has recorded 6,310,194 Covid-19 cases, 132,948 people have succumbed to the disease and 6,094,896 have recovered till now.Meanwhile, as the government is planning to ease the ongoing lockdown like restrictions in 25 districts where the Covid-19 growth rate and the positivity rate is lesser than the state average, state minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Saturday that Maharashtra has to start preparing for the third wave of the pandemic as soon as the relaxations are introduced. “When the third wave will hit us depends on us; as soon as we start opening things, we need to start preparing for the third wave,” he told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinated-record-800-000-people-in-a-day-aaditya-thackeray-101627890131298.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Safdarjung only govt hospital in Delhi giving ECMO therapy to Covid-19 patients||Safdarjung Hospital is the only government-run facility in Delhi to offer ECMO (Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) as the last resort treatment for Covid-19 patients with severely damaged lungs. The treatment involves taking over the function of the lungs and the heart, allowing the isolated damaged lungs to heal. However, the two patients put on ECMO therapy at the hospital didn’t survive and the treatment itself is very expensive.While ECMO treatment has been successful in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome and is considered by some as the only hope for Covid-19 patients who won’t survive even with ventilator support, its success rate has been very low. Recently, a seriously-ill Covid patient was treated successfully using ECMO at the KIMS Health hospital in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram. Another Covid-19 patient, a doctor from a Delhi government hospital, has been on ECMO support for over 40 days at Yashoda hospital in Hyderabadad, awaiting a lung transplant.The patients offered ECMO treatment at Safdarjung hospital were critical and died of other complications. The first one admitted last year died of a heart attack three days after being put on ECMO and the second patient, a woman under 40 years of age, admitted during the second Covid wave this year, died after 18 to 19 days of treatment due to sepsis or blood infection.New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) also has ECMO treatment facility but the institute did not use it on Covid-19 patients due to chances of survival being very low. Dr Anjan Trikha from the premier institute says ECMO should be offered to a very narrow subset of people and that too in existing high-volume centres (where a lot of ECMO cases are handled). The cost of the treatment alone is likely to be a deterrent for many, she adds.“There were people running from pillar to post to get ECMO treatment during the second wave. All patients’ relatives should be told about the approximate total cost of the therapy, the time duration it may be required, and the outcomes - both good and bad. The worst case scenario regarding the need of lung transplantation, its cost and outcome should also be discussed. There are success stories with use of ECMO, but it is not a wonder therapy. There have been instances when people have run out of money before their patients have been weaned off the ECMO. Further, when it is done, it must be done only in established, high volume centres,” said Dr Trikha.The machine costs about R 35 lakhs and with the consumables used, the cost to the patient is about ₹1.5 to 3 lakhs a day, excluding the cost of highly trained manpower needed to deliver the therapy. The therapy must be used within a week or ten days of a patient going on a ventilator and the ideal candidate would be a young and healthy person with no or minimal involvement of other organ systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/safdarjung-only-govt-hospital-in-delhi-offering-ecmo-therapy-to-covid-19-patients-101627890265725.html
02-08-2021||Other||Delhi-Meerut expressway: Rly overbridge set to be completed by end of month||The ongoing construction of a rail overbridge (RoB) at Chipiyana, which is part of the second phase of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway between UP Gate and Dasna in Ghaziabad district of Uttar Pradesh, is expected to be completed by August-end, BJP’s Meerut MP Rajendra Agarwal said.The completion of the RoB will pave the way for the official inauguration of the remaining phases of the Delhi- Meerut Expressway in September (Phases 2 and 3).Also Read | Monsoon to be ‘normal’ in August and September: IMDAgarwal called on Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi past Friday where National Highway Authority of India officials told him that work on the RoB is expected to be completed by August-end, he said. The expressway is currently operational and the ongoing construction of RoB at Chipiyana is the only bottleneck which causes traffic snarls due to narrow roads and diversions.Once the bridge is completed, Meerut-Delhi would take 45-50 minutes only.The expressway was made operational between Delhi-Meerut in April this year but is yet to be officially inaugurated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhimeerut-expressway-rly-overbridge-set-to-be-completed-by-end-of-month-101627889305499.html
02-08-2021||Bhopal||MP govt cancels licenses of 60 pvt hospitals due to lack of doctors, facilities||The Madhya Pradesh health department cancelled the licenses of as many as 60 hospitals after finding irregularities and violations under the MP Nursing Homes and Clinical Establishment Act 1973 and Rules 1997, said a health official on Sunday. The health department also sent show-cause notices to 301 hospitals in the state and asked them to improve the facilities and appoint at least three doctors each with MBBS degrees. After over 4,000 people died during the second wave of Covid-19, the health department inspected 692 hospitals to investigate complaints of private hospitals charging extra money and not providing any facilities, including oxygen and medicines. “In the internal probe of health department, it was found that many people died due to delay in treatment and poor treatment at private hospitals. The inspection was done by chief medical and health officers in 52 districts in June and July. They found grave irregularities at 60 hospitals, including 24 in Gwalior region and 10 in Bhopal region,” Vishwas Sarang, medical education department minister. Also Read | Madhya Pradesh minister blames ex-PM Nehru’s speech for inflation, economic woes“In many hospitals, the team didn’t find any resident doctors. Most of them employed homeopaths and Ayush doctors while qualified allopathic doctors were just visiting doctors. In many hospitals, the team didn’t find ICUs and operation theatres, oxygen equipped beds, ventilators and other basic facilities,” said the minister. Now, these hospitals will have to apply for licenses again after improving their facilities. The state government will declare only well-equipped hospitals as Covid-dedicated in August. However, health experts and activists have demanded criminal action against the administrations of the disqualified hospitals.“We were running a helpline during the second wave of Covid-19 to help people find suitable hospitals, oxygen and medicines. We received scores of complaints against private hospitals for not having qualified doctors and other facilities,” said Seema Kurup, a Bhopal-based activist. “They would admit patients and give them normal medicines but when their condition would deteriorate, they would refer them to other hospitals. Many people died due to this negligence. The cancellation of licenses is not enough to punish these people,” she added. Another health activist SR Azad said, “These people should be booked under Section 304 (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.” The Opposition also attacked the state government for giving licenses to substandard hospitals. “Who has given licenses to these hospitals? Why didn’t CMHO inspect the facilities regularly? Why did the government show more dependency on private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients? These are some questions which also need to be answered by the state government. To hide their mistakes, the state government is shifting blame on private hospitals,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson, MP Congress Committee. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the MP government took action against sub-standard hospitals to improve health facilities in the state for the first time. “For the first time, MP government took such a tough action, and it should be appreciated. Why is Congress so sympathetic towards substandard private hospitals? They should also give this answer,” said Rajneesh Agrawal, spokesperson, BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-cancels-licenses-of-60-pvt-hospitals-due-to-lack-of-doctors-facilities-101627883905451.html
02-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Hemant Soren orders action against officials named in blanket scam||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has ordered departmental and penal action against officials suspected to be involved in the alleged blanket procurement scam worth crores of rupees in 2017-18.The scam involves diversion of crores of rupees meant to procure over 9 lakh blankets for distribution among the poor and alleged discrepancies in procurement and transport of related goods from Haryana by officials in Jharkhand Silk Textile and Handicraft Development Corporation Limited, popularly known as Jharcraft.“The CM has given his nod to the proposal for departmental and penal action against officials involved in the blanket procurement scam in Jharcraft after taking the latest update from the anti corruption bureau (ACB) in the matter,” a PRD department official said.The matter came to light in 2018 during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) rule and a probe was ordered following a complaint received by the then chief secretary. The audit of the payments had found several discrepancies. The matter was later handed over to the ACB after Hemant Soren took over as the chief minister in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-hemant-soren-orders-action-against-officials-named-in-blanket-scam-101627883005233.html
02-08-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge death: Police interrogate 243 suspects, seize 250 autos||As the investigation into the alleged murder of Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand intensified, the police have said they have interrogated hundreds of suspects and searched dozens of places. "After the Dhanbad judge case, the district police launched a drive and arrested 17 persons involved in various other cases. As many as 243 old criminals are being interrogated," Sanjeev Kumar, senior superintendent of police of Dhanbad district, told news agency ANI on Sunday.Kumar also said 53 hotels have been checked to look for evidence in the case and that the Dhanbad Police are investigating the death of the judge from various angles. Anand died near the Magistrate Colony in Dhanbad on July 28 after he was hit by an auto-rickshaw while he was on a morning walkKumar added that a sub-inspector, besides the Pathardih station in charge, who had allegedly circulated the CCTV footage in which the auto-rickshaw was seen hitting judge Uttam Anand has been put under suspension. Umesh Manjhi, the officer-in-charge of Pathardih police station, was suspended from his services earlier on Sunday.A major drive was conduted today. Around 243 suspects were interrogated. 17 arrests in different incidents. 53 hotels were checked. We seized around 250 auto rickshaws with no valid documents. Probe is on: Dhanbad SSP Sanjeev Kumar on alleged killing of Dhanbad dist judge (01.08) pic.twitter.com/J9rsURIuFtThe Special Investigation Team (SIT), which was formed to investigate the case and is being led by additional director general Sanjay Anand Lathkar, visited the crime spot again and held a meeting to discuss the case points, ANI reportedDhanbad Police have arrested two people in connection with the alleged murder of judge Uttam Anand and seized the auto-rickshaw used in the crime. “Two persons, identified as Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma have been arrested and the auto was seized from their possession,” Amol V Homkar, inspector general of police (operations), told HT earlier.Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government has recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the case with chief minister Hemant Soren assuring the deceased judge’s family that justice will be done. “It is the state government’s priority to complete the investigation of this incident at a speedy pace and provide justice to the family members,” Soren told the family.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-death-police-interrogate-243-suspects-seize-250-autos-101627881034097.html
02-08-2021||Other||Following HC intervention, Nagaland modifies compulsory vaccination order||The Nagaland government has modified its order for compulsory vaccination of employees after the Gauhati high court stayed the controversial order.The government issued a modified order on Sunday stating that until further orders, employees of the civil secretariat and directorates who have not taken a single dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and are required to produce negative test results every 15 days may get tested at government facilities for free; salaries of those employees will not be withheld.On July 17, the Nagaland government ordered the staff of the civil secretariat and directorates to get vaccinated or produce Covid-19 negative test reports every 15 days at their own cost to attend office, failing which the government would withhold their salaries beyond July 31 and send them on unpaid forced leave.The high court, on July 28, heard a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the government’s July 17 order and directed a stay on the order for two weeks. “Till the returnable date, fees should not be charged for testing from government employees and their salaries should not be stopped for reason of not having being vaccinated,” the court held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/following-hc-intervention-nagaland-modifies-compulsory-vaccination-order-101627880065114.html
02-08-2021||Kolkata||6 killed, 17 injured as van falls into canal in West Bengal||At least six persons were killed and 17 injured when a pickup van, in which they were travelling, fell into a roadside canal in Baruipur, south Bengal, late Sunday night.The incident took place a few minutes before midnight at Bakultala, around 60km south of Kolkata, when the pickup van was heading towards Kolkata. Most of the victims were masons.The driver lost control of the vehicle and it first hit a lamp post and then a tree, before falling into a roadside canal. Local residents began rescue operations. Later, police reached the spot and rushed the victims to hospitals.Also Read | Sand mining: Experts remain wary as Bengal govt centralises auction“Six persons were killed while 17 were injured. The injured persons have been admitted in two hospitals in South 24 Parganas and Kolkata. Condition of two to three of the injured victims is critical,” said an officer of Bakultala police station.Police are now trying to find out whether the driver was speeding, or the vehicle developed some technical snag which could have led to the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/6-killed-17-injured-as-van-falls-into-canal-in-bengal-101627875684920.html
02-08-2021||Patna||Infant breastfeeding within an hour of birth declines in Bihar||The number of children in Bihar who were breastfed within the first hour of their birth has decreased in the last four- five years, as per National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) reports. NFHS-4, for the year 2015-16, shows only 34.9% children were reported to have been breastfed within an hour of their birth in Bihar and that percentage dipped further for year 2019-20 to 31.1% as per NFHS-5.However, the percentage of institutional delivery has increased in the state from 63.8% from 2015-16 to 76.2% in 2019-20, the reports noted.Breastfeeding is considered the first immunization for the newborn and the World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action (WABA), UNICEF and World Health Organisation (WHO) celebrate World Breastfeeding Week between August 1 and August 7, which started Sunday this year.“Breastfeeding within the first hour of birth is essential for children as they get many critical nutrients through this milk and develop high IQ level. Not just that, it also prevents obesity and non-communicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension and the risks of diarrhea and pneumonia among children. But those children who didn’t get it must be in greater risk during the ongoing health emergencies like Covid-19 pandemic,” Dr Vijay Prakash Rai from the Bihar State Health Society, said.The main reason for the percentage of children breastfed within the first hour of birth to be low is the lack of awareness about the importance of this practice. A resource center for Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF) has been set up in Patna to create awareness about breastfeeding among pregnant and lactating women, Dr Rai added.Nipurnh Gupta, media coordinator, Unicef, Bihar, said it is essential to create IYFC counseling centres at all government health facilities where deliveries take place as part of the National Health Mission (NHM) mandate. The facility has been set up in nine districts of Bihar so far, she added.Dr Rai said they have planned online orientation programmes during the breastfeeding week to enhance the abilities of ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers who have been working as IYCF counsellors in the state. Besides, the State Health Society and Unicef, Bihar have also been working to make hospitals bottle free, he added.Nipurnh said, “In 12 districts of the state, including Arwal, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Jehanabad, Khagaria, Muzaffarpur, Purnea, Samastipur, Saran, Sheikhpura, and Sitamarhi, government hospitals have become bottle free.” Two medical colleges, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital in Patna and Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital in Gaya too have achieved this status, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/infant-breastfeeding-within-an-hour-of-birth-declines-in-bihar-101627873105482.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Heavy rainfall likely throughout the day, says IMD||Delhi is likely to witness heavy rainfall on Monday morning with cloudy skies throughout the day, said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 29 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 24.8 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 32.1 degrees Celsius – each two degrees below normal.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 106. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 81, which is in the satisfactory category. Also Read | 127mm in 3 hours: Parts of Delhi get unusually heavy spell of rainAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Due to the rain, air quality in the national capital is also expected to stay in the satisfactory category this week.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the Satisfactory category as forecasted. Scattered rainfall activity in Delhi is likely in next two days and likely to intensify thereafter. Satisfactory to Good AQI is forecasted for next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-heavy-rainfall-likely-throughout-the-day-says-imd-101627872924756.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Rain, thunderstorm over Delhi-NCR forecast, traffic diversions likely||Thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rain will lash Delhi, Noida and Gurugram and adjoining areas in the next two hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday morning."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Delhi, Faridabad, Gurugram, Assandh, Gohana, Rewari, Jind(Haryana) Greater Noida, Noida, Dadri, Meerut, Modinagar, Ghaziabad, Garhmukteshwar, Amroha, Hapur, Siyana, Gulaoti(U.P.) Mahawa, Rajgarh(Raj.) during next 2 hours," said IMD in an official statement."Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Bhiwani, Charkhidadri, Matanhail, Kosli, Narnaul, Mahendergarh, Kotputly, Viratnagar, Alwar, Viratnagar," the weather body said.The national capital is witnessing heavy monsoon showers since last fortnight, bringing the spell of the heatwave to an end but the downpour has brought traffic snarls with commuters stuck on roads in the national capital for hours. On Sunday, several roads and underpasses were waterlogged. The worst affected stretches were GT Road from Mukarba Chowk to Azadpur Chowk, Okhla underpass, Sri Aurobindo Marg under the AIIMS flyover, below the Defence Colony flyover, Ring Road near Nauroji Nagar market, Nangloi to Mundka, and Rohtak Road near Mundka.Severe waterlogging was also reported from Yamuna Bazar, Khanpur, Rohtak Road, Lodhi Road, Azadpur underpass, Zakhira underpass, Shakti Nagar underpass, Kirari and Sagarpur, the public works department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-thunderstorm-over-delhi-ncr-forecast-traffic-diversions-likely-101627867863853.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||High on glory, monumental flags take huge effort to install, retain||These days professor Bipin Kumar and his team of researchers and engineers at Swatric, an IIT Delhi start-up where Kumar is a mentor, are busy designing and developing a suitable fabric for the national flag.“In the past few years, monumental national flags are becoming very popular, but these often get torn in the strong winds and rain. We are trying to develop a fabric that is able to withstand the rain, strong wind and other extreme weather conditions,” says Kumar, who teaches in the department of textile technology at IIT Delhi.Last month, Swatric signed an MoU with the Flag Foundation of India, a non-governmental organization that works to popularise the display of the Tiranga (tricolour flag) by more and more citizens, to develop engineered textile for the national flag. “ We have already come up with the first few prototypes and are trying to test one of them by making a monumental flag with it and hoisting it on a 100- ft pole within our campus before the coming Independence day.”In the past few years, from Delhi-NCR to Guwahati, India has had some of the world’s tallest and largest national flags installed in public parks, at railway stations, airports, educational campuses, corporate houses, among others.In 2014, when the 207-feet tall tricolour was installed by Flag Foundation of India in central park in Connaught Place, it was billed as the largest national flag, on the highest flagpole anywhere in the country. It sort of started a trend and competition across the country among states to install a bigger and higher national flag, and today there are several monumental flags, much higher and larger than the one soaring over Connaught Place. But Delhi will soon earn a new distinction as the city boasting of the maximum number of monumental flags. Recently the Public Works Department ( PWD) in Delhi floated a tender for the installation of 495 giant, high-mast 114 ft tricolours across Delhi, as part of the Delhi government’s Deshbhakti budget.A flag of 20x30 ft and larger on at least 100 feet high pole is considered a ‘monumental flag.’“The demand for the monumental flags has gone up four times in the past four years. The giant national flags made by us are currently installed across 180 locations in the country, half of them were installed in the past three years,” says Gyan Shah, who runs The Flag Corporation, a Mumbai-based firm.One of them is a 9,600 sq ft flag standing on a 319.5 feet pole at Gandhi Mandap, a memorial for Mahatma Gandhi atop the Sarania Hill in Guwahati — said to be the fourth tallest in the country. Others are located in Belagavi in Karnataka (361 ft) , Attari border in Punjab (360 ft)and the ones at Bhakti Shakti Chowk, Pune (351 ft). In Delhi-NCR the largest and tallest national flag measuring 96 X 64 feet was unfurled on March 3, 2015 at Town Park in Faridabad on a 250 feet high pole by Amit Shah, then president of the Bharatiya Janata Party.“We are getting requests from all parts of the country to help install these giant flags. In most cases, we provide the technical know-how and the flags are maintained by the organization that installs them,” says Major General ( retired) Ashim Kohli, CEO, Flag Foundation of India, an organisation founded by industrialist and former MP Naveen Jindal.The making and maintenance of these monumental flags, which weighs anything between 20 to 150 kg, depending on the size and the fabric used, is quite a tricky task. “It involves both machine and handwork. Several large parts have to be sewn together, and we have to ensure that the weight is not too much. The heavier it is, the greater its chances of being torn in the strong wind,” says Delhi-based Abdul Gaffar, who has been making flags for the past five decades.Gurpreet Singh Kalsi, who runs Kalsi Brothers, a Delhi-based firm that makes both giant flags and the poles say that the number of orders for monumental flags has been doubling every year in the last three years. “June, July, August, December and January are our busiest months and currently, I am making about 15 giant flags in a month, compared to five two years back. The process of installing a giant flag takes about a month as it involves digging a deep foundation and making a solid platform.”A giant flag costs anything between ₹30, 000 to ₹1.5 lakh, and a 200 feet flagpole (most are of galvanized iron), costs about ₹25 lakh, says Kalsi.Kohli says the flag in CP, which costs about ₹70,000, has to be replaced a few times during the year. The Flag Foundation of India has hired a guard to maintain the flagpole at CP. “He ensures the upkeep of the flagpost and immediately informs us if there is any damage to the flag so that we can replace it. The honour and decorum of the flag is of paramount importance to us,” says Kohli.Back at Swatric , Bipin Kumar says given India’s diverse climatic and geographical conditions, designing and developing engineered fabric for the flag is a big challenge.“We are working to find the right kind of yarn, the right fabric structure, the right coating on the fabric to ensure durability, colour fastness, and toughness. We hope to test our first fabric prototype soon,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-on-glory-monumental-flags-take-huge-effort-to-install-retain-101627854493223.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||85 cases in a day, positivity rate inches up to 0.12% in Delhi||The Capital on Sunday added 85 new cases of Covid-19, and the test positivity rate inched up to 0.12%, as the two numbers hit their highest levels in 25 days, showed the state government’s daily health bulletin.On average, the city has recorded a positivity rate of 0.09% over the last seven days, and added an average of 63 fresh cases each day in that time.The daily case count and positivity rate were last higher on July 8, when Delhi added 93 new cases, as 0.12% of samples tested positive for the viral infection.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when a dropping positivity rate is coupled with decreasing new cases, it indicates that the spread of the virus is reducing within the community.As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days: a rising positivity rate generally means cases will rise in the immediate future, while a dropping positivity rate tends to precede a drop in new infections.The World Health Organisation recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. In Delhi, this number has been below the threshold for eight days now.To be sure, this number in Delhi has been below 1% for 63 days, since May 31, and below 5% for 73.“This slight increase definitely requires us to stay alert. The second wave has not ended across the country. We are still reporting around 40,000 cases daily. We need to ensure that these small increases in cases do not become a big peak. We need to focus on micro-containment,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious disease at Indian Council of Medical Research.The city also added one more death of the infection on Sunday, taking the city’s toll to 25,054. The city has recorded 1.5 deaths each day over the last seven days, according to the government’s daily health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/85-cases-in-a-day-positivity-rate-inches-up-to-0-12-in-delhi-101627854016345.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Istanbul’s namesake||There’s the grand Blue Mosque in Istanbul, built centuries ago that commemorates an Ottoman Sultan.And then there’s the Blue Mosque in Delhi. It was built centuries ago too, but by a woman, said to be a royal wet-nurse called Kasum Bhil. It is small, intimate, and possesses only vestiges of its original splendour.The Lodhi-era Nili Masjid in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas Enclave has nothing nila, or blue, about it. Right now even the sky isn’t blue—veiled with a mournful layer of monsoon clouds. But then the eyes shift toward the top of the mosque’s central arched gateway. There’s the only shiny part of the stone edifice. An entire layer is devoted to blue tiles, though most of these tiles have fallen off. Only the fragments are holding on today. The empty spaces show impressions of the tiles that were.The mosque’s courtyard is filled with wet green leaves. A gigantic peepal tree, taller than the mosque’s highest point, leans over more than half the yard. Its upper branches veer towards the central dome, the bare tips looking like fingers yearning to touch the aloof dome.As it is the rainy season, the 16th century stone walls are shrouded in green moss. On touching, they feel as soft as a cake’s icing. The courtyard is empty for the moment, except for a crow drinking water from a rain puddle. The chamber inside is filled with two or three men, each sitting distanced from the other, each glued onto his mobile.An even larger yard opens out of the mosque, teeming with many cats. An old stone well in one corner has every inch of its circular wall decked with flower pots. A vazu (ablution) canal runs along a side of the yard. Three men in white kurta pajama are sitting by it, enjoying their evening chai in plastic cups. The yard ends with the pink back-walls of an apartment complex. A few people are hurriedly walking along a lane along these walls. They don’t care to look at the monument; perhaps living in close proximity to it has dulled their enthusiasm for its simple sophistication.When you visit the mosque, stand inside the courtyard, with your back turned towards the dome. Take a long look at the pink flats in front of you. Then turn around to 180 degrees, and take a long look at the Blue Mosque in front of you. These are two eras, each attached to the other like a limpet. Such is contemporary Delhi’s timeless essence, which constantly changes and yet stays the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-istanbul-s-namesake-101627851781651.html
02-08-2021||Other||2 of K’shetra gang that tricked people into sharing bank details nabbed||The cyber-crime branch of Kurukshetra police claimed to have busted a gang involved in online fraud by arresting two of its members on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Sanjeev Kumar and Azharuddin Ansari of Dumka of Jharkhand. The duo, along with other gang members, allegedly siphoned off money from people’s bank accounts by posing as bank officials over the phone. Police have recovered three ATM cards and ₹30,000 from their possession. Kurukshetra deputy superintendent of police (DSP, headquarters) Subhash Chander said Manoj Kumar of Ladwa had filed a complaint with the police in March, alleging that anonymous callers had withdrawn ₹1,97,500 from the account of his wife. He further revealed that his wife had got calls from anonymous numbers, claiming that they were calling from the bank. The accused then tricked her to share her ATM card details on the pretext of generating a secure ATM pin. The DSP said that following the leads in this case had led them to gang running a racket of online fraud. They had nabbed the two accused by tracing the mobile numbers from where the calls had been made. The cop said that the gang’s mastermind, Salman Ansari, and others are absconding, and efforts are on to nab them. The two arrested accused were produced in the court and sent to eight-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-of-k-shetra-gang-that-tricked-people-into-sharing-bank-details-nabbed-101627848443046.html
02-08-2021||Other||Action sought against farm leader Parkash for ‘hurting’ Sikh sentiments||Members of the Sikh community on Sunday threatened to intensify their agitation if the state government failed to take action against farmer leader Guni Parkash for his derogatory remarks against the community.Hundreds of members of Sikh community from Haryana participated in the Sikh Mahapanchayat at gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin in Kurukshetra where several Sikh leaders, including Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president and Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, addressed the gathering.Sirsa said a 15-member committee has been formed to take up the issue with the state police chief and Haryana government to ensure the registration of FIR against Guni Parkash.“We will intensify our agitation in Haryana to show our strength to the government if an FIR is not registered against Guni Parkash within a week,” he added.As per the members of the Sikh community Guni Parkash, who was leading a protest in favour of three agriculture laws in Kurukshetra had made derogatory remarks on turban and beard of BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, who is also a Sikh. Sirsa accused the BJP led Haryana government is sheltering Guni Parkash to create a rift between farmers on basis of religion.High drama was also witnessed as members of the Sikh community alleged they spotted some people with swords outside the gurdwara while the meeting was going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/action-sought-against-farm-leader-parkash-for-hurting-sikh-sentiments-101627848203257.html
02-08-2021||Other||Farmers exposed lala-babu-neta nexus: Tanwar||Former Congress parliamentarian and founder of Apna Bharat Manch, Ashok Tanwar on Sunday said the ongoing farmers’ agitation has exposed the lala-babu-neta (corporates, bureaucrats and politicians) nexus. “The infighting in Congress continued for full two terms. Both Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party distribute tickets as per the personal preferences of their leaders. Voters should understand the nexus between politicians, corporate and bureaucrats, which the farmers have managed to expose,” he said during a visit to Jagadhri to inaugurate a party office and address a public gathering. Tanwar, however, had no answers on why he remained silent on the said nexus during his term as the Haryana Congress chief. Tanwar had been replaced by Kumari Selja on state Congress chief’s post in the run up to the 2019 assembly elections. During his interaction with the media on Sunday, Tanwar vehemently denied any possibility of him rejoining the grand old party. “Congress is facing an existential crisis and is seeking mercy death….. But I appreciate Indian National Lok Dal supremo OP Chautala for being so active for his party at this age,” he said. The former Congress leader added that at least 124 offices of the Apna Bharat Manch will be made functional in the state within a year, to provide an alternative to residents of the state, similar the Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-exposed-lala-babu-neta-nexus-tanwar-101627847963213.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 DCs among two dozen IAS transferred in Haryana||In an administrative rejig involving IAS officers, Haryana government on Sunday transferred deputy commissioners (DCs) of Charkhi Dadri, Palwal and Jind while reshuffling the departments of about two-dozen middle-rung bureaucrats. Charkhi Dadri DC Amarjit Singh Mann has been posted as director and special secretary, tourism department, while Rohtak municipal commissioner Pradeep Godara will replace Mann as DC, Charkhi Dadri. Palwal DC Naresh Kumar has been posted as Jind DC while Krishna Kumar, who was the additional director of urban estate, Faridabad, will be Palwal DC. Ashok Kumar Bansal, HCS, will continue as Sonepat DC, Jitender Yadav will be commissioner of Faridabad MC and Preeti, additional deputy commissioner (ADC), Kurukshetra, has been posted as ADC, Rewari, and district resources, information officer at Rewari, the state government said in a release.The government has posted Pankaj Yadav, commissioner, Ambala division as commissioner, Rohtak division, replacing Anita Yadav, who has been posted as additional chief executive officer, Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority.Pankaj Agarwal will be commissioner and secretary, administrative reforms department, labour commissioner and secretary of labour department; Vikas Gupta, has been posted as director general, micro, small-medium enterprises. TL Satyaprakash will hold the post of secretary (power), managing director, Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd and CEO (designate) of Drone Imaging and Information Systems of Haryana Ltd (DRIISHYA).Balkar Singh, MD, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (DHBVN) has been posted as secretary, home. Vinay Singh, chief administrator, Haryana state agricultural marketing board, has been given additional charge of MD-Hafed. PC Meena, has been posted as MD Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (DHBVN) and Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, Delhi.A Sreenivas, MD, Haryana Dairy Development Cooperative Federation has been given additional charge of registrar, cooperative societies, and secretary, cooperation department. Ashok Kumar Meena has been posted as special secretary (personnel, training, vigilance and parliamentary affairs), director training (ex-officio) and inquiry officer, vigilance.Dusmanta Kumar Behera, MD, Hafed, has been posted as director and special secretary, urban local bodies department and mission director, state urban livelihood mission and state urban development authority. Ravi Prakash Gupta has been posted as special secretary (agriculture), Sharandeep Kaur Brar as director and secretary (skill development and industrial training, employment) and director citizen resources information department.Ram Sarup Verma will be director (environment) and special secretary (environment and climate change; revenue and disaster management), Narhari Singh Banger, who is additional director, Urban Estate, Rohtak, has been given additional charge of commissioner, Rohtak MC.Dharmender Singh, additional director, Urban Estate, Panchkula, has been posted as commissioner, MC Sonepat and municipal commissioner, Sonepat.Sangeeta Tetarwal, municipal commissioner, Sirsa has been posted as additional secretary, finance department.Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, municipal corporation, Gurugram, has been posted as administrator HSVP, Gurugram, and additional director, Urban Estate, Gurugram.Monika Gupta, municipal commissioner, Palwal, has been posted as administrator, HSVP, Faridabad and additional director, Urban Estate, Faridabad.Jagdish Sharma, commissioner, municipal corporation, Sonepat and municipal commissioner, Sonepat, has been posted as administrator, HSVP, Panchkula and additional director, Urban Estate, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-dcs-among-two-dozen-ias-transferred-in-haryana-101627847783076.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K goes full throttle to geotag forests||The J&K administration is actively geo-tagging the forest land across the UT and has so far erected thousands of geo-tagged boundary pillars across 20 districts.As per the official figures J&K has around 21,122 sq km of forest area which is around 48% of the total geographical area. Of these forests, 4,203 sq km area has been categorised as ‘very dense’, while 8,969 sq km and 21,122 sq km fall under ‘moderate dense’ and ‘open’ forests, respectively. So far, only 31.99% forest area has been demarcated by fixing or establishing precast or in-situ pillars. Around 91,175 boundary pillars have been fixed in the 2,168 forests that have been surveyed or records for which are available with the forest department.“Geo-tagging of forests helps in boundary consolidation, encroachment eviction and improved forest management. The process helps in accurate assessment of boundaries which helps in resolution of land disputes. It also prevents encroachment attempts on forest land,” said conservator of forest s (north circle) Irfan Rasool in whose jurisdiction many forest areas has already been geo-tagged in the past few years.Officials said that earlier, the forest department used to erect simple metal or cement poles to demarcate the forest land. “However, at many places the poles got damaged that paved way for forest destruction and the land encroachment. Though the process of demarcation began in 1920, it picked up pace only after 60s as thousands of precast boundary pillars were fixed for the demarcation in past many decades,” they added. 2010 onwards, all the pillars have been geo-tagged after getting records from the department maps that are with various forest divisions. As per the official figures of last many decades, 2,85,000 boundary pillars were fixed in the forests for protection of the land. “After introduction of geo-tagging, 34,077 in-situ pillars have been established in various forests in the J&K which is more than 32% of total boundary pillars. Besides, the department has also fixed 57,098 precast pillars in different forests that too were geo-tagged,” officials said, adding that so far 1,873 forests have been surveyed for proper demarcation and geo-tagging. Officials said that in coming years there is a a proposal that 2,48,944 in-situ pillars will be geo-tagged on which government is going to spend around ₹174 crore. “The pace is very slow and it will take many years to complete the process. The process needs to be accelerated for safety of the forests,” said a senior officer in the forest department. Irfan Ahmad, system analyst, Central University of Kashmir, said that geo-tagging has revolutionised the way we have been tracing and managing the assets of different types and forests are no alien to this revolution.“This is a very good step that was taken by the government in the last two decade. GIS data is useful for forest management, because most of the forests are depleting at an enormous rate due to the increasing rate of urbanisation and agriculture. GIS mapping of the forests can reduce the encroachment on real-time basis if multilayered-site representation is used while mapping the forests. Moreover, GIS, when integrated with remote sensing, can act as a great tool for management of forests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-goes-full-throttle-to-geotag-forests-101627847603139.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||All tourists stuck in Lahaul & Spiti’s Udaipur evacuated||All the tourists stranded in Lahaul and Spiti’s Udaipur subdivision have been rescued, district officials said on Sunday.As many as 241 visitors and score of locals were stuck in Pattan, Thirot, Trilokinath and Miyar of the tribal district after a cloudburst triggered multiple flashfloods which washed away bridges and roads. Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said 18 people were airlifted in two helicopter sorties while 50 tourists were rescued through a zipline setup on Shansha Nullah. The state government had deployed its newly leased helicopter to airlift the stranded people. However, it could not fly on Friday and Saturday due to bad weather conditions.The rescued people were taken to Manali and Kullu in HRTC buses from where they will be sent to their respective destinations.Earlier, the chief minister also took an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas.He sought detailed report from PWD, Jal Shakti department, HPSEB, agriculture and horticulture departments on losses occurred due to the flashfloods. He directed the Jal Shakti department to prepare a holistic and sustainable plan based on modern scientific studies for providing drinking water supply throughout the year.Thakur said that a meeting would be convened soon to sort out the issue of pending permission from BRO with respect to laying of underground power supply cable through Atal Tunnel in Rohtang. He said that it was important since the Thirot power house was the only source of power.He directed the officers to prepare damage report regarding damage in Spiti subdivision.The chief minister also asked the BRO Commandant to ensure a timely restoration of main road in Udaipur area.Tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda apprised the CM of damage to cash crops due to road connectivity problems. No trace of three missing personsRescuers found no trace of the three missing people on the sixth day after the cloudburst struck Tozing Nullah of Keylong. Twelve people were swept away in the flooding nullah of which two were rescued and bodies of seven were found. Also, there was no trace of four people missing in Brahm Ganga rivulet in Manikaran of Kullu. One killed in road mishapOne person was killed and one injured after the car they were travelling in skidded off the road and plunged into Ropsang Nullah, near Sissu village. The deceased has been identified as Tashi, who was deployed at the village revenue office. The injured has been admitted to the Keylong hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-tourists-stuck-in-lahaul-spiti-s-udaipur-evacuated-101627847546501.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||HP’s monsoon session to be stormy affair ahead of bypolls||With the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress gearing up for bypolls for three assembly and one parliamentary seat, the 10-day long monsoon session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan sabha starting Monday is likely to generate much political heat. The Congress is set to corner the BJP-led government on scores of issues, primarily the ‘mismanagement’ during the second Covid wave and corruption. The government, meanwhile, would try to highlight its achievements in the last more than three years. The monsoon session that is usually a week-long affair has been extended this time with a total of 10 sittings till August 13.This is due to the curtailed budget session because of the pandemic. It will be for the first time that the House will meet after the death of Congress stalwart Virbhadra Singh. Breaking the tradition of meeting before the start of the monsoon session, the BJP Legislature Party just called a meeting at Hotel Peterhoff on Monday after the first day’s business. The Congress, however, met on Sunday evening at Willys Park to formulate the strategy for the session. The party also passed a resolution commending its stalwart leader Virbhadra Singh for his contribution to the party and development of the state. The Congress has been constantly targeting the government over law and order, corruption and mining and drug mafia. “Mining and drug mafia is active in the state, but no steps were taken by the government to control them,” said leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri. The leaders of the opposition have also demanded an audit of the deaths reported during a pandemic. They have alleged that people suffering from severe illnesses died due to lack of proper treatment during the pandemic. Spendings from CM’s Covid-19 Solidarity Fund and help from the PM Care funds will also resonate in the house.With by-elections to Mandi parliamentary seat due, the opposition has been pressing for CBI probe into the death of Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma. Among the other issues are the apple concentrate scam in HPMC and the alleged corruption in Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU). The wasteful expenditure in form of the appointment of vice-chairman of corporations and boards will also be used to corner the government. Besides, the issue of inflation and unemployment will also come to haunt the BJP.The government would, however, highlight the steps taken by it during the second wave of Covid, which helped to contain the virus spread. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, meanwhile, held an all-party meeting on Sunday which was attended by the ruling party, opposition and independent legislators. Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Mukesh Agnihotri, BJP’s chief whip Vikram Singh Jaryal and deputy chief whip Kamlesh Kumari besides Communist Party of India legislator Rakesh Singha were present.Parmar has appealed for smooth functioning of the House and cooperation of all the legislators. In total, 853 questions, including 235 unstarred ones, will figure in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hps-monsoon-session-to-be-stormy-affair-ahead-of-bypolls-101627847544453.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal records above normal rainfall after 16 years||Himachal Pradesh recorded 6% above normal rainfall in the month of July after a gap of 16 years, states a report released by local MeT department. The hill state received 289mm rainfall against the normal rainfall of 273mm. Before this, the state had recorded 309mm rainfall in July of 2005. The report also shows that from July 1 to 31, Kullu district received excessive rainfall and Hamirpur, Kangra, Shimla and Una recorded heavy rainfall while Bilaspur, Chamba, Kinnaur, Sirmaur and Solan reported rainfall deficit.There were 12 spells of heavy rainfall in the month of July. During this, heavy rains have been recorded on July 11, 12, 16, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 July. Of the 31 days, it rained on 28 days. Kullu recorded 90% above normal rainfall. Similarly, Kangra has received 32% above normal rainfall, Hamirpur 25%, Mandi 16%, Shimla 15 % and Una two percent.Lahaul and Spiti recorded 50% rainfall deficit while Chamba received 32% below normal rainfall, Solan 14% below normal, Sirmaur 13%, Kinnaur six percent and Bilaspur one percent below normal. The state recorded about 35 major landslide incidents this season, maximum in July, besides 17 incidents of cloudbursts or flashfloods.The state suffered losses of more than ₹550 crore. More than 200 people have lost their lives in rain-related incidents since June 13, the onset of monsoon in Himachal. Bad weather forecast till Aug 5The MeT department has predicted inclement weather till August 6. A yellow alert of heavy to very heavy rains has been issued for plains and middle hills on August 2 , 4 and 5.Meanwhile, Nadaun was the wettest place in the state on Sunday receiving 35mm or rains followed by Dalhousie 34mm, Baldwara, 29mm, Chamba 19mm, Kasauli and Bijahi 17mm each, Paonta Sahib 14mm, Sujanpur Tira 13mm and Janjehli and Guler 12mm each.Keylong was the coldest with the night temperature recorded at 11.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-records-above-normal-rainfall-after-16-years-101627847543268.html
02-08-2021||Other||BJP starts ‘Tiranga Yatra’, farmers counter it with mahapanchayat||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) kicked off its much-hyped ‘Tiranga Yatra’, a 40-kilometre journey on tractors from Bhiwani’s Behal to Loharu town, on Sunday. The yatra received a massive response, especially from BJP’s youth workers. It is for the first time since November last year that the saffron party, which has been facing protests from farmers agitating against the Centre’s farm laws, managed a show of strength in the Jat-dominated belt. The farmers decided against staging a protest against the BJP for fear of being labeled as anti-national, and instead decided to counter it with a mahapanchayat in Behal, the town where the BJP started its rally from.Massive turnout shows support for BJP policies: DhankarState party chief OP Dhankar and Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal led the Tiranga yatra in which people came on tractors with the Tricolour in their hands. The party plans to hold similar yatras in all 90 constituencies of the state till August 15. Addressing gatherings during the rally, Dhankar said, “We will hold similar yatras in all assembly constituencies to pay homage to freedom fighters. In the process, we will try to connect with the people.” He added, “The massive response we are receiving proves that farmers and youths agree with the policies of the BJP government.” Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said, “A few left-leaning leaders are trying to influence farmers against the three farm laws, which are beneficial to the agrarian community. Thousands of people have come on their tractors to take part in this Tiranga yatra. Are these people not farmers? A few people with political agenda are protesting against us.” Farmers to start a counter ‘Tiranga Yatras’ on foot Though BJP leaders did not face any protests on Sunday, owing to BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s appeal, the farmers plan to counter all such yatras in the coming days. During the mahapanchayat in Behal town, farmers passed several resolutions to counter BJP’s Tiranga Yatra. The resolutions include banning Dalal’s entry into his constituency (Loharu), formation of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) committees in villages and at district-level, starting a farmer-led Tiranga yatra on foot, formation of a coordination committee at Bhiwani’s Kitlana toll plaza and awareness programmes in every village. Addressing the mahapanchayat, All Indian Kisan Sabha state secretary said Balbir Thakan agriculture minister JP Dalal started the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ to create a division among people. “We have decided not to protest against the BJP’s yatra as it was held to paint protesters as anti-national. The BJP has been playing the nationalism card against farmers agitating against the three farm laws. We will continue to protest against BJP leaders’ entry into villages. They played the nationalism card to enter the villages,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-starts-tiranga-yatra-farmers-counter-it-with-mahapanchayat-101627847364571.html
02-08-2021||Lucknow||PARKING WOES :Five minutes warning time must before vehicles are towed: Lucknow mayor||: Case I Barely two minutes after he had parked his car in front of an ATM to collect cash, Anurag Pandey, a Mahanagar colony resident, saw his car being towed away by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) authorities. He got his car back after paying a fine of ₹2100. “No one warned me about not parking the car on the side of the road. No announcement was made before my vehicle was towed away,” Pandey said. Case II Neerja Mishra, a Gomtinagar colony resident said, “My car was towed away when I had walked just 100 yards away from it. The men, deployed by LMC to tow the vehicles, did make an announcement claiming the vehicle was wrongly parked. That wasn’t the case but when I objected the LMC contractual staff misbehaved with me and released my vehicle only after I had paid the penalty.” Vehicles being towed, without prior warning and being released after paying hefty fines has become a common feature in the state capital. The residents complain most of the time no announcement is made, before the vehicles were towed. “In rare cases when announcements are made, the volume of the public address system is so low that the warnings are barely audible,” Mishra said. Taking note of such complaints of harassment by LMC’s contractual staff, Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia has now directed the authorities to allow five minutes to each person to remove their vehicle. “Now, no vehicle would be towed without a warning and giving five minutes time to people to respond to the warning. The entire process of vehicle being lifted for unauthorised parking will have to be recorded,” Bhatia said. “Further, all the vehicles can be towed away only from no parking zones and the entire process should be done in a manner to ensure that the vehicles aren’t damaged,” she said. “I will write again to officials to stop contractors from harassing common man,” she said. Chief tax fixation officer of LMC Ashok Singh said, “We will take stern action against any contractor who misuses authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/parking-woes-five-minutes-warning-time-must-before-vehicles-are-towed-lucknow-mayor-101627847062507.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Nitish Kumar meets OP Chautala in Delhi, says ‘no political agenda’||Bihar chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Sunday met Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) chief Om Prakash Chautala in Delhi. JD(U) principal general secretary KC Tyagi was also present in the meeting.“I have respect for Chautala ji. We have longstanding ties. I had told him that once I will be in Delhi I will meet him. There is no political agenda for this meeting,” Kumar told reporters here. Asked about West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s effort of forming a united front against the BJP, Kumar said, “I have no information on that matter. I remain busy with the affairs of Bihar.”Notably, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee was in Delhi earlier this week to hold meetings with several leaders of Opposition parties. Meanwhile, Janata Dal (United) leader Upendra Kushwaha on Sunday said Bihar CM Nitish Kumar is “PM material” and has the potential and all qualities to become the Prime Minister of the country.The JD(U) is an ally of the BJP in Bihar and the party’s RCP Singh had been inducted into the union council of ministers when PM Modi reshuffled his cabinet recently. Kushwaha’s comment comes at a time when opposition parties are in deliberation to form a united front against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also, the JD(U) had earlier said that it will contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections and for that will discuss the seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP and if it does not work out then they will go it alone. In the last elections in 2017, it had not contested elections in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nitish-kumar-meets-op-chautala-in-delhi-says-no-political-agenda-101627846942989.html
02-08-2021||Lucknow||July-end rains make up for deficient first half in UP, to help kharif crops||: Heavy rainfall in July in most parts of the Uttar Pradesh has made up for the rain deficiency that the state witnessed in the first half of the previous month. According to data from the Indian Metrological Department (IMD), the state has received 3 % more rainfall this monsoon till August 1. Experts said these rains would help boost production of kharif crops in the state. “The above average rains will benefit paddy farmers more than those who had grown sugarcane. Paddy farms require excess water in the first 50 days after cultivation. The monsoon rains will thus help this crop and reduce dependency on tube wells,” said economist Hitesh Chandra, an expert on farmlands. IMD officials said UP was rain deficient in the first half of July due to slowing and subsequent pause of southwest monsoon that resulted in negligible rains. “However, the situation changed in the last two weeks with decent rains reported from across the state,” an IMD official said. Till Sunday, UP had recorded 380 mm rainfall which is 3% more than normal rainfall of 369 mm. “Nearly 50 of 75 UP districts reported normal or excess rainfall and only 25 districts recorded rainfall slightly less than normal,” an official said. “IMD data showed that the western UP districts received slightly less rainfall as compared to eastern UP districts. The average rainfall recorded in western UP from June 1 to August 1 is 310 mm, only 7% less than normal. Till July 7, the region recorded 35% less than the normal rainfall. The east UP districts recorded 427 mm rainfall between June 1 and August 1, and this is 7% more than the normal rainfall of 398 mm,” an official said. The monsoon rains according to IMD department will continue over next 72 hours. “The resumed monsoon rains have already covered most parts in the last two months. The current streak of rainfall is expected to continue for next few days,” said state MeT director JP Gupta. The rains also brought respite from high temperatures to residents. The maximum temperature recorded a dip of four degrees below normal across the state while the minimum temperature remained two degrees below normal in the last 13 days, as per MeT department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/julyend-rains-make-up-for-deficient-first-half-in-up-to-help-kharif-crops-101627846882496.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||42-year-old’s body found in car in Bhiwandi near Mumbai||A 42-year-old man’s body was found in a car below the flyover at Mankoli Naka in Bhiwandi on Sunday afternoon. Narpoli police has taken the body for post mortem to Indira Gandhi Hospital. The victim has been identified as Prabhakar Jangi, a resident of Padma Nagar in Bhiwandi.According to an eye witness, the car was stationary for over three hours. They noticed the man on the driver’s seat to be unconscious and alerted the police.“As per records, the victim is the owner of the car and it was being used for online taxi service. The victim was working as a manager in a textile company but lost his job due to the pandemic. He then joined the online taxi service,” said a police officer.The police are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/42yearolds-body-found-in-car-in-bhiwandi-near-mumbai-101627846823182.html
02-08-2021||Other||NIA team visits blast site in Rohtak||A day after a mystery blast left a 55-year-old morning walker injured in Kharawar village on the outskirts of Rohtak city, a team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) visited the explosion site on Sunday.Cops, however, remained tight-lipped on the development. “We will not reveal anything until the investigation is complete,” said Rohtak additional superintendent of police (ASP) Krishan Kumar, adding that a case under Sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, and Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.The injured, identified as Raj Kumar, is recuperating at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. He is said to have picked up a polythene bag lying near a hand-pump in the IMT police station area when the explosive went off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-team-visits-blast-site-in-rohtak-101627846703187.html
02-08-2021||Other||Covid vaccine for kids: Clinical trial at Mumbai hospital hits roadblock||The phase-3 clinical trial of indigenous vaccine ZyCoV-D among children at the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital has hit a roadblock as parents are not permitting their kids to participate in it. Though the trial needs 50 children between the age group of 12 and 17 years, only five children have enrolled for it so far.An Ahmedabad-based drug maker— Zydus Cadila — has manufactured ZyCoV-D, the second indigenous vaccine after Covaxin. It is a ‘plasmid DNA’ vaccine, a first-of-its-kind vaccine that uses a genetically engineered DNA molecule known as a ‘plasmid’ which is coded to generate spike protein of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. It elicits an immune response against the virus and develops antibodies. In a statement on July 1, the manufacturer declared that they have recorded 66.6% ‘primary efficacy’ in their ‘interim analysis.’ In the second week of July, Nair Hospital became the first hospital in Mumbai to start the clinical trial of the vaccine among children. As per officials, initially they received over 40 queries from parents who wanted to enrol their children for their trial. However, eventually they all backed out “Due to scepticism and lack of awareness, parents make enquires about the clinical trial but eventually they don’t enrol their children into it. We have got only five children at present, who have taken the first shot of the vaccine,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the Nair Hospital. A total of three doses will be given to the volunteers. After the first dose, the second and third doses will be given after a gap of 28 and 56 days, respectively. As per protocol, along with written consent, an audio-visual consent of the parents of the children is also required for the trial.Officials said this tedious process often discourages parents from participating in the trial. “Earlier, we have conducted clinical trials on the Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield where we just had to take a written consent. But in this ZyCoV-D trial, we have to record a 45-minute audio-visual consent of the parents where we read out a long list of guidelines and questionnaires to the parents on camera. This often confuses and scares parents who later opt out of the trial,” said a doctor from the pathology department of the hospital. With the intention of sensitising parents, the hospital has also started two helpline numbers— 022-23027205 and 23027204. Parents who want to enrol their children in the trial can call on these numbers and clear their doubts. The hospital staff is also counselling parents of in-house patients for participating in the trial. But the response is still cold. “As we have seen in the second wave and in the latest sero survey, many children contracted infection. As there is no vaccine for children so far, parents should be more forthcoming in the trial of ZyCoV-D. Until the trials are completed, the authorities can’t roll it out for children,” said Dr Bharmal.ZyCoV-D is also an intradermal vaccine, applied using a ‘needle-free injector’. Zydus claims the needle-free system can lead to a significant reduction in side effects. “The plug and play technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based is ideally suited for dealing with Covid-19 as it can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring,” read an official statement of Zydus. It can be stored at 2-8 ° C and has shown good stability at temperatures of 25 °C for at least three months. Recently, the manufacturer applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorization (EUA) of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clinical-trial-of-vax-for-kids-at-mumbai-hospital-hits-roadblock-101627846584188.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid measures: Dip in passengers without masks on Mumbai’s local trains, says CR||In what can be termed as a positive development, the Central Railway (CR) has witnessed a significant drop in passengers travelling without masks on Mumbai’s suburban trains in the past two months. “We have witnessed a drop in passengers found travelling without face masks. We are hoping it [the decline in violators] will continue when local train services resume for the general public as well,” said a senior CR official.However, the Western Railway (WR) has witnessed a rise in the number of offenders travelling without masks.In June, the government railway police (GRP) booked 330 passengers who were without masks on CR trains and at stations and collected a total fine of ₹66,800 as compared to the 777 passengers booked in May for the same offence. In July (till July 30), the number of offenders reduced significantly to 207 and the fines fell to ₹41,300.In contrast to this, 1,798 WR passengers had been fined in May, for travelling without masks, which fell to 1,326 passengers in June. WR had collected a total fine of ₹1.82 lakh from violators in June. However, last month (till July 30), the number of offenders rose to 1,954 and the fines to ₹2.51 lakh.The state government had empowered GRP to collect fines from passengers travelling without masks on local trains and at stations. A fine of ₹200 was fixed for each passenger.Passenger associations have insisted that the railways and the state government undertake strict checking of passengers inside local trains. “It [decline in violators on CR] is positive news but railway authorities should check inside train compartments. Squad teams should be formed by railways for inspection inside the compartments. When train services resume for all passengers, such squad teams are required to be deployed,” said Subhash Gupta, president of passengers’ association Rail Yatri Parishad.Currently, local trains are operational only for employees working in essential care services, for those travelling for medical purposes and vaccinations. Locals were suspended for the general public for a second time on April 15 due to the spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dip-in-passengers-without-masks-on-mumbai-s-local-trains-cr-101627846104318.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||One arrested for bovine smuggling in Majitha, 12 cows recovered||Police have arrested a Ludhiana-based man near Bhoma canal in Majitha sub-division of Amritsar district for allegedly smuggling and slaughtering cows. A truck carrying 12 cows from Fatehgarh Churian in Gurdaspur was impounded and the accused, identified as Gurpreet Singh of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar in Ludhiana, was arrested on the spot. The police have identified one more person involved in the racket as Fatehgarh Churian resident Sukhdev Masih, who is absconding. “We laid a naka near the Bhoma canal after we got a tip-off that a truck was coming from Fatehgarh Churian side, in which some cattle were being transported to various states. The accused are into stealing cattle and further selling them for slaughter to earn money,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jagdeep Singh. “A truck (PB-10-ES-0967) was stopped at the naka and 12 cows were recovered from it. The driver Gurpreet Singh was arrested immediately,” he said. A case under Sections 379 (theft), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act was registered at the Majitha police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-arrested-for-bovine-smuggling-in-majitha-12-cows-recovered-101627846102869.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Consumer forum directs insurance firm to pay ₹8 lakh compensation||The district consumer and redressal forum, Kapurthala, has directed the National Insurance Company, a private insurance firm, to pay ₹8 lakh compensation to a private bus owner for damages to his vehicle. The complainant, Jaskirat Singh Chahal, had said his bus was totally burnt after it caught fire due to short circuit in 2010. Later, the insurance firm deputed a surveyor who assessed the loss and sent a report the company in 2011. The firm did not give him claim and instead closed the case in 2013, Chahal said. “It clearly proves that the company without caring for the insurance contract and equity and principles of natural justice refused to reopen the case despite having received all information from me,” the complainant had submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consumer-forum-directs-insurance-firm-to-pay-rs-8-lakh-compensation-101627846044328.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm stir: Adani Group shuts down dry port at Ludhiana’s Kila Raipur||The Adani Logistics Services, a subsidiary of the Adani Group, has decided to shut its inland container depot, or dry port, at Kila Raipur in Ludhiana district as its operations have been suspended since January due to the farmers’ dharna at the entrance of the facility. District industry centre general manager Rakesh Kansal said he had spoken to depot operations head Ravinder Singh who confirmed having served termination notices on 450 dry port employees. “He also confirmed that the company has terminated business operations at the road- and rail-linked depot,” Kansal added. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said he had no information about the Adani Group shutting down the depot . Also, company spokesperson Mitul Thakkar refused to comment on the development.Since January 1, the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three contentious agriculture laws have blocked the main gate of the dry port by placing tractor-trailers, thus completely halting the operations there. An official said the company was incurring a daily loss of ₹50 crore due to the closure of the depot. “The government incurred a loss to the exchequer in the form of Goods and Services tax (GST), customs duties and other taxes to the tune of ₹700 crore and an overall economic impact around ₹7,000 crore.Take control of depot, reinstate staff: SKM to govt The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farm agitation against the 3 laws, said the government should take control of the depot and reinstate the employees whose services have been terminated. SKM member Harnek Singh Gujjarwal said the company had removed its hoardings and other belongings log ago. “They have issued pink slips to all the employees working in the depot,” he added.The Adani Group had set up the depot in 2017 over 80 acres of land to facilitate the industries in Ludhiana by providing them cargo services through rail and road. Repeated attempts of the district administration to persuade the SKM activists to lift their dharna from the entrance of the dry port have failed. The protesting farmers argued that the agitation was aimed at getting the farm laws repealed and it was not a local issue that could be resolved through talks with the local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-stir-adani-group-shuts-down-dry-port-at-ludhiana-s-kila-raipur-101627846043243.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 6,479 Covid-19 cases; 11 districts continue to see more cases||Amid the Maharashtra government planning to lift curbs in 25 districts, it recorded 6,479 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, pushing the count to 6,310,194. The tally of active cases increased to 78,962 as 4,110 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state also saw 157 casualties. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with 22 deaths. It was followed by Satara and Aurangabad with 16 fatalities. The state government has planned to ease lockdown restrictions in 25 districts where the growth rate as well as positivity rate is much less than the average rate of the state.Currently, districts in the state have level-three restrictions, which involves tighter curbs with limited operational hours for shops and markets. Shops and bazaars remain shut on the weekends, while malls, theatres and multiplexes are completely closed.However, there won’t be any relaxations in 11 districts where growth rate and positivity rate is still higher than the state average. On Sunday, they reported 5,115 cases, nearly 79% of the total infections. Highest cases were reported in Ahmednagar (888), while Pune reported 820 cases, Sangli 754, Solapur 691, Satara 642, Kolhapur 610, Beed 202, Ratnagiri 196, Raigad 180, Sindhudurg 105 and Palghar recorded 27 cases.The above districts have continued to report maximum cases in the state for the past few days.On Saturday, 5,384 cases (77.37%) and on Friday 5,273 cases (79.89%) were reported, out of the 6,959 and 6,600 reported respectively, stated the statistics issued by the state health department.“The 11 districts continued to be a cause for concern as cases there are not going down. The state has been focusing on these districts and efforts are on to bring the rise under control. This is also the reason they will not get any relaxations for now,” said a senior official from the state health department.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of state task force, said, “Daily cases are going down, but are going too slow. There is a lot of thought process given behind the decision and relaxations will be given only to those where there is a consistent trend of daily cases going down.”On Saturday, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with ten states, including Maharashtra, which are either reporting a rise in new daily Covid cases or a rise in the positivity rate. Any laxity at this stage will result in the deterioration of the situation in these districts, the ministry noted. On Sunday, Mumbai clocked 328 cases and reported a total 735,107 cases till date. It also recorded ten fatalities, taking the toll to 15,899.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 217,741 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.97%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 13.1%, according to the data issued by the state health department.It has also vaccinated 82,991 doses on Sunday after vaccinating 573,325 doses on Saturday, according to the data available on Co-Win portal. It has administered 44,670,703 doses in the state till date.The state government is looking to reopen malls, multiplexes and restaurants with 50% capacity, while shops and establishments are likely to get extended hours of operation. The government is also looking at opening up trains for more categories. Also, it is facing a practical challenge of checking commuters’ vaccination certificates. An order for partial lifting of the curbs is likely to be issued in the next few days, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-6-479-covid-19-cases-11-districts-continue-to-see-more-cases-101627845446629.html
02-08-2021||Other||Clarify basis on which schools are being reopened: Punjab oppn leader to govt||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has appealed to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to clarify concerns raised over the decision to reopen all government and private schools in the state. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema asked the state government that on the basis of which report of doctors and education experts, such a big decision had been taken. “This is a decision related to the lives of 60.5 lakh children, who form 20% of the population of the state,” he said. Cheema added that to allay the worries and anxieties of lakhs of parents, the CM, school education minister Vijay Inder Singla, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, along with ruling Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, should make it clear that the state was completely free of Covid. “Is Punjab now completely safe from the threat of Delta variants, including the second and most talked about third wave of the Covid? Shouldn’t parents and teachers be concerned about new Covid cases that have been on the rise across the country for the past three-four days?” he added. He questioned whether the government, in particular the departments of education and health, has ensured that all 22 lakh students in government schools and about 38 lakh students in private schools have full provision of masks by parents or government and that no student will enter the school without mask. The LoP added if the government has taken this sudden decision to open the schools without any pressure and by thoroughly examining the potential dangers including ground reports of medical, education and technical experts, then the party has no objection to the government’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clarify-basis-on-which-schools-are-being-reopened-punjab-oppn-leader-to-govt-101627845383238.html
02-08-2021||Jaipur||BJP MP Kirodi Lal Meena detained for ‘disturbing peace’||Rajasthan Police on Sunday detained Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Member of Parliament from Rajya Sabha Kirori Meena for disturbing the peace and said the tribal leader had sneaked into Ambagarh fort and unfurled a white coloured tribal flag despite restrictions. Condemning the detention, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje demanded the immediate release of Meena. Meena unfurled the tribal flag on the wall of the Ambagarh fort early Sunday morning, a centre of a dispute between the members of the Meena community and Hindu organisations, officials said. Despite the tight security arrangements at the entrance of the fort located on hills near Galta on Jaipur-Agra highway to prevent the gathering of people, Meena, along with nearly a dozen youth, reached the rear side of the fort covering a distance of around 3.5 km on hilly terrain and crossed its wall in the wee hours and unfurled the flag near shiv temple.Soon after he released videos and photos of unfurling of the flag, police rushed to the spot and detained him, and later released him in the afternoon. Meena, however, tweeted claiming that he was arrested.Police officials said they had taken the MP to Vidhyadhar Nagar police station for talks where Meena raised certain demands, including permission to the tribal people for worshipping in Shiv temple located inside the fort, which is under the forest department.“I, along with dozens of youths of the Meena community, have entered the fort and unfurled the flag in Ambagarh,” he said in the video message.Jaipur police commissioner Anand Srivastava said, “Meena was detained for disturbing the peace on entering into a prohibited forest area, and later released.”After few hours of detention, he, along with his supporters, headed to Gandhi circle at JLN Marg and addressed a gathering of his supporters.Meena told them that he unfurled the flag at the fort but he could not visit the Shiv temple as it was locked.The JLN Marg was blocked by his supporters demanding a written assurance by the government on the demands raised by the MP. The tensions escalated between the Meenas and Hindu organisations in June after a saffron flag atop the fort was removed by a group of youth of the Meena community, allegedly led by independent MLA Ramkesh Meena, who accused Hindu organisations of trying to tamper with the tribal culture.Cross FIRs were lodged at the Transport Nagar police station on July 22 in this regard. On the other hand, Ramkesh Meena also addressed a gathering of his supporters near Rajasthan College on JLN Marg on Sunday and later handed over a representation to chief minister Ashok Gehlot against those who had placed a saffron flag. Commenting on Kirodi Meena’s move, independent MLA Ramkesh Meena said, “What was the need? A tribal flag was already there. He had announced to go to the fort on Sunday but he did not clarify whether he will unfurl a tribal flag or a saffron flag,” he said. He continued that the incident came to light a few days back when the members of Surajpole unit of Rajasthan Aadiwasi Meena Seva Sangh informed that a saffron flag has been put at the fort. “We raised our objection to the forest officials, who called the people who hoisted saffron flag – they accepted their mistake and themselves removed the flag,” he said. The police on Saturday had also conducted a flag march near Ambagarh, appealing to people to maintain peace and law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-mp-kirodi-lal-meena-detained-for-disturbing-peace-101627845262849.html
02-08-2021||Other||25,000 agri-machines to be subsidised for paddy stubble management in Punjab||Chandigarh The Punjab agriculture department has initiated a drive to provide more than 25,000 agri-machines and farm equipment to farmers for in-situ management of paddy residue with subsidy component of ₹250 crore in this fiscal. Agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu on Sunday said that the department had already sanctioned about 430 applications of cooperative societies and panchayats on priority for balers and primary sowing machines. In the first phase, sanctions of agro-machines have been issued to 246 panchayats and 185 primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) at a subsidy of 80% to establish Farm Machinery Banks (FMBs) to be used as Custom Hiring Centres. He added that subsidy ranging between 50% and 80% is being offered to the farmers under the scheme. “The machinery portal is being reopened from August 2-4 for panchayats, cooperative societies and FPOs to give them one more opportunity to avail the benefit of these subsidized agri-equipment,” the director added. The state government has focused to deliver state-of-the-art machines to farmers including Super SMS, happy seeder, paddy straw chopper, shredder, mulcher, hydraulic reversible mould board plough and zero till drill. He also urged the farmers to make optimum use of subsidized agri-machinery to do away the practice of stubble burning. Significantly, the area under paddy has reduced to 27 lakh hectare this year. During 2018-2019, 2019-20 and 2020-21,76,622 specialised equipment/machines including balers have been provided to farmers and Custom Hiring Centres across the state on 50% to 80% subsidy for in-situ and ex-situ management. Of these, 49,196 machines have been provided to 19,834 Custom Hiring Centres and the remaining to individual farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25000-agri-machines-to-be-subsidised-for-paddy-stubble-management-in-punjab-101627845144465.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Surge in Covid-19 vaccination among 18-45 age group at Thane’s private centres||Thane city has witnessed a spike in inoculation in the 18-45 age group at private vaccination centres. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has vaccinated 770,000 beneficiaries, of which 250,000 are in the 18 to 45 age group. Of these are 250,000, around 120,000 have been inoculated at government vaccination centres, while around 130,000 received the shots at private vaccination centres as on July 31.“There was a shortage of vaccination for almost two weeks at government vaccination centres, resulting in us prioritising the vaccination process to those requiring the second dose. Moreover, within TMC’s jurisdiction, there have been many societies and corporate offices which have provided vaccinations set up by private vaccine centres,” said a senior medical officer from TMC.At TMC vaccination centres, around 100,000 have taken the first dose in the 18-45 age group and 14,333 have taken the second dose. At private vaccination centres, 120,000 have taken the first dose, while 5,605 have taken the second jab within Thane city in the 18-45 age group. Overall, TMC has witnessed almost 500,000 vaccinations within TMC centres and 250,000 within private vaccination centres till now in all age groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-among-18-45-age-group-spiked-at-private-centres-in-1-month-in-thane-101627845142957.html
02-08-2021||Other||Digital signage on Jalandhar-Delhi highway hacked; Punjab CM abused||Ludhiana In a major embarrassment for the state police and officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), unidentified accused hacked into a digital sign board installed on the national highway that connects Jalandhar to Delhi on Sunday afternoon. For over 30 minutes, the board, in Libra village of Khanna, displayed abusive language for Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, with intermittent messages of ‘Chahunda-e-Punjab, Kejriwal di Sarkar’ (Punjab wants Kejriwal government). The reference is to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal. It was only after some passersby informed the police that matter came to light. “The digital display is operated through Wi-Fi (internet). Someone broke through internet security firewalls and flashed abusive language for the CM. A technical team of the NHAI is on its way to Khanna from Delhi. The accused will be traced and they will submit a report to us. Our own cyber cell is also at work,” said Rajanparminder Singh, DSP, Khanna. On a complaint from the NHAI, the Sadar police station in Khanna have registered a first an FIR under Sections 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 67 of the IT Act against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/digital-signage-on-jalandhar-delhi-highway-hacked-punjab-cmabused-101627844842931.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two booked for driving off in car with 3 kids inside||A day after two men were nabbed for driving away with a car, with three children inside it, police lodged a kidnapping FIR on Sunday.The accused, Harjit Singh of Mohalla Ajit Nagar and Bobby Wadhwa of Raikot Adda, Jagraon, have been booked on the complaint of Gurvinder Kaur of South City, mother of two of the three children. The third child is her 13-year-old domestic help.Kaur stated that on Saturday, she was headed to her parents’ house in Dharampura with her two children, aged eight and two, and their domestic help. On the way, she stopped near Baba Than Singh Chowk to buy snacks for the children. While she was paying the shopkeeper, two men turned up and fled with her car. As she raised the alarm, onlookers managed to nab the accused after a chase and handed them over to the police after beating them up.Meanwhile, police claimed that the accused were thieves, who wanted to steal the complainant’s handbag, left in the car. “During interrogation, the accused claimed they wanted to steal the woman’s handbag after spotting it in the car. But they couldn’t open the door where the bag was lying. As the ignition was on, they drove away with the car, only with the intention of stealing the handbag and would have abandoned the car,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (City 1) Pragya Jain.The ADCP said they were investigating the matter from all aspects. Meanwhile, a case under Sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Division Number 3 police station.Notably, the complainant and her husband, Nitish Ghai, are facing trial in various cases of immigration fraud. Nitish alone is booked in over 100 such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianatwo-booked-for-driving-off-in-car-with-3-kids-inside-101627844782879.html
02-08-2021||Other||Sikh group wants SGPC to reverse decision on razing of historic serai||Amritsar The Golden Temple’s former Hazuri Ragi (traditional gurbani singer) Bhai Baldev Singh Wadala-led Sikh Sadbhawna Dal on Sunday held a meeting on the Heritage Street to press upon the SGPC to revoke its plan of demolishing its oldest serai, Guru Ram Das Niwas, of the holiest Sikh Shrine. The gathering was held on the spot, where members of the Sikh organisation have been staging an indefinite sit-in to seek justice in the case of 328 missing Saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib. Addressing the Sikh activists, Wadala read out three resolutions on the occasion, which were passed with echoing of slogans of ‘Sat Sri Akal’. “A resolution should be passed by the General House of the the SGPC that any building which is over 100-year-old or witnesses historic incidents including the 1984 army action on the Akal Takht, will not be razed. The buildings historical facts. The SGPC must revoke the resolution of razing one of the historic buildings. If its goes ahead with the plan, we will hold peaceful protests,” reads the first resolution.The second resolution exhorted the Sikh community to stop giving donations to the Kar Sewa organisations, which it claimed were which destroying the Sikh community’s heritage.In the third resolution, the organisation has given an ultimatum to the SGPC and the administration to stop excavation work at the construction site, where the remnants of a historical building have been found, till August 4. “If the excavation does not stop, we will stop it on our own with the help of sangat,” the resolution reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikh-group-wants-sgpc-to-reverse-decision-on-razing-of-historic-serai-101627844482931.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||7-year-old Ludhiana girl gets entangled in swing, chokes to death||A seven-year-old girl was choked to death after her neck got entangled in a dupatta, used in a makeshift swing, at Prem Nagar, Field Gunj, on Sunday. Neighbours alerted the police after the accident, even as the parents of the child, Nazia Khatun, claimed that she died due to an illness.It was her younger sister, Sazia, who narrated the mishap to the police, following which the body was sent to the civil hospital for autopsy.As per information, the child’s family lives in a rented accommodation in Prem Nagar. Two more families live in the building. Her father, Shagir Alam, is a factory worker.Third among six siblings, Nazia was playing on the roof where a dupatta was tied to a girder to make a swing. While using the swing, Nazia lost control and her neck was entangled in the loop created in the dupatta, choking her.Her siblings raised the alarm, following which their parents rushed to the roof and rescued Nazia. They took her to a private clinic where the doctor declared her brought dead.According to police, the family tried to conceal the matter to avoid autopsy, but the deceased’s younger sister narrated the whole incident. Inspector Satpal, station house officer, Division Number 2 police station, said the police will take appropriate action after receiving the post-mortem examination report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7yearold-ludhiana-girl-gets-entangled-in-swing-chokes-to-death-101627844362955.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man who duped people by posing as NCRB chief booked||Police have launched a hunt for a man who has been duping people of money by posing as the in-charge of the National Crime Investigation Bureau (NCRB). Through multiple complaints, police have found that the accused, Chandar Mohan of Hargobind Nagar, Haibowal Kalan, has been using a fake identity to assure people of getting their tasks done in various public offices in exchange for money.ASI Iqbal Singh, in-charge, Jagatpuri police post, said to convince the victims, Mohan provided them fake letterhead, visiting card and copy of an ID card showing him as the NCRB in-charge.ASI Bhajan Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had lodged an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating) and 170 (personating a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused and he will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-who-duped-people-by-posing-as-ncrb-chief-booked-101627844302883.html
02-08-2021||Other||Villager injured in tiger attack in UP’s Kheri||A tiger attacked a man while he was working in a sugarcane field close to Aonla jungles of Mohammadi range under south Kheri forest division, here on Sunday morning, said Mohammadi range officer Mobin Arif.In the attack, the man identified as Kamlesh, 35, of Dokarpur village under Mitauli police limits, suffered injuries in his shoulder and abdomen. His fellow villagers, who were working at the same field when the incident occurred, rushed to his rescue following which the tiger ran away to some other place. Kamlesh was rushed to a nearby hospital where his condition was stated to be stable.After being informed, Mohammadi range officer Mobin Arif rushed to the spot along with his staff and special tiger protection force (STPF) and carried out a combing operation to drive back the tiger back to the forests. The range officer asked the villagers to remain alert while visiting their fields close to forest areas. Aonla is a big jungle area of Mohammadi range where frequent movement of big cats has been reported since long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/villager-injured-in-tiger-attack-in-up-s-kheri-101627844182282.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Fake Aadhaar enrolment centre uncovered in Ludhiana, three held||The crime investigation agency (CIA) staff of Ludhiana police, in a joint operation with counter intelligence, busted a fake Aadhaar Card enrolment centre in Tibba area on Saturday. Three men – Raj Kumar, 48, of New Subhash Nagar; Vinod Kumar, alias Bhalla, 42, of Tilak Nagar; and Raj Kumar, alias Sunny, 35, of Bajda Colony, who were running the centre, have been arrested. Their accomplice, Kuldeep Kumar of Harjap Nagar, is on the run.As many as 16 Aadhaar cards, 36 enrolment certificates, five PAN cards, five voter cards, two printers, a laptop, a fingerprint scanner and an iris scanner were recovered from their possession.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, Investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said police had received information that a fake Aadhaar Card enrolment centre was operating from Abhi Studio in Tibba. Even as enrolments and corrections in Aadhaar card are done for free, the accused were charging unwary people up to ₹1,000.“They had access to a UIDAI User ID and password registered in Dhubri, Assam. Using these details, they would log in to the UIDAI portal to make corrections in Aadhaar card. They were also using the stamp of a fictional MLA, Harish Pushkar, and making fingerprint impressions using gum,” the DCP said.“According to rules, an Aadhaar card enrolment centre can be run from an authorised location only. Besides, an examination has to be cleared to get a licence. We are questioning the accused to establish how they got access to the User ID,” he added.Investigators said Raj and Bhalla were Class 10 pass-outs, and the latter was a photographer. Sunny has cleared Class 12 and runs a grocery shop.All accused have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code at the Tibba police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-aadhaar-enrolment-centre-uncovered-in-ludhiana-three-held-101627844124266.html
02-08-2021||Kolkata||Sand mining: Experts remain wary as Bengal govt centralises auction||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on July 22 announced that her government was coming up with a sand mining policy to put in place a centralised system for the auction of sand quarries. But experts say it isn’t just an administrative move but a political one, too, to rein in local leaders to keep the party’s image clean at the grassroots level with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.The West Bengal Mineral Development and Trading Corporation (WBMDTC) will henceforth hold the auctions online that was earlier done by the district magistrates. But those earlier auctions only covered a tiny portion of the sand mining activity, according to Biswajit Mukherjee, the former chief law officer of West Bengal Pollution Control Board.“Illegal mining of sand from the riverbeds and riverbanks is rampant in several districts and the business runs into thousands of crores of rupees. There exists a nexus between local politicians, the mafia and the administration,” Mukherjee added.Clashes over the control of dry riverbeds, which form the bedrock of the thriving illegal sand-mining industry, are not uncommon in the districts such as Birbhum, Bankura, West Midnapore, Hooghly, Burdwan and Howrah among others. Sometimes, these prove to be fatal. The chief minister, while announcing the policy on July 22, acknowledged having received complaints about illegal sand mining and promised not to spare anyone, “even if he is an officer or a politician”.The CM had also complained about the state losing out on revenue due to the local mafia. A senior officer of the state irrigation department put this into perspective: in December 2015, when there was a crackdown on sand mafia, the state’s revenue earning from sand mining went up from around ₹25 crore to ₹300 crore.“There have been crackdowns in the past but the menace goes on unabated with the help of local politicians, mafia and a section of the administration because huge money is involved. In an auction done legally, the bids can go as high as ₹2-3 crore. Imagine the profit from illegal sand mines,” the officer said on condition of anonymity.The TMC has tried to rein in local leaders. “As much of the sand mining business is illegal, there is huge corruption involved in it. This has sometimes led to factional feuds. It was also taking a heavy toll on the party, as corruption among a section of the local leaders was ruining the party’s image. The party leader had on many times warned such leaders. The decision was based on a year-long survey made by Prashant Kishor and his team,” said a TMC leader requesting anonymity. He addedthat more than the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the decision would affect the 2023 panchayat polls because those are contested on micro and very localised issues.However, not all political watchers are pleased with the idea of centralised auctions. “Experience has shown that whenever such steps are taken to centralise an auction, the cost of the product increases because businessmen have to pay cut money at various levels instead of just the local politicians,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, another political commentator. “Unless the local administration undergoes a change, corruption will never go,” said state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sand-mining-experts-remain-wary-as-bengal-govt-centralises-auction-101627843885346.html
02-08-2021||Other||Sidhu’s abrupt silence exposes his patronage of mafia: Majithia||Nabha Former Punjab cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia has alleged that the new state Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, was patronising mafias in the state by his abrupt silence on illegalities after taking charge of the post. “Sidhu has been very vocal on mafia, corruption and other illegalities, but as soon as he became the PCC president, he went mum. Those who are part of mafia and indulge in corruption are now running the show of Sidhu, who otherwise has no support in the Congress. Why is he silent on the Scheduled Caste Scholarship involving cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot,” said Majithia in Nabha, the constituency of Dharamsot. Majithia was in Nabha for launch of a medical camp and to address workers in favour of party leader Kabir Dass. Senior SAD leader Surjit Singh Rakhra was present.Majithia added that it was condemnable that the new PCC president was now expecting such leaders to strengthen his hold on the Punjab Congress. “This not only exposes Sidhu, but the Congress’ culture of corruption, scams and anti-dalit and anti-poor policies,” he alleged.Majithia said Punjabis wanted immediate dismissal of Dharamsot from the cabinet, besides the registration of a criminal case and arrest. “Previously, CM Capt Amarinder Singh procured a clean chit for Dharamsot. Sidhu is also supporting him despite the fact that the minister has destroyed the future of 8 lakh dalit students who have been thrown out of educational institutions, with the government not protecting their rights. There cannot be a bigger sin than this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhus-abrupt-silence-exposes-his-patronage-of-mafia-majithia-101627843884284.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||After deadly May, Ludhiana’s Covid figures plunged by 99% in July||Two months after the second wave wreaked havoc in Ludhiana in May, making it the worst-hit district in Punjab, July ended with the Covid cases and deaths dropping by 99%.The district had registered 29,529 Covid cases and 624 deaths in May – highest since the pandemic started last year – leaving the health infrastructure crumbling.In comparison, only 334 cases and five deaths surfaced in July, lowest in 15 months. As the contagion peaked in Ludhiana in May this year, the daily cases had hit the all-time high of 1,729 on May 9 and a record 30 deaths were registered twice, on May 10 and 11. But the figures started winding downwards as lockdown curbs was imposed, restricting public movement. Compared to May, June accounted for 2,849 infections and 87 casualties, with the district also achieving the long-awaited milestone of zero deaths thrice in the month, first on June 24.July brought more good news with the district recording no death on as many as 26 of the 31 days, allowing health facilities to tide over the immense pressure of the second wave. The cases also hit new lows multiple times, dropping to two twice, on July 26 and 31.At 97.5%, the district’s recovery rate is on par with the national average.However, notwithstanding the respite from the worrisome pandemic numbers, health experts have cautioned zero deaths don’t mean zero responsibility.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said, “The declining Covid-19 cases indeed bring immense emotional satisfaction. This was possible due to the coordinated efforts of the health department, district administration, private health institutions and journalists who played an active role in information, education and communication activities, and updating citizens with the latest information. Though congratulations are in order for residents, they must continue to adhere to safety protocols and also get vaccinated at the earliest.”Dr Clarence J Samuel, professor and head, department of community medicine at Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, said, “With more than double the cases in the second wave as compared to the first in August last year, the health infrastructure was left completed overstretched. But now the cases have decreased because the transmission chain has broken.” But, he cautioned, that new variants of the virus could emerge anywhere. “Therefore, Covid-appropriate behaviour is crucial. People should come forward to get tested if symptoms appear as the virus is still deadly. Timely response can save lives. Also, higher vaccination coverage is important to build immunity,” the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-deadly-may-ludhiana-s-covid-figures-plunged-by-99-in-july-101627843824524.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Noida authority to launch campaign to address civic woes in urban villages||NOIDA: The Noida authority will launch a door-to-door drive in urban villages to address civic woes of the residents. The move came after the villagers demanded civic amenities at par with urban areas.The initiative -- Noida Aapke Dwar (Noida at your doorstep) -- will begin from August 3. “We will inspect two villages on Tuesdays and Thursdays to understand and address the civic woes. Our team comprising the staff from horticulture, water, sewer, engineering, project and other wings will go door-to-door in rural areas so that we can address the issues instantly,” said Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager, Noida authority.The authority will visit 81 villages spread across 20,000 hectares and address the issues. “The authority has a vision to make sure that both urban and rural areas have better civic amenities. We have brought all departments under one umbrella for this,” said Tyagi.Villages are grappled with issues like blockage of sewer, drains, broken roads, unclean surroundings, broken pavements, unkempt parks and issues related with land encroachment, among others.“If all departments are not working together to solve a civic issue, then it takes longer to resolve it because the officials keep passing the buck onto each other. There are many issues which stay unresolved because officials do not pay heed to the complaints. We hope the initiative will help and find relief to us,” said Deepa Chauhan, a resident of Nagli Wazidpur village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-launch-campaign-to-address-civic-woes-in-urban-villages-101627843642205.html
02-08-2021||Other||Amritsar’s heritage turning into ruins; authorities remain indifferent||Amritsar The discovery of a heritage structure underneath the Golden Temple has renewed focus on the authorities’ failure to preserve history. Most existing heritage buildings are linked with the era of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and the colonial rule. Heritage monuments, including historic gates and the wall around the city, fell prey to British indifference. The structures still standing are crying for attention. As if this was not enough, centuries-old buildings have been razed, while constructing a new galliara around the Golden Temple complex over the past few decades. Going further back, foreign invaders and then the British presided over much destruction of heritage. This continued even after 1947, owing to the apathy of the governments and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).A status check shows that the 1809-vintage Gobindgarh Fort was renovated during the SAD-BJP regime; the historic Ram Bagh, however, has remained neglected. Though the Summer Palace and some other buildings have been restored, one of its Deoris is in a shambles. Dotted with encroachments, one of its windows has also fallen off. The Baradari at Pul Moran, which testifies to Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s stay in Amritsar during his visits from Lahore, is in dilapidated condition. The historic Bagh Akalian, of the Misl times, is an embarrassment for authorities. The SGPC, which has sought control of the galliara and the Heritage Street for maintenance and cleanliness, has failed to maintain and take care of it; a modern serai is planned here. A local activist Micheal Raul raised the issue of Misl period’s beautiful Haveli in Chhina Karam Singh village that is going to the dogs. Another structure with a well in Kathian Wala Bazar has the potential to attract tourists due to its heritage value. There is an old Chhatri in old Lakkar (wood) Mandi, besides many other structures made of small bricks and historic lime plaster.“The state government has ignored the preservation of the rich heritage of the holy city. Due to negligence of the SGPC, heritage buildings in Amritsar have been demolished in the name of Kar Sewa,” said Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron of Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM). The AVM has repeatedly requested the government to form an Amritsar Walled City Authority on the lines of Lahore for systematic preservation of heritage, to no avail.Heritage expert professor Balvinder Singh said, “When the authorities do decide to preserve our heritage, they end up damaging it.” “Why don’t we opt for the Heritage Blue Plaque Scheme, replicating the London Heritage Plan to create awareness on the links between historic personalities and heritage buildings,” said professor Amanpreet Singh Gill, a Sikh heritage expert. Additional chief secretary, tourism and cultural affairs, Sanjay Kumar, said, “Many heritage buildings have been preserved and restored in Amritsar. If any structure has been neglected, we will look into it.” “We cannot comment on the past. Today, we are all working hard to ensure that our heritage stays intact,” said Harjinder Singh Dhami, honourary chief secretary, SGPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsars-heritage-turning-into-ruins-authorities-remain-indifferent-101627843582932.html
02-08-2021||Noida||UP-Rera extends deadline for 100 realty projects in Noida and Greater Noida||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has decided to extend the deadline for around 100 projects in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway, including Ghaziabad, by two years, to help the pandemic-hit realty sector.The decision followed several representations from developers requesting an extension. However, the authority granted the extension on the condition that the developers get the validity of their projects’ maps too extended from their respective authorities.According to the real estate rules, a developer gets a maximum of seven years to build and deliver a project from the time it gets all necessary approvals. But officials said that the UP-Rera, a quasi-judicial body, had powers to grant an extension under section 8 of the UP-Rera Act.“In the interest of homebuyers, we have offered an extension of two years for these 100 projects in view of Covid-19 that disrupted work in 2020 and 2021. If any builder needs more than two years, that too can be considered provided they obtain consent from their homebuyers’ association,” said Balvinder Kumar, member of UP-Rera.Around 200 projects have been delayed across Uttar Pradesh, said the authority officials.Homebuyers said that the UP government should ensure that their flats are delivered.“The delay has been long and hard. It is high time that the government came forward with a comprehensive policy to address our woes,” said professor Rajesh Sahay, secretary, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations.Developers also welcomed the move. “The government should also help developers get additional funding to finish the projects in view of the crisis due to Covid-19,” said RK Arora, president of National Real Estate Development Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/developers-in-noida-ghaziabad-get-two-years-more-to-deliver-flats-101627843522231.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Door-to-door Covid vaccination at Mumbai’s K-W ward today||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday said that it will conduct vaccination for bedridden citizens in phases by holding the drive in one or two wards at a time.Of the 24 administrative wards in the city, BMC will start vaccination for bedridden citizens in K- West ward (Vile Parle and Andheri West) from Monday. Around 80 beneficiaries are expected to be vaccinated on Monday. BMC said it is opting to go for a slow start before going ahead with all the wards as it wants to see how the beneficiaries respond to the drive.It had kick-started the vaccination door-to-door vaccination drive on Friday with K- East ward that covers Andheri (East) and Vile Parle (East). On Friday, BMC vaccinated around 37 beneficiaries with the help of four vials.For the drive, it is working with non-profit organisation Project Mumbai, which is the implementation partner for vaccinating bedridden citizens. For the process, two separate teams of medical professionals are deployed on the field with two separate ambulances, equipped with oxygen support. Each team comprised a doctor, a nurse and a BMC official.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We can deploy one team in each ward and start the drive in all the wards. But we are going slow. We are also getting an experience on how to handle such citizens post immunisation. Hence, we will implement the drive in phases.”BMC had announced that it will start the door-to-door vaccination drive for citizens, after the Bombay high court directed the state government to do so. The preparations for the drive were undertaken by BMC from the first week of July. An email id was created, wherein BMC received around 4,500 requests for vaccinating bedridden citizens. BMC said the vaccine beneficiary has to be bedridden from the past six months and will need a ‘fit to take vaccine’ certificate by their doctor.Meanwhile, BMC said that currently it has a stock of vaccines that will only last till Monday. It is expecting an additional stock on Monday, but if it does not get the doses, the vaccination drive in civic-run vaccination centres could get affected on Tuesday. However, the vaccination drive at private hospitals will continue as per schedule. Till July 31, more than 7.2 million vaccine doses have been administered in the city, of which 1.7 million citizens have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doortodoor-vax-at-mumbai-s-k-w-ward-today-101627843465215.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Former Chandigarh Congress chief attacks party leadership||A day after the Congress high command appointed new office-bearers to different posts in Chandigarh, the internal party fissures burst out in the open.Making serious allegations in the appointment of the office-bearers, senior leader and former party president Pardeep Chhabra on Sunday alleged that the appointments were made not on merit, but “on the basis of money and sycophancy”.Chhabra laid the blame on national party treasurer and former city MP Pawan Bansal and incumbent city party chief Subhash Chawla.In a series of social media posts, Chhabra attacked the party leadership for ignoring “people with more than 30 years of dedicated service to the party” and opting for sycophants instead.Tagging Rahul Gandhi, Punjab and Chandigarh state in-charge Harish Rawat and national general secretary KC Venugopal, former city mayor Chhabra tweeted, “Rahul Gandhi ji wants politics of change, in the list of office bearers of Chandigarh Congress released yesterday, there was no change but a sense of revenge. The local leaders here will ruin the Chandigarh Congress.”In another tweet, he alleged, “The writ of an arrogant leader, money, sycophants and gossip mongers ran strongly in the formation of the list (office bearers) released yesterday.”The Congress on Saturday appointed 133 office bearers to different posts, including eight vice-presidents, nine general secretaries, 24 secretaries, 17 permanent invitees, 15 special invitees and 36 were appointed to the executive committee. Chawla had taken over the party presidency on February 22 after he was appointed to the post on February 9 replacing Chhabra.Chhabra’s allegations come only three months before the crucial municipal corporation (MC) elections.‘Congress mukt Chandigarh’Stating that Chandigarh Congress had started a new innings for making the city “Congress Mukt” (Congress free), Chhabra questioned, “When such a long list of office-bearers was announced yesterday then why loyal party workers with 30 years of service to the party were ignored?”Chhabra claimed that he had given a list of six party workers to Rawat “but none of them were included.” He said that it was for the first time that there was no vice-president or general secretary from Manimajra. “When Sonia Gandhi ji says that there should be 30% women who should be appointed as office-bearers then why just 11 women have been included in the list of 133 office bearers.”On his future course of action, Chhabra said, “I will come up with a fresh exposure every day from now on.” After his five-year stint as the party chief ended, Chhabra has repeatedly attacked the new party dispensation on various issues.‘Baseless allegations, frustration speaking’Rubbishing Chhabra’s allegations, Chawla said, “I have repeated nearly 99% of the executive of Chhabra. So, is he picking faults with me or his own appointments?”On Manimajra being ignored, Chawla said, “We will include Manimajra representatives in the membership of AICC, which is pending. A separate district for Manimajra was created this time.”“Nowhere in the party’s organisation in the country is there 30% reservation for women. We have not ignored anybody. The doors of the party are open for everybody,” he added.Stating that Chhabra’s allegations would make no difference to the party’s chances in the coming elections, Chawla said, “It is pure frustration on the part of Chhabra which is coming out as baseless allegations.”On Chhabra’s allegations, Pawan Bansal said, “I don’t respond to every noise that I hear.” Rawat didn’t respond to calls and/or messages.Notably, the local Congress unit had earlier written to the high command against Chhabra for his alleged anti-party activities.A day after the Congress high command appointed new office-bearers to different posts in Chandigarh, the internal party fissures burst out in the open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-chandigarh-congress-chief-attacks-party-leadership-101627843463879.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Centre to spend ₹7,205 crore to remove NH bottlenecks in Punjab||The Union government has planned to spend ₹7,205 crore to remove traffic bottlenecks by realigning key highways in Punjab under the National Highway Development Project (NHDP).Official privy to the development said that under phase-1 of the ambitious Bharatmala Pariyojana ---- a centrally-sponsored and funded road and highways project --- 223km area will be covered for building bypasses across the state. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has drawn up a proposal to finish work for decongesting eight identified highways in the state.Officials said the project is aimed at strengthening the existing NH infrastructure by rectifying accident black spots to make driving safer. “Various spots have been identified on NHs that require traffic management solutions. Developing bypasses by acquiring new lands is a better idea as the exercise of constructing flyovers may invite opposition from the shopkeepers and traders,” said an official. According to official information, detailed project reports (DPRs) are being prepared by the authorities and broad layouts have been proposed for the execution.A budget of ₹2,000 crore has been estimated for the Jalandhar-Panipat national highway, one of the busiest stretches in the North. The NHAI has planned three bypasses on this stretch in Punjab at Khanna (33km), Phagwara (5km) and Phillaur (11km).Similarly, the Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway is proposed to have new bypasses in Patiala, Bhawanigarh and Rampura towns. The proposed northern Patiala bypass is tipped to be of 27km involving ₹935 crore for land acquisition and construction. A total of ₹1,573 crore has been planned for the highway that connects southern Punjab with Chandigarh.The NHAI has planned to spend ₹935 crore to complete remaining work on the Chandigarh-Bathinda-Amritsar highway. According to the proposal, a 27km bypass will decongest the key highway network of the Malwa belt.A sum of ₹900 crore will be spent on another bypasses project at Pathankot, Mukerian, Dasua and Bhogpur on the Jammu-Delhi highway. There is a proposal to construct bypasses in Mullanpura and Jagraon with a budget of ₹530 crore on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur highway.Similarly, the central agency will spend ₹495-crore to develop the eastern Kurali bypass on the Chandigarh-Kurali road.A bypass is proposed to be constructed in Moga on the Ludhiana-Talwandi highway at an estimated cost of ₹400 crore. Besides, the NHAI has planned the realignment of Amritsar-Jalandhar road with a budget of ₹375 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-to-spend-rs-7-205-crore-to-remove-nh-bottlenecks-in-punjab-101627843462805.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Nine shops gutted at Sarangpur furniture market||A fire broke out in the furniture market at Sarangpur in the wee hours of Sunday.Around nine shops have been gutted in the fire and shopkeepers estimate a collective loss of around ₹1 crore. The officials of the fire department, however, said they hadn’t calculated the total losses yet.Speaking about this, officials of the Sector-11 fire station said, “A call was received around 3am on Sunday. Six fire brigades were rushed to the furniture market and it took us about one and a half hours to control the fire.”The shopkeepers claimed that a short circuit could have caused the fire, however the fire department said as per their report, the cause remained unknown. No injuries were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhnine-shops-gutted-at-sarangpur-furniture-market-101627843402881.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Guidelines for reopening colleges to be issued soon||Detailed guidelines for reopening of colleges in Chandigarh will be issued this week, a senior official of the education department confirmed on Sunday.Although classes for the 2021-22 academic session will start for Panjab University’s (PU) affiliated colleges from August 11, including the ones in Chandigarh, modalities are yet to be issued by the UT higher education department.In July, the Chandigarh administration allowed colleges and universities to reopen from August, with the rider that students, teaching and non-teaching staff who turn up for physical classes must have received at least one vaccine dose.It is likely that students will be allowed to attend physical classes with the consent of their parents and online classes will be conducted simultaneously. With PU releasing its academic calendar recently, colleges are also waiting for guidelines to be issued.Since the pandemic outbreak in March last year, city colleges have remained largely shut. Some of them reopened in November, but didn’t evoke much response from students. When the first wave subsided, the administration had decided to reopen all colleges in February this year. However, the second wave started soon after in March, thwarting the plan.Admission schedule to be announced shortlyThe admission schedule for centralised and non-centralised courses in city colleges are likely to be announced this week. The higher education department has made all preliminary preparations for UG and PG admissions and a meeting will be held in coming days to finalise the schedule. An official said it is expected to be released this week.According to the academic calendar issued by PU, teaching for ongoing batches in affiliated colleges will start from August 11. However, the teaching for first year students of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses will start from September 1 and September 13 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhguidelines-for-reopening-colleges-to-be-issued-soon-101627843345274.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Veteran athlete Mann Kaur cremated in Chandigarh||For Gurdev Singh, his mother, veteran athlete Mann Kaur, was a role model and best friend. On Sunday, as 82-year-old Singh lit the pyre of 105-year-old Kaur, he burst into tears and bid final goodbye at Chandigarh crematorium in Sector 25. For over a decade, Kaur and Gurdev had been training and taking part in athletics championships together. Along with family and friends, fans also thronged the crematorium to pay their respect to Kaur, who was known as “miracle mom” from Chandigarh. The veteran athlete, who began her athletics career at the age of 93, had set a record by becoming the world’s fastest centenarian at the American Masters Games in 2016. She died on Saturday at a Dera Bassi hospital after a battle with liver and gallbladder cancers. Recipient of Nari Shakti Puraskar 2019, she used to say age was no bar to realise one’s dreams. She was the oldest person to walk to the top of Auckland’s Sky Tower in 2017, showing off her grit and zeal. “Mataji inspired so many to remain fit and pursue a sport. I am going to miss her, especially on the field,” said a grief-stricken Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/veteran-athlete-mann-kaur-cremated-in-chandigarh-101627843283417.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Three-fold increase in penalty on shops selling liquor at inflated price||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Sunday decided to increase the penalty on liquor shops selling alcohol at inflated prices from ₹25,000 to ₹75,000. According to officials, a second violation will attract a penalty of ₹1.5 lakh and a third violation will see their licence cancelled. Additional district magistrate (finance and revenue), Vandita Srivastava, said that the decision was taken during a virtual meeting held on Sunday with all the liquor shop licensees and senior officials from police and excise departments. “Besides increasing the penalty for overcharging, all licensees have been asked to properly display the rate chart for different varieties of liquor, along with the names and numbers of excise officials. It has also been made mandatory for them to install CCTV cameras at their shops,” she said. Srivastava further said that stern action will be taken against shops flouting these norms. “All the liquor licence holders in the district have been asked to inform the administration if they get to know of illegal liquor being sold in their areas,” she added. The liquor shop owners requested the district administration to not hike the penalty amount, said one shop owner who did not wish to be named. “Most liquor shops continue to incur heavy losses on account of the weekend lockdown in the district. The district administration should also think about our plight,” said the owner.There are a total of 531 liquor vends in Gautam Budh Nagar. Of them, 231 sell countrymade liquor and 294 sell Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) or beer, district excise officer RB Singh said, adding that there are also six premium shops in various shopping malls.Ankita Sharma, assistant commissioner of police (Noida), said they had noticed a number of roadside food stalls near liquor shops. “Since such temporary food stalls often create nuisance, the liquor shop owners have been asked to not allow such eateries near their shops,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-three-fold-increase-in-penalty-on-shops-selling-liquor-at-inflated-price-101627843282218.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Unemployed teacher alights from mobile tower after 135 days in Patiala||PatialaA day after state government issued advertisement of recruitment of ETT-TET qualified teachers, the unemployed teacher, who was protesting atop mobile tower, came down after 135 days on Sunday. The state government has already agreed to the demand of protesting teachers of giving them first preference in the recruitment process of 6,635 teachers in government primary schools.Surinderpal Singh, 36, had climbed atop a 260-feet mobile tower near Leela Bhawan in the city since the start of the protest of ETT-TET qualified teachers union. He was brought down by team of police and other experts with help of ropes. He was taken for a medical check-up before he was sent to Government Rajindra Hospital.Deepak Kamboj, state president of the union, said they have ended their protest as the government has fulfilled most of their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unemployed-teacher-alights-from-mobile-tower-after-135-days-in-patiala-101627843223637.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||One more Covid death, 38 new cases in Punjab||Punjab reported 38 new cases on Sunday, taking the infection count to 5,99,130, while one more Covid-related fatality pushed the death toll to 16,294. According to a health bulletin, the only fatality was reported from Ferozepur.The number of active cases in the state stands at 504, it said.Of the new cases, seven were reported from Jalandhar followed by five each in Amritsar and Patiala, it said.With 55 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,82,332, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-more-covid-death-38-new-cases-in-punjab-101627842924196.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Pangolin was rescued in June too, foresters speculate breeding population in Noida||Saturday’s rescue of an adult Indian pangolin, an endangered and elusive mammal, by the forest department from Gautam Budh Nagar’s Behlolpur area has caused quite an excitement, and worry.The department had found a pangolin near a green patch in Dankaur in June too and later released it in the Hastinapur wildlife sanctuary in Meerut. The two sightings, a “very rare” event, have led officials to speculate the existence of a “breeding population” in the district.As per the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List, which is an inventory of the global extinction risk of animals, fungus and plants, the population of the species in the Indian subcontinent is classified as “decreasing”. It also said that there was scarce data on the animal.Forest officials said that though pangolins are believed to be found around the Yamuna floodplains, they never expected its presence in Noida’s urban forests. “The species is elusive, thus two sightings within two months is very rare. There is a possibility of its breeding population here. We are now vigilant and will also try to mark the areas of its possible habitat within the city. We are delighted that such a rare species exists in our city’s limits,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.“The animal rescued on Saturday has been sent to Meerut.”The pangolins are the most trafficked animal in the world for their scales, according to experts.India is home to two of the eight pangolin species found across Asia and Africa — the Indian pangolin and Chinese pangolin. According to the IUCN the Indian pangolin is “endangered” and the Chinese pangolin is “critically endangered” — a step below “extinction”. In India, it is protected under the Schedule-1 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972.With ants and termites its primary prey, the tongue of a pangolin is longer than its body to help it catch thousands of ants per day, the experts said. To protect itself, the mammal rolls into a ball with its tough scale, which is made of keratin (same as human nails), offering protection. “Pangolin” is derived from the Malayan word “pengulin”, which refers to the animal’s unusual defensive posture, according to Wildlife Institute of India. Ironically, it is this same scales that are prized in the international black market. According to the experts, the species is traded for applications in traditional Chinese medicines.“The area around Noida is dry and arid, which is where a pangolin could be expected to be found. However, its spotting is definitely a surprise. It is highly prized in the Chinese black market and poached quite widely. It’s very important to raise awareness about this species for its existence,” said Dipankar Ghosh, director (species and landscape), World Wildlife Fund (WWF).“Pangolin is the world’s most trafficked animal. The species prefer habitats with rocks and boulders under which they dig resting burrows while the location of feeding burrows largely overlaps with the distribution of prey species. In Noida, we believe that it must have ventured out either due to rains or in search of food,” said Sipu Kumar, researcher at Wildlife Institute of India (WII). The experts also pointed out that there is now a need to focus on microhabitats in Noida.“It’s very exciting to have spotted pangolin in Noida. There is a possibility of a breeding population in the region, but there is also a possibility that they might be last of the pangolins. There is, thus, an importance to develop and preserve micro-habitat in urban spaces for the co-existence of the species in the region,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, an animal rescue and rehabilitation organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pangolin-was-rescued-in-june-too-foresters-speculate-breeding-population-in-noida-101627842862263.html
02-08-2021||Noida||Two children injured as wall collapses in Dankaur||Two children were injured on Sunday morning when a wall of their old house collapsed on a shanty they were living in, police said. The incident took place at 6.30am in Dankaur village.The two children – Sania, 5, and her brother Farhan, 2 – live with their parents and an elder sister – Tania, 7, in the makeshift shanty, police said. Children’s father, Saghir, 35, a daily wager, said that his house was in a dilapidated condition. “We had no sufficient money to get the house repaired. So, we decided to live in a shanty next to our old house. We have been living in the shanty for six months,” he said. Saghir said that he was away for some work while his wife was engaged in household chores when it started raining. “Our old house suddenly collapsed and a portion of the wall fell on the shanty. Sania and Farhan were injured as they were sleeping in the shanty. Tania escaped narrowly,” he said.Police officials said that a team from Dankaur police station reached the spot after getting the information. Arvind Pathak, SHO of Dankaur police station, said the two victims received injuries as bricks fell on them. “The two children were rushed to a private hospital. Later, they were discharged from the hospital,” he said.Pathak said that the family has not filed any police complaint in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-children-injured-as-wall-collapses-in-dankaur-101627842802186.html
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Declare CM face in Punjab: State AAP MLAs to Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs from Punjab on Sunday urged the central leadership to name the party’s chief ministerial face for the 2022 assembly polls in the state at the earliest. The AAP legislators made the request at a meeting chaired by the party’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the national capital. “The MLAs shared their views and several of them suggested that the party should announce the CM face at the earliest. He (Kejriwal) assured them,” AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann said after the meeting. The three-hour meeting was held to take feedback from MLAs and discuss the party’s strategy for the state elections due early next year. Though the party had gone into the 2017 assembly polls without a CM face and won 20 seats to become the principal opposition party, the AAP leaders have been of the view that it worked against them and are keen to name one this time. During a visit to Amritsar six weeks ago, Kejriwal had declared that the AAP’s chief ministerial face will be from the Sikh community. “One thing I can tell you is that the entire Punjab will be proud of him,” he said. The announcement had sparked off political speculation that former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was sidelined and sulking following his rift with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, could be an option, but his appointment as the Congress state unit chief has put an end to it. Besides Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha, 13 party legislators, except Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, attended the meeting. They included Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Meet Hayer, Budh Ram, Aman Arora, Baljinder Kaur, Jai Kishan Rori, Manjit Singh, Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Kulwant Pandori, Master Baldev Singh and Amarjit Sandoa, were present. The MLAs briefed Kejriwal about the political scenario and activities undertaken by them in their assembly constituencies. The state chief said there was also a discussion to inform the people of the state about the achievements and development model of the Kejriwal government in Delhi. A party release said that Kejriwal told the state leaders to support the farmers’ movement against the three farm laws at all levels. The voice raised by Mann in favour of the farmers inside and outside Parliament was highly appreciated, it said. Kejriwal advised the Punjab MLAs and the entire leadership to focus on drawing a positive line to liberate Punjab from mafia forever in the state polls. He also gave many examples of Delhi’s development model to the Punjab leadership, the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/declare-cm-face-in-punjab-state-aap-mlas-to-kejriwal-101627842742875.html
02-08-2021||Lucknow||Security beefed up at Lucknow’s Mankameshwar temple after terror threat||Security has been beefed up at Mankameshwar temple in the state capital a day after the temple management received an anonymous letter threatening to blow up the Lord Shiva shrine, senior police officials said here on Sunday.“The number of CCTVs installed to monitor the activities in and around the temple premises has been increased. The monitoring will be done round-the-clock by a police team. Besides, a door fitted with metal detector as well as cops equipped with handheld metal detectors have been deployed at the temple’s entrance. Also, a bomb disposal squad has been deployed for time-to-time sanitisation of the premises and the nearby shops,” said inspector in-charge of Hasanganj police station Yash Kant Singh.The official said step was also taken keeping in mind the ongoing auspicious month of Shravan when the temple witnesses a huge inflow of devotees especially on Mondays.Singh said on Saturday the temple management had received the letter that was similar to the one received by the management of Aliganj Hanuman temple on Thursday.“The sender had threatened to blow up the temple if their demands were not fulfilled before August 15. The letter, which sought release of the five people arrested from Lucknow for their alleged terror links recently, also threatened to target other temples and offices of Hindu organisations,” he said.The inspector said a team of crime branch was investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/security-beefed-up-at-lucknow-s-mankameshwar-temple-after-terror-threat-101627842622140.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Vital Delhi Metro stretches to open August 6||The Delhi Metro will on August 6 inaugurate two important stretches on its network — the extension of the Grey Line connecting Dwarka and Najafgarh to Dhansa Bus Stand and the crucial link between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri on the Pink Line (connecting Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar), officials said on Sunday.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), said Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the two sections through a video link, and passenger services on the stretches will kick off later that day.“While the inauguration function will be held online in the morning (August 6), passenger services will commence on the same day at 3pm on both sections,” Dayal said.With the opening of these sections, the Delhi Metro network will become 390km-long with 286 stations across 10 lines.Senior DMRC officials said the 891metre-long Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section will now take the Metro into the rural areas of Najafgarh, up to the Capital’s border with Haryana.The 5.4-km Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor was inaugurated in 2019 with three stations — Dwarka, Nangli and Najafgarh. However, despite being a small stretch, it became an important link for commuters travelling on the Blue Line who needed to travel into parts of Najafgarh, which was till that point missing from the city’s Metro map.Similarly, the missing link of the Pink Line, connecting Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 to Trilokpuri, was a much awaited portion of the corridor. In the absence of this link, the longest Metro corridor (currently 59km-long) operated as two distinct sections. This means that trains currently run from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and then reverse, as do trains travelling between Shiv Vihar and Trilokpuri station.The Pink Line of the Delhi Metro was planned as the longest corridor of the public transit system, and was supposed to have functioned as a “ring corridor”, connecting all of the network’s existing lines.However, construction of the link between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri was held up because of land acquisition hurdles at Trilokpuri. With the gap now bridged, this corridor will provide seamless travel for passengers, who can change lines to get to their destinations.“The Trilokpuri section will connect the entire 59 km-long Pink Line and will connect important landmarks of the city, such as Anand Vihar railway station, Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal, Nizamuddin railway stations, markets in South Extension, INA, Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar etc,” the DMRC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grey-line-extension-missing-pink-line-link-to-be-inaugurated-on-aug-6-says-delhi-metro-101627842502718.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi government plans fresh impetus for LED streetlight project||The Delhi government is all set to give a fresh push to the Mukhyamantri Street Light scheme — a project that aims to install 210,000 LED streetlights across the city — from this month, a senior government official said on Sunday. The project kicked off in September 2019, but was halted in April last year due to the pandemic.The scheme was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in September 2019. Government records showed that between November 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020, the government installed around 120,000 LED streetlights under the scheme, across all 70 assembly segments in the city.Under the project, each of Delhi’s 70 assembly constituencies is supposed to get 3,000 such streetlights.“We are all set to give it a fresh push and install 90,000 more LED lights by the end of this year, ensuring that each assembly constituency gets 3,000 of them,” said a senior official in the state power department who asked not to be named.The official further said, “Lights ranging between 20 and 40 watts are installed as part of this programme. These lights have sensors and turn off automatically in daylight. They usually come with a five-year guarantee.”This scheme is part of the Delhi government’s larger plan to address concerns regarding the safety of women, and aims to do away with dark spots in the city. The state government has identified around 2,000 dark spots in the city.Under this scheme, streetlights are not installed by any road owning agency or civic agency, but instead are installed and maintained by Delhi’s three private power distribution companies (discoms).This is beyond the 700,000-odd street lights set up on electric poles currently functional in the city. Under the scheme, lights are installed outside residences and on the periphery walls of neighbourhoods. The power bills of the LED streetlights are to be borne by households, which the government then reimburses in their monthly power bills, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-to-relaunch-led-streetlight-scheme-to-set-up-90k-more-by-yearend-101627842502133.html
02-08-2021||Other||DU’s admission portal opens today; 70k seats in over 60 colleges up for grabs||From Monday, the Delhi University will begin online registration for merit-based admissions to around 70,000 undergraduate seats in over 60 colleges. Applicants can visit the DU’s portal admission.uod.ac.in to register for the various courses till August 31. The first cut-off is expected to come out by the second week of September.Like last year, the entire admission process will be conducted online. The university’s computer centre has revamped the admissions portal to make it more interactive, including adding an interactive chatbot for queries. The university will also be conducting webinars and tutorials to apprise students of the online admission process. “Admissions to undergraduate merit-based programmes will be based on cut-offs as has been the practice in the past years. The admission branch, along with the principals of colleges, is working on modalities to decide the cut-offs so as to avoid over and under admissions,” said registrar Vikas Gupta. While most of the under graduate courses follow a merit-based admission process, admissions to nine UG courses are done through the DU entrance test (DUET), conducted by the National Testing Agency in September.The university received over 353,000 applications last year--the highest number of applications it received for its undergraduate courses--as the registration window was open for around three months.With around 80% UG applicants graduating from schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education, this year’s Class 12 results are likely to have an impact on the cut-offs. Around 220,000 students scored 90% and above this year with 70,000 of them scoring around 95% or more.The university has also decided to retain last year’s eligibility criteria of various courses. The fee for merit-based and entrance-based admissions, registration, and cancellation will also remain the same. The university will not conduct sports and extra-curricular activities (ECA) trials this year due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Admissions for the 5% of supernumerary seats reserved under sports and ECA categories collectively, in each course, will be conducted on the basis of certificates like last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dus-admission-portal-opens-today-70k-seats-in-over-60-colleges-up-for-grabs-101627842442199.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Electric golf carts likely to ply in Chandni Chowk by October||Vintage electric golf carts may ply by October on the 1.3-km-long revamped Chandni Chowk stretch between the Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, officials aware of the matter said.According to the minutes of a July 26 meeting — attended by nodal officers for the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project — an agency with a domain expert will be roped in to oversee the selection of an operator for the electric carts for the stretch by the first week of August.“It was decided that the commissioner (transport) will ensure issuance of expression of interest by August 1, so as to ensure operation of vintage look electric golf carts by September 30,” said minutes of the meeting, which HT has seen.Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), confirmed the same. “We are aiming to ensure operation of electric carts by September-end,” said Panigrahi.SRDC is the nodal agency constituted for the redevelopment of the heritage market. Conceived in 2006, the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project was launched after a prolonged delay in December 2018, following the directions of the Delhi high court which is also monitoring the project.Last month on June 30, SRDC proposed to run electric vehicles similar to golf carts with a vintage look on the revamped stretch which has been made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles between 9 am and 9pm. These low-speed electric golf carts are expected to have a maximum speed of 25-30 km per hour. The service is being proposed to help the elderly and infirm who visit the popular market, and will be run for free.During the July 26 meeting, it was also decided that the design for cycle rickshaws will be finalised by August 7 so that newly designed rickshaws can start plying before September 30. IIT Delhi is expected to submit the detailed design within a week. Further, the commissioner (transport) has been asked to submit a timeline for the completion of an impact assessment study of pedestrianisation of Chandni Chowk by August 7, an official said.The first phase of the redevelopment project is nearing completion, and phase two of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project will focus on façade restoration and improvement of arterial roads. By August 15, the PWD engineer-in-chief is expected to finalise the appointment of a consultant for façade restoration and Jama Masjid precinct, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/golf-carts-for-revamped-chandni-chowk-stretch-by-october-101627842384247.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Charge sheet against Sushil Kumar in murder case likely to be filed today||The crime branch of the Delhi Police is likely to file a charge sheet on Monday in the case of wrestler Sagar Dhankad’s murder in which two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar is an accused.Officials aware of the development said police have finished preparing the charge sheet, in which they will charge Kumar along with 11 other arrested accused persons. Five suspects are yet to be arrested in the case.Kumar, currently lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail, has been charged as the main accused in the case. Police are charging Kumar under sections of murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy, an official aware of the matter, who asked not to be named, said.In their charge sheet, police have attributed the motive of the murder to a dispute over a flat in north Delhi’s Model Town area between Dhankad and Kumar.Kumar allegedly wanted Dhankad to evict the flat, but the latter refused. According to the charge sheet, Dhankhad was allegedly using top Delhi gangster Sandeep Kala alias Jatheri’s influence to stay in the flat. Dhankad’s friend, Sonu Mahal, who was also beaten on the day of the incident, is a relative of Jatheri.Dhankad, a wrestler, and two others, Bhagat Singh and Sonu Mahal, were allegedly beaten by Kumar and his accomplices inside the Chhatrasal stadium on the night of May 4. Dhankad succumbed to his injuries, but the other two survived the assault. Police have also included Mahal’s statement in the charge sheet. Mahal is an important police witness in the case.According to the charge sheet, Singh and Mahal, in their statements to the police, have said that they, along with Dhankad, were kidnapped by Kumar and his accomplices from the Model town flat and brought to Chhatrasal stadium in cars. They said Kumar and others also beat them inside the vehicles.Along with Mahal and statement of other witnesses, police have attached a video recording of the evening of the incident, which police have said shows Kumar assaulting Dhankad inside the Chhatrasal stadium. Police have also retrieved call records of Kumar with other arrested persons.“The call data records show how Kumar was in touch with the other arrested persons, who are also seen on tape assaulting the victims. It was Kumar’s associate Ajay Sehrawat (also arrested) who called the other accused persons to Chhatrasal stadium on the evening of May 4,” said an officer who asked not to be named.According to the charge sheet, the police have quoted witnesses statements who have claimed that while Dhankad and Kumar were friends in the past, the problems between them started after Dhankad started training at a different place (away from Sushil Kumar) and took many other fellow wrestlers with him.Kumar’s counsel, advocate Pradeep Rana was not available for a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charge-sheet-against-sushil-kumar-others-in-sagar-dhankad-murder-case-likely-to-be-filed-today-101627842383027.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||127mm in 3 hours: Parts of Delhi get unusually heavy spell of rain||The current trend of short, intense and spread out rains continued in Delhi on Sunday with showers ranging from 27.6mm to 126.8mm being recorded within a few morning hours at different weather stations in the city.Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD’s head of regional weather forecasting centre, said, “More showers are expected over the next couple of days. Given that August, when the city receives maximum rainfall, is still left, we may have a slightly above normal monsoon this year.” He added that there is a forecast of heavy rains in Delhi and NCR on Monday.The city has been breaking a weather record every month since August 2020. For instance, this February was the second warmest in 120 years, with the mean maximum temperature in the month touching 27.9 degrees Celsius (°C), falling marginally short of the all-time record of 29.7°C in 2006.Then March this year recorded the hottest day in 76 years, with the mercury levels touching 40.1°C on March 29.But then, after a sweltering February and March, the conditions changed again in April and the lowest minimum temperature in at least a decade was recorded on April 4, at 11.7°C.July 2021 has kept with the record-breaking pattern: it started off with an unusually hot day when the maximum temperature spiked to 43°C. Over the next eight days, there were four heatwave days – a frequency not seen since 2014. Around this time, the monsoon should have arrived – but it would not till nearly the middle of the month on July 13, which was the latest onset since 2013. And in a span of three weeks, the monsoon has now dumped more rain this month than it did in any year since 2003.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Safdarjung weather station, which provides the representative data for the city, received 28.2mm rain on Sunday, the rainfall recording at Lodi Road was 27.4mm and 29.6 mm at Palam weather station. However, the rainfall recording at Ridge weather station, which is in the heart of the city, was 126.8mm.Similarly, last week on Tuesday, when Delhi received the season’s heaviest rain so far, 100mm rain fell in a span of three hours between 5.30am and 8.30am.Then, on Friday, the Safdarjung observatory received a bulk of the 41.6 mm rainfall between 2.30pm and 5.30pm. But, barely 2km away at Lodi Road, showers were more intense with the weather department recording over 62mm rain. Similarly, on Thursday, while Safdarjung and Lodi Road recorded 72mm and 73.4mm respectively after a spell of heavy downpour, areas around southwest Delhi’s Palam observatory remained completely dry.Experts said rain and monsoon patterns have changed over the last decade.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at the Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, said such change in monsoon patterns are being observed over the city over the last decade and climate crisis may have a larger role to play. “Instead of being more uniform and evenly distributed, we have been noticing that rainfall in Delhi and the neighbouring states has become more intense and lasts for shorter duration. Because of this, the number of rainy days has also reduced. This causes flooding in cities because the ground is unable to absorb such high quantity of rainwater,” Palawat said.As rains lashed parts of the city on Sunday, there was a rerun of the scenes of knee-deep water on roads and underpasses. The worst affected stretches were GT Road from Mukarba Chowk to Azadpur Chowk, Okhla underpass, Sri Aurobindo Marg under the AIIMS flyover, below the Defence Colony flyover, Ring Road near Nauroji Nagar market, Nangloi to Mundka, and Rohtak Road near Mundka.According to the public works department (PWD), severe waterlogging was also reported from Yamuna Bazar, Khanpur, Rohtak Road, Lodhi Road, Azadpur underpass, Zakhira underpass, Shakti Nagar underpass, Kirari and Sagarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/short-and-furious-rain-in-bursts-continue-in-delhi-101627842142935.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Over 2,500 turn up as Delhi zoo opens after three months||Despite the early morning showers in the Capital, over 2,500 people turned up at the Delhi zoo on Sunday as it reopened after nearly three months.The National Zoological Park has reopened in two shifts, and the administration will initially allow around 3,000 visitors a day, split evenly between each shift. In the first shift, the zoo will be open from 8am to 12pm. It will then be shut for an hour for sanitisation and disinfection, and will reopen again from 1pm to 5pm. The zoo will stay shut on Fridays.The zoo’s director, Ramesh Kumar Pandey, said visitors on Sunday were not deterred despite the light rain.“The rain could not deter the spirit and enthusiasm of the visitors, especially the young ones. We tried our best to make their visit worthwhile,” Pandey said.He said that around 2,500 people visited the zoo on Sunday, and that the second slot was packed.To ensure Covid appropriate behaviour, the zoo administration has stopped the in-person sale of tickets, and users must book tickets online 24 hours in advance on the website, or scan QR codes installed at the zoo entrances.The Delhi zoo reopened on April 1 this year, after being shut for nearly a year since the pandemic broke out in the national capital in March last year, but was closed two weeks later, as the fourth wave of infections expanded its footprint in the city. Before this, even though Delhi started reporting a downward trend in Covid infections, the zoo stayed shut due to incidences of bird flu, the first of which was reported in January this year.Preparations were underway on Saturday afternoon, with the premises being sanitised and additional security being deployed to manage the Sunday crowd. CCTV cameras have been installed and the zoo authorities have also urged visitors to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.“By 12pm on Saturday, approximately 300 tickets were booked. Visitors can buy the tickets either through the zoo’s website or at the entry gates using QR codes. This time we will allow 1,500 entries in each slot. In total 3,000 visitors are allowed in the premises during the day. We have put up posters everywhere to urge visitors to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Pandey..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-reopens-after-three-months-cap-of-3-000-visitors-split-between-two-shifts-101627842023921.html
02-08-2021||Delhi||Cops put traffic diversions in place at cave-in spot at Aurobindo Marg||A day after a portion of a road near the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in south Delhi caved in and caused major traffic disruptions, the Delhi traffic police on Sunday issued a detailed traffic diversion plan for the stretch and adjoining roads, as senior officials of state water utility said that though the hole has been filled, ‘associated deep sewer work’ by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will continue in the coming days.Additional commissioner of police (traffic) SD Mishra said a portion of Sri Aurobindo Marg below the IIT-Delhi flyover caved in because of an underground water leakage. He said that though the crater, approximately 15x10 feet, was repaired and the crossing opened up for traffic movement, work on the deep sewer lines will continue, and is likely to affect traffic on nearby roads.“The damaged portion of the road was repaired and the crater was filled with mud, sand and loose gravel, and the crossing has been opened for traffic. However, associated deep sewer work by the DJB continues at the at-grade road towards IIT,” Mishra said.The traffic police’s diversion plan said that vehicles travelling on Sri Aurobindo Marg from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) side will not be allowed to turn right towards IIT from Monday.Vehicles that are not taking the IIT flyover from Outer Ring Road, on the Panchsheel side, will not be allowed to go straight past the crossing and head towards IIT.“Only a single lane will be available for traffic coming from Adchini on Sri Aurobindo Marg and heading towards IIT,” said the diversion plan.Suggesting alternative routes, traffic police said vehicles coming from AIIMS on Sri Aurobindo Marg that want to take a right towards IIT, can take a left turn on the Outer Ring Road, make a U-turn from below the Panchsheel flyover, and then use the IIT flyover to cross to the IIT side.Alternatively, commuters can also go straight on Sri Aurobindo Marg and make a U-turn at either the Mother’s International School T-junction or the Adchini T-junction.Commuters coming from the Panchsheel Park side, who want to go towards IIT, can use the flyover instead of taking the crossing. Delhi Public Works Department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain said repair work on the road was completed in a ‘record’ eight hours.“DJB and PWD worked on war footing to restore the broken pipeline and the sunken road under the IIT flyover for the convenience of people,” Jain said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cavein-on-delhi-s-aurobindo-marg-repaired-but-traffic-will-be-diverted-as-deep-sewer-work-continues-101627841962798.html
02-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 25% reduction in syllabus detrimental to state board students, say educationists||Maharashtra school education department recently slashed the state board syllabus for Classes 1 to 12 by 25% again, especially since the 2021-22 academic year is also being conducted online. A government resolution (GR) to this effect was released in the last week of June. The move has invited mixed reactions. “Reducing syllabus year after year will have an effect on the students’ understanding of the subjects. Last year, too, even though the overall syllabus was reduced, schools ended up teaching everything because the topics were inter-related. Instead of reducing syllabus, education boards need to focus on changing their pedagogy to include better interaction among students and teachers and promote self-study techniques,” said Anuradha Prakash, former teacher and education expert. Over the past 16 months, an increasing number of educationists have been questioning the idea of reduced syllabus and examinations based on objective-type questions. While the Maharashtra state board has opted for a reduced syllabus for the second year in a row, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council of Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) boards, which had reduced their respective syllabi by nearly 30% last year, has not made any such announcements for the 2021-22 academic year as yet. “Covid-19 has forced school education to the online platform since 2020. With the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic affecting several parts of the country, the current 2021-22 academic year too has been pushed online. Based on the requests made by teachers as well as parent groups, we have decided to reduce the portion by 25% again this year for the benefit of students,” state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said in a statement shared with media last week. “The measure is being taken in view of the reduced time permitted to organise classes and to help students achieve the learning objectives in a less stressful environment,” she added.While many parent groups have responded positively to the syllabus reduction, many have also demanded better clarity. “Unlike CBSE which had made the revised syllabus fairly easy to understand for schools as well as students, the Maharashtra state board has left several questions unanswered once again this year. We are hopeful that the state board will release more clarity about their decision soon,” said Anubha Sahai president of Indiawide Parents’ Association. Many have also questioned the idea of reducing syllabus, especially for Class 10 and 12. Former chairman of state education board Vasant Kalpande, who was part of the committee put together by the state last year to reduce the syllabus by 25% across classes 1 to 12 under the MSBSHSE, said, “Last year the pandemic was new and everyone was unaware of how long it’ll last; hence it was necessary to reduce the portion to give teachers and students ample time to complete the required portion and at the same time, also adjust to online learning. Sadly, the education boards have not learnt from the previous year and are instead continuing with the same pattern this year as well, which could be detrimental to students.” In a statement released by the Central government last year it was announced that online classes cannot exceed more than three hours a day, especially for school children. This move came after parents and experts expressed concerns about the excess screen-time that children are exposed to on a daily basis. State board officials told HT that syllabus reduction is being encouraged to ensure the portion is covered within the given time at present.Experts now feel that the need of the hour is to focus on retention of information in students over the time spent studying various subjects. “Instead of focussing on how much of the syllabus can be completed in the time we have and the resources at hand, education boards should focus on learning outcomes. It is important to understand whether the syllabus that has been taught to students has been understood by them or not. Most boards are using innovative assessment methods now, and instead of reducing syllabus, schools should focus on ensuring better retention of information among their students,” added Kalpande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-25-reduction-in-syllabus-detrimental-to-students-say-educationists-101627841242646.html
02-08-2021||Pune||Pune to receive light rainfall in August, says IMD||After heavy rainfall in July, the first week of August may witness a decrease in rainfall activity as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to IMD, rainfall activity will reduce over Maharashtra in the first week of August. Only Konkan and Goa will receive rainfall, whereas Pune city and district may receive only light rainfall, said weather department officials.The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift north of its normal positionfrom August 1. However, its western part is very likely to remain to the south of its normal position and active during the next three to four days.“Reduced rainfall activity likely to continue over Peninsular India and adjoining eastCentral India, Maharashtra and Gujarat state till August 5,” said IMD officials.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune, said that Pune city is likely to receive light rainfall till August 5.“During this time, the weather in the city will continue to remain cloudy. Weather department has also forecasted isolated heavy rainfall in ghat regions,” said Kashyapi.In the beginning of July, rainfall in Pune city was deficient. However, after the revival of the monsoon in the last two weeks of July, the city is now reporting 17.5mm of excess rainfall.Normal rainfall is forecast at 328.4 mm, whereas actual rainfall received is 345.9 mm.On Sunday, Shivajinagar reported 1.4 mm rainfall and Pashan reported 2mm of rainfall. Lohegaon reported traces of rain.Between June 1 and August 1, Pune district has received 620.4 mm rainfall, as compared to the normal rainfall of 454.4 mm. Rainfall in the district so far has been 37 per cent in excess.“As per model predictions, Konkan and Goa will receive heavy rainfall at isolated areas till August 5. Whereas rainfall activity over Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada will be reduced. Isolated places may receive rainfall till August 5,” said Kashyapi.Between June 1 to August 1, Maharashtra state has reported 672.5 mm rainfall against the normal rainfall of 548 mm rainfall, which is 23 percent more than normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-to-receive-light-rainfall-in-august-imd-101627839502003.html
02-08-2021||Pune||Rural Pune admin keeps Covid at bay with 101 schools back to offline classes||The Pune rural administration has managed to keep the Covid-19 virus at bay during the first 15 days of schools reopening for Class 8 to Class 12. Of the 102 schools that have reopened, following state government directives, only one school has been closed again as two students were detected Covid positive.“The incident happened in Bhor taluka, however, Covid-19 was not detected in any other students and teachers. Still, as a precautionary measure the school is shut,” said Sunanda Wakhare, secondary school officer, Zilla Parishad.The other schools are going on smoothly, as regular RT-PCR tests are conducted and an eight- member committee is also keeping a close watch that Covid-19 protocols are followed strictly by students, teachers and non-teaching staff.“We are conducting regular temperature checks before children enter the school premises. Parents are also consulted regularly on taking all the precautionary measures,” said a health offical from Velhe taluka, on request of anonymity.“We are monitoring the situation before reopening any schools. In many villages there are still Covid positive patients, however, most of them are asymptomatic. Still as per directives we cannot open the schools,” added Wakhare.The government has only allowed schools to reopen in places where there are no Covid cases.There are still 109 Covid hotspots in the 13 talukas. It had come down to 88 in the second week of June. The scenario has kept Pune rural under level 4 restrictions and hotels and restaurants are not permitted to have dine-in customers.Students and teachers happyKisan Gore, a teacher at Tamini High School, said, “We are now able to focus more on children as we are regularly meeting them. Earlier we had a connection issue so we used to teach them in open spaces. It could not have been possible due to rains.”Atul Rakshe, a class 9 student, said, “Regular classes and a teacher explaining the subject on the black-board makes it easy to understand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rural-pune-admin-keeps-covid-at-bay-with-101-schools-back-to-offline-classes-101627837762023.html
02-08-2021||Pune||Pune dist’s Belsar village with first Zika case likely to be declared containment zone||A day after the state’s first confirmed case of the Zika virus was reported in Pune from Purandar tehsil, the administration has swung into action to ensure that the spread is contained. Along with the infected villages, seven more villages that fall within the five kilometre radius of the infected villages are being surveyed to ensure that every symptomatic patient is tested.The taluka administration is now contemplating a proposal to declare the village as a Zika-containment zone, to ensure that movement is restricted and that the spread is contained. The rural health administration which was already burdened with Covid19 restrictions in place, will now need to battle a new virus. Amar Mane, Block Development Officer of Purandar taluka said, “We have surveyed the villages and assigned 10 teams who have to survey 50 families each in the village, and in the nearby villages within a five-km radius of ground zero of Zika, which is Belsar village. We have seven villages which will also undergo the survey. We will soon send a proposal to get orders to declare Belsar a containment zone and stop the movement of outsiders into the village, which we hope to get by Monday. In this survey we will collect blood samples of those with fever or any flu-like symptoms. A team from NIV has also arrived in the village. We are requesting people to change water collected every week to ensure there is no growth of larvae. Belasar has 3,700 people living in it.” The confirmed case of Zika was that of a 50-year old woman when she was undergoing treatment at the local primary health centre, as the village was already reporting cases of dengue and chikungunya. Samples were sent to NIV on July 22. Mane said, “In the past one month we had multiple confirmed cases of chikungunya and dengue, however, no one reported any severe symptoms. As part of the ongoing survey we found this case. No one else in the family tested positive for Zika or any other ailment.” Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO, Ayush Prasad, said, “Zika is not as contagious as Covid-19 and there is no need to panic. The recovery rate of Zika is very high and the symptoms are mild. Only pregnant women are advised to be more cautious. As of now we have prepared 10 teams who would carry out a survey to look for symptomatic patients not just in that village, but also nearby villages. Due to the aggressive testing we could find this case and we are also providing mosquito nets door to door.”On Sunday, a total of 2,699 people were surveyed by 13 teams and 20 samples have been sent for further inspection including that of five with fever, five pregnant women and 10 high-risk individuals, mostly family members of the Zika confirmed case. The samples sent for inspection are from nearby villages which fall within the 5km radius of Belsar village. The survey would continue for two more days as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/village-with-first-zika-case-likely-to-be-declared-containment-zone-101627835061671.html
02-08-2021||Other||Puri first city in the country to supply clean drinking water 24x7||On Saturday morning, Odisha housing and urban development minister Pratap Jena filled a glass with water from one of the several water fountains installed on Grand Road leading to the Jagannath Temple before drinking it. As camera flashes went off and TV news reporters swarmed around, Jena also put his mouth close to the water source and drank from it to emphasise the state government’s latest announcement of Puri becoming the first Indian city where one can “drink straight from the tap”.While Jena exhorted everyone to drink from the taps, newspapers and TV channels in Odisha have been awash with government advertisements about the holy town becoming the first Indian city to have 24-hour safe drinking water facility like that in London and Singapore. The scheme, named Sujal, was first launched in October last year by chief minister Naveen Patnaik in a pilot mode with an aim to provide clean drinking water from taps to 1.5 million people in 15 towns of Odisha by March 2022. The deadline has now been revised to October 2023.“While other cities in India like Mumbai, Delhi or Chennai may be providing clean drinking water, it is surely not available for entire 24 hours. Our system is fully automated to correct any anomaly in the supply of clean drinking water through taps to all households in the city. The water from taps is now ready for consumption without any more filtration,” said Odisha housing and urban development secretary G Mathivathanan.In several neighbourhoods of Puri town, the reactions to the government claim have been a mix of incredulity and mild approval. Sabita Das, a 71-year-old woman in Puri’s Haragouri Sahi, one of the several people having 24-hour water supply lines, said the water now tastes different. “For several years, I have been drinking water from a water purifier. I somehow don’t like the taste of this water.”Sanjib Kumar Panda in Duttatota Sahi of Puri said the water was not of great quality, while Rashmita Mallick of Mangalahat area said the water quality is now good.Before the tap water scheme was made operational, people like Mallick and Panda in the seaside town received their drinking water from groundwater sucked up by massive pumps in the Baliapanda area. The water was lifted to overhead tanks and then chlorinated before being supplied to houses. Some drew water from their borewells or handpumps which they either boiled or filtered.Under the Sujal scheme, the government now draws water from the Bhargavi river flowing near the town. The water is then channelised to a reservoir and then sent to a treatment plant at Samang. There, it goes through several processes including chlorination before being sent through a network of pipes to 250,000 people. While the water demand of Puri town is about 32-34 million litres per day, the plant purifies 42 million litres.Experts say that to supply water that can be had straight from the tap anywhere in India, the water quality has to adhere to at least 30-odd parameters of IS 10500 of BIS. “If any parameter exceeds the limit, the water is considered unfit for human consumption...,” said Dr Bharat Sharma, senior researcher at New Delhi’s International Water Management Institute.PK Swain, managing director of Water Supply Corporation of Odisha, a government company looking after operation and maintenance of water supply in the state, said the water that is now being supplied conforms to ISO 10500 specifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/how-puri-became-the-first-indian-city-to-supply-clean-drinking-water-24-hours-a-day-101627829482818.html
02-08-2021||World||Covid-19: Pakistan announces curbs for major cities as country battles 'fourth wave'||National Command Operation Centre (NCOC), the body leading Pakistan's response to the coronavirus pandemic, on Sunday announced fresh restrictions for major cities across the country, which finds itself gripped by what has been described as its fourth wave of the pandemic. The restrictions, the NCOC said, will come into effect on Tuesday and will last till the end of the month.Also Read | Pakistan: Islamabad imposes smart lockdown in various sectors amid Covid surgeAddressing a press conference after a meeting of the NCOC, federal minister for planning, Asad Umar, who heads the body, said the federal government is taking "targeted and staggered" decisions to control the fourth wave, believed to be caused by the highly transmissible Delta variant.Also Read | ‘Sindh’s Covid-19 lockdown a correct decision but…’: Pak PM Imran Khan weighs in"Markets will now close at 8pm instead of 10pm. The 50% work from home policy, and 50% occupancy for public transport will also resume. Once again, there will be a ban on indoor dining, while outdoor dining is allowed till 10pm, with delivery and takeaway permitted," Umar announced. The fresh measures, he said, became necessary due to an increase in daily Covid-19 infections, as well as the positivity ratio.Also Read | Delta variant spread forces partial lockdown on Karachi, Pakistan's largest cityThe restrictions will be applicable in the country's two largest cities -- Karachi and Lahore -- national capital Islamabad, and other cities like Rawalpindi, Multan, Faisalabad, Peshawar, Hyderabad, Abbottabad etc.Also Read | Pakistan says Covid vaccination must for air travel; announces new restrictionsThe minister also urged employees working in the service sector, including transport workers, shopkeepers, banks, and those in any job that requires meeting a large number of people, to take their Covid-19 vaccine shots by August 31. This is also the date by which students above the age of 18 should get themselves vaccinated, Umar said.According to NCOC's data, Pakistan logged 4858 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, down from the previous spike of 5026 cases, which was the country's highest since April 29, when 5112 people tested positive.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pakistan-announces-curbs-for-major-cities-as-country-battles-fourth-wave-101627920731781.html
02-08-2021||World||Amid efforts to probe Covid origins, Republicans push report claiming lab leak||A preponderance of evidence proves the virus that caused the COVID-19 pandemic leaked from a Chinese research facility, said a report by US Republicans released on Monday, a conclusion that US intelligence agencies have not reached.The report also cited "ample evidence" that Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) scientists - aided by US experts and Chinese and US government funds - were working to modify coronaviruses to infect humans and such manipulation could be hidden.Representative Mike McCaul, the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the report by the panel's Republican staff. It urged a bipartisan investigation into the origins of the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic that has killed 4.4 million people worldwide. (Graphic on global cases and deaths) https://tmsnrt.rs/34pvUyiChina denies a genetically modified coronavirus leaked from the facility in Wuhan - where the first COVID-19 cases were detected in 2019 - a leading but unproven theory among some experts. Beijing also denies allegations of a cover-up.Other experts suspect the pandemic was caused by an animal virus likely transmitted to humans at a seafood market near the WIV."We now believe it's time to completely dismiss the wet market as the source," said the report. "We also believe the preponderance of the evidence proves the virus did leak from the WIV and that it did so sometime before September 12, 2019."The report cited what it called new and under-reported information about safety protocols at the lab, including a July 2019 request for a $1.5 million overhaul of a hazardous waste treatment system for the facility, which was less than two years old.In April, the top US intelligence agency said it concurred with the scientific consensus that the virus was not man-made or genetically modified.US President Joe Biden in May ordered US intelligence agencies to accelerate their hunt for the origins of the virus and report back in 90 days.A source familiar with current intelligence assessments said the US intelligence community has not reached any conclusion whether the virus came from animals or the WIV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-efforts-to-probe-covid-origins-republicans-push-report-claiming-lab-leak-101627909054855.html
02-08-2021||World||Central China flood toll jumps to 302||The death toll from torrential rains and floods in the central Chinese province of Henan has sharply jumped to 302, local officials said on Monday, adding that at least 50 more are missing.The worst hit was capital Zhengzhou where 292 people including 14 trapped in a flooded subway carriage died, officials added. The official death toll, according to state media, was 99 as of Friday.Hou Hong, the mayor of Zhengzhou, confirmed the death toll, telling reporters that 39 people were found dead in underground car parks.The state council, China’s cabinet, announced an investigation into the floods at a press conference in the provincial capital, Zhengzhou.Henan, a province with a population of around 109 million, was battered by the heaviest rainfall in decades in July, which triggered widespread floods, deaths and economic damage.“More than 13.91 million people in 150 county-level regions have been affected by the latest round of downpours since July 16… Over 1.1 million local residents have been relocated to safer places,” Xinhua news agency reported. The floods in Henan resulted in direct economic losses of 2.25 billion yuan (US$348 million) for China’s poultry and livestock industries after 248,000 pigs and 6.4 million chickens died.The floods, described as the worst in decades saw some 15,000 farms affected, while 45,000 sheep and other large livestock died, China’s agriculture and rural affairs ministry was quoted as saying by the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post.The jump in the death toll comes within days of Beijing coming down heavily on the coverage of the floods by foreign media, accusing the BBC, for one, of broadcasting “fake news” and saying the organisation was “naturally unpopular” over its flood reportage.The strong response came after the BBC called on Beijing to put a stop to the harassment of its journalists by nationalists who have accused foreign media of biased reporting.Journalists from foreign media outlets covering the floods were harassed online and by local residents, with staff from the BBC and Los Angeles Times receiving death threats, according to the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China (FCCC).“Rhetoric from organisations affiliated with China’s ruling Communist party directly endangers the physical safety of foreign journalists in China and hinders free reporting,” the FCCC said in reference to the coverage of the floods.“The FCCC is disappointed and dismayed at the growing hostility against foreign media in China, a sentiment underpinned by rising Chinese nationalism sometimes directly encouraged by Chinese officials and official entities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/central-china-flood-toll-jumps-to-302-101627905866856.html
02-08-2021||World||Indian student found dead on university campus in China||A 20-year-old Indian student was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his university room in the city of Tianjin, around 100km south of Beijing, last weekThe body of Aman Nagsen was found by the staff of Tianjin Foreign Studies University (TFSU) on Thursday.Aman Nagsen, who was enrolled for the International Business Studies course and was from Gaya in Bihar, had turned 20 in June.University authorities informed Nagsen’s family members about his death early on Friday.The cause of death is under investigation.Nagsen’s family last spoke to him on July 23 after which he did not respond to calls or messages and did not accept a money transfer via a mobile app.Last week, worried family members got in touch with Nagsen’s local guardian in Beijing who in turn got in touch with TFSU authorities, persuading them to look him up.That was when Nagsen’s body was found.“We were informed about the death of my nephew by the university at 1am in the intervening night of July 29th and 30th. After that we have not received any official communication,” the deceased’s uncle Pankaj Paswan said from Gaya.A distraught Paswan said the family has urgently requested the Indian government through the external affairs ministry to help in getting Nagsen’s body back in India. “We request both the Indian and Chinese governments to help in sending the body back to India,” he said.The 20-year-old was in good health and had no history of any major illness.Paswan added that a demonstration was organised by a group of students in Gaya to demand the quick return of Nagsen’s remains.The cause of Nagsen’s death wasn’t immediately clear though the fact that he didn’t communicate with his family for six days raises questions about the time of his demise and the circumstances leading to it.It was learnt that officials from the Indian embassy in Beijing are working on repatriating Nagsen’s remains to India and are in touch with authorities in Tianjin.An autopsy is likely to be conducted before the body is released to be taken back to India.The embassy had responded to a tweet by Bihar’s BJP chief, Sanjay Jaiswal, about the death of the student on July 30, saying it was in communication with Chinese authorities and the deceased’s family and was “providing all possible assistance”.The news of Nagsen’s death was being shared among social media groups involving Indians with links to China and many have requested the Indian embassy to urgently look into the matter.Nagsen was among the few Indian students to have remained in China following the Covid-19 outbreak here.The vast majority of around 23,000 Indian students studying here had returned to India by themselves or via evacuation flights in 2020.They have not been able to return to China because of the ban on the return of foreign students imposed by Beijing because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-student-found-dead-on-university-campus-in-china-101627892125848.html
02-08-2021||World||Afghanistan's situation will change in 6 months, says president Ashraf Ghani||Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani has said the violence-hit country's situation will see a change within the next six months as he emphasised that the security of cities is his government's priority. Addressing a virtual cabinet meeting, Ghani said on Sunday the Taliban has become "more cruel and more oppressive" in the last two decades."They have no wish for peace, for prosperity, or progress; we want peace but they want surrender (subdued people and government). They will not engage in meaningful negotiations unless the situation changes on the battlefield; therefore, we should have a clear stance. For this, there is a need for a countrywide mobilization," Ghani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Taliban, Afghan forces clash in Herat, govt sends reinforcementsGhani's comments came as Afghan forces fought and bombed Taliban fighters and positions on Sunday as the group mounted offensives in major cities across the country. The Taliban also attacked the airport in Kandahar, the second-largest city of Afghanistan and the former stronghold of the insurgents, with at least three rockets overnight with the group's spokesperson saying that the aim was to thwart airstrikes conducted by Afghan government forces."Kandahar airport was targeted by us because the enemy was using it as a centre to conduct airstrikes against us," Zabiullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesperson, told Reuters.Authorities suspended flights out of Kandahar after the rockets hit the runway partially damaging it. The flight operations were restored later.Also watch: Afghanistan forces destroy Taliban hideouts in Kandahar airstrikeTaliban fighters have also attacked at least two other provincial capitals, including nearby Lashkar Gah in Helmand and Herat in the province of the same name. The government has said that hundreds of Taliban terrorists have been killed by the Afghanistan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) across the country. At least 200 hundred Taliban terrorists were killed in an airstrike by a B-52 plane of the US air force in the Herat province.Afghanistan security forces have lead operations and counter-attacks against the Taliban in Ghazni, Kandahar, Farah, Jowzjan, Balkh, Samangan, Helmand, Takhar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Kabul and Kapisa provinces.Also read | Nearly 300 Taliban killed, hundreds injured in ops by Afghan forces in 48 hoursGhani's remarks also came on the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) said in a report that 1,677 civilians have been killed and 3,644 injured in the first six months of this year in 1,594 different security incidents. "Important to note that the total number of civilian casualties in the first six months of 2020 was 2,957, including 1,213 killed and 1,744 injured," AIHRC said in a report. "A comparison of the above mentioned figures shows that civilian casualties have increased by 80 per cent in the first six months of 2021 compared with the first six months of 2020," it added.The Taliban has captured dozens of districts, seized more land and taken control of key border crossings with neighbouring countries as US and Nato troops pull out of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistans-situation-will-change-in-6-months-says-president-ashraf-ghani-101627882698093.html
02-08-2021||World||India showcases grain power to start new role||India has begun its presidency of the UN Security Council with a generous dose of Indian grain power.T S Tirumurti, the Indian permanent representative (PR) to the UN was expected to organise on Monday a traditional breakfast that PRs of incoming presidencies host for counterparts from the rest of the 15 member nations.The menu comprises the usual fare for such breakfasts - crepes, some breads, juices, coffee and fruits. But some of Tirumurti’s guests would probably have had something already, something really Indian before heading out - oat clusters with multigrain flakes and Alphonso mango bits or crunchy millet granola bar or buttermilk millet crackers with caramelised onions, or just some Cajun trail mix in a gift hamper.“We did it to highlight the initiative taken by the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] to declare the year 2023 the International Year of Millets, which we had successfully spearheaded in the UN General Assembly a few months ago,” said Tirumurti, who spent months on the breakfast hamper, albeit with help from his wife Gowri Tirumurti and mission colleagues.The incoming presidency’s breakfast is a UN Security Council tradition. And Tirumurti was to host it at the Permanent Indian Mission, the Charles Correa-designed aesthetic wonder amid steel-and-glass Manhattan buildings.It will then be followed by India holding the first formal business of the day in the chair - a closed door UN Security Council consultation, which will be followed by a presidential statement that Tirumurti will deliver on Darfur.Later in the day, he will brief the rest of the UN general assembly members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-unleashes-grain-power-as-it-takes-over-unsc-presidency-101627879405006.html
02-08-2021||World||Florida breaks 2020's record of Covid-19 hospitalizations as cases surge||A day after it recorded the most new daily cases since the start of the pandemic, Florida on Sunday broke a previous record for current hospitalizations set more than a year ago before vaccines were available.The Sunshine State had 10,207 people hospitalized with confirmed Covid-19 cases, according to data reported to the US Department of Health & Human Services.The previous record was from July 23, 2020, more than a half-year before vaccinations started becoming widespread, when Florida had 10,170 hospitalizations, according to the Florida Hospital Association.Florida is now leading the nation in per capita hospitalizations for Covid-19, as hospitals around the state report having to put emergency room visitors in beds in hallways and others document a noticeable drop in the age of patients.In the past week, Florida has averaged 1,525 adult hospitalizations a day, and 35 daily pediatric hospitalizations. Both are the highest per capita rate in the nation, according to Jason Salemi, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of South Florida.The hospitalizations and increasing cases have come as the new, more transmittable delta variant has spread throughout Florida, and residents have returned to pre-pandemic activities.“The recent rise is both striking and not-at-all surprising,” Salemi said in an email late Saturday.Federal health data released Saturday showed that Florida reported 21,683 new cases of Covid-19, the state’s highest one-day total since the start of the pandemic. The latest numbers were recorded on Friday and released on Saturday on the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s website. The figures show how quickly the number of cases is rising in the Sunshine State: only a day earlier, Florida reported 17,093 new daily cases.Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has resisted mandatory mask mandates and vaccine requirements, and along with the state Legislature, has limited local officials’ ability to impose restrictions meant to stop the spread of Covid-19. DeSantis on Friday barred school districts from requiring students to wear masks when classes resume next month.Florida's Democratic agriculture commissioner, Nikki Fried, who is seeking to run against DeSantis for governor, on Sunday urged unvaccinated Floridians to get the shots. She said she was heartened by a recent uptick in vaccinations in the state.“We are already behind the curve and in a worse spot every time the numbers come out," Fried said at a news conference in Tallahassee. “This surge is and will impact every single one of us."Throughout Florida, from Jacksonville to Miami to Tampa, hospitals have become overwhelmed.Barry Burton, the Pinellas County administrator, told the Tampa Bay Times that some local hospitals are already having to divert ambulances to different locations because of capacity concerns.There has been a startling rise in the number of children with the virus at hospitals in Miami, many of them requiring intensive care.Memorial Health’s Joe DiMaggio Children’s Hospital in Hollywood had seven patients with Covid-19. At Nicklaus Children’s Hospital in Miami, there were 17 patients with Covid-19 on Friday, including six in the ICU and one who needed a ventilator, Dr. Marcos Mestre, vice president and chief medical officer, told the Miami Herald.About half of the patients were under 12, Mestre said, and the rest were older and eligible for the vaccine. But none of the patients with Covid-19 at Nicklaus Children’s on Friday were vaccinated. Most children who get Covid-19 do not need hospitalization, Mestre said.In the state capital, Covid-19 hospitalizations reached 70 patients on Sunday at Tallahassee Memorial HealthCare, a jump of 11 people in two days.“This is the most we’ve ever had,” Stephanie Derzypolski, a hospital spokeswoman, told the Tallahassee Democrat.The Mayo Clinic hospital in Jacksonville said it had exceeded its capacity of 304 licensed beds due to Covid-19 cases and asked the Agency for Health Care Administration for permission to operate overcapacity until the current surge ends, First Coast News in Jacksonville reported Sunday.At the UF Health North hospital emergency room in Jacksonville, Covid-19 patients once again were being put in beds in hallways due to a surge in visits.For many hospital workers, up until a month ago, it looked like there was light at the end of the tunnel, as people got vaccinated and hospitalizations decreased. But then the summer surge, powered by the new delta variant, hit Florida in July.“That light did turn out to be a train in this case,” Marsha Tittle, a nursing manager at UF Health North, told The Florida Times Union. “We’re taking more patients than we normally would take. ... My staff is wonderful. You walk out there, they’re going to have smiles on their faces and they’re doing a great job. But there’s a sense of defeat, like they’re just defeated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-breaks-2020-s-record-of-covid-19-hospitalizations-as-cases-surge-101627874958512.html
02-08-2021||World||Malaysian opposition MPs march to Parliament, demand PM Yassin's resignation||Malaysian opposition lawmakers marched toward the parliament building in Kuala Lumpur to demand Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin’s resignation on Monday, after officials postponed the day’s sitting indefinitely to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the house.With the main road cordoned off, opposition lawmakers began assembling by a field about a mile away before they walked to the building chanting “Step down, Muhyiddin” and “Muhyiddin is a coward.” Security was beefed up in the hours ahead of the gathering, with police in riot gear and increased roadblocks at the main entrances to the building.“We are gathered here to say that, in terms of the numbers of MPs, Muhyiddin’s government has fallen today,” opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim said. He said some parties had come up with a list requesting to leave the government line-up. “Hence, with the 107 here today, plus them, the government has collapsed.” Anwar later called for the gathering to disperse after police blocked them from entering the building.Malaysia’s parliament sat for the first time this year last week, but was suspended again shortly after the king on Thursday publicly rebuked a government minister for misleading the house on the status of emergency laws. Health-Director General on Sunday said the building was at high-risk of a spread in infections after the discovery of positive cases last week.The opposition, which has filed a motion of no-confidence against Muhyiddin, said the Covid risk is an “excuse” to adjourn Monday’s sitting. Health groups have said parliament can still function if virus protocols are followed.The five-day session that was initially scheduled to end today was meant to provide lawmakers a chance to grill Muhyiddin over his government’s handling of the pandemic. Public anger against him has risen as new Covid cases have more than tripled to a record since the emergency was imposed in January.Hundreds of protesters, largely dressed in black, gathered in the capital Kuala Lumpur on Saturday calling for the resignation of Muhyiddin, a full parliamentary session and an automatic loan moratorium for all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysian-opposition-mps-march-to-parliament-demand-pm-yassin-s-resignation-101627875408743.html
02-08-2021||World||Teen TikTok star Anthony Barajas shot in California movie theater dies||A young TikTok star who had been on life support after he and a friend were shot inside a Southern California movie theater has died, police and his family said Saturday.Anthony Barajas, 19, was watching “The Forever Purge” at a theater in Corona with Rylee Goodrich, 18, on Monday when they were each shot in the head. They were found by an employee after the last showing of the night.Goodrich died at the scene. Barajas was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was placed on life support.Barajas, known online as itsanthonymichael, had nearly a million followers on TikTok and more on other platforms.The suspect acted alone, and there’s no indication he knew the victims or that Barajas’ role as a TikTok influencer played a role in the crime, Corona police Cpl. Tobias Kouroubacalis told reporters last week.“It was completely unprovoked, and the victims were shot without any kind of prior contact,” Kouroubacalis said during a news conference Wednesday.Police were working with Riverside County prosecutors to add a second murder count against the suspected shooter, Joseph Jimenez.Jimenez, 20, appeared in Riverside County Superior Court on Friday after being charged with murder in the death of Goodrich and attempted murder of Barajas. But he didn’t enter a plea, and his arraignment was postponed.Prosecutors also had charged Jimenez with a special circumstance of lying in wait that makes him eligible for the death penalty if convicted as charged.Jimenez has been jailed since his arrest. It’s not clear whether he has retained an attorney who can speak for him.Barajas had been a high school honor student, the Riverside Press-Enterprise reported.“From his quick smile to his compassionate heart, Anthony’s presence was a gift to all who knew him,” his family said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/teen-tiktok-star-anthony-barajas-shot-in-california-movie-theater-dies-101627874939433.html
02-08-2021||World||Taliban, Afghan forces clash in Herat, govt sends reinforcements||Afghanistan has deployed hundreds of commandos to Herat as the ongoing clashes intensified in the western city between the Taliban and Afghan security forces. The Afghan ministry of defense said the members of the special force have been sent to Herat adjoining Iran on Sunday, a day after the Taliban advanced closer to the central parts of the city.Tolo News channel reported citing local officials that the clashes have also intensified in several villages in the western parts of Herat city and said the provincial governor's spokesperson Jailani Farhad said that around 100 Taliban have been killed in the attacks.“There are clashes in Pul-e-Malan on the battlefield and the Taliban were prevented from advancing. Sometimes troops move forward and then retreat but it does not mean that the lines were broken,” Abdul Saboor Qane, the provincial governor, said according to the channel.Also read | Nearly 300 Taliban killed, hundreds injured in ops by Afghan forces in 48 hours“The Taliban's war is a psychological war, and it wants to cause panic among the people. I urge the people of Herat not to lose their spirit," Colonel Mohammad Nasir Alizai, the commander of a commando unit from Zafar 207 Military Corps, was quoted as saying by Tolo News.Abdul Rahman Rahman, a senior deputy of the interior ministry, also visited Herat city on Sunday and said that a large-scale operation will be launched against the Taliban in Herat, according to Tolo News. “We have come with the security forces from Kabul and these forces have joined Herat forces. We will act as soon as possible to defend the Herat people,” Rahman was quoted as saying by the channel.The clashes have been going on in the western parts of Herat city and Guzara and Karokh districts for the last four days.Also read | Rockets hit Kandahar airport in southern AfghanistanTolo News reported that at least 20 people, including 16 security force members, were killed and 90 others were injured in the past four days of fighting in Herat, citing data from the area's regional hospital. Local officials told the channel that hundreds of families have been displaced in the southern parts of Herat city due to the ongoing clashes. “The Taliban has suffered heavy casualties during the clashes,” local officials told the channel.Afghanistan has seen a surge in violence since early May when US-led foreign forces began a final withdrawal and the Taliban has begun assaulting provincial capitals, including Lashkar Gah, Kandahar and Herat, after the group seizes rural territories and captured key border crossings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-afghan-forces-clash-in-herat-govt-sends-reinforcements-101627873254311.html
02-08-2021||World||Nearly 300 Taliban killed, hundreds injured in ops by Afghan forces in 48 hours||As the Taliban and mounted an offensive amid the withdrawal of foreign troops from war-torn Afghanistan, as many as nearly 300 members of the group have been killed and hundreds of others wounded in operations by the country's security forces in different provinces since Saturday, said the ministry of defense has said. "254 Taliban terrorists were killed and 97 wounded as a result of ANDSF (Afghanistan National Defence and Security Forces) operations in Ghazni, Kandahar, Herat, Farah, Jowzjan, Balkh, Samangan, Helmand, Takhar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Kabul & Kapisa provinces during the last 24 hours. Also, 13 IEDs were discovered & defused by #ANA," the ministry of defense tweeted on Sunday.The ministry of defense also said that 12 Taliban terrorists, including four Pakistanis, were killed and 9 others were wounded in an operation conducted by ANDSF in the Barmal district of Paktika province on Saturday night. Another 11 terrorists were killed in the Panjwae district and on the outskirts of the Kandahar provincial centre, it said in another tweet.Also watch: Afghanistan forces destroy Taliban hideouts in Kandahar airstrikeAlso read | Pak says it wields ‘modest leverage’ on Taliban; refuses to take in refugeesThere has been a surge in violence in Afghanistan as the Taliban have intensified their offensive against Afghan security forces and civilians and have captured several districts. The Afghan foreign ministry has said that the Taliban has seized over 193 district centres and 19 border districts. The Taliban has also taken control of 10 border crossing points in Takhar, Kunduz, Badakhshan, Herat and Farah provinces which has lead to the complete shutdown of cross border movements and trade in these areas.Also read | China sees both an opportunity and a threat in AfghanistanNearly 4,000 ANDSF personnel have been killed, more than 7,000 injured and about 1,600 captured by the Taliban since April 14, the ministry said. As many as 2,000 civilians, including women and children, were killed in the violence, while 2,200 were injured, it added.Tolo News channel has reported that 70 districts fell to the Taliban in July. The government said that 11 districts have been recaptured from the Taliban in July, however, Yaftal in Badakhshan, Chakhansur in Nimroz, Malistan in Ghazni, Garmsir in Helmand and Guzara in Herat have been taken back by the Taliban.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-300-taliban-killed-hundreds-injured-in-ops-by-afghan-forces-in-48-hours-101627868560894.html
02-08-2021||World||Pakistan: Islamabad imposes smart lockdown in various sectors amid Covid surge||Pakistan on Sunday imposed a smart lockdown in various sectors of the capital due to a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.According to a notification issued by the Islamabad district magistrate, the movement of residents will be restricted in 27 streets in different sectors with a high Covid-19 positivity ratio, reported Dawn.Exemptions to the order include essential services and supplies like pharmacy and medicine shops, grocery store and bakeries, patients for medical aid/medical consultation, rationing, drinking water supplies, utilities and emergencies."The citizens are requested to make prior arrangements for their convenience including ration, medicines and reschedule their engagements/office work before the onset of lockdown/sealing date and time," read the notification.This comes after Sindh province imposed a partial lockdown from Saturday till August 8 as the Covid-19 cases are surging.Meanwhile, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday slammed the partial Covid-19 lockdown imposed by the provincial government in Sindh as it went against the wishes of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI)-led government.While speaking during a question-and-answer session, Khan addressed the Sindh's decision to impose a partial lockdown to curb rising Covid-19 cases, saying it hadn't taken into consideration the hardships of the poor, Dawn newspaper reported."We had a small problem between the federal government and Sindh," Khan said. "Sindh government wanted to impose a lockdown, which is the correct decision and will curb the spread of virus."Pakistan continues to record a spike in Covid-19 cases as the country total number of confirmed cases has risen to 1,029,811, while the positivity rate of the virus was recorded at 8.46 per cent, according to the National Command and Operation Center (NCOC).Meanwhile, the number of active coronavirus cases in the country surpassed the 60,000 mark. On Friday, the Covid-19 positivity rate in the country was recorded at 7.79 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-islamabad-imposes-smart-lockdown-in-various-sectors-amid-covid-surge-101627862902388.html
02-08-2021||India||Babul Supriyo has second thoughts after meeting JP Nadda, says will stay MP||KOLKATA: Former Union minister Babul Supriyo, who announced his decision to quit politics and Lok Sabha over the weekend, said in Delhi on Monday evening that he had reviewed his decision announced on Facebook on July 31 and decided to stay in Parliament.“I have a constitutional responsibility,” said the 50-year-old Bollywood singer-turned-politician after meeting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda in national capital Delhi.Supriyo did not elaborate on his conversation with Nadda but said he remains firm on his decision to quit politics.“It is my personal decision and I am not going to change it. I may move either to Kolkata or Mumbai. I will not engage in any political activity,” said the two-time MP from Asansol in Bengal’s West Burdwan district.“People of Asansol have asked me to stay as their MP,” he said. He said he will give up his security cover, the bungalow in Delhi and other facilities he is entitled to as a Lok Sabha member. “You may soon see me earning my living through other means, singing for example,” Supriyo told the media in a lighter mood. He refused to say why he decided to quit politics.Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said Babul Supriyo’s decision to continue in Parliament is entirely his. “There is no ground to believe that Nadda or any other central leader have put pressure on him.”Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders earlier insisted that Supriyo’s Facebook posts reflect his immaturity in politics. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh even dubbed it as “a drama”. On Monday, senior TMC legislator Tapas Roy said, “Babul has once again shown his immaturity.” Supriyo, a former minister of state for environment, forest and climate change, resigned from the Union council of ministers before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent reshuffle of his team, and wrote an emotional post on social media, saying he was “asked to resign.” This led to some friction with Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. On Saturday, Supriyo made the surprise announcement about his exit from politics. “I’m leaving...Alvida (farewell)...If you want to do social work, you can do it without being in politics...” Supriyo wrote on Facebook.He unsuccessfully contested the Tollygunge seat in south Kolkata in the March-April assembly polls. He lost by around 50,000 votes, which came as a blow to the Bengal BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-has-second-thoughts-after-meeting-jp-nadda-says-will-stay-mp-101627926447994.html
02-08-2021||India||India, Bangladesh resume freight train operation via Haldibari-Chilahati route||India and Bangladesh resumed the operation of freight trains through the restored Haldibari-Chilahati route on Sunday in a significant step aimed at boosting railway connectivity between the two countries.The rail link was reopened by the Prime Ministers of India and Bangladesh on December 17, last year, for the movement of passenger and freight trains. On Sunday, the Indian Railways ran the first freight train laden with stones from Damdim railway station under Northeast Frontier Railway's jurisdiction for Bangladesh. Situated 12km away from Bangladesh's Chilahati, the railway station in Haldibari is located 4.5km from the international border, also known as ‘zero point’. Indian Railways officials said five links connecting India with Bangladesh have been made operational, including between Petrapole (India) and Benapole (Bangladesh), Gede (India) and Darshana (Bangladesh), Singhabad (India) and Rohanpur (Bangladesh), Radhikapur (India) and Birol (Bangladesh) apart from Haldibari and Chilahati.The Haldibari-Chilahati rail link between India and Bangladesh (the then East Pakistan) was operational till 1965. This was part of the Broad Gauge main route from Kolkata to Siliguri during the Partition. Trains travelling to Assam and North Bengal continued to travel through the territory even after the Partition. However, the war of 1965 effectively cut off all the railway links between India and the then East Pakistan.Around 20 freight trains are expected to be interchanged through the rail link every month. The link is intended to improve freight and passenger connections between Bangladesh and Assam and West Bengal, and will aid the growth of trade and economic development in the region.A passenger train service, New Jalpaiguri-Dhaka-New Jalpaiguri Mitali Express was announced by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Dhaka March 27, 2021, but the service could not be resumed owing to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-freight-train-operation-haldibari-chilahati-rail-route-101627923929877.html
02-08-2021||India||Calcutta HC grants bail to Adhikari’s aide, shields him from arrest in job scam case||The Calcutta high court on Monday granted bail to an aide of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari in an alleged job scam for which he had been arrested twice. The court also shielded him from arrest in any case in any part of West Bengal. On June 7, the Kolkata Police arrested Rakhal Bera, an old associate of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal legislative assembly, in a job scam case in East Midnapore district, the home turf of the Adhikari family. Four cases were registered against Bera at the district’s Contai police station in June, while a fifth one was filed at the Manicktala police station in Kolkata on July 1, the court said. Bera filed a writ petition seeking bail and a stay on the investigation. “As already averred in WPA 10778 of 2021 it is reiterated that the petitioner is being punished by the ruling dispensation for changing political affiliation and for being close to the present leader of the Opposition by causing to foist false cases against him,” the order said, referring to a case number and arguments put forth by the petitioner. “There appears to be a pattern being followed by police in coordination with one another in attempting to keep the petitioner in custody by hook or crook on one pretext or the other and by registering one FIR after the other,” Justice Rajasekhar Mantha said in his written order on Monday. HT has seen a copy of the order. In the job scam case, Bera, a businessman based in East Midnapore, was held for allegedly taking ₹2 lakh from a man in 2018-19 by promising a job in the irrigation department that Adhikari headed at that time. Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year. After Bera’s arrest, his lawyers told the media that he became a victim of “political vendetta” because of his proximity to Adhikari. In the order passed on Monday, Justice Mantha said, “Considering the repeated attempts by persons to lodge one complaint after the other against the petitioner and in a planned and systematic manner and the repeated arrest after bail in one case or the other, this court is persuaded to grant interim relief to the petitioner.” “Normally a prayer for liberty from custody pending criminal proceedings is required to be made under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. However, looking at the successive cases against him and the repeated arrests of the petitioner, provisions of Article 21 of the Constitution of India are clearly attracted and a Writ Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot be a silent spectator. A Writ Court is required to intervene even at a suggestion of any plan or attempt to take away the liberty of a person, with ulterior motive or for doubtful reason. Such cases call for judicial scrutiny,” said the order. Stating that the petitioner will co-operate with the police in all the investigations, the order said, “The state is once again directed to submit a list of all cases pending against the petitioner anywhere in the state. This Court is also inclined to direct that all police stations in the state may register any FIR against the petitioner but he shall not be arrested without the express leave of this Court.” The judge asked the government to file its affidavit within four weeks. Adhikari was not available for comment. However, BJP state vice-president Ritesh Tiwari welcomed the court order. “Rakhal Bera was arrested only because he was close to @SuvenduWB. That was his only fault. He became a victim of vindictive politics by @AITCofficial. Calcutta High Court’s verdict today gave a big blow to @MamataOfficial’s dirty politics,” tweeted Tiwari. TMC leaders did not want to comment on the order saying the matter was subjudice. Another bench of the high court on Monday offered relief to Adhikari by dismissing a proposed meeting of the board of directors of the Contai Co-operative Bank Ltd on Tuesday. The TMC is trying to remove Adhikari from the post of chairman of the board alleging financial and administrative irregularities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-grants-bail-to-adhikari-s-aide-shields-him-from-arrest-in-job-scam-case-101627926328911.html
02-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena workers allegedly vandalise Adani airports branding at Mumbai airport||The labour wing of Shiv Sena Bharatiya Kamgar Sena on Monday allegedly vandalised the brand logo of Adani Group near the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. The Kamgar Sena workers allegedly removed the signboard bearing the name of Adani.An official also said that the agitating workers also briefly held up traffic movement in Mumbai’s arterial north-south road as they gathered on the nearby Western Express Highway. The Adani Airports Holding Limited, however, clarified that no changes were made to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport’s branding or positioning at the terminal.“In light of the incidents around Adani Airports branding at the Mumbai International Airport, we firmly assure that Adani Airports Holding Limited (AAHL) has merely replaced the previous branding with Adani Airports branding and that no change has been made to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport’s branding or positioning at the terminal. The branding at CSMIA is in compliance with the norms and guidelines of Airport Authority of India (AAI). AAHL will continue to adhere to all the guidelines laid out by the government in the interest of the aviation community at large,” an AAHL spokesperson said.The issue regarding branding in the airports run by the Adani Group surfaced in January when the Airport Authority of India (AAI) flagged that the Adani group was in violation of branding norms at the airports in Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow. Three committees headed by the AAI found that Adani Group was violating the branding guidelines.Adani Group after receiving the report started making changes which were seen in the Lucknow, Manglauru and Ahmedabad airports, according to the AAI. The committee last year found that Adani Group wrote ‘Adani Airports’ on both sides of Lucknow International Airport hoardings, which is in violation of the concession agreement. “The committee also found that the name and logo of the AAI was not equally and prominently displayed in other displays where the concessionaire intends to display its own name, which was again in violation of the Article 5.15.2 of the concession agreement,” the AAI said. It also found similar violations in Ahmedabad and Mangaluru.The Adani Group in July took over the management of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport from the GVK group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-workers-allegedly-vandalise-adani-airports-branding-at-mumbai-airport-101627923230614.html
02-08-2021||India||Former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar wins Bengal Rajya Sabha seat unopposed||Former chief executive officer of Prasar Bharati, Jawhar Sircar, on Monday won the vacant Rajya Sabha seat from Bengal without any contest. Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee gave Sircar the certificate in the afternoon. There was no election as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the only opposition party in the state with 75 legislators against 213 of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), did not field any candidate. Rajya Sabha members are elected by legislators. The seat was left vacant after TMC lawmaker Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP before the West Bengal assembly elections held in March and April. On July 24, the TMC nominated Sircar to the Upper House of Parliament. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service and is known as a vocal critic of the BJP government at the Centre. “The entire process was a surprise for me. Till a week ago, I was only a retired bureaucrat. This has given me an opportunity to express my views,” Sircar told HT on Monday evening. After joining the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in 1975, Sircar made a name for himself as an officer of the West Bengal cadre. He served in various posts, including that of the chief electoral officer. Sircar left Bengal to join the Union ministry of culture as the secretary, a post he served till 2012. He later became the CEO of India’s public broadcaster, Prasar Bharati, where he served till 2016. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Sircar has been rewarded by the TMC for his mindless opposition to all policies of the BJP government. He has done nothing else in recent years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-prasar-bharati-ceo-jawhar-sircar-wins-bengal-rajya-sabha-seat-unopposed-101627921467413.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata dribbles football at 'Khela hobe' programme launch and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata Banerjee dribbles football at ‘Khela hobe’ programme launch in KolkataWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was seen dribbling a football at the Netaji Indoor Stadium in Kolkata on the occasion of launching “Khela Hobe Divas” on Monday. Read more.India, China agree to speedy resolution of Ladakh border rowTop Indian and Chinese commanders agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the 12th round of military talks held in the Ladakh sector last week, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border, said a joint statement issued on Saturday. Read more.To pave way for talks, Assam, Mizoram go easy on police cases filed after clashesIn further display of easing of tension between the two states, Assam and Mizoram on Monday decided to go easy on the police cases lodged after last week’s border clash that claimed the lives of six policemen. Read more.Uttarakhand has sent back at least 15K Kanwariyas in a week, say policeIn the first week since the Kanwar Yatra period began on July 25, Uttarakhand sent over 15,500 Kanwariyas back from its border in Haridwar. Read more.Lok Sabha clears insurance divestment BillLok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill to amend the country’s general-insurance law and allow the government to offload its stake in state-run insurance corporations, clearing its first hurdle without discussion as Parliament continued to witness pandemonium. Read more.Mayank Agarwal ruled out of first Test against England due to concussion after being hit on the head during net sessionIndia's opening batsman Mayank Agarwal was ruled out of the first Test match against England, starting at Trent Bridge from August 4, after being hit on the head while batting in the nets. Read more.Geeta Basra says she suffered two miscarriages before son Jovan’s birth: ‘Last two years have been traumatic’Geeta Basra, who welcomed son Jovan last month, revealed that she suffered two miscarriages in the last two years - one in 2019 and the other, last year. The first time, her husband Harbhajan Singh flew down from Punjab to be by her side, while during her second miscarriage, they were together due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more.Soha Ali Khan rocks one of the hottest fashion trends in ₹10k boho chic topFree and flowy fabrics with fun and funky prints and a touch of fringe are here to form one of the hottest summer trend, that is boho fashion and Soha Ali Khan rocked the same on a recent get-together with friends. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-dribbles-football-at-khela-hobe-programme-launch-101627916481963.html
02-08-2021||India||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee aims at Tripura in 2023, searches for ally in Oppn camp||AGARTALA: The Trinamool Congress has its sights on the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled Tripura and intends to come to power in 2023 when the state votes the next government, party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said in state capital Agartala on Monday.“Our target is to end the misrule of the BJP government and form our government in the state in the next one-and-a-half years,” Banerjee said during a quick visit to the state to capitalise on the controversy over the alleged detention of 23 members of the political consultancy firm founded by Prashant Kishor, Indian-Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC).Banerjee promised that the TMC will not parachute leaders from Bengal to assume a leadership role if the party comes to power and offered to work with other opposition parties as well.“Tripura will only rule Tripura and not Bengal,” he said as he appealed to non-BJP political parties including the Left, Congress or others, to join them in their fight against BJP. “Any political party willing to fight against BJP are welcome to join hands with us and we will fight united,” he said.To be sure, the TMC didn’t have much success in Tripura in 2018 when a coalition of the BJP and Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) dethroned the Manik Sarkar-led Communist Party of India’s (CPI) after 25 years in power.The BJP’s had a vote share was 43.4%, a shade better than the CPI’s 43.2% but the BJP won a disproportionately higher number of seats; 35 as against the CPI’s 16.In the same election, Mamata Banerjee’s party fielded 24 candidates for the 60-seat assembly in 2018 who, put together, got less than 7,000 votes; a vote share of 0.3%. The BJP’s spectacular performance in 2018, however, appears to hold out hope for the TMC, particularly since the BJP had secured a vote share of less than 1.5% after contesting on 50 seats in 2013.Banerjee claimed that many Tripura legislators were in contact with the TMC leadership in Kolkata, but his party didn’t want to disrupt the government by breaking away their legislators.Banerjee, who faced protests by BJP supporters during his visit, alleged that his car was also attacked when he was travelling towards Tripurasundari temple in Udaipur, nearly 55 kilometres from Agartala. “Democracy in Tripura under @BJP4India rule!Well done @BjpBiplab for taking the state to new heights,” Banerjee said in a post as he tweeted a video where people are seen holding BJP flags and hitting his car with sticks. The TMC leader, who is seen as the number two in the party led by his aunt, demanded the chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb resignation.The BJP rebutted allegations that Banerjee’s car was attacked, saying its political activists didn’t attack anyone.“Our activists didn’t attack anyone. Their anti-violence protests were in a democratic manner,” said BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya.The TMC has been looking at gaining a foothold in Tripura for some time. It was in this context that about two dozen I-PAC members came for a survey to assess the TMC’s potential in the state. But the quiet exercise turned controversial after they were initially not allowed to move out of their hotel, and later booked for violating Covid-19 guidelines.Soon after, the TMC initially deputed West Bengal education minister Bratya Basu, law minister Moloy Ghatak, MPs Derek O’Brien, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and TMC leader Ritobroto Banerjee to visit the state.“If they can stop us, let them try. Days of their hooliganism are over. We will fight till our last drop of blood,” Banerjee said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-aims-at-tripura-in-2023-searches-for-ally-in-oppn-camp-101627914806892.html
02-08-2021||India||India, China agree to speedy resolution of Ladakh border row||Top Indian and Chinese commanders agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the 12th round of military talks held in the Ladakh sector last week, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border, said a joint statement issued on Saturday. The corps commander-ranked officers met on Saturday in the latest attempt to reduce border tensions between the two countries, amid hopes in some quarters of reaching an understanding on the disengagement of rival soldiers from Hot Springs and Gogra. “Some progress was made during the talks, and we are inching towards working out a disengagement plan for Hot Springs and Gogra. We are looking forward to positive outcomes in future talks,” said a senior officer, asking not to be identified. The 12th round of military talks took place at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, and went on for nine hours. The joint statement described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.” “The two sides noted that this round of meeting was constructive, which further enhanced mutual understanding. They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations,” the statement said. The latest round of talks was held following the meeting of the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers on July 14, in Dushanbe, and the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) on June 25. India and China have been locked in a border row for almost 15 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year. “The two sides also agreed that in the interim they will continue their effective efforts in ensuring stability along the LAC in the Western Sector and jointly maintain peace and tranquility,” the joint statement added. Expectations of an early breakthrough are not very realistic, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “Coming after more than three months, it is good to see that the military commanders are meeting to exchange views. However, the differences between the two sides on the process and terms of disengagement are not going to be quickly reconciled. This will require extensive discussions, not only at the military but also at the diplomatic level,” Hooda added. The corps commander-ranked officers last met on April 9 for the 11th round of talks. At the time, the Indian Army told the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict. The two armies kicked off talks to cool border tensions in June 2020. But the first major breakthrough came only after the 9th round of talks earlier this year. The talks led to the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February. Problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang are yet to be resolved, as previously reported by HT. Deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement from Pangong Tso --- both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops and restore the status quo ante of April 2020 has hit disengagement. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra due to the Chinese deployments. The PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. The problems at Depsang, however, predate the current border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-speedy-resolution-of-ladakh-border-row-101627914446989.html
02-08-2021||India||To pave way for talks, Assam, Mizoram go easy on police cases filed after clashes||In further display of easing of tension between the two states, Assam and Mizoram on Monday decided to go easy on the police cases lodged after last week’s border clash that claimed the lives of six policemen. Assam decided to withdraw the police case registered against Rajya Sabha MP from Mizoram, K Vanlalvena, for his alleged involvement in a conspiracy leading to the July 26 clashes. But, the cases of murder, criminal trespass and other charges against Mizoram officials won’t be withdrawn. Mizoram, on the other hand, said they would not proceed against Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six other officials from the state against whom attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy charges had been lodged. “I have noted statements from CM Zoramthanga wherein he has expressed his desire to settle the border dispute amicably. Assam always wants to keep the spirit of North East alive. We are also committed to ensure peace along our borders,” Sarma tweeted in the wee hours of Monday. “To take this goodwill gesture ahead, I have directed Assam Police to withdraw the FIR against K Vanlalvena, MP, Rajya Sabha, from Mizoram. However, cases against other accused officers will be pursued,” he added. Assam Police had lodged a case against Vanlalvena after he said in a TV interview that if Assam policemen enter Mizoram again “all will be killed”. A police team had visited his residence in Delhi and directed him to appear at the Dholai police station in Cachar district of Assam to record his statement. “In order to build a conducive atmosphere for an amicable solution to the Mizoram, Assam border dispute and to reduce the plight of suffering citizens, I have directed Mizoram Police to withdraw the FIR dated July 26 filed at Vairengte, Kolasib district, Mizoram against all the accused,” Mizoram CM Zoramthanga tweeted on Monday evening. On Sunday, Kolasib superintendent of police Vanlalfaka Ralte said that the police will not proceed with the case against the Assam chief minister. “The case is not withdrawn, but we are not going to investigate the matter against Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma in order to have a peaceful atmosphere,” Ralte said. The development came after chief ministers of both states agreed on Sunday to defuse tension along the border and settle the border dispute through talks. Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972, when it became a Union Territory. It became a state in 1987. The territorial dispute has festered since then and fuelled sporadic clashes, the latest of which rocked the region in August 2020 and February 2021. The dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception. Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a 1933 demarcation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-pave-way-for-talks-assam-mizoram-go-easy-on-police-cases-filed-after-clashes-101627911927059.html
02-08-2021||India||Rotavac 5D: Bharat Biotech's rotavirus vaccine receives 'Prequalification' from WHO||Bharat Biotech International Limited announced on Monday that Rotavac 5D, a variant of its Rotavac vaccine, has received “Prequalification” from the World Health Organization (WHO). Rotavac is used to prevent rotavirus, which causes severe diarrhea and vomiting, and is mostly found in babies and children.Also Read: Covaxin effective against Delta Plus variant, says ICMR study“Today’s announcement is an important step to further strengthen and fulfil Bharat Biotech’s vision to address neglected diseases, and prevent infections that continue to affect millions in the developing world,” a statement from Suchitra Ella, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm’s Joint Managing Director, said.WHO’s website describes “prequalification” as a “systematic process to determine a manufacturer’s capacity to produce a product of consistent quality in accordance with international standards and specifications laid out by WHO/United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).” The purpose, it says, is to ensure procurement and distribution of good quality products.Once “prequalified,” vaccines can be procured by organisations such as the United Nations Childrens’ Emergency Fund (UNICEF) and Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO).Rotavac 5D, which was rolled out in December 2019, has a “unique” vaccine formulation that can be administered without a “buffer,” Bharat Biotech’s statement noted. With a low dosage volume of 0.5 ml, the shot is easier to be stored, and further facilitates easy cold chain management and low biomedical waste disposal after vaccination, the statement noted further.Bharat Biotech developed Rotavac, a first-generation vaccine, in a partnership with the Government of India’s Department of Biotechnology. 16 other international partners were also involved in the project. In March 2016, India became the first country in Asia to launch an anti-rotavirus vaccine, doing so under the Universal Immunisation Program (UIP).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rotavac-5d-bharat-biotech-s-rotavirus-vaccine-receives-prequalification-from-who-101627909050025.html
02-08-2021||India||SC directs parashooter Sharma to be considered for Tokyo Paralympics||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) to recommend the name of award-winning paralympic shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma for the Tokyo Paralympics as the deadline for sending names to the International Paralympic Committee ended today. A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court passed the order realising the urgency of the situation and said, “For the time being, we direct PCI (respondent 1) to immediately recommend the name of petitioner (Sharma) as an additional participant/additional entry for the 50 metres (SH-1)R-7 event without any exception and report compliance by tomorrow.” Later in the day, PCI issued a statement saying, “The selection criteria and process is totally at the discretion of International Paralympic Committee and PCI has no active role to play in it apart from conducting selection as per the guidelines….But PCI still bows down to the order of the Supreme Court and will further recommend Naresh Kumar’s name once again for the selection in the desired event to the International Paralympic Committee.”The PCI statement further said that Sharma had failed the selection criteria. Those selected qualified with much better scores than Sharma who failed to win any quota for the country in the last four years, the statement said. At Sharma’s request, the PCI claimed that his name was recommended for selection but the same was turned down by the International Paralympic Committee. Sharma, an Arjuna awardee, was not included for the Tokyo Paralympics that is to begin on August 24. As the last date for sending the names was August 2, he approached the Supreme Court for an urgent intervention. According to him, the PCI had recommended the name of just one shooter, Deepak, under the R-7 event when there is provision for sending three names for each event. Appearing for Sharma, senior advocate Vikas Singh mentioned the petition on Monday morning before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana. The matter was listed before the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari. Singh said the parashooter had approached the Delhi high court in July this year to challenge the decision of PCI to drop his name from the list. Further, Singh argued that the selection criterion adopted by PCI was criticised by the Delhi high court in its July 27 judgment. The HC held, “There is certainly something to be said about the manner in which respondent (PCI) has conducted itself, which is quite unbecoming of a public sporting body entrusted with the important task of selecting athletes to represent the nation at Paralympic games and other international Paralympic athletic meets, as also for managing Indian Paralympic teams at such events.” Although HC said that Sharma fulfilled the existing criteria, it did not pass an order including him in the list noting that “the shooting team has already been placed in a bubble”. The HC, however, directed the Centre to examine if there was foul play behind dropping Sharma, and if so, ordered appropriate action to be taken against PCI. This order was challenged by Sharma before a division bench of the HC which issued notice to PCI and other respondents and fixed it for hearing on August 6. The Supreme Court bench directed the matter to be listed on Tuesday and asked Singh to serve a copy of the petition on the PCI and other respondents including Sports Authority of India and the selected shooter Deepak whose name already figures on the list forwarded by PCI. The absence of PCI left the top court with no option but to pass interim orders. The court had specific queries on whether Sharma can be placed in the bubble at this stage and whether there was any cut-off for placing athletes within the bubble. Before the HC, Sharma had said that PCI had factored in the scores obtained by the other shooter at Novi Sad 2021 World Shooting Para Sport Grand Prix which is not a recognised event for purposes of tabulation either by PCI or the International Paralympic Committee. However, PCI submitted in the HC that pandemic resulted in cancellation of most international shooting competitions that forced them to change standards for selecting players. Further, it had stated that Deepak’s performance at 2021 Lima World Cup had helped India clinch the quota for the Tokyo Paralympics. He was thus entitled to all benefits therefrom, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-parashooter-sharma-to-be-considered-for-tokyo-paralympics-101627909527212.html
02-08-2021||India||India, China hold military commander-level meeting aimed at LAC disengagement||India and China held the 12th round of corps commander-level on Monday at the Chushul-Moldo border in Ladakh.The talks between the senior military commanders of the two neighbouring countries come close on the heels of the meeting between the foreign ministers of India and China at Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe last month.During the meeting, on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers' meeting on July 14, India's external affairs minister S Jaishankar made it clear to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the normalised bilateral ties with Beijing is possible after disengagement of Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) troops from Indian territories in eastern Ladakh.Jaishankar urged China to complete the disengagement process and resolve all outstanding border issues along the 1,597km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Monday's meeting between the commanders of India and China saw an in-depth exchange of views on the resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the LAC in the western sector of the border areas."The two sides noted that this round of meeting was constructive, which further enhanced mutual understanding. They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations," according to a joint statement released by the two countries after the meeting.The last commander-level meeting India and China took place on April 9, where the two sides highlighted that the completion of disengagement in other areas along the LAC would pave the way for the two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations.The meeting also focussed on outstanding problems between the Indian Army and the PLA at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang areas along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-holds-corps-commander-level-meeting-aimed-at-lac-disengagement-101627908503911.html
02-08-2021||India||PM Modi launches e-Rupi digital payment system||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the e-Rupi mode of digital payment system on Monday via video conferencing. Developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) in collaboration with the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the department of finance, e-Rupi is a digital payments platform.It is a person-and-purpose-specific digital payment solution. “If any person or any organisation wants to donate money, e-Rupi will ensure that the amount of money donated is being used for that purpose itself. It ensures that the objective with which money has been donated is being used to fulfil that objective,” the Prime Minister said.PM Modi said that e-Rupi will help in boosting digital payments and Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in the country. He also expressed his happiness that the system was launched weeks before India celebrates its 75th anniversary of independence.e-Rupi is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment. It is a QR code or a SMS-string based e-voucher which is delivered directly to the phone of the beneficiary. A statement said that the beneficiary will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access at the service provider. The mechanism connects services with the beneficiaries and service providers in a digital manner without any physical interaction.The Prime Minister’s Office said that e-Rupi can be used to deliver welfare services in a leak-proof manner. The PMO also said that private sector companies can also leverage e-Rupi vouchers as a part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-e-rupi-digital-payment-system-101627908575571.html
02-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson says talks with India on Covid vaccine Janssen still going on||Days after India's drugs regulator announced that Johnson & Johnson has pulled out its proposal seeking accelerated approval of its Covid-19 vaccine, the company said that the talks are still on.“Johnson & Johnson remains committed to bringing its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India. Since the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently directed that there is no longer a requirement to conduct bridging clinical studies of Covid-19 vaccines in India, Johnson & Johnson withdrew its application to conduct these studies. We look forward to ongoing discussions with the Government of India and will continue to explore how to accelerate availability of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India," an official statement from the American pharmaceutical firm read.Without giving any details, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation's (CDSCO) had said in a note that the US-based company "has informed that they are withdrawing their proposal" seeking accelerated approval of its Covid-19 vaccine. There is no response from CDSCO to Johnson and Johnson's statement.Johnson & Johnson had said in April it was seeking an approval to conduct a bridging clinical study of its Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India.In May, India scrapped local trials for foreign coronavirus vaccines, which have been cleared by drug regulators in countries like the US, in a bid to hasten vaccination rollouts to fight a second wave of infections.Till July 31, Johnson & Johnson has not requested a full approval for its shot with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while Pfizer Inc, BioNTech SE, and Moderna Inc have already done so.The Indian government, meanwhile, has formed a team to engage with vaccine makers."This team is in continuous dialogue with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to discuss and address various issues including the issue of indemnity," Bharati Pravin Pawar, Minister of State in Union health ministry, said last week.Johnson & Johnson has claimed that their vaccine generates a strong and persistent response activity against Delta and other prevalent strains of coronavirus. The neutralising antibodies, according to the company, lasts at least eight months. The healthcare company added that its vaccine was 85 per cent effective and could also help prevent hospitalisation and death.India has so far approved four vaccines - AstraZeneca's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian Gamaleya Institute's Sputnik V and Moderna's vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-says-talks-with-india-on-covid-vaccine-janssen-still-going-on-101627907546423.html
02-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand has sent back at least 15K Kanwariyas in a week, say police||In the first week since the Kanwar Yatra period began on July 25, Uttarakhand sent over 15,500 Kanwariyas back from its border in Haridwar. The state government cancelled Kanwar Yatra for a second consecutive year amid fears of it turning into a super-spreader event like the earlier Mahakumbh which saw a massive spike in Covid cases afterwards. Thirty cases have also been lodged at various police stations with 54 people framed under Disaster Management Act and Epidemics Act in the past week since the pilgrimage began. In the same period, 1,161 people have been penalised for violating social distancing norms while 33 people have been fined for not wearing masks, senior superintendent of district police D Senthil Aboodai Krishan.Also Read | Kanwar pilgrims to get Ganga water on Haridwar bordersKanwariyas are being sent back from the state’s border with Uttar Pradesh or when they arrive on buses and trains on their way to Har-Ki-Pauri, he said, adding that round-the-clock checking and monitoring of vehicles is being carried out at border check posts. “Cases are being lodged against Kanwariyas found violating norms. They are also being put in quarantine facility and sent back from border posts,” he said. The ten border check posts where monitoring is being done are Chidiyapur-Shyampur,Narsain, Mandawar ,Kali Nadi ,Tejjupur ,Gokalpur ,Beerpur, Purkaji barrier, Balawali Laksar, and Dallawala post Khanpur. The yatra period is to continue till August 6. For the yatra, Shiva devotees walk to fetch water from the Ganga and carry it back to their villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-has-sent-back-at-least-15k-kanwariyas-in-a-week-saypolice-101627907846651.html
02-08-2021||India||Tension grips Rohtas after youth shot dead, 2 others critically hurt over land dispute||Residents of Karanj village under Dinara police station area of Bihar’s Rohtas district were a tense lot after a young man was shot dead on Sunday, allegedly over a disputed piece of land near the village. Two managers of a Math were also critically injured during the attack.A dispute regarding the possession of 8.52 acres of cultivable land belonging to the Vaishnavayat Ramanuj sect’s Bara Khatla Ashram of Vrindavan led to the incident.A Patna high court judgment and revenue receipts were in favour of asharm mahanth Rameshwaracharya. But a priest of the Shaivayat sect called Anoop Giri alias Naga Baba had usurped the land and given it to some villagers, the police said.The administration had earlier fixed a date to resolve the dispute and had called both the parties to Dinara police station on Saturday. Sub divisional magistrate, Deputy SP and deputy collector of land reforms (DCLR), Bikramganj, had reached the police station on the stipulated date.Mahanth Rameshwaracharya also appeared before the officers and showed them the HC judgment and revenue receipts based on which the officers directed him to cultivate the land after following the legal process of demarcation. Giri, however not had not showed up.On Sunday, when the manager and staff of the Math reached the area with a tractor to plough the land, Anoop Giri along with his supporters attacked them resulting in firing from both sides.A 20-year-old youth identified as Bhola Ram who was grazing goats on the disputed land got caught in the cross-firing and died on the way to the district hospital at Sasaram.Angry villagers led by Anoop Giri torched the tractor and attacked the Math and assaulted the manager and staff hiding inside. Managers Raja Ram Singh and Daya Shankar Tiwary were critically injured and rescued by a police team led by station house officer Samrat Singh. Both the men were admitted to a hospital under police protection.The angry mob also blocked NH-30 for half an hour accusing the police and administration of being partial. A few others also accused the administration and police of not implementing the HC order and blamed them for not registering a case against Giri and his men. The Magistrate and a police team are currently camping at the village, officials said. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 27 of the Arms Act and Section 3(1)(iv) of SC/ST Act against 12 people based on the statement of the victim’s cousin. A special investigation team has been formed to look into the matter, Superintendent of Police, Ashish Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-grips-rohtas-after-youth-shot-dead-2-others-critically-hurt-over-land-dispute-101627907426644.html
02-08-2021||India||On Raj Kundra's plea challenging arrest, cops tell court evidence destroyed||The Mumbai Police on Monday told the Bombay high court that businessman Raj Kundra, who was arrested on charges of producing and streaming pornographic content, deleted evidence, including WhatsApp chats. The police's submission came on a petition filed by Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe challenging their arrest."They (Kundra and Thorpe) were found deleting certain WhatsApp chats. The attitude of the applicant Raj Kundra speaks volume of his cooperation in the investigation. We do not know how much data has been deleted. The police are still trying to retrieve it," public prosecutor Aruna Kamat Pai said.She further told the court that Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code (on destruction of evidence) was subsequently invoked against both the accused. “If accused persons are destroying evidence, then can the investigating agency be a mute spectator?” Pai asked.Kundra's lawyer, however, refuted the claim of destruction of evidence saying all the devices of businessman, including his phone and laptops, were seized by the police during the search.Kundra and Thorpe have termed their arrests as illegal, contending mandatory provision of issuing notices to them under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed. They sought the high court to direct for their immediate release and quash two orders passed by a magistrate after their arrest remanding them in police custody.But the public prosecutor told the single bench of Justice AS Gadkari that notices were indeed issued to both Kundra and Thorpe before their arrest. "Kundra refused to accept it while Thorpe accepted it," Pai said. Thorpe's counsel Abhinav Chandrachud argued that while a notice was issued to Thorpe, he was not given time to comply or respond to it.The public prosecutor further told the court that from Kundra's laptop, the police recovered scripts with sexual content and a presentation on the financial projection and marketing strategy of HotShots and another similar app BollyFame.The duo is in jail under judicial custody. While Kundra was arrested on July 19, Thorpe was arrested the next day. Kundra told the high court in his petition that the material which the police claimed to be pornographic did not depict explicit sexual acts but shows material in the form of short movies "which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best".After the lawyers concluded their arguments, the high court reserved its order on the petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-raj-kundra-s-plea-challenging-arrest-cops-tell-court-evidence-destroyed-101627905295138.html
02-08-2021||India||Supreme Court directs Paralympian's name to be included for Tokyo games||The Supreme Court on Monday directed Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) to include the name of five-time Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma in the list being recommended for the Tokyo Paralympics.The committee was intimated of the urgent hearing taken up by the bench of justices A M Khanwilkar, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari but none appeared. The sports ministry said it had no objection if the name of Sharma is sent and the government would be happy if medals increase.The Paralympics will begin in the Japan capital on August 24 and go on till September 5.As the last date for sending the names for the event is August 2, the three-judge bench of the top court directed the committee to add the name of Sharma in the R-7 shooting event and report compliance by Tuesday. The court directed the order to be emailed to the president of Paralympics Committee.Sharma, an Arjuna Award recipient, challenged an order of the Delhi high court which had posted his plea relating to his non-selection for the upcoming Tokyo Games for hearing on August 6.The Paralympian had sought an urgent hearing pleading that any delay in hearing before the high court would render his plea seeking inclusion in the Indian contingent for the games infructuous as the last date for selection for the shooting event in Tokyo Paralympics is today.The shooter said a division bench of the high court had on July 30 sought responses of the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) and the Centre on his appeal against its single-judge order which had refused to interfere with his non-selection for the Games.The high court had, however, said that PCI's conduct in relation to the selection of another player over Sharma was "unbecoming of a public sporting body" which has to maintain a fair, transparent and inclusionary approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-paralympian-s-name-to-be-included-for-tokyo-games-101627903617422.html
02-08-2021||India||Cannot allow public to board local trains at this moment: Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said that local trains will not be available to the general public immediately as Maharashtra continues to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Thackeray also said that shops across Maharashtra will be allowed to operate till 8pm.The Maharashtra government will release the new set of relaxations later on Monday, the chief minister said. The chief minister pointed out that the relaxations will not be applicable to districts reporting a high positivity rate and large number of fresh cases.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope last week indicated that 25 districts may come under the ambit of these relaxations which the government is expected to announce soon. The Maharashtra government also said that several nations were reporting a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases despite high vaccination rates.Maharashtra continues to fight the second wave of Covid-19 as districts like Sangli, Satara, Pune and Kolhapur reported more than 300 cases on Sunday. The state reported 6,479 fresh cases on Sunday which took the overall caseload to 6.31 million cases. The state also reported 157 fatalities, taking the death toll to 132,948.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-allow-public-to-board-local-trains-at-this-moment-thackeray-101627903710525.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre rushes team to Maharashtra over Zika virus situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre rushes team to Maharashtra after first case of Zika virus foundThe Union health ministry on Monday rushed a high-level team to Maharashtra to monitor the Zika virus situation. Read moreDelhi Police files chargesheet in Sagar Dhankhar murder case, names Sushil Kumar main accusedDelhi Police filed a chargesheet on Monday in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankhar, naming Olympian Sushil Kumar as the main accused. Read more'From ex-coach Kabir Khan': Shah Rukh tweets special message to Sjoerd Marijne, India women's team coach repliesThe Indian women's hockey team defeated Australia in the quarterfinal in Tokyo 2020 to book a spot in the semifinals for the first time in history. Read moreShilpa Shetty breaks silence on Raj Kundra’s arrest in porn case: ‘I am a proud law-abiding Indian citizen’Shilpa Shetty has urged everyone to respect the family’s privacy for the sake of their two children - Viaan and Samisha. Read moreGauahar Khan looks breathtaking in ₹43k chanderi kalidaar kurta, shararaGauahar Khan ropes in the charm of the bygone era and makes us fall in love with ethnic wear. Read moreKia India hits one lakh sales figure in CY2021 with Sonet providing max thrustWith 15,016 units sold in the month of July, Kia India is hoping to continue with the momentum for the remainder of the year. Read moreWoman beats up cab driver in Lucknow in front of cop; video goes viralA woman repeatedly slapped a man who reportedly works as a cab driver in Uttar Pradesh's capital city Lucknow. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-rushes-team-to-maharashtra-over-zika-virus-situation-and-all-the-latest-news-101627899415804.html
02-08-2021||India||Centre rushes team to Maharashtra after first case of Zika virus found||The Union health ministry on Monday rushed a high-level team to Maharashtra to monitor the Zika virus situation. The decision was taken after Pune district in Maharashtra recorded the state's first case of the Zika virus infection.The multi-disciplinary team will support the state government in checking the spread of the virus.The three-member central team consists of a public health expert from the office of Regional Director, Pune; a gynecologist from Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and an entomologist from National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), ICMR, New Delhi.The team shall work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union health ministry's action plan for Zika management is being implemented, a statement from the home ministry said.A 50-year-old woman was found positive with the Zika virus in Belsar village in Pune's Purandar tehsil. According to doctors, the infection in the patient is mild and no other family member has developed any of the symptoms."Since the first week of July, several cases with fever were being reported in Belsar village. From the samples that we sent for testing, 21 people had Chikungunya, three had Dengue and one was reported positive for Zika and Chikungunya both," according to Dr Pradip Awate, Maharashtra's Surveillance Officer.Meanwhile, the local administration has swung into action after confirmation of Zika virus case. Along with the village where the woman lives, seven others that fall within the five kilometre radius too are being surveyed to ensure that every symptomatic patient is tested.Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said Zika is not as contagious as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and there is no need to panic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-team-to-maharashtra-after-first-case-of-zika-virus-found-101627900826466.html
02-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh’s plan to contain human-elephant conflicts raises eyebrows||Chhattisgarh’s forest department has mooted a plan to purchase paddy from the state government’s food and civil supplies department ostensibly to lure elephants away from human habitation to prevent human-elephant conflicts in the state that have resulted in loss of 204 lives in the last three years.However, activists and political opponents are accusing the department of conjuring an unscientific plan which they say in reality aims to help the state government cut its losses incurred in additional procurement of paddy in 2019-2020.Forest officials claimed that since elephants enter villages following the smell of stored paddy or mahua (a juicy fruit with strong smell) in houses, the department will dump paddy, a few kilometers away from these villages, distracting the elephants away from the villages.“We will start this drive as [a] pilot project in some villages of Chhattisgarh and will see how it works. Till now we have not decided the rate at which paddy will be purchased for the drive. The aim is to contain human-elephant conflicts,” said Narsimbha Rao PV, the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife).As per government records, 204 humans were killed in elephant attacks across the state in the last three years and 66,582 cases of damage to crops and 5,047 cases of damage to houses were reported in this period. The state government spent nearly ₹58 crores in paying compensation to the victims of elephant attacks in the last three years.A senior officer of the forest department, said the decision to buy paddy as a means to contain human-animal conflicts was taken in the last review meeting of the department.“The Chhattisgarh State Cooperative Marketing Federation (MARKFED) has offered to sell paddy at ₹2095.83 per quintal to us. Further decision regarding the purchase of paddy is yet to be taken,” the official mentioned above added.Chhattisgarh MARKFED wrote to the forest department on July 22, offering rates to sell paddy procured in 2019-20. As per state government figures, 8.394 million metric tonnes of paddy were purchased from 1,838 million farmers in Chhattisgarh.The activists and political rivals in the state have questioned the move’s rationale and alleged it was an attempt to compensate the losses incurred in procuring surplus paddy in 2019-20 by the state.Leader of Opposition in Chhattisgarh assembly and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Dharmlal Kaushik said the party has several questions for the state government over the scheme.“First of all, the state government had deliberately not done the custom milling of paddy procured in 2019-20 due to which wastage of paddy took place. The milling can't be done now and the food department and MARKFED are responsible for it. Secondly, a large part of this paddy procured in 2019-20 is rotten, which the forest department may purchase for ₹2,095 per quintal. When good paddy is auctioned by the department for ₹1,400 per quintal, then what is the obligation to buy rotten paddy [at a higher price],” Kaushik asked.The BJP leader alleged that the forest department’s scheme was meant to misuse the public exchequer.“We are suspicious that they may use the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) fund. We will write a letter and ask these questions from the government,” Kaushik added.Activists too have questioned the forest department’s idea as “weird” and “unscientific”.“Instead of safeguarding the habitat and corridor of elephants like Hasdeo Arand, where the state government is permitting mining, this is a weird attempt to mitigate man-elephant conflicts. The efficacy of this drive is doubtful considering the nomadic nature of the elephants. This appears more to be an exercise to compensate for the loss incurred in surplus paddy purchase through forest department’s funds like CAMPA,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, an environmental lawyer.North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants. In the last decade, the state recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose numbers rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department.Meetu Gupta, a member of state wildlife board, said, “There is no case study behind this drive. The forest department should stop experimenting with wildlife management and should instead focus on habitats of elephants,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarhs-plan-to-contain-human-elephant-conflicts-raises-eyebrows-101627900526309.html
02-08-2021||India||Sans Parl nod, govt may have to defer sale of two PSU banks to next year||The Narendra Modi-led Union government’s attempts to sell two public sector banks may get deferred to the financial year as no approval has been taken from Parliament for making changes in laws required to initiate the deals.According to a Bloomberg report, the finance ministry is yet to work out the modalities to seek approval from lawmakers for the sale, leaving little time for the process to be completed this year.In February this year, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the government will seek buyers for two state-run banks by March 2022. She made the statement while presenting the Budget for the current financial year.The report said no spokesperson from the finance ministry was available for comment.In June, government think-tank Niti Aayog had submitted a list of public sector banks that are to be privatised in the current fiscal year to the Core Group of Secretaries on Disinvestment.The Central government’s plan to sell a majority stake in the country’s second-biggest state refiner has also slowed down, and the transaction may only take place early next year, Bloomberg had reported in July. The administration could still go ahead with other asset sales, including Life Insurance Corp. of India’s initial public offer, that could help the government raise funds to make up for any fall in tax revenues this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-have-to-defer-sale-of-two-public-sector-banks-101627899538546.html
02-08-2021||India||Tribunal Reforms Bill passed in Lok Sabha amid Oppn’s demand for discussion||The Opposition on Monday continued with their protest in Lok Sabha demanding a discussion on the Tribunal Reforms Bill, 2021 along with the Pegasus spyware issue. The House was adjourned thrice since morning following the protests.The Tribunal Reforms Bill, moved by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, seeks to withdraw and then replace the Cinematograph Act, the Copyright Act, the Customs Act, the Patents Act, the Airport Authority of India Act, the Trade Marks Act, and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act. The government said this would reduce another layer of litigation by abolishing tribunals or authorities under various laws.Opposing the Bill, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “By riding over the legitimate right of the Opposition, the government has been bulldozing one after another legislation without a discussion… There has been no enlistment of this Bill… by the BAC (business advisory committee).” Also Watch | Parliament Day 10: Slogans, protests force adjournment; disruption over PegasusChowdhury added that the Opposition wanted a discussion on the Bills but this discussion should start with the Pegasus snooping issue.Following this, Chowdhury’s microphone was turned off and the Bill was passed through a voice vote.Earlier in the day, speaking to media outside his residence Chowdhury said, “Why is Mr. Modi afraid?... We just have few questions on this spying issue... This is not only being discussed in India but across countries. Israel, France, United States & European nations are investigating it,” he said.“We are representatives of people from far-flung areas… We come here to raise their issues… They (government) are forcibly passing Bills. This is against the decorum of the House...They are doing everything against the prestige of the Parliament,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribunal-reforms-bill-passed-in-lok-sabha-amid-oppn-s-demand-for-discussion-101627899086161.html
02-08-2021||India||Delhi Police files chargesheet in Sagar Dhankhar murder case, names Sushil Kumar main accused||Delhi Police filed a 170-page chargesheet on Monday in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankhar and named Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar as the main accused, news agency ANI tweeted.Former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankhar was assaulted and then murdered inside Delhi's Chhatrasal stadium on May 5. Subsequently, the special cell of Delhi Police arrested 12 people, including two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and his aide Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, in connection with Dhankhar's murder.Sushil Kumar is currently lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail. Police are charging Kumar under various sections of the IPC related to murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy, Hindustan Times reported on Monday.The Olympic wrestler and a few of his accomplices allegedly assaulted Dhankhar and two others over a property dispute inside the Chhatrasal stadium on May 4, leading to the death of the junior wrestler. The other two survived with injuries.Police said the ace wrestler allegedly kidnapped Dhankhar from his Model Town apartment in Delhi and brought him to Chhatrasal stadium where he assaulted them. Police also claimed to be in possession of a video recording that shows Sushil Kumar beating up the junior wrestler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-names-sushil-kumar-accused-in-wrestler-murder-case-chargesheet-101627897326140.html
02-08-2021||India||'Withdrew application because...': Johnson & Johnson on accelerated approval of its Covid vaccine in India||India's drug regulator said on Monday that Johnson & Johnson withdrew its proposal seeking accelerated approval of its Covid-19 vaccine in the country, without giving additional details."The firm has informed that they are withdrawing their proposal," a line in Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation's (CDSCO) note on a meeting held accelerated approval process said. The meeting was held on July 29.The US-based company had said in April it was seeking an approval to conduct a bridging clinical study of its Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India.As per the data available till July 31, Johnson & Johnson is yet to request a full approval for its shot with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while Pfizer Inc, BioNTech SE, and Moderna Inc have already sought full approval of their vaccines with the FDA.Johnson & Johnson has claimed that their vaccine generates a strong and persistent response activity against Delta and other prevalent strains of coronavirus. The neutralising antibodies, according to the company, lasts at least eight months. The healthcare company added that its vaccine was 85 per cent effective and could also help prevent hospitalisation and death.Johnson & Johnson is in the eye of storm in the United States over a rare autoimmune disorder. About 100 preliminary reports of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have been detected in the United States after vaccination with J&J shot, mostly in men, many of whom were 50 or older.India has so far approved four vaccines - AstraZeneca's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian Gamaleya Institute's Sputnik V and Moderna's vaccine.Update: In an official response to the story, Johnson & Johnson said, "We remain committed committed to bringing our single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India. Since the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently directed that there is no longer a requirement to conduct bridging clinical studies of Covid-19 vaccines in India, Johnson & Johnson withdrew its application to conduct these studies. We look forward to ongoing discussions with the Government of India and will continue to explore how to accelerate availability of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-withdraws-accelerated-approval-of-its-covid-vaccine-in-india-101627898248212.html
02-08-2021||India||New Karnataka cabinet after meet with JP Nadda: CM Basavaraj Bommai||Newly appointed Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday a meeting will be held under the leadership of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda later in the day to hold comprehensive discussions on cabinet formation in the state. Bommai, who took over the reins from BS Yediyurappa last week, reached the national capital on Sunday night. He said the new cabinet will be formed in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous team. At present, he is the lone Cabinet member in the government.“The list may get finalised either today or tomorrow. If it gets finalised tonight, the cabinet expansion can take place on Wednesday," Bommai told reporters before leaving for Parliament to meet Home Minister Amit Shah.Earlier, he had said he would seek time from the BJP's central leadership to discuss the cabinet expansion during his visit to Delhi.A comprehensive discussion will be held with Nadda in the evening about the cabinet formation, including whether it should be done in multiple stages or one go, he said, adding balancing of regional and social representation would also be kept in mind while deciding names.Also read | 'Won’t be a rubber stamp CM': Bommai"A decision on how many deputy chief ministers would also be taken at the meeting," Bommai said. He further said efforts would be made to take everyone together."We are hopeful that cabinet making will be fruitful. Not only fruitful, it should serve the purpose of serving the people of the state," he said.The CM also said some aspirants have met him and held talks, adding that even they are aware not everyone can become ministers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-meet-jp-nadda-to-finalise-new-cabinet-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-101627894638650.html
02-08-2021||India||‘Not scared of Covid-19’: Devotees crowd Kashi Vishwanath Temple despite curbs||Hundreds of devotees thronged the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi as they took a holy dip in the Ganga and offered prayers on the second Monday of the holy month of Sawan despite being warned by the authorities to follow all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related regulations. There was a brazen violation of Covid appropriate behaviour as very few of the devotees were seen wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, news agency ANI reported.“I am not afraid of anyone in Lord Shiva’s place. Lord Shiva will take care of everything,” Ravinder Kumar, one of the devotees who was not wearing a mask, told ANI. Another maskless devotee, A Ram Patel, told the news agency he was happy to be present at the temple and he was not scared of Covid-19.Prahlad Panday, a priest at the temple, echoed the remarks of the devotees and said Covid-19 does not stand a chance in front of Baba Bholenath, another name for Lord Shiva.Sawan or Shravana is the fifth month in the Hindu calendar and is considered to be the most auspicious month. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva, who is regarded as the creator, preserver and destroyer of the universe. This time, Sawan started on July 25 and will end on August 22. It is a traditional practice by devotees to observe a special fast and visit temples of Lord Shiva on Mondays during this period. However, due to the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been advised to observe the festival at home.Uttar Pradesh’s caseload of coronavirus disease has climbed to 1,708,476 including 22,763 deaths, 1,685,049 recoveries and 664 active cases. On Sunday, the state recorded 36 new cases, of which three were from Varanasi. No deaths due to the viral disease were reported on Sunday across the state and 76 patients recovered from Covid-19.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-scared-of-covid-19-devotees-crowd-kashi-vishwanath-temple-despite-curbs-101627893626795.html
02-08-2021||India||Covaxin effective against Delta Plus variant, says ICMR study||Covaxin, India's first indigenous vaccine to fight Covid-19, is effective against the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus, a study conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said, according to news agency ANI. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with ICMR.Delta Plus is a mutated form of the Delta variant, first discovered in India. It is characterised by increased transmissibility. Last week, Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh said in Parliament that 70 cases of the Delta Plus variant were found by INSACOG, a group of 28 laboratories involved in genome sequencing.In July, the Hyderabad-based company released data from the final analysis of Covaxin and said that it demonstrated overall efficacy of 77.8 per cent against symptomatic infection. It also said that Covaxin has now received emergency use authorisations (EUAs) in 16 countries including, Brazil, India, Philippines, Iran, Mexico, with EUAs in process in 50 countries worldwide.India has undertaken one of the world's largest vaccination drives and so far distributed more than 430 million doses. Covaxin was given emergency use authorisation on January 3 this year by India’s drugs regulator, Dr VG Somani, even though its efficacy data was still not out.The government said in May it would make 516 million shots available by the end of July. It wants to inoculate all its estimated 944 million adults by December.Bharat Biotech, meanwhile, said that it is in discussions with the World Health Organization (WHO) to obtain emergency use listing (EUL) for Covaxin.All documents required for EUL have been submitted to WHO by Bharat Biotech for Covaxin as of July 9 and the review process by the agency has commenced, minister of state for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar told Rajya Sabha last week."The review process by WHO has commenced. WHO usually takes up to six weeks to decide on Emergency Use Listing (EUL) submissions," she said in a written reply.The first interim analysis result released by Bharat Biotech in March showed that Covaxin had an efficacy of nearly 81 per cent. The analysis was based on 43 cases, of which 36 cases of Covid-19 were observed in the placebo group versus 7 cases observed in the BBV152 (Covaxin) group, according to Bharat Biotech.The second interim analysis released April showed that the the vaccine's efficacy against severe Covid-19 disease was 100%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-effective-against-delta-plus-variant-says-icmr-study-101627892596288.html
02-08-2021||India||On Raj Kundra's arrest in porn case, Shilpa Shetty says 'don't deserve media trial'||Shilpa Shetty on Monday urged people to respect her family's privacy and said they "don't deserve a media trial" as she spoke up about her husband Raj Kundra's arrest in connection with a pornography racket for the first time. Shetty, in a statement on social media platform Instagram, said she has full faith in the Mumbai Police and the judiciary."As a family, we are taking recourse to all our available legal remedies. But, till then I humbly request you - especially as a Mother - to respect our privacy for my children’s sake and request you to refrain from commenting on half-baked information without verifying the veracity of the same," the Bollywood actor wrote.She said she will continue to refrain from doing commenting on the case as it is subjudice, "so please stop attributing false quotes on my behalf." "People have put their faith in me and I’ve never let anyone down. So, most importantly, I request you to respect my family’s and ‘my right’ to privacy in these times," she said.In the post, Shetty called herself a "proud law-abiding Indian citizen" and a hardworking professional for the last 29 years. "We don’t deserve a media trial. Please let the law take its course. Satyamev Jayate," Shetty said.Kundra, 45, was arrested by the crime branch on July 19 for his alleged involvement in making pornographic films and publishing them through mobile applications. The businessman, called the key conspirator by the police, was denied bail last week by a city court after the prosecution contended the police investigation was still on and his release at this juncture will derail the probe.The Mumbai Police have claimed they found during their probe that Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, bought the Hotshots app to upload objectionable videos on social media.Kundra has been accused of earning over ₹1.17 crore between August and December last year by uploading pornographic content online through Hotshots. The police also claimed to have found 51 obscene videos - 35 with Hotshots logo and 16 with BollyFame logo, during searches at the office of the accused.Kundra has said in his plea in the Bombay High Court challenging his arrest that the material which the police claimed to be pornographic did not depict explicit sexual acts but shows material in the form of short movies "which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-raj-kundra-s-arrest-in-porn-case-shilpa-shetty-says-don-t-deserve-media-trial-101627890525484.html
02-08-2021||India||PM Modi to meet Assam MPs today over border dispute with Mizoram||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet MPs from Assam on Monday to discuss the border issue with Mizoram that had taken a violent turn last week leading to deaths of six Assam Police personnel and injury of many.Earlier in the day, Mizoram governor Hari Babu Kambhampati met the Prime Minister to discuss the standoff between the two states. The governor said the Centre and state governments are working closely and efforts are underway to resolve the issue.Stating that the clashes that erupted last week were “very unfortunate”, he further said Union home minister Amit Shah is trying to diffuse the crisis, while chief ministers of both the states have also spoken about restoring peace.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga are said to have held a telephonic conversation with Shah, days after the duo traded charges on social media over the clashes. The two CMs are also likely to meet soon.Meanwhile, Assam has decided to withdraw a police case against K Vanlalvena, Rajya Sabha MP from Mizoram, signalling further easing of tension. The case, filed against Vanlalvena after he said in a TV interview that if Assam policemen enter Mizoram again “all will be killed”, was taken back following Shah’s intervention.On Sunday, Mizoram also hinted at removing Sarma’s name from an FIR wherein the Assam CM and some senior officials were accused of an attempt to murder and assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-assam-mps-today-over-mizoram-border-row-101627889017699.html
02-08-2021||India||Monsoon to be ‘normal’ in August and September: IMD||Monsoon rain is likely to be "normal" in August and September, between 95% to 105% of long period average (LPA), according to India Meteorological Department.Monsoon is also likely to be "normal", between 94% to 106% of LPA, in August. The LPA for August from 1961 to 2010 is 258.1mm.During August and September, "below normal" to "normal" rainfall is likely over many areas of the northwest, east and northeast India while "normal" to "above normal" rainfall is most likely over peninsular India and adjacent central India, IMD said in its monsoon forecast for the second half of the season released on Monday.In August, "below normal" to "normal" rain is likely over many areas of central India and parts of northwest India while "normal" to "above normal" rain is likely over most parts of peninsular India and northeast India.Rainfall between 96% -104% of LPA is considered "normal"; between 90% and 96% is considered "below normal" and between 104% and 110% is considered "above normal" by IMD.Also Read | Widespread, heavy rain to continue over parts of central, N-W IndiaJuly recorded a 7% deficiency in rain, with 26% deficiency over east and northeast India; 27% excess over south peninsula; 7% deficiency over northwest India and 7% deficiency over central India. June ended with 10% excess rain but a monsoon break of around 12 days from June 19 to July 11 led to a long dry spell in many parts of the country. After monsoon revived, extreme rainfall events, floods and landslides in Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra and in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand marked the July monsoon.There were 567 stations this July which reported "very heavy" rain in July of about 11.56 cm to 20.45 cm; 112 stations reported "extremely heavy" rain of over 20.45cm. In the past 5 years, 2019 saw the highest number of stations reporting extreme rain including 753 stations reporting "very heavy" rain and 161 stations reporting "extremely heavy" rain."La Niña" approaching IMD flagged that La Niña conditions are gradually likely to set in around September and October and could continue till next spring (2022). The transition to La Niña conditions has started, which is favourable for monsoon. "We cannot say immediately if it will be a prolonged monsoon, but La Niña conditions support good rains. La Niña years are also linked to higher chances of cyclogenesis over Bay of Bengal in the post monsoon season in October, November and December," said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Sea surface temperatures over central and east equatorial Pacific Ocean is showing a cooling tendency and there is an increased possibility of re-emergence of La Niña conditions in the end of the monsoon season or thereafter, IMD said on Monday. Negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions over Indian Ocean are likely to continue during the monsoon season. "As the changes in the sea surface temperature (SST) conditions over the Pacific and the Indian Oceans are known to influence the Indian monsoon, IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over these ocean basins," IMD said in a statement.La Niña, a global meteorological phenomenon, is linked to very cold and harsh winters in India and "above normal" monsoon rains. La Niña is also linked to increased frequency of cyclones over Bay of Bengal. A paper published in International Journal of Meteorology in 2019 on impact of ENSO on the Bay of Bengal tropical cyclone (TC) activity during post-monsoon (October–December) season for a period of 44 years (1972–2015) found that La Niña years are characterized by more frequent and intense cyclonic events compared with El Niño years.This winter is also likely to be colder than normal this year. "This winter may be colder than normal but its too early to say. We will issue a forecast before the season. Normally, cyclone frequency is also higher in La Niña years," said OP Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD Pune.A well-marked low pressure area over southeastern parts of West Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood now lies over southwest Uttar Pradesh and adjoining northwest Madhya Pradesh. It is likely to move westwards gradually during next 3 days. The monsoon trough has shifted slightly north of its normal position. Under the influence of these systems, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated "heavy" to "very heavy" rain is very likely over Madhya Pradesh during August 2 and 6. Isolated "extremely heavy rain" (over 20cm) is also very likely over West Madhya Pradesh on August 2 and 3 with reduction from August 4. Widespread, "heavy" to "very heavy" rainfall is very likely to continue over east Rajasthan till August 6. Current spell of widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over rest of north India with isolated "heavy" rain over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Isolated "heavy" rain is likely over Haryana during the next three days and Himachal Pradesh on August 4 and 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-be-normal-in-august-and-september-imd-101627888945555.html
02-08-2021||India||Killed Jaish commander's phone leads to Masood Azhar's Pak terror empire||The Indian intelligence agencies, along with Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police, are conducting forensic analysis of the three iPhones recovered from killed Muhammad Ismail Alvi alias Lambu, to extract the links that the terrorist had with Bahawalpur-based headquarters of the proscribed Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and overground workers of the group in Jammu and the Valley.On July 31, the Victor Force headed by Major General Rashim Bali, conducted a counter-strike operation using special forces at the terrorists' hideout at Hangalmarg forest area, Tral, Pulwama. From the encounter site, arms and ammunition, including one US M-4 assault rifle, one AK-47, a Glock pistol and one pistol were recovered.The entire operation based on actionable intelligence inputs was over in just seven minutes with both the terrorists gunned down without any collateral damage. Ismail Alvi, along with Sameer Dar (the other terrorist killed), were the main perpetrators of the 2019 Pulwama attack.According to security forces, Ismail Alvi, blood relation of global terrorist leader Masood Azhar was constantly in touch with his younger brother Mufti Abdul Rauf Azhar, who carries the codename 'Mara' within the Indian security forces. The detailed analysis of the iPhones is being done, but the preliminary forensic scanning has shown that Alvi was in touch with 'Mara' and other high-ranking terrorists of JeM.Masood Azhar runs a terror empire in Bahawalpur with all his family involved in terror strikes against India. While Azhar, after his designation as global terrorist by the UN, does not directly communicate with his terror lieutenants on the ground, his younger brother Rauf Azhar handles the entire operation of this terror outfit based in Pakistan. Masood Azhar, with his umbilical link with the Taliban, as was evident from the 1999 IC-814 hijacking to Kandahar, is presently the resident ideologue of the group with focus on his ideological brothers capturing Afghanistan through military force.Incidentally, Ismail Alvi alias Lambu, infiltrated into India through Shakargarh sector opposite Jammu after receiving training at Jaba Top terror training camp at Balakot, Manshera, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. He was instrumental in motivating and training Adil Ahmed Dar, who carried out the suicide attack. Alvi was also involved in imparting IED training to local JeM cadres.He was also in touch with Hafeez Al Rehman (the facilitator of the Pulwama attack) and other JeM launching commanders like Qari Zarrar, Shahid Lateef, Gazi Khan, Hammad and others.The Balakot terror camp was targeted by the Indian Air Force Mirage fighters post-Pulwama attack (on February 14, 2019) with laser-guided bombs. As many as five bombs landed at the terror training facility, leaving as many as 300 terrorists dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killed-jaish-commander-s-phone-lead-to-his-links-with-masood-azhar-101627887423843.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Supreme Court orders AP, Telangana to amicably resolve Krishna water dispute and all the latest ne||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Resolve Krishna water dispute amicably: SC to Andhra Pradesh, Telangana govtsThe Supreme Court on Monday advised states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to amicably resolve their dispute on sharing the Krishna river water for drinking and irrigation. Heading the bench, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, who was born in the undivided state of Andhra Pradesh, clarified that he would not adjudicate the legal issues involved in the matter but if the states were forthcoming on settling the dispute through talks, the bench could assist the mediation process.Read more. Afghanistan's situation will change in 6 months, says president Ashraf GhaniAfghanistan president Ashraf Ghani has said the violence-hit country's situation will see a change within the next six months as he emphasised that the security of cities is his government's priority. Addressing a virtual cabinet meeting, Ghani said on Sunday the Taliban has become "more cruel and more oppressive" in the last two decades.Read more.Glenmark, Canada's SaNOtize sign deal for Covid treatment spray in India, other Asian countriesGlenmark Pharmaceuticals said on Monday it has signed an agreement with Canadian biotech firm SaNOtize Research and Development Corp to commercialise its nasal spray for Covid-19 treatment in India and other Asian countries.Read more.'Very challenging for us to work in Bihar', says BJP leader Samrat ChaudharyBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Samrat Chaudhary on Sunday said that it is not easy to run the government in Bihar, where his party is in alliance with Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United) or JD(U). Chaudhary also said that there are four ideologies working together in the state.Read more. Tokyo Olympics: The Gurjit Kaur goal that took India women's hockey team in the history books - VideoGurjit Kaur's goal in the second quarter earned the Indian women's hockey team a place in the Tokyo Olympics semi-final - their first-ever in Olympic Games - with a historic 1-0 win over Australia in the quarter-final on Monday.Read more. Elon Musk shares pic with son X AE A-XII at Starbase, netizens can’t keep calmIf you follow SpaceX CEO Elon Musk regularly on Twitter you may have come across several posts of his son X AE A-XII shared by Musk. Now, Musk has shared a sweet photo of his visit to SpaceX’s Starbase located at Boca Chica, Texas with baby X and left tweeple gushing.Read more. Meezaan recalls playing Ranveer Singh's body double in Padmaavat, learning entire speech: 'Band baji hui thi'Actor Meezaan, who recently starred in Hungama 2, technically made his 'screen debut' as a body double for Ranveer Singh in director Sanjay Leela Bhansali's Padmaavat. Meezaan, the son of actor Jaaved Jafferi, had assisted Bhansali before being launched by him in the film Malaal.Read more. Sonakshi Sinha turns boss babe look comfy by pairing chic pantsuit with sneakersBhuj: The Pride of India actor Sonakshi Sinha has been keeping busy promoting her upcoming film with Ajay Devgn, Sanjay Dutt and Nora Fatehi. However, that hasn't stopped the star from getting her glam game on, be it with faux leather print dresses or monotone collared ensembles. Her latest look for an event saw her turning into a total boss babe, and we love it.Read more. Auto Expo 2022 in Greater Noida pushed back due to Covid-related uncertaintiesThe Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) informed on Monday that the Indian auto expo, officially called Auto Expo – The Motor Show 2022, which was scheduled to be held between February 2 and 9 of next year in Greater Noida has now been pushed back due to the prevailing uncertainties caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-supreme-court-orders-ap-telangana-to-amicably-resolve-krishna-water-dispute-and-all-the-latest-news-101627887798749.html
02-08-2021||India||TMC says posters torn in Tripura ahead of Abhishek Banerjee's visit, attacks BJP||The Trinamool Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) engaged in a war of words after banners of the former were found torn in Tripura ahead of party MP Abhishek Banerjee and some other leaders’ visit.Calling it an act of “absolute hooliganism”, the state TMC unit said several posters featuring TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew, who is the national general secretary of the party, were torn.Several such banners from the airport in Agartala to Gorkha Basti were damaged on Sunday night and the party would register its protest on the issue, TMC leader Ashish Lal Singh was quoted as saying by News18, adding the party will lodge a protest over the matter.However, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjyo said the party did not consider the TMC a “political competitor”. “They can lodge an FIR if they like. They are coming here to do political tourism but we are just not bothered with them,” he said.“When it comes to BJP, ruthlessness and disrespect for democracy seem to be running the show. You can keep trying but you cannot erase us from the hearts of the people of Tripura! Shameful attempt,” the TMC wrote on its official Twitter handle.Such blatant state-sponsored attacks on democracy can only be seen in @BJP4India ruled states!Last night in Agartala, posters of @AITCofficial and Shri @abhishekaitc were torn.Did the @BJP4Tripura govt. allow this? Will strict action be taken against the miscreants? pic.twitter.com/6QULSoCChaBesides Abhishek, two Bengal ministers -- Bratyo Basu and Moloy Ghatak -- and trade union leader Ritabrata Banerjee will be in the hill state where the TMC is making a renewed bid to challenge the ruling BJP. In a bid to expand its footprints following a thumping victory in the Bengal assembly election, the Mamata-led party is now focussing on Tripura which has its state polls in 2023.Last week, seven senior Congress leaders, including former minister Prakash Chandra Das, former MLA Subal Bhowmik, All India Congress Committee (AICC) member Panna Deb and party leader Md. Idris Miah joined the TMC. The party has also renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The latest visit comes days after I-PAC members were allegedly confined to a hotel by the Tripura police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-says-posters-torn-in-tripura-ahead-of-abhishek-banerjee-s-visit-attacks-bjp-101627887239582.html
02-08-2021||India||Delhi HC allows Moser Baer scam-accused Deepak Puri, wife to travel abroad||The Delhi high court allowed Deepak Puri and Nita Puri, parents of businessman Ratul Puri, who are being investigated for multiple charges, including a ₹354 crore bank fraud by Moser Baer, to travel abroad on medical grounds. While granting the relief, the high court observed that the “right to travel abroad is a valuable one” and “an integral part of the right to personal liberty”. A special judge at Rouse Avenue Court, Delhi, had, in June this year, allowed Deepak Puri, founder of Moser Baer, and Nita Puri, sister of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, to travel to New York, US, for medical follow-up and treatment for two months. Also Read | CBI teams, complete with PPE kits, raid Ratul Puri in new ₹780 cr bank loan caseHowever, the order was challenged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has registered two fraud cases against them. The agency’s special public prosecutor Anupam Sharma argued before justice Manoj Kumar Ohri that the “Puris are accused in a case of immense economic magnitude and the allegations are grave and serious in nature”. Sharma also argued that if allowed to travel overseas, they may tamper with evidence and might not return to India. The Puris’ lawyer Vijay Aggarwal sought relief on the grounds that Deepak Puri is nearly 80 years old and is suffering from degenerative chronic bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia associated with lung fibrosis. He said Deepak Puri had also undergone surgery and reconstruction for the treatment of mouth cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, US, in 2016. To control the progression of his lung disease and to follow up on his mouth cancer surgery, he is required to visit California and New York, US. Discarding CBI’s argument, the high court allowed them to travel for two months on two sureties of ₹1 crore each. Justice Ohri also asked them to furnish an undertaking disclosing their flight details, telephone numbers and residential details during their stay abroad, and the return date. The high court further asked the Puris not to make a banking or commercial transaction of any nature. “Also, as a voluntarily undertaking by the respondents, their son Ratul Puri, a co-accused in the present case, shall deposit his passport with the petitioner/CBI till the time the respondents return to India after two months from the date of their travel, if not already done,” the court order, reviewed by HT, said. Both, CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED), are investigating the Puris for at least four cases of fraud, cheating and money laundering. The CBI had registered a bank fraud case against Puris and their company Moser Baer in August 2019 for cheating Central Bank of India of ₹354 crore. A fresh case was registered against them last year for cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹787 crore. ED has also accused Ratul Puri, currently on bail, in the AgustaWestland scam, saying he played a key role in laundering crores of rupees. The AgustaWestland case centres on allegations that bribes were paid to middlemen, perhaps even politicians, when India agreed to buy 12 AgustaWestland helicopters built by Italian defence manufacturing giant Finmeccanica (now known as the Leonardo Group) at an estimated cost of ₹3,727 crore in 2010. The deal was scrapped in 2014 over alleged breach of contractual obligations and charges of payment of kickbacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-allows-moser-baer-scam-accused-deepak-puri-wife-to-travel-abroad-101627887625545.html
02-08-2021||India||Muharram banned in UP, clerics object to word 'festival' in police chief letter||The clerics in Uttar Pradesh have objected to a circular released by the state government banning Muharram. The clerics have expressed dismay over the word 'festival' used to describe the event.The Uttar Pradesh government has banned Muharram in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols in place. In a "confidential and very important" letter sent to Suprintendents of Police (SPs), Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Mukul Goel has directed that Muharram must be bserved in the state in accordance with Covid-appropriate behaviour.No procession (called tazia) is allowed to be taken out during the 10 days - from August 10 to 19 - when Muharram will be observed. Goel has also directed that clerics must be involved to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are followed.Terming the situation during this period as "extremely sensitive", the DGP has asked to study areas where incidents have taken place during Muharram and take special measures to keep things normal. Additional police force must be deployed in sensitive areas, the police chief further said.He has also directed the all the entries in festival registers available in various police stations must be studied, and no permission for a separate route should be granted.All the police officers must be briefed one day before the festival of Muharram begins, the DGP said in his letter, asking strict monitoring of content on social media. Such content must be blocked, he has directed the police officials.The clerics, meanwhile, have objected to the use of the word 'festival' for Muharram as it is a period of mourning for the Muslims over the demise of Prophet Muhammad's grandson Hussain Ibn Ali or Imam Hussain in the battle of Karbala.Demanding that the guidelines be withdrawn, the All India Shia Personal Law Board has called for a meeting on Monday to discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muharram-banned-in-up-clerics-object-to-word-festival-in-police-chief-letter-101627885155486.html
02-08-2021||India||TMC writes to RS chairperson against MP suspension; gets help from Oppn parties||Trinamool Congress, the largest Opposition party in Parliament after the Congress, took help of its peers when it came to writing to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu. The letter was sent to the chair after one of the Trinamool members, Shantanu Sen, was suspended from the House for gross misconduct. Sen had snatched the written statement from newly appointed IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw before tearing it into pieces when the latter was reading a statement in the wake of the Pegasus snooping controversy. Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament proceedingsTrinamool’s July 30 letter, that seeks revocation of Sen’s punishment, was approved by none other than former finance minister P Chidambaram and CPI-M MP Bikash Bhattacharya, an arch rival of the Trinamool in Bengal. According to two leaders in the know of things, the letter even quoted late Arun Jaitley to say disruption is at times a legitimate tool of the Opposition. The letter also says that at least 12 leaders from various parties, including, Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh, Bhattacharya, Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav, MDMK leader Vaiko, and Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi, are ready to depose against Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri.Trinamool accused Puri of using abusive words against Sen after the latter tore the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-writes-to-rs-chairperson-against-mp-s-suspension-from-house-101627886485374.html
02-08-2021||India||'Very challenging for us to work in Bihar', says BJP leader Samrat Chaudhary||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Samrat Chaudhary on Sunday said that it is not easy to run the government in Bihar, where his party is in alliance with Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United) or JD(U). Chaudhary also said that there are four ideologies working together in the state."We have a coalition government in Bihar, it's not our independent government. It is very challenging for us to work in Bihar as four ideologies are working together - there is JD(U), HAM (founded by Jitan Ram Manjhi) and VIP (founded by Mukesh Sahani). In such a situation, we have to tolerate many things," Chaudhary said while addressing a gathering in Aurangabad.Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) were the last minute entrants in BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) fold just ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar last year.Chaudhary added that things become easier in states where the BJP has the government of its own. "We have our own governments in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and used to be in power in Jharkhand too."Chaudhary, the Panchayati Raj minister in Bihar, said that the BJP accepted Nitish Kumar as the chief minister even though the JD(U) won 43 seats and his party garnered 74. "And this is not the first time. In 2000 also, the JD(U) had won just 37 seats and the BJP won 68-69 seats. Despite this, the party accepted Nitish Kumar as the chief minister."The leader, who became a minister in Bihar through BJP quota, had last week said that the party should not repeat the mistake of 2015. Addressing the BJP workers in Hajipur, he asked them to be prepared for 2024 General Elections and 2025 assembly polls.Meanwhile, JD(U) leader Upendra Kushwaha said on Sunday that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is "PM material" and has the potential and all qualities to become the Prime Minister of the country. Asked about whether Nitish Kumar will be projected as the Prime Ministerial face, Kushwaha said, "We are in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and firmly support the alliance. There is no discussion in this for now."The JD(U) is an ally of the BJP in Bihar and the party's RCP Singh had been inducted into the union council of ministers when PM Modi reshuffled his cabinet recently.JD(U) leader KC Tyagi had announced in June that the party will contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections and for that will discuss the seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP, and if it does not work out then they will go it alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-challenging-for-us-to-work-in-bihar-says-bjp-leader-samrat-chaudhary-101627882277155.html
02-08-2021||India||Eye on Tripura assembly polls, Mamata’s nephew to head for N-E state today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to head for Tripura today to bolster the party’s organisational setup in the north-eastern state. The Trinamool Congress (TMC), after returning to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive term with a sweeping victory in the recent assembly elections, is now focusing on Tripura where assembly polls are due in 2023. Speculations are rife that a few political leaders may join the TMC in Abhishek Banerjee’s presence today. Last week, seven senior Congress leaders in Tripura, including former minister Prakash Chandra Das, former MLA Subal Bhowmik, All India Congress Committee (AICC) member Panna Deb and Congress minority leader Md. Idris Miah joined the TMC.Also Read | Tripura health workers cross hurdles to vaccinate people in remote areas“Wherever the TMC has landed, other political parties have been reduced to zero. The same would happen in Tripura,” said Sudip Banerjee, TMC MP and floor leader of the party in the Lok Sabha. The state is currently ruled by BJP -- Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (BJP-IPFT) alliance. “The TMC has no existence outside Bengal. Let the party set up its base in Tripura first. They can then think of reducing other parties to zero,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal. The TMC renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls. A three-member team of the TMC visited Tripura last week to meet members of I-PAC who were purportedly confined to a hotel by the Tripura police. A team of senior TMC leaders, including ministers Bratya Basu and Moloy Ghatak, left for Tripura early Monday morning. The TMC alleged that party posters in Agartala were torn ahead of Banerjee’s visit. “Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to hold some meetings with TMC leaders in the state to boost the party’s organisational set up. He would also offer puja at Tripureswari temple. He would also meet media persons later during the day,” said a TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-tripura-assembly-polls-mamata-s-nephew-to-head-for-n-e-state-today-101627881625335.html
02-08-2021||India||Omar Abdullah slams move to deny passports and jobs for stone pelting in J&K||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said the order allowing authorities in the Union Territory to deny passports and jobs to those involved in stone pelting and other unlawful activities was open to “gross misuse” as guilt of an accused needs to be proven first in court."As a rule, no one can be declared guilty until proven. So, as far as this new order is concerned, it should be seen in relation to the recent order on termination of employees. As such, this new order also seems open to gross misuse in its current form," Omar said in a tweet."They did the same with scores of others, many of whom had these police reports tossed out by the courts. An executive order cannot replace a court of law. Guilt or innocence must be proven in court & not based on vague unproven police reports," another of his tweets on the issue said.On Sunday, an order issued by the police’s criminal investigation department (CID) on behalf of the Jammu and Kashmir government said security clearance should be denied to all those against whom there are digital or police records of involvement in stone-pelting and other subversive activities. Security clearances are needed before issuing a passport and appointment to a government job in the UT.The order further said if there was any digital evidence such as CCTV footage, photographs, videos, audio clips or quadcopter images available in the police records, then it should be referred to the security forces and the security agencies. “Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance,” the order said.Earlier in May this year, following a similar order to weed out employees in government service after scrutiny for proof of involvement in anti-national activities or actions endangering the security of the country, three persons were dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-slams-move-to-deny-passports-and-jobs-for-stone-pelting-in-jk-101627880041083.html
02-08-2021||India||States, UTs given at least 494 million Covid vaccine doses till now||The Centre has given at least 494 million coronavirus vaccine doses to states by Sunday. The same day, the national Capital added 85 new cases and the test positivity rate also rose to 0.12%, both the numbers being their highest in 25 days, the state government’s daily heath bulletin said.Meanwhile, by Sunday, 11am, 494,989,550 vaccine doses had been supplied to states and Union Territories. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, has been 467,026,662. About 30,058,190 doses are in balance and another 804,220 doses are in the pipeline.Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than a million beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group.By Sunday evening, the Union Health Ministry placed the total number of Covid cases in the country at 31,655,824 and the death toll at 424,351. The ministry said there are 410,952 active cases, while 30,820,521 people have so far recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-uts-given-at-least-494-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627878684925.html
02-08-2021||India||At least 100K villages got tap water supply within 2 years: Jal Jeevan Mission||Jal Jeevan Mission, the government’s flagship scheme to make piped water available to all, has achieved the milestone of providing tap water to every household in at least 100,000 villages across India within 23 months since its launch in August 2019.Jal Jeevan mission’s 10th monthly report show that about 78.6 million rural households and every household in over 105,000 villages are getting tap water supply.Additional secretary and mission director Bharat Lal said on Sunday, “This speed, scale and momentum of works need to be maintained to accomplish the goal of ‘Har Ghar Jal’ in a time-bound manner.”Also Read | Jal Jeevan Mission: 10 million homes in encephalitis hot spots get tap water accessGoa, Telangana, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Puducherry have achieved 100% tap water supply in rural areas.The mission said that ₹3.60 lakh crore has been earmarked to achieve the goal of providing safe and adequate drinking water to all households in rural India by 2024. Dr D Hemalatha, Vice Principle of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Institute stressed that good water quality is the key to better health. She urged the state governments to undertake water quality monitoring in partnership with universities/ colleges, high schools and health centres through public-private partnership. Madhuri Shukla, Consultant, UNOPS said water quality testing is imperative for water supply services. It includes verification of the safety of drinking water, quality validation process and preventive measures as well as investigation of water-borne disease outbreaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-100k-villages-got-tap-water-supply-within-2-years-jal-jeevan-mission-101627877965178.html
02-08-2021||India||India records 40,134 new Covid-19 cases, 422 deaths; positivity rate at 2.81%||India’s cumulative tally of coronavirus cases reached 3,16,95,958 on Monday with 40,134 new infections recorded in the last 24 hours. The numbers took the daily positivity rate to 2.8 per cent. At present, there are 4,13,718 active Covid-19 cases, which is 1.3 per cent of the total infections.According to the latest bulletin of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 422 people lost their lives to the viral disease, while 36,946 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, pushing the total count of fatalities to 4,24,773 and discharges to 3,08,57,467. The fatality rate now stands at 1.34 per cent and recovery rate 97.36 per cent.Also read | Covid third wave likely this month, may peak in October: ReportAs many as 14,28,984 samples were tested for the virus during the day, the Indian Council of Medical Research said, adding a total of 46,96,45,494 tests have been conducted since the pandemic struck the country.As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, 47,22,23,639 doses against the coronavirus have been administered so far with 17,06,598 beneficiaries receiving the jab on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-40-134-new-covid-19-cases-422-deaths-101627874997874.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India outlines priorities as it enters UNSC presidency and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Focus on maritime security, peacekeeping, terror as India enters UNSC presidencyAs India took over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), a senior diplomat said the stint would give the country an opportunity to play an important role yet again in shaping some of the important challenges on international peace and security. Read morePM Modi to launch ‘futuristic digital payment solution’ e-RUPI todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday launch e-RUPI, a person and purpose-specific digital payment solution via video conferencing. “Digital technology is transforming lives in a major way and is furthering ‘Ease of Living.’ At 4:30 PM tomorrow, 2nd August, will launch e-RUPI, a futuristic digital payment solution which offers several benefits for its users,” Modi said in a tweet on Sunday. Read moreWidespread, heavy rain to continue over parts of central, NW IndiaWidespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over parts of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi till Wednesday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreInfant breastfeeding within an hour of birth declines in BiharThe number of children in Bihar who were breastfed within the first hour of their birth has decreased in the last four- five years, as per National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) reports. Read moreNearly 300 Taliban killed, hundreds injured in ops by Afghan forces in 48 hoursAs the Taliban and mounted an offensive amid the withdrawal of foreign troops from war-torn Afghanistan, as many as nearly 300 members of the group have been killed and hundreds of others wounded in operations by the country's security forces in different provinces since Saturday, said the ministry of defense has said. Read more'I still remember the way he batted at Lord's': VVS Laxman's advice for 'important member' of the Indian teamAs India look to register a Test series win in England after 14 years, a lot will depend on how their batting fares. Over the last three tours, especially in 2014 and 2018, India's batting has struggled to cope against Duke's ball in England, which subsequently led to outcomes such as a 1-3 loss in 2014 and a 1-4 defeat in 2018. Read moreSooraj Pancholi says perception of him was ‘ruined years ago’ because of Jiah Khan caseSooraj Pancholi said that he is a ‘little satisfied’ after his trial in the Jiah Khan death case has been moved to a special CBI court. Jiah was found dead in her apartment in Mumbai in 2013, and her boyfriend at the time, Sooraj, was charged with abetment to suicide. Read moreYay or Nay? Priyanka Chopra's summer look in blue corset dress with keyhole neckActor Priyanka Chopra Jonas is in London currently, and she is having the best time there as she shoots for the upcoming Amazon Prime spy series Citadel, executive produced by the Russo brothers. Read moreWatch| ‘Sindhu to have ice-cream with PM Modi’, says father after Bronze win at Tokyo||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-outlines-priorities-as-it-enters-unsc-presidency-101627873783496.html
02-08-2021||India||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to move tribunals reforms Bill in Lok Sabha today||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday.The Bill seeks to abolish tribunals or authorities under various laws by amending various statutes to streamline the justice delivery system. These include the Cinematograph Act, the Copyright Act, the Customs Act, the Patents Act, the Airport Authority of India Act, the Trade Marks Act and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act.The government said it believes many tribunals only add to another additional layer of litigation. In 2017, seven tribunals were abolished or merged based on functional similarity.The Bill was earlier introduced in the Budget Session by minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur. However, since the Bill was not passed in the House, an ordinance was issued.Also Read | Opposition to raise concerns over Insurance billSitharaman will also move the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, which seeks to amend the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972. The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday.While presenting the budge earlier this year, the finance minister had said: “We propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year FY22. This would require legislative amendments, and I propose to introduce the amendments in this session (Budget Session) itself.”HT’s sister publication Mint had reported on Friday that amendments to the parent Act, the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972, were approved by the union Cabinet on Wednesday. The insurance amendment bill is part of the government’s larger divestment programme, part of which involves selling stakes in five state-run corporations and speeding up its privatisation agenda to draw in foreign investment in a Covid-hit economy.In the Upper House, union minister of tribal affairs Arjun Munda will introduce the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which will amend the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order 1950 to modify the list of Scheduled Tribes in Arunachal Pradesh.After being passed in the Lok Sabha, the Inland Vessels Bill 2021 will be introduced by union minister Sarbananda Sonowal in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. The proposed legislation seeks to replace the Inland Vessels Act, 1917, for the regulation of the safety, security and registration of inland vessels. The union Cabinet approved the Bill on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-move-tribunals-reforms-bill-in-lok-sabha-today-101627874484719.html
02-08-2021||India||Focus on maritime security, peacekeeping, terror as India enters UNSC presidency||As India took over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), a senior diplomat said the stint would give the country an opportunity to play an important role yet again in shaping some of the important challenges on international peace and security.India’s permanent ambassador to the UN TS Tirumurti said there are three major areas on which focus would remain in August -- maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism.Also read | Modi first Indian PM to preside over UN Security Council meeting: Syed Akbaruddin“Conflicts have increased in Covid times, putting considerable pressure on UN peacekeepers and resources. In this scenario, India's priority in the UN, particularly in the UNSC, has a very clear focus on issues that are directly relevant to the international community,”“For example international terrorism, peacekeeping, enhancing international peace and security, sensitivity to developing country issues especially Africa and small states, reformed multilateralism, and furthering the agenda of women and human-centric development,” the ambassador.Speaking about India’s agenda for August that it can decide on as part of the rotating presidency, focus will be on the themes of maritime security, peacekeeping, and counter-terrorism and preside over three high-level signature events on these issues."I think maritime security discussion is a first. And, you know, maritime security has always received a very high priority in our foreign policy. We believe that it is time for the Security Council to take a holistic approach to the issue of maritime security, that safeguards common prosperity and other security interest“This is our eighth tenure. We have been a sobering and responsible voice and also been bridging different views especially when the Council (UNSC) is polarised. We have not hesitated to stand out, even when P5 (five permanent members) had a different view,” Tirumurti said.“We've never failed to highlight manifestations of terrorist activities across the world, especially now, for example, in Africa where it is increasing. We hope to discuss the secretary general’s report on ISIL (Islamic State of Iraq & Levant) and keep the spotlight on this matter,” he said."We will be focusing on how to ensure the safety of the peacekeepers, but especially by using better technology, and also how to bring perpetrators of crimes against peacekeepers to justice. We are strongly advocating for proactive measures to what we call as protecting the protectors."On the agenda of counter-terrorism, India's top envoy to the UN said, "India has consistently kept the spotlight on combating terrorism, both inside the discussions in the council and outside as well. We are not only strengthened the efforts to combat terrorism, especially for example in the financing of terrorism but we are also prevented efforts to dilute the focus on terrorism."This is India's first presidency during its 2021-22 tenure as a non-permanent member of the Security Council and is also. India's eight tenure so far. India will again preside over the Council in December next year, the last month of its two-year tenure.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-maritime-security-peacekeeping-terror-as-india-enters-unsc-presidency-101627873543545.html
02-08-2021||India||Maharashtra records over 6k new Covid cases amid plans to lift curbs in 25 dists||Maharashtra recorded 6,479 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing its count to 6,310,194 even as it planned to lift curbs in 25 districts. The tally of active cases rose to 78,962 as 4,110 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state also saw 157 casualties with Ahmednagar reporting the highest toll with 22 deaths. It was followed by Satara and Aurangabad with 16 fatalities each. The state government has planned to ease lockdown restrictions in 25 districts where the positivity rate is much less than that of the state. Positivity rate is the percentage of tests returning positive out of the total tests conducted for an infection.Also Read | Chhattisgarh to reopen schools for classes 10, 12 from today; parents unhappyHowever, there won’t be any relaxations in 11 districts. On Sunday, they reported 5,115 cases, nearly 79% of the total infections. The most cases were reported in Ahmednagar (888), while Pune reported 820 cases, Sangli 754, Solapur 691, Satara 642, Kolhapur 610, Beed 202, Ratnagiri 196, Raigad 180, Sindhudurg 105, and Palghar recorded 27 cases.The above districts have continued to report a high number of cases in the state for the past few days.Currently, districts in the state have level-three restrictions, which involves tighter curbs with limited operational hours for shops and markets. Shops and bazaars remain shut on the weekends, while malls, theatres and multiplexes are completely closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-over-6k-new-covid-cases-amid-plans-to-lift-curbs-in-25-dists-101627873704563.html
02-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh to reopen schools for classes 10, 12 from today; parents say govt should have waited||Chhattisgarh will reopen government and private schools for classes 10 and 12 with 50 per cent attendance from Monday, a decision criticised by parents in the state. According to an official order, the government has said schools will be reopened in districts with a positivity of 1% for the previous seven days.Schools, colleges and other educational institutions in Chhattisgarh were closed due to the second wave of the pandemic. The decision to reopen schools from Monday was taken during a recent cabinet chaired by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel.The parents association in Chhattisgarh has expressed dissatisfaction over resuming offline classes for students and urged the state government to reconsider its decision. Kristopher Paul, the president of the Chhattisgarh Parents Association, told PTI that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely in August and so the decision to reopen schools should have been taken next month. Alleging that the government took this decision in a hurry to benefit private school owners, Paul also said the monsoon season causes viral disease among children and the government should have waited.The state government also allowed the resumption of offline classes for students of classes 1, 5 and 8 subject to certain conditions.According to the official order, in order to start offline classes for students in rural areas of the state, it is necessary to get the recommendation from gram panchayats concerned and the parents committees of schools. In urban areas too, similar recommendations are needed from local corporators and parent committees before starting online classes for students classes 1, 5 and 8, the order added.However, offline classes will not be started immediately for students of classes 6, 7, 9 and 11, PTI further reported.Students who will attend offline classes will do so on alternative days and those down with cough, cold and fever will be banned. The order also said that online classes will continue and it will not be mandatory for students to attend schools.Chhattisgarh has so far recorded 1,002,222 Covid-19 cases, 13,525 related deaths and 986,778 recoveries. Active cases of Covid-19 stand at 1,919.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-10-12-from-today-parents-unhappy-101627873102525.html
02-08-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain to continue over parts of central, NW India||Widespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over parts of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi till Wednesday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD issued a warning for thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain over and adjoining areas of Bhiwani, Charkhidadri, Matanhail, Kosli, Narnaul, Mahendergarh, Kotputly, Viratnagar, Alwar, Viratnagar at 6.10am on Monday. It also said thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain will occur over and adjoining areas of Delhi, Faridabad, Gurugram, Assandh, Gohana, Rewari, Jind(Haryana) Greater Noida, Noida, Dadri, Meerut, Modinagar, Ghaziabad, Garhmukteshwar, Amroha, Hapur, Siyana, Gulaoti, Mahawa, Rajgarh during the next two hours.A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over southeast Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move westwards to east Rajasthan across north Madhya Pradesh and adjoining southwest Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. A low-pressure area is also lying over southern parts of Haryana and neighbourhood. It is likely to become less marked during next 24 hours.The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift north of its normal position from Sunday night. The western end is very likely to remain to the south of its normal position and active during next 3-4 days. Widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Madhya Pradesh till August 5. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also very likely over East Madhya Pradesh on August 1 and 2.Widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely to continue over East Rajasthan till August 5. Current spell of widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over rest parts of North India with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh on August 1 and 2. Isolated heavy rain is likely over Haryana during till August 5 and Himachal Pradesh till August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-to-continue-over-parts-of-central-nw-india-101627872744670.html
02-08-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: RS could have only 3 hours 37 mins of proceedings so far||The monsoon session of Parliament resumed on Monday amid continuing protests by the Opposition, who targetted the Centre over several issues including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, farm laws and the Pegasus snooping controversy.Both Houses of the Parliament were adjourned several times during the day before being adjourned till tomorrow.Meanwhile, Lok Sabha passed the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill that seeks to amend the country's general-insurance law and permit the government to offload its stake in state-governed insurance corporations.Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge said that all Opposition floor leaders will meet have a breakfast meeting tomorrow at 9.30am at the Constitution Club in Delhi, which will also see the attendance of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, news agency ANI reported citing sources.Follow all the updates here:Of 10 sittings so far, RS could have only 3 hours 37 mins of proceedings: Govt sourcesIn 10 sittings so far, RS could have only 2hrs 8mins of Question Hour, meant for ensuring accountability of executive to Parliament; 1hr 24mins for legislative business passing 5 Bills with 7 members intervening; 1min of Zero Hour & another 4mins on Special Mentions: Govt sourcesOf total 50 working hours, 39 hours 52 mins have been lost due to disruptions: Govt sourcesOf the total 50 working hours available, 39 hours 52 minutes have been lost due to disruptions. The House, however, sat for 1 hour 52 minutes beyond the scheduled time, but for which the productivity would have been much lower: Government sourcesRajya Sabha productivity fell to 13.70% in second week from 32.20% in the first due to disruptions: Govt sourcesWith disruptions continuing, the productivity of Rajya Sabha fell to 13.70% during 2nd week of the ongoing monsoon session from 32.20% during 1st week, resulting in overall productivity of 21.60% for the first two weeks: Government sourcesLok Sabha passes General Insurance Nationalisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021Lok Sabha on Monday passed the General Insurance Nationalisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Both Houses will meet again tomorrow as sessions have been adjourned for the day.Both Houses adjourned till tomorrowBoth Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been adjourned till tomorrow owing to continuing uproar by Opposition MPs over Pegasus snooping row, farm laws, and other issues.Rajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrow 11amRajya Sabha has been adjourned till 11 am, 3rd AugustRajya Sabha has been adjourned till tomorrow (August 3) 11am amid protests by Opposition MPs over pegasus, and other issues.Opposition floor leaders to meet at the Constitution Club tomorrow in Delhi, says KhargeLeader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge said on Monday that all Opposition floor leaders will meet tomorrow morning at the Constitution Club in Delhi. Rahul Gandhi will also attend the meeting, ANI reported citing sources.The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, passed in Rajya Sabha; House adjourned till 3.36pmThe Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 passed in Rajya SabhaHouse adjourned till 3.36 pm pic.twitter.com/dY4jyaa3tJBoth Houses of the Parliament only resumed at 2pm before being adjourned for the third time in the day owing to protests by Opposition MPs over pegasus, and other issues.Lok Sabha adjourned till 3.30pm amid uproar by Opposition MPsLok Sabha adjourned till 3.30 pm amid protests by opposition membersBoth houses resume after being adjourned twiceThe Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha sessions have resumed after being adjourned twice during the day.'What is our fault if we want a discussion over Pegasus?': Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryThis is being discussed not only in the country but across the world. Snooping matter isn't an issue for our country alone. Govts of Israel, France, Hungary US & European nations are investigating it. Why is PM Modi scared?: Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury pic.twitter.com/QiV3RvYV95Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury lashed out at the Centre over the Pegasus hacking controversy by saying that Pegasus is a snooping matter and the opposition wanted a discussion on it.Mudra loan available for manufacturing, trading, services: Nirmala SitharamanUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed the Lok Sabha on Monday that the Mudra loan is available for manufacturing, trading, services along with activities allied to agriculture.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 pm amid Oppn uproar over farm lawsThe Upper House of Parliament has been adjourned till 12 noon amid opposition uproar over the farmers protest against the farm laws.Lok Sabha session begins, speaker Birla congratulates PV SindhuI am delighted to tell you that PV Sindhu won the bronze medal for India in badminton women's singles at #OlympicGames. This is her second consecutive Olympics medal. She is the first Indian woman to win two Olympic medals for individual events: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla pic.twitter.com/cczSUVqmtcThe Lok Sabha session began on Monday morning and speaker Om Birla and other members of the House congratulated badminton player PV Sindhu for winning bronze medal in Tokyo 2020 Olympics.Centre responsible if House is not functioning: Rajya Sabha LoP Mallikarjun KhargeMallikarjun Kharge, the leader of opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha, lashed out at the Centre on Monday by saying that it was responsible if the Upper House of Parliament was not functioning. Kharge said the Centre will face challenges if there is a discussion on the Pegasus hacking controversy."They want Parliament to go on just like this, that their Bills get passed just like that & issues like inflation, Covid, fuel prices hike, Rafale get hidden," Kharge further said.Cong MP moves adjournment motion notice in LS over PegasusCongress MP Manish Tewari on Monday gave adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss the Pegasus hacking controversy. "It should be noted that this kind of surveillance classifies as hacking, which is what spyware does and it would very much qualify as "unauthorised interception" or hacking as per Information Technology Act, 2000," Tewari said in his notice.Oppn to meet RS LoP to formulate strategy for day's proceedingsRajya Sabha Floor leaders of like-minded opposition parties to meet at LoP (Leader of Opposition) Mallikarjun Kharge's office at 10.15 am to formulate strategy for the day's proceedings of the House.Rajya Sabha to discuss important bills todayThe Upper House of Parliament will be seeing a discussion on important bills today including the Constitution(Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to move the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 in Lok SabhaUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha today, which seeks to abolish tribunals or authorities under various laws by amending various statutes to streamline the justice delivery system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101627865659869.html
02-08-2021||India||PM Modi to launch ‘futuristic digital payment solution’ e-RUPI today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday launch e-RUPI, a person and purpose-specific digital payment solution via video conferencing. “Digital technology is transforming lives in a major way and is furthering ‘Ease of Living.’ At 4:30 PM tomorrow, 2nd August, will launch e-RUPI, a futuristic digital payment solution which offers several benefits for its users,” Modi said in a tweet on Sunday.PM also said that among the benefits of e-RUPI are cashless and contactless digital payment, connecting service sponsors and beneficiaries digitally and ensuring leak-proof delivery of several welfare services.According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday, e-RUPI is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment which has been developed by the National Payments Corporation of India in collaboration with the department of financial services, the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the National Health Authority.It is a QR code or SMS string-based e-Voucher, which is delivered to the mobile phones of beneficiaries. Users of e-RUPI will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the service provider.The digital payment solution connects sponsors of services with beneficiaries and service providers digitally without any physical interface. e-RUPI ensures that payment to a service provider is made only after the completion of a transaction. “Being pre-paid in nature, it assures timely payment to the service provider without involvement of any intermediary,” the PMO statement added.e-RUPI can also be utilised for delivering services under schemes meant for providing drugs and nutritional support under mother and child welfare schemes, Tuberculosis eradication programmes, drugs and diagnostics under Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, fertiliser subsidies etc.The private sector can also leverage the e-Voucher as a part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-futuristic-digital-payment-solution-e-rupi-today-101627866979713.html
02-08-2021||India||Covid third wave likely this month, may peak in October: Report||India may see another rise in Covid-19 cases as soon as August with the third wave peaking with less than 100,000 infections a day in the best-case scenario or nearly 150,000 in the worst scenario, researchers have said. Bloomberg reported citing researchers led by Mathukumalli Vidyasagar and Manindra Agrawal at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Hyderabad and Kanpur respectively that the surge in Covid-19 cases will push the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which may peak in October. Vidyasagar told Bloomberg in an email that states with high Covid-19 cases, such as Kerala and Maharashtra, could “skew the picture.”The third wave of Covid-19 is unlikely to be as brutal as the second wave when India reported 400,000-plus daily cases and came down after that. The prediction by the researchers, who accurately forecast the lessening of the surge in Covid-19 cases earlier this year, is based on a mathematical model.Also read | Delta as infectious as chickenpox: CDC reportIn May, Vidyasagar, a professor at IIT Hyderabad said India’s coronavirus outbreak could peak in the coming days based on the mathematical model. “Our predictions are that the peak will come within a few days. As per current projections, we should hit 20,000 cases per day by the end of June. We will revise this as needed," Vidyasagar told Bloomberg by email.However, in April, Vidyasagar’s team's prediction that the wave would peak by the middle of last month was incorrect. He wrote on Twitter at the time that it was because of incorrect parameters as “the pandemic was changing rapidly, even wildly, until about a week ago."He also told Reuters that the peak would be between May 3-5 and to India Today that it would come on May 7.Also read | Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: DataIndia reported 41,831 Covid-19 cases and 541 deaths on Sunday even as the Centre cautioned 10 states, including Kerala, Maharashtra and northeastern regions, amid the rising infections and asked them to take steps to arrest the spread of the coronavirus.Experts have also warned that the Delta variant of the coronavirus, which spreads as easily as chickenpox and can be passed on by vaccinated people, can fuel the surge. According to data from the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG), nearly 8 of every 10 Covid-19 cases in May, June and July were caused by the highly infectious Delta variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-third-wave-likely-this-month-may-peak-in-october-report-101627863320241.html
02-08-2021||India||Number Theory: Kerala’s outbreak concerning, but it is not as bad as it looks||Over the past few weeks, Kerala has defied the national trend of falling Covid-19 infections. But it’s the volume of the outbreak in the southern state that is worrying. As of Saturday night, the state has 165,011 active cases, accounting for 40% of all such cases in the country. In the past week, India has reported 40,459 new infections of Covid-19 every single day on average. Kerala alone has been responsible for around 19,528 of these daily new cases, or about 48% of the national tally. Only once before has any state been responsible for a larger share of the national infection count — Maharashtra, for a month-and-a-half period at the very start of India’s brutal second wave. The average weekly positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among total tested, generally indicative of the spread of the infection within the community — currently stands at 12.3% in Kerala, over five times that of the national average of 2.4% in the same period. There is no denying that the state is currently the biggest virus hot spot in the country. But Kerala has handled the outbreak far better than what purely looking at infection numbers in isolation appears to suggest right now. Here is why.1) Kerala residents least exposed to virusOn Wednesday, the Union health ministry released state-wise data from its latest round of seroprevalence survey conducted between the last week of June and first week of July. It showed that at 44.4% detected seropositivity, Kerala had the lowest proportion of population exposed to Sars-CoV-2 in India. The national average was 67.6%. This, of course, includes the contribution of vaccination. This tell us two things. First, at the end of the second wave (when ICMR’s serosurvey was conducted), people in Kerala had been the least exposed to the virus in the country. The corollary of these findings is also that Kerala had the highest proportion of population (55.6%, compared to a national average of 32.4%) of any state in the country that still remained susceptible to the infection. Second, the findings give us a good idea of how well states worked on their testing. Placing the results of ICMR’s serosurvey along the total number of infections reported till the first week of July (when the survey concluded) shows that Kerala was, by a massive margin, the best state when it comes to identifying its on-the-ground infections. Till July 7, the state had reported a little over 3 million infections against the roughly 15.6 million people that had been exposed to the virus (if the findings are extrapolated on the state’s population). This paints a picture of the state’s testing strategy – Kerala was able to identify around 19% of all people exposed to the virus in the state. To put context to these, the national average for this detection rate is around 3%.2) The state was not hit as badly during the peak of India’s second waveDuring the peak of the second wave in the country, the health care system was exceedingly overburdened in a vast majority of the country’s populous regions. Through a three-four week period in May, a massive nationwide shortage of medical oxygen was dominating headlines. According to a database on deaths reported due to shortage of oxygen across the country maintained by Datameet, a citizen’s data collective based in Bengaluru which compiled such fatalities based on local news reports, there were at least 619 such deaths reported across India as of May 27, 2021. With 83 deaths due to shortage of oxygen, Goa had the highest number of such fatalities, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, both with 65 such deaths. Of the 619 deaths in the country, not a single was reported from Kerala.3) Kerala has fared better in saving livesThe state also has a Covid-19 mortality rate of 0.5%, the best of any major state in the country, and significantly better than the national average of 1.3%. This isn’t surprising considering Kerala is, by a good margin, the country’s best ranked state in terms of health care system, according to NITI Aayog’s Health Index, 2020, which measures the annual performance of states and UTs on a variety of indicators such as health outcomes, governance and processes.4) Better vaccination coverage than mostTill 9pm on Sunday, India’s vaccination drive has covered 27.9% of the country’s adult population on average with a single dose of the vaccine, while another 10.9% have been fully vaccinated, according to data from the health ministry’s CoWIN dashboard. In Kerala, this number is much higher – 30.7% of adults have been partially vaccinated and an impressive 22.8% of its eligible populations has been jabbed with both doses. In fact, a look at the country’s best population-wise administration of vaccine doses shows how far ahead the state is in terms of administering doses to its population. Among India’s 25 most populous regions, Kerala is on the third spot with 55 doses administered per 100 residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-kerala-s-outbreak-concerning-but-it-is-not-as-bad-as-it-looks-101627857641191.html
02-08-2021||India||Lab hired Rajasthan man to make fake test entries: Mahakumbh testing probe||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the alleged fake Covid-19 tests during the Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand has found that a man from Rajasthan, hired by Bhiwani-based Delphia laboratory, had made fake entries of people whose swab samples were not actually taken, officials associated with the investigation said on Sunday.“A Rajasthan-based man, who was hired by Delphia laboratory, uploaded fake entries on the ICMR portal and was given a certain amount per entry by [lab owner] Ashish Vashisth,” said an SIT official, requesting anonymity. The SIT probe is looking into charges that two private labs – Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs -- conducted roughly 100,000 fake tests during Mahakumbh.Delphia lab owner Ashish Vashisth was arrested and is, currently, in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lab-hired-rajasthan-man-to-make-fake-test-entries-mahakumbh-testing-probe-101627850750741.html
02-08-2021||India||Sindhu makes history, hockey team on cusp||A second Olympic medal for PV Sindhu. The Indian hockey team in the Olympic semi-finals for the first time since Munich 1972. For India, this was a super Sunday at Tokyo 2020.With Sindhu’s medal, which she won beating China’s He Bing Jiao in the bronze medal match, India also surpassed its Rio 2016 tally of two. Weightlifter Mirabai Chanu won silver on Day 1 of Tokyo 2020 while boxer Lovlina Borgohain is also assured a medal (colour yet to be decided) after storming into the semis.Sindhu’s name will now unquestionably be taken among the greatest ever sportspersons from the country after becoming only the second Indian—and first woman—after wrestler Sushil Kumar to win two individual Olympic medals, having claimed a silver five years ago in Rio. The 26-year-old also has five World Championship medals—including the gold she won in 2019.Sindhu’s efforts ensured that badminton became only the second sport after hockey to bring medals from three consecutive Olympics. Saina Nehwal had won the bronze in London 2012. Barely half an hour after Sindhu’s dominating straight games win, the Indian men’s hockey team clinched their most significant match in 41 years to enter the semi-finals—the first on artificial turf. In 1972, India won the bronze. India won gold in Moscow 1980, but then the top two from the league phase directly played the final.Manpreet Singh and his men beat three-time champions Great Britain 3-1 in the quarter-final at the Oi Hockey Staidum with the Singhs—Dilpreet, Hardik and Gurjant—scoring a goal apiece to take India to the cusp of a hockey medal for the first time in more than four decades. India face world champions Belgium on Tuesday morning in the semis.Now back to Sindhu.Since she played the Rio 2016 final, the lanky shuttler from Hyderabad has reached the final of every World Championship—an incredible run. That Sindhu is a player transformed when it comes to major tournaments is well known, but on Sunday, she had a different challenge to overcome. Just the day before, after storming through to the semis without dropping a game in Tokyo, she found herself at the receiving end, being dominated by Tai Tzu Ying in the semis. The straight games loss could have been demoralising for her. Instead she came out all guns firing for the bronze playoff, an unusual place for her to be in on the big stage.“I had a lot of emotions going through me—should I be happy that I won bronze or sad that I lost the opportunity to play in the final. But overall, I had to close off my emotions for this one match and give it my best,” Sindhu said.Sindhu closed off the match 21-15, 21-13 in 52 minutes to better her record to 7-9 against the Chinese.“It makes me feel really happy because I’ve worked hard for so many years,” Sindhu said. “It’s a proud moment getting a medal for my country.”Sindhu knew well that Bing Jiao prefers close net play, a slow game and long rallies. Using the drift to her advantage, Sindhu ensured that Bing Jiao got few opportunities to bring the play to the net, dictated the pace with her hard smashes and made the Chinese run around trying to retrieve steeply angled cross court shots. When the rallies were long, she not only held her nerve, but played freely and aggressively. “There were really long rallies but I had to be patient and calm,” she said. “Even though I was leading, I did not relax.”A great fighter, Sindhu lost the lead of the match only once—that too for just a point—in the first game and was sensational in returns throughout the second, including smashes aimed at the body. With twelve match points in hand, Sindhu ended the match with a shot that has defined her game in Tokyo--a cross court back hand return hit hard with the flick of the wrist. She let out a victory cry, raising both arms. “I’m on cloud nine,” she said. “I’m going to enjoy this moment. My family has worked hard for me and put in a lot of effort, so I’m very thankful. A lot of Indian fans showed me their love and support and I’m very thankful to each and every one of them. Definitely lots of love and support and kisses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sindhu-makes-history-hockey-team-on-cusp-101627843283954.html
02-08-2021||India||SC to hear today rape survivor’s plea to marry convicted former priest today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to take up on Monday the plea filed by a Kerala-based rape survivor who has sought permission to marry her accused, former Catholic priest Robin Vadakumchery, who is currently serving a double life term.The case came to light in 2017, when Vadakumchery, a senior priest at the church-run senior secondary school in Kottiyoor who was set to become a bishop, was accused of raping a 17 -year-old girl student of the school. The girl later gave birth to a son.In her petition filed on July 17, the rape survivor, now 22, has sought SC’s permission to marry the accused citing the enrolment of her five-year-old son in a school, which requires a marriage certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-take-up-rape-victim-s-plea-to-marry-convicted-former-priest-today-101627843042249.html
02-08-2021||India||Parties oppose Tamil Nadu CM’s plans to demolish PWD quarters||Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu on Sunday objected to the DMK government’s move to demolish the staff quarters of the Public Works Department (PWD) in Madurai for constructing a world-class library in memory of late DMK patriarch and chief minister M Karunanidhi. The opposition AIADMK and its allies, the PMK and the BJP wanted the government to pick another site stating that the late British engineer, Colonel John Pennycuick lived there. In a joint statement, AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami said the PWD quarters is being maintained by successive governments for the past 100 years. “The structure has to remain so that the younger generations learn about Pennycuick,” their statement read. Pennycuick’s legacy comes from his design for the construction of the Mullaiperiyar dam following a famine which he submitted to the then officials of the Madras Province in 1882, which is considered an engineering marvel. Work began in 1887, and the dam opened in 1895, but the waters and issues over the dam continue to be a dispute between Tamil Nadu and Kerala to this day. In 2014, when the Mullaiperiyar dam touched 142 feet, farmers garlanded the statue of Pennycuick in PWD as it irrigates agricultural regions of Madurai and Theni. The local farmers had also raised this as an issue stating that Pennycuick lived there, but the district officials have rejected the claims. In a statement, Madurai district collector S Aneesh Sekhar said that the building in PWD was constructed in 1912, a year after Pennycuick’s death, so he could not have lived there. On June 3, chief minister M K Stalin had announced that the library, to be named Kalaignar M Karunanidhi Memorial Library, will be established at a cost of ₹70 crore and that it will be modelled on the lines of the Anna Centenary Library in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-oppose-tamil-nadu-cm-s-plans-to-demolish-pwd-quarters-101627842982192.html
02-08-2021||India||GST kitty rebounds to ₹1.16L cr in July||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection surged to ₹1.16 lakh crore in July, a 33% year-on-year jump, signifying the easing impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy which saw the revenue plunge below ₹1 lakh crore in the previous month for the first time since October 2020.The GST revenue in July this year, which indicates the actual volume of business transactions in June, is also about 14% up compared to ₹1.02 lakh crore collected in July 2019, pointing at rapid economic recovery after the second wave that raged in the months of April and May, according to official data.The GST collections, after posting above ₹1 lakh crore for eight months in a row, dropped below ₹1 lakh crore in June 2021 as the collection in the month was predominantly related to business that took place in the month of May 2021, when most of the states and Union territories (UTs) were under complete or partial lockdown due to the pandemic, the finance ministry said.“With the easing out of Covid restrictions, GST collection for July 2021 has again crossed ₹1 lakh crore, which clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are likely to continue in the coming months too,” it said in a statement.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) last week slashed India’s growth forecast for FY-22 to 9.5% from 12.5% projected in April, citing the severe second wave of the pandemic, and expected slow recovery in business confidence. Most of the professional forecasters also reduced their growth projections for India. Last month, global rating agency S&P lowered India’s GDP growth forecast to 9.5% in the current fiscal year compared to its prediction of 11% in March, which was just before the second wave.The GST collections, which dropped for seven consecutive months from March 2020 after a 68-day nationwide lockdown since March 25 to check the first wave, showed recovery from October last year. The revenue surpassed the ₹1 lakh crore mark for eight consecutive months since October 2020. The second wave of the pandemic, however, led to the GST collections dipping below ₹1 lakh crore in June 2021. The revenue, however, bounced back quickly as there was no nationwide lockdown this year, according to experts.Aditya Singhania, partner at consultancy firm Singhania’s GST Consultancy Co, said: “Collection during the July ’21 majorly relates to supplies taken place in June ’21 whose collection has bounced back to mark of ₹1 lakh crore, which certainly indicates the economic activities restoring steadily.”The gross GST revenue collected in July 2021 is ₹1,16,393 crore — ₹22,197 crore central GST (CGST), ₹28,541 crore state GST (SGST), and ₹57,864 crore integrated GST (IGST), including ₹27,900 crore collected on import of goods. ₹7,790 crore was collected as the GST cess, including ₹815 crore collected on imports.“During the month, revenue from import of goods was 36% higher and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) are 32% higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” the finance ministry said. MS Mani, senior director at Deloitte India, said: “The improvement in GST collections both on domestic transactions and imports, accompanied by the fact that major producing states have shown significant increases, would indicate that the economic activities have resumed across the country.”According to the official data, barring Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Puducherry, all other states and UTs have shown positive year-on-year growth in July GST collections. The revenue of Maharashtra in July jumped 51% at ₹18,899 crore; Gujarat saw a 36% growth at ₹7,629 crore; Karnataka 12% ( ₹6,737 crore); Tamil Nadu 36% ( ₹6,302 crore); Uttar Pradesh 18% ( ₹6,011 crore) and Haryana 53% ( ₹5,330 crore).Rajat Bose, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said the collection in July has seen a sharp uptick due to unlocking of businesses in June. “If the country is able to resist the third wave, the GST collections should increase from hereon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-kitty-rebounds-to-1-16l-cr-in-july-101627842922804.html
02-08-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram defuse border row||Guwahati/SilcharThe political standoff between Assam and Mizoram over a violent showdown at their disputed border that killed seven people and injured 41 others last Monday appeared to abate on Sunday after chief ministers of both the states agreed to resolve the issue through talks.Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga urged the people of his state to “avoid posting sensitive messages” on social media, as his Assam counterpart, Himanta Biswa Sarma, spoke of keeping “the spirit of the North-east alive”.“…we agreed to resolve the Mizoram-Assam border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue. In the meantime, in order to prevent any possible escalation of the situation, I request the people of Mizoram to avoid posting sensitive messages and make judicious use of their social media platform,” Zoramthanga, who is in quarantine after contact with a Covid-19-infected person, said on Twitter.Sarma, in his tweet, said that the chief ministers are likely to hold another round of discussions after Zoramthanga is out of quarantine.“Our main focus is on keeping the spirit of North-East alive. What happened along the Assam-Mizoram border is unacceptable to the people of both states. Honble CM Zoramthanga has promised to call me post his quarantine,” Sarma said.“Border disputes can only be resolved through discussion,” he said, a day after seeking a probe into the clashes by a “neutral agency”.The Mizoram police filed an FIR against Sarma and six Assam officials in Kolasib district, under various charges including those related to attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy.Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuango, however, on Sunday said the state’s chief minister has frowned upon charges levelled against Sarma, and indicated these are likely to be withdrawn.“I will discuss with the concerned police officer who filed the FIR and if there’s no legal fit in that, we would like to remove name of Assam chief minister from the FIR,” Chuango told reporters in Aizawl.Kolasib superintendent of police Vanlalfaka Ralte said that the police will not proceed with the case against Sarma. “The case is not withdrawn, but we are not going to investigate matter against Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma in order to have a peaceful atmosphere,” Ralte said.Later in the day, Sarma said he is ready to report to Mizoram Police if summoned and faced arrest but will not allow state government officials whose name appeared in the FIR along with his to face any probe by the neighbouring state.“If I am served a summon, I will go on a padyatra from Silchar to Vairengte and join the probe. If they (Mizoram Police) arrest me and that brings the situation to normal, I am ready for that. I will not seek bail from Gauhati High Court,” he told reporters.“I have to protect my officers. I cannot allow them to be investigated by Mizoram Police for an incident which occurred in Assam. We will not accept the summons issued to them,” Sarma added.The Assam Police have also issued summons to six officials of the Mizoram government, including the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police of Kolasib district.Newly appointed Cachar district superintendent of police Ramandeep Kaur said none of the Mizoram officials had appeared to record their statements so far. “None of them has come today. We will send notices to them again and if they fail to appear, we will send summons through court. The situation on the ground is normal, but while our security personnel have withdrawn from the border areas and it is being manned by CRPF personnel, Mizoram is yet to call back their forces,” she said.Sunday’s development came after Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to Sarma and Zoramthanga telephonically earlier in the day to defuse the border tension between the two North-eastern neighbours.The situation on the ground, however, remained tense, with Mizoram alleging that Assam was imposing a blockade in the Barak Valley region, and blocking medical supplies. “As per our information, a state-sponsored economic blockade has been clamped in Assam. Vehicles carrying consignments of essential commodities and life-saving medicines are stranded in the Dholai-Lailapur area in Assam. We will approach the Centre again to take the initiative for resumption of movement of traffic,” Mizoram health minister R Lalthangliana said. Assam has refuted reports of an economic blockade.The gunbattle at the border on Monday came two days after the chief ministers shared a stage with Shah and spoke of resolving the border dispute amicably. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power in Assam and Mizoram is ruled by the Mizo National Front, a part of the North East Democratic Alliance headed by the BJP.Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972 when it became a Union Territory. It became a state in 1987. The territorial dispute has festered since then and fuelled sporadic clashes, the latest of which rocked the region in August 2020 and February 2021.The dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception. Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a 1933 demarcation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-defuse-border-row-101627842922214.html
02-08-2021||India||Opposition to raise concerns over Insurance bill||With chances of a settlement between the government and the Opposition ebbing with each passing day in Parliament, the opposition parties have now flagged The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, as their new concern.West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, expressing his “shock and alarm” at the policy direction of the Centre “to privatise public insurance companies”. In his letter, Mitra argued that the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), has 17.4 million retail insurers and provides employment to more than 13,000 employees. “We must recognise that LIC’s quantum investment in our economy is a staggering ₹36.76 lakh crore out of which ₹23.75 crore is in government securities… it is evident that privatising LIC would lead to opening a Pandora’s Box, throwing into insecurity 30 crore policyholders.”While Mitra termed the legislation, tabled last week in the Lok Sabha, as anti-people, opposition parties made it clear that the Pegasus snooping row would be their top issue in this session.“We are clear that the only resolution can be that either the Prime Minister or the home minister has to reply to a debate on the Pegasus in Parliament,” said Derek O’Brien. “All opposition parties are on the same page,” he added.Various Opposition leaders are submitting notice for debate on subjects that include the words “national security” or “espionage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-to-raise-concerns-over-insurance-bill-101627842205935.html
02-08-2021||India||House panel’s Ladakh, J&K visit from August 17||The parliamentary standing committee on home affairs will travel to Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir from August 17 to 21 for a detailed study on matters relating to the administration, development and people’s welfare in the two Union Territories.According to a communication from Rajya Sabha secretariat, the committee members will hold meetings with select stakeholders related to the subject along with representatives from the ministry of home affairs and administrations of the UTs. While the committee headed by Congress Rajya Sabha MP Anand Sharma has 28 members, it is not yet known how many will travel to the two UTs.The panel has also desired to review and brief about the working conditions of the three armed forces — Indo-Tibet Border Police, Central Reserve Police Force and Border Security Force — which are deployed in the region, it added.The committee is also likely to visit the border outposts (BoPs) manned by the ITBP and BSF along the Indo-China and Indo-Pakistan border, respectively, officials said.The visit comes over a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level interaction with mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir. The June 24 meeting was the first outreach by the Centre since it revoked the region’s special status on August 5, 2019, bifurcating the erstwhile state into two Union territories (UT).Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad, National Conference leaders Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti were among the leaders present at the meeting, who called for restoration of statehood to J&K.On Wednesday, the MHA informed Parliament that full statehood to J&K will be restored at an appropriate time once normalcy is restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-s-ladakh-j-k-visit-from-aug-17-101627842146619.html
02-08-2021||India||Government plans Covaxin trials in Bangladesh to enhance its recognition abroad||New Delhi: The Indian government, in a bid to enhance the recognition of indigenous coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), plans to facilitate its clinical trials in Bangladesh, according to an internal government document.The document, which has been reviewed by HT, adds that the government has secured approval for funding the clinical trials in Bangladesh. The Indian government, through its missions abroad, also facilitated the regulatory approval of Covaxin by drug regulators in various countries, the document said.“To enhance the recognition of Covaxin abroad, especially in the neighbourhood, a proposal was mooted for its trials in Bangladesh. Towards this end, MEA (ministry of external affairs) facilitated the visit of a team of officials from Department of Biotechnology and Bharat Biotech to Dhaka to discuss the proposal with Bangladeshi officials. MEA also obtained approval for funding the clinical trials in Bangladesh. The trials can begin upon approval by Bangladeshi authorities.”Reuters reported in January, citing an official at Bangladesh’s medical research body that Bharat Biotech applied to conduct trials for Covaxin in the country.No Covaxin doses have been supplied to Bangladesh. India has so far provided 3.3 million Covishield doses as grant and 7 million doses commercially to Bangladesh, according to the vaccine supply web portal maintained by the external affairs ministry.According to people familiar with the developments in New Delhi and Dhaka, the Bangladesh Medical Research Council (BMRC) approved the trials of Covaxin in the country on July 18.BMRC chairman Syed Modasser Ali, the former health adviser to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, signed off on the move, the people said.The approval apparently followed a push from the Indian side. However, the people cited above said that there wasn’t much interest in Covaxin in some quarters in Bangladesh as the country has signed agreements with China for 30 million doses of Sinopharm vaccine and is set to ink a separate deal for millions of doses of Russia’s Sputnik V.The Bangladeshi side is also upset over the Serum Institute of India’s inability to deliver 30 million doses of the Covishield vaccine under a contract signed last November. Vaccine exports from India were halted in April amid a devastating second wave of infections. Under the agreement with SII, Bangladesh was to get five million doses each month from January to June 2021.HT reached out to Bharat Biotech for a comment but did not get a response immediately.Bangladesh is one of five countries (the others are Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Nepal, and Pakistan) that are part of the China-led China South Asian Countries Emergency Supplies Reserve and the Poverty Alleviation and Cooperative Development Centre, both formed earlier this month. The first is expected to make vaccines easily available to its members.Earlier this month, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech released data from the final analysis of Covaxin and said that the vaccine demonstrated overall efficacy of 77.8% against symptomatic infection. It added that Covaxin has now received emergency use authorizations in 16 countries including, Brazil, India, Philippines, Iran, Mexico, etc. with EUA’s in process in 50 countries worldwide. The company is in discussions with WHO to obtain emergency Use Listing for COVAXIN, it noted. Bharat Biotech has cancelled its agreement with two firms, one based in Brazil, and another in Dubai, for the supply of Covaxin to Brazil after the country scrapped a deal to buy Covaxin following graft allegations. Late last week, the country’s drugs regulator also rejected Bharat Biotech’s application for an emergency use licence. In a response to a Parliament query last wee the health ministry said it is “aware of media reports of some controversy around contracts and regulatory approvals for supply of Covaxin to Brazil. This however relates exclusively to an agreement between a commercial entity i.e. M/s Bharat Biotech and a foreign country.”Bharat Biotech’s repeated announcements about enhancing capacity have not resulted in an increase in output of Covaxin. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in Parliament last week that the company would deliver 25 million doses in July and 35 million in August.The government document also mentions the foreign ministry’s efforts to take Covaxin global.“MEA, through its Missions abroad, facilitated the regulatory approval process of COVAXIN by drug regulators in various countries. We facilitated meetings of regulatory authorities of various countries with Bharat Biotech…Our Missions continue to facilitate the approval process in several other countries by reaching out to the host government at various levels and sharing various technical data as provided by Bharat Biotech. Foreign Secretary held a meeting with the leadership of Bharat Biotech and assured full support of MEA in its application process for WHO Emergency use listing (EUL) of COVAXIN,” it said.HT on May 1 reported Centre is exploring the possibility of offering the locally developed coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for production abroad through a technology transfer between commercial entitiesIndia has also received enquiries from other countries for the export of Covaxin, HT reported on May 24. New Delhi has been approached by at least two countries, Hungary and Paraguay for the commercial export of 1 million doses of Covaxin, with the first holding forth the possibility of access to the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-covaxin-trials-in-bangladesh-to-enhance-its-recognition-abroad-101627842144380.html
02-08-2021||India||No passport, jobs’ clearance for stone pelters: J&K Police||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police has issued an order, denying security clearance for passport and other government services to all those involved in “law and order and stone pelting cases”.“All the field units of CID SB Kashmir are hereby directed to ensure that during verification related to passport, services and any other verification to government services/schemes, the subjects involvement in law and order, stone pelting cases and other crime prejudicial to the security of the state be specifically looked into and same must be corroborated from the local police station records,” said the order issued by the senior superintendent of police (SSP), CID.The order added that any digital evidence like CCTV footage, photographs, videos and audio clips, quadcopter images available in the records of the police, security forces, and security agencies be also referred during the verification process. “Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance.”The J&K wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) welcomed the move, saying that it would serve as a severe blow to those conspiring against the country and fleeing abroad to escape accountability.Talking to news agency PTI, BJP chief Ravinder Raina said some “anti-national powers” in Jammu & Kashmir support terrorism and Pakistan and “use passports to flee the country and also get absorbed in government jobs besides getting contracts of (developmental) projects. As per the new order, they will not get the security clearance which is a good step and will serve as a severe blow to such elements”.National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah, however, criticised the order, saying: “An ‘adverse police report’ cannot be a substitute for being found guilty in a court of law. A year and a half ago J&K police were able to create an ‘adverse police report’ to justify my detention under the Public Safety Act that would never have stood up to legal challenge,” the NC leader wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-passport-jobs-clearance-for-stone-pelters-j-k-police-101627842144879.html
02-08-2021||India||Heavy rains to persist in central, northwest India: IMD||Many parts of central and northwest India, particularly east Rajasthan, have seen extremely heavy rain in the last 24 hours, which, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predict will last for the next two or three days. However, apart from bringing relief to the parched region, the heavy monsoon showers have also caused flooding and damage to roads at a few places.IMD scientists said Saiwad in Jaipur district recorded exceptionally high rainfall of 30cm between Saturday and Sunday. Makrana in Nagaur followed closely behind with 24cm rainfall and Hurda in Bhilwara with 22cm. Other places that also received significant rainfall were North Lakhimpur in Assam with 17cm; Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Danta Ramgarh and Bhinai in Rajasthan with 15cm each; Pali, Jaitram and Ajmer in Rajasthan with 14cm each; and the Delhi Ridge with 14cm.Between June 1 and July 31, northwest India recorded 2% rain deficiency but Haryana, Chandigarh and the Delhi region recorded 50% excess rain, with Delhi and Haryana recording 43% and 51% excess rain, respectively. “As predicted, east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh are recording extremely heavy rain that is likely to continue for the next 2-3 days. Parts of northwest India will also get good rain. Saiwad in Jaipur district has possibly made a historical record with 30cm rain in 24 hours. There is a low-pressure area south of Delhi that is likely to become less marked while another low-pressure area is likely to move towards east Rajasthan across north Madhya Pradesh. That will bring very heavy rain to Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.Rain distribution has been skewed in June and July. Northeast India has a rain deficiency of 13% with Arunachal Pradesh recording a 37% deficiency. Assam and Meghalaya have 24% deficiency while Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura have recorded 35% deficiency. Gujarat and the Kutch region have recorded 32% and 36% deficiency, respectively, while Kerala and Lakshadweep have recorded 28% and 49% shortfall. Overall, the country has recorded a 1% rain deficiency.Parts of the country can look forward to more rain in the days to come. A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over southeast Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move westwards to east Rajasthan across north Madhya Pradesh and adjoining southwest Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. A low-pressure area is also lying over the southern parts of Haryana and its neighbourhood. It is likely to become less marked during the next 24 hours.IMD is expecting normal to above-normal rain over many parts in August due to La Nina conditions, a global meteorological phenomenon that brings about harsh winters and above-normal monsoon in India. O P Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group at IMD, said that in the past 50 years, there has been a trend of reduced rain in August, but this year could buck that trend due to the cooling of Pacific waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-to-persist-in-central-northwest-india-imd-101627842082738.html
02-08-2021||India||Indian, Chinese armies set up hotline in eastern sector||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday established a new hotline in the eastern sector to enable local commanders from both sides to speak directly and resolve differences on the ground, officials familiar with the development said.The hotline has been established between commanders of the Indian Army at Kongra La in North Sikkim and the PLA at Khamba Dzong in Tibetan Autonomous Region, the Indian Army said in a statement.The latest hotline was activated a day after the two armies held the 12th round of talks in the Ladakh sector to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The setting up of the hotline in the eastern sector coincided with the PLA Day.This is the sixth hotline for local commanders between the two armies — two in eastern Ladakh, two in Arunachal Pradesh and two in Sikkim.The hotline has been established to “further the spirit of trust and cordial relations along the borders,” the Indian Army statement said.Such hotlines are used routinely to resolve differences at the local level, including the Ladakh sector, where the two armies have been locked in a border row for almost 15 months and negotiations are on to ease tensions.The two hotlines in the Ladakh sector have been activated more than 1,450 times since May 2020 to sort out differences at the ground level.“The armed forces of the two countries have well-established mechanisms for communication at the ground commander level. These hotlines in various sectors go a long way in enhancing the same and maintaining peace and tranquillity at the borders,” the army statement said.Top Indian and Chinese commanders on Saturday met in the Ladakh sector in the latest attempt to reduce border tensions between the two countries, amid hopes in some quarters of reaching an understanding on the disengagement of rival soldiers from Hot Springs and Gogra.The 12th round of military talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) began at 10.30am and ended at 7.30pm at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. The outcome of the dialogue is not yet known, with officials saying that a statement is likely to be issued on Monday.India and China have been locked in a border row since May 2020, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and heightened tensions between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year. The two armies kicked off talks to reduce border tensions in June 2020.Before Saturday, the corps commander-ranked officers met on April 9 when the Indian Army told the PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict.Some forward movement is expected in hammering out a disengagement agreement for Hot Springs and Gogra, as reported by HT on Friday.While the Indian and Chinese armies began negotiations to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh on June 6, the talks have only had limited success so far.The only significant outcome has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. Problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang are yet to be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotline-set-up-between-indian-chinese-armies-in-eastern-sector-101627841964421.html
02-08-2021||India||Minorities must be treated as ‘weaker sections’: NCM||The National Commission for Minorities (NCM) has told the Supreme Court that minorities have to be treated as the “weaker sections” in India, where Hindus are “predominant,” as the body justified the Union government’s various schemes for religious minorities.“In our country like India where the majority community is predominant, the minorities have to be treated as the weaker sections within the meaning of Article 46,” said NCM’s affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court before a bench headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman. Article 46 obligates the State to promote educational and economic interests of the weaker sections.Responding to a petition filed jointly by six members of the Hindu community against the creation of the commission and special schemes meant exclusively for religious minorities, NCM maintained that “numerically smaller or weaker classes are bound to be suppressed and overpowered by the dominant majority groups” if special provisions and schemes were not framed by the government.It added that the pertinent constitutional provisions on framing special schemes could not be limited to caste-based identities and must include in its fold religious minorities to ensure practical and empirical equality of all groups and classes in the society.The Centre and the NCM have notified Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Parsis as minority communities in India. Contending that only Hindus, Sikhs and Buddhists could get benefits as scheduled castes, the commission argued that if these special provisions were valid despite being religion-specific, special provisions for religious minorities were also justified in the same manner.The commission emphasised that the interpretation of the Constitution coupled with judicial trends would demonstrate that religious and linguistic minorities “have to be” treated as specific identities entitled to special protection by the state.Creation of NCM, the affidavit said, was the manifestation of a pre-existing human rights organisation to oversee the enforcement of the human rights of religious minorities and that there was nothing in the Constitution that made it doubtful whether minorities based on religion or language could be lawfully identified as particular classes of citizens requiring special protection and safeguards. Rejecting a contention in this regard by the petitioners, NCM submitted that it was for the government to declare any community as a minority and it was unlikely that the government resorted to “instigation” of any community to claim minority status to benefit from various schemes.The petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain contended that the petitioners were being unconstitutionally deprived of benefits available to similarly situated members of religious minorities in violation of their fundamental rightsEarlier, the Centre also defended the welfare schemes for religious minorities. The case came up for hearing on July 30, when the Centre sought time to file some additional documents. The court will examine the replies of NCM and the Centre on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minorities-must-be-treated-as-weaker-sections-ncm-101627841542072.html
02-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu and Karnataka raise curbs at Kerala border||As a surge in Covid-19 cases continues in Kerala, with more than 100,000 cases over the last five days, neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have restricted the entry of travellers from the state. Winding queues are visible at border checkpoints as both states tighten security measures.Nearly one in every two new Covid-19 infections recorded in India over the past week have come from Kerala, defying the national trend of falling infections since the decline of the country’s brutal second wave of infections.On Sunday, Kerala recorded 20,728 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the caseload to 3,411,489, while 56 new deaths took the toll to 16,837.The coastal state’s test positivity rate (TPR) also remained high at 12.14%, while the national average is 2.34%.According to the data released by the state health ministry, active cases also surged to 167,379, accounting for more than one-third of the active cases of the country.Amid the surge, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced a special surveillance measure, mandating a negative RT-PCR certificate for people arriving to the state from Kerala from August 5.Till Sunday, Tamil Nadu’s tally stood at 2,561,587 with 1,990 new cases, while the toll reached 26 with 34,102 fresh fatalities.Earlier, the Karnataka government also issued an order, mandating a negative RT-PCR certificate for those arriving from Kerala and Maharashtra.Karnataka on Sunday logged 1,875 new cases, taking its tally to 2,906,999. The state recorded 25 deaths on Sunday.According to the data released from the state health ministry, in at least four Kerala districts, the reproduction number (R value) is above 1.2%. R value is an indicator on how quickly the infection is spreading and gives a clear picture on how many people on an average get infected from a Covid-19 patient.“The latest sero survey shows at least 50 per cent of the population is vulnerable. We have noticed the presence of new Delta variants in different parts of the state,” said Kerala health minister Veena George, adding that the government is also planning to redraw its strategies as the next three weeks are crucial.Meanwhile, as frequent lockdowns cripple normal lives, the government is planning to focus on micro-containment zones and allow shops and business establishments to function as usual. A majority of the shops open alternately, while there is a complete lockdown on weekends. An expert panel from the Centre for Disease Control visited some of the worst-affected districts in north Kerala and has asked health officials to tighten curbs only in micro-containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-and-k-taka-raise-curbs-at-kerala-border-101627841483625.html
02-08-2021||India||‘Alice in Wonderland’ syndrome: 63-year-old from Pune treated for “one in a million” Lilliputian hallucinations||A 63-year-old man, Pramod Patil, (name changed) started having recurrent bouts of hallucinations of being attacked by a hundreds of men. The strangest thing about his episodes, was the size of the imaginary men attacking him, no bigger than the size of his fingers. He started getting these hallucinations around six months ago. His family ignored the episodes at first, but with increased recurrence he was taken to a city hospital. After months of treatment the hallucinations have stopped and doctors say he has almost recovered. He was diagnosed with Lilliputian hallucinations, with which people or things seem smaller than their actual size. The rare neuropsychological condition sees the patient experience it often, not knowing that the distorted perception and hallucinations are an illusion. It is also called the “Alice in Wonderland” syndrome, a condition where visual perception is altered. Named after the famous children’s book “Alice in Wonderland”, where the main character Alice goes through metamorphic changes after eating or drinking particular foods and liquids. Patil would get at least two episodes a day lasting five minutes each, and was taken for a psychiatric evaluation. Patil said, “Around 200 people used to attack me. They were very small in size. My family members say that I then used to shout at them in a very loud voice. I am a retired person, and I stay home all the time. In a day, at least twice, I used to get a thought that I am being attacked by tiny people. Now, I can sleep peacefully and I do not get any thoughts that I am being attacked.”Dr Dharmendra Kendre, a neuropsychiatrist from Noble Hospital who treated the patient, said, “This is a very rare case with one in one million seen with such a disorder. Lilliputian hallucination is nothing but a false perception about things without stimulus. This can happen because of intake of certain drugs like cocaine and cannabis. Metabolic or electrolyte imbalance can also cause this hallucination. We can also see such cases in people with temporal lobe brain tumours, dementia and schizophrenia. Treatment is offered according to the cause behind the hallucination.” Dr Kendre added, “In Pramod’s case this might have been caused by some post-traumatic stress. He has been taking treatment for the last three months. We have prescribed him antipsychotic medicines and counselling sessions. In the case of senior citizens, even post-traumatic stress or prolonged sleeplessness can cause Lilliputian hallucination. In such cases, patients should immediately visit a psychiatrist for early recovery.” The doctor mentioned that after several months of medications, counselling, the occurrence of hallucinations slowly reduced with medications and he is no longer experiencing hallucinations now. Dr Shrikant Pawar, psychiatrist working at the Maharashtra Institute of Mental Health, Sassoon hospital, said, “It is a very rare disorder and because of a stigma attached and discrimination. Cases related to such hallucinations are poorly reported in India. However, people must note that such hallucinations and conditions are a treatable disorder with proper medications and counselling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alice-in-wonderland-syndrome-63-year-old-treated-for-one-in-a-million-lilliputian-hallucinations-101627836621807.html
02-08-2021||India||Former Manipur Congress chief Govindas Konthoujam joins BJP ahead of polls||After resigning from the primary membership of the Congress party and the Manipur assembly, former president of Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, Govindas Konthoujam on Sunday joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi ahead of the state assembly elections next year.Konthoujam’s entry to the BJP was announced by the party’s national media in-charge and national spokesperson Anil Baluni in the presence of Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh, senior party leader Sambit Patra and Manipur Pradesh chief A Sharda Devi. “Giving a major boost to @bjp4Manipur, former Manipur Congress President, Shri @KonthoujamG joined Bharatiya Janata Party today in presence of Shri @sambitswaraj,Prabhari BJP Manipur and Smt @AShardaDevi, President BJP Manipur,” the chief minister tweeted. With Konthoujam’s resignation last week, the 60-member Manipur assembly has been reduced to a strength of 53 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-manipur-congress-chief-govindas-konthoujam-joins-bjp-101627811481071.html
