15-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Close to 2.3mn passengers board local trains on Day One of restart||Nearly 2.3 million passengers travelled on Mumbai’s lifeline — its suburban train network — on the Central and Western Railway on Sunday, which was the first day of local train services resuming for all citizens, provided they are fully vaccinated and have taken their second dose at least 14 days prior. No incident of crowding was reported inside the trains, railway platforms or outside booking offices on both lines as services for the general public resumed after a gap of four months. The process of issuing universal passes has also been smooth, the officials said. Railways has issued nearly 120,000 monthly season passes to eligible passengers in the last four days since August 11.Approximately 1.2 million passengers travelled by local trains on CR and the rest 1.1 million passengers travelled on WR.On an average, nearly 2.3 million passengers travel by trains on CR and 2.1 million passengers commute on WR every day. Passengers, who travelled on Sunday, stated that the train commute will ease their financial burden.Anticipating an increase in the number of passengers next week that could result in crowding, both the zonal railways will be increasing the number of local train services from Monday. Around 1,300 local train services will be operated on the WR as opposed to the present 1,201 services. On CR, 1,686 services will be operated, as opposed to 1,612 currently.“I have missed travelling by local trains. I’m travelling today as it is a public holiday and the crowding will be less. I will travel all the way to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and back and enjoy the train travel,” said Aarti Jain, a resident of Vidyavihar.“I am happy that my company got me fully vaccinated and I was able to get a monthly pass. I was spending over Rs300 every day to travel to my workplace in Andheri. There is no financially viable alternative to local trains for commuting in Mumbai,” said Aslam Shaikh, a Kurla resident.Low passenger turnout was witnessed on Sunday. Railway authorities have stated that fewer passengers on Sunday was due to public holiday.“Sunday and Monday are both public holidays, which is why we are expecting fewer passengers. No incidents of crowding were reported. General commuters travelling by local trains are expected to increase from Tuesday.” said a senior railway official.Train services were suspended for the general public on April 15 due to the spike in coronavirus cases in the city.A universal pass embedded with Quick Response (QR) code is being made available to commuters through both offline and online systems. After verification of vaccination certificate, a passenger can take a monthly season pass at the booking office of any suburban railway station.By Sunday evening, 130,064 monthly season passes were issued to passengers on the suburban railway network. Of them, 87,875 passes were issued by Central Railway and 42,189 by the Western Railway, the officials said.The Maharashtra police and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel have been deployed at all entry and exit points of suburban railway stations to ensure no unauthorised entry is allowed at the railway platforms.Railway authorities have also deployed special squads, consisting of ticket checking staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel, for inspection of vaccination certificates and railway passes both by the CR and WR. Ticket-checking inspectors have also been deployed inside local train compartments.Railway authorities have also stated that the process of issuing seasonal monthly passes has been smooth. The CR and WR are operating 617 railway ticket window counters for passengers that will issue monthly passes. Of them, 341 windows are functional on CR stations and the remaining 276 ticket windows will be on WR stations.“The process of issuing railway passes has been smooth. No incidents of crowding have been witnessed either on the registration desk or booking windows. We are operating all booking windows on all the railway stations.” added the railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-close-to-2-3mn-passengers-board-local-trains-on-day-one-of-restart-101629051921290.html
15-08-2021||Bangalore||‘Conflict of interest’ new challenge for Karnataka Cabinet||After dissent over portfolios within the party, eyebrows are now being raised over portfolios of few ministers which attract conflict of interest. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its national leaders have taken into consideration aspects like regional and social representation in the Cabinet, the possibility of a conflict of interest doesn’t appear to have been their top priority.Murugesh Nirani, who heads the business conglomerate MRN Group, was named the minister for large and medium industries in Karnataka as part of the new Cabinet, whileAnand Singh, the former mining baron, who has over dozen cases lodged for violating the Forest Act, has been demanding that he be given the forest portfolio which he was entrusted with in the BS Yediyurappa Cabinet.“This is my family-run agriculture and agro-based industries. I don’t hold any office or position in these industries. I am a full time public servant,” Nirani told Hindustan Times in a statement on Sunday.He added that it was the prerogative of the chief minister who chose to give these portfolios after “due diligence and thorough thought”. Nirani said that he had already established these industries before his electoral debut in 2004 and served in the same portfolio under three different chief ministers between 2008-2013.“For (the) past few years, I am nowhere directly or indirectly related or holding any position or office in any of businesses or industries. I am (a) full time public servant. My family members look after the industries. The industries, which are family-run has nothing to do with the current portfolio I am in-charge,” the minister clarified.N Nagaraju (MTB), one of India’s richest legislators who has a real-estate empire, owning and renting large buildings and a host of other businesses, is Karnataka’s minister for Municipal Administration, Small Scale and Public Sector Industries.He has been demanding to get the housing portfolio, which he handled during the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in 2018.Nagaraj and Anand Singh could not be reached for comment. Transparency International defines conflict of interest as “confronted between choosing between the duties and demands of their position and their own private interests.”Though it remains a common feature in the Cabinets--state and union--, public officials and others, the glaring possibility of any conflict of interest is overlooked, activists and constitutional experts said.In February 2015, E.M. Sudarsana Natchiappan, a former member of Parliament from Sivaganga in Tamil Nadu, introduced for the second time The Prevention and Management of Conflict of Interest Bill, only for it to get lost in the duel between the ruling and Opposition banters and deafening voices.Natchiappan told Hindustan Times on Sunday that the reason for bringing up such a bill was that senior IAS officers and others who join large corporations soon after the “cooling period” in plum posts were unethical as it endangers the interests of the country for corporations.He said that when officials and politicians work out of such conflict, “they are not working for the country, but their own individual interests.”The possible cases for conflict of interest, however, is not limited to Karnataka as several politicians are known to operate big businesses, educational and medical institutions. And this has been the case for decades.Former power secretary P Abraham, who was heading the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) expert appraisal committee (EAC) on river valley and hydropower projects was alleged to be on the board of at least half a dozen power companies, citing a clear conflict of interest, Hindustan Times had reported on June 17, 2009.Disgraced liquor baron and former member of the Rajya Sabha, Vijay Mallya, was a member of the standing committee on fertilizers despite the fact that his own UB Group had a sizeable stake in a fertilizer company.Shyama Charan Gupta, who owns the over ₹350-crore Shyam Group of Industries which includes the popular Shyam Bidi works was on the Central committee to enforce bigger pictorial warnings on cigarette packets.Professor Ravi Kumar Varma, former advocate general of Karnataka and a constitutional expert told Hindustan Times on Sunday that there is an increasing trend in India where democratic processes are “hijacked” by vested interests. “It is a clear indication that vested interests are able to hijack the entire democratic process which are supposed to work against such interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/conflict-of-interest-new-challenge-for-karnataka-cabinet-101629051625649.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Day 1: Mumbai malls reopen to poor response||While restaurants and malls reopened to extended timings till 10pm from Sunday, the condition that staff and visitors have to be fully vaccinated led to poor response on Day One. Malls have reopened for the first time after a gap of four months post the lockdown announced on April 4. Mall owners said as a majority of their visitors are in the 18-45 age group, very few are fully vaccinated, leading to low footfall. They said the turnout was only 10-15% compared to pre-Covid times. Restaurants and bars, too, saw poor turnout as Sunday was a dry day on account of Independence Day. Sachin Dhanawade, chief operating officer (COO) retail & real estate, Grauer & Weil (India) Limited, which operates Growel’s 1O1 Mall in Kandivli, said, “The footfall was 5% of the usual footfall before the pandemic. Fully vaccinated customers were happy to shop in a safe and sanitised environment. However, many customers who are not fully vaccinated had to be turned away. We are hopeful that citizens who have got their first dose of the vaccine will be allowed soon.” Gurvineet Singh, CEO of Viviana Mall in Thane, said, “We welcome the move of the government to allow us to trade on Independence Day. However, the permission has come with riders due to which the business is going to be hit. Statistically, there are very few citizens in the 18-45 age group, our main clientele, owing to the minimum gap of 84 days. Also, the first drive for this age group began only in June. Lakhs of citizens are directly or indirectly dependent on the economic activity at malls across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.” In a statement, Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) said the government needs to reconsider its decision. “Malls have been opened as per the government order. Given the restrictions on customer entry, footfall has been extremely low: 10-15% of pre-Covid levels. We have had instances where customers with a single jab were disappointed at being denied entry into malls. The government needs to reconsider this stance and allow customers with a jab to visit malls.” Viraj Mamania, a resident of Borivli, said, “I was denied entry inside the mall in Kandivli considering I am not fully vaccinated.” Pradeep Shetty, senior vice-president at Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said, “We have appealed to the civic body and also the state that the condition of fully vaccinated staff for operating up to 10pm should be relaxed to at least one dose. We understand that it is our responsibility to get our staff vaccinated, but there is a gap of 84 days between two doses.” Shetty added, “Considering Sunday was the first day, the visits were fewer, but they will pick up considering the festive season and inquiries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-1-mumbai-malls-reopen-to-poor-response-101629051621643.html
15-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Two die in fire at hotel in Dwarka||New Delhi: Two people were charred to death on Sunday morning in a fire reported from a hotel in Dwarka Sector 8, police said. Police and fire department officials rescued nearly 10 other guests. The deceased, a man and a woman, died due to suspected suffocation.Police said their bodies were found on a staircase, suggesting they tried to escape but got trapped in the heavy smoke that was billowing from the ground floor. “We received information regarding the blaze in the four-storey hotel building at 7.40am, and eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot,” said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. Another caller informed the police control room about the incident. “During immediate enquiry after the PCR call, we found that the hotel was registered in the name of Shri Krishna Oyo Hotel, B – 260 Sector 8, Dwarka. When a police team reached the site, the fire department officials were dousing the blaze. No hotel staff was present in the building,” said Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP (southwest).Meena said they have found an eye-witness, Lokesh Kumar, 21, who was staying in the hotel. He told the police that there was a short-circuit at midnight and power returned only after half an hour. “He said when he got up at around 7am, he saw smoke inside the hotel. He also said that he saw a fire on the ground floor and reception area. We are probing the incident and legal action is being taken,” Meena said.Forensic expert teams were also called to the spot. “The fire was doused by around 8.40am, and two bodies were found on the staircase of the ground floor Both were taken to DDU hospital but doctors declared them dead on arrival,” he said.DCP Meena said the building is owned by Sidharth and Karuna from Ranchi, Jharkhand but the hotel Shri Krishna Oyo at Sector 8, Dwarka, was being run by Sunil Gupta, who further sublet it to Harshit from Dashrath Puri in Dwarka. “The hotel will be prosecuted under Delhi Police Act and a case under IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) was registered against them,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-two-die-in-fire-at-hotel-in-dwarka-101629051381223.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Get a view of Western Ghats on Deccan Queen between Mumbai and Pune||Passengers travelling on-board the iconic Deccan Queen between Mumbai and Pune will now be able to experience a panoramic view of the Western Ghats after a vistadome coach was attached to the train on Sunday, August 15.“A Vistadome coach has been attached to the Deccan Queen on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. The Vistadome coach enables passengers to enjoy the beautiful view of the Western Ghats,” said Anil Kumar Lahoti, general manager, Central Railway (CR).During its inaugural run, the 40-seater coach was fully booked on Sunday and is also completely booked for Monday.The Vistadome coach attached to the Deccan Queen has been refurbished by the CR’s Matunga workshop. The coach has been refurbished with vinyl wrapping at the doorway, observation area with improved aesthetics, painted with new colour scheme and the lavatories have been upgraded with standard fittings. The exteriors of the Vistadome coach have been imprinted with the sketch of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) building.After the success of the Vistadome coach on the Deccan Express on the Mumbai-Pune route, CR decided to introduce the experience for the Deccan Queen, too. The train is also equipped with a dining car.The glass-roofed Vistadome coach has wide window panes and seats that rotate 360 degrees, providing passengers a better sightseeing experience. The coach that was introduced in June on the Deccan Express has an occupancy of more than 95% in one month.The coach also has 12 LCD television screens for entertainment, a mini-fridge, automatic sliding compartment doors, an oven, juicer grinder and toilets fitted with ceramic tiles.The Vistadome coach was first introduced in 2017 on the Jan Shatabdi Express on the Mumbai-Goa route. However, owing to the less occupancy, it was removed this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/get-a-view-of-western-ghats-on-deccan-queen-between-mumbai-and-pune-101629051323780.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Missing’ Covid vaccine vials found at a hair transplant clinic in Mumbra||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has found 40 vaccine doses, which allegedly went missing from a vaccination centre in Mumbra, in a hair transplant clinic on Sunday. The civic body has sealed the clinic and is inquiring if the incidents are connected. Locals had on Saturday complained that vaccine doses were missing from the vaccination centre at Kausa, Mumbra. The owner of the clinic claimed the vials were taken for a vaccination camp being conducted for healthcare workers in Mumbra. However, no such permission for a private vaccination camp was taken from TMC. Based on a tip off, TMC officials visited Shah Hair Transplant Laser and Cosmetic Clinic at Kausa, Mumbra on Sunday morning and found vaccine doses in the clinic. “We found four vials which constitute 40 doses from a clinic in Mumbra. Currently, we are busy with the ongoing vaccination drive across the city and cannot share further details,” said Dr Hemangi Ghode, medical officer, Kausa, TMC. Senior TMC officials confirmed that an inquiry will be conducted to ascertain which batch these vials are from and whether these were from the vaccination centre. Meanwhile, Mumtaz Shah, owner of clinic, said they had a stock of vaccines for a camp that was organised for healthcare workers in the city. “There was a shortage of doses in the city last week; many doctors did not get their second dose of vaccine. Hence, we decided to conduct a vaccination camp for healthcare workers. Ten medical practitioners were vaccinated on Saturday as part of the camp. We have conducted such camps in the past as well with the permission of the civic body,” said Shah. TMC officials claimed no such permission was given. “We did not get any such request for a vaccination camp, and we have not handed over vials to any such clinic officially. Hence, we seized the vials and sealed the premises,” said a senior TMC official on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, Shah, who is associated with a political party as well, said, “The vials were being used for a positive cause; it was for healthcare workers. We had similar number of vials remaining from a vaccination drive conducted 10 days ago which we had kept at the stadium. In place of those, these vials were taken, we did not take another official permission for the same though,” said Shah. On Saturday, the vaccination centre in Kausa stadium saw a huge crowd of beneficiaries. As this was a walk-in vaccination centre, tokens were distributed to all those who wanted to get inoculated. After around 150 tokens, the authorities at the centre asked other waiting beneficiaries to leave, “TMC always shares a list of vaccination centres along with the number of doses available at the centre. Despite 300 vials being available on Saturday, the centre at Kausa stadium provided tokens to only 150 people. We started asking them about the remaining doses as we were waiting in the queue for almost two to three hours. Only after much insistence did they decide to give a few more doses,” said Riza Merchant, 38, resident of Kausa who got vaccinated at the stadium on Saturday. Another Mumbra resident, Saif Pathan, said, “This incident clearly shows that the vials have been taken from the vaccination centre with the consent of someone at the centre. Mumbra mostly comprises of people from low-income groups staying in congested settlements. There is an urgent need for vaccination in such places. With the shortage of doses within Thane city and the increasing demand to get fully vaccinated at the earliest as part of the new relaxation rules, such incidents of missing vials could increase.” TMC resumed vaccination drive on Saturday after a gap of four days in view of vaccine shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/missing-covid-vaccine-vials-found-at-a-hair-transplant-clinic-in-mumbra-101629051322023.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||DDA struggling to provide land for compensatory afforestation in Delhi||New Delhi: With several large-scale development projects requiring “diversion of deemed forests” the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is finding it difficult to make available non-forest land for compensatory afforestation (CA) in the Capital and is currently exploring if such land can be provided in neighbouring states.DDA officials said that for diversion of deemed forests -- an administrative process by which the land is reclassified for non-forest purposes -- equivalent non-forest land has to be provided for CA.Of the requests for 136 hectares of non-forest land for CA from various agencies in the past one year, DDA officials said the government agency has been able to provide nearly 116 hectares, in areas like Dhulsiras village in Dwarka, Holambi Kalan and Todapur village, and is struggling to find land to meet the remaining requests.“The green cover in Delhi is 23% and most of the spaces earmarked as green are saturated in Delhi. It is difficult to find large land parcels for CA,” said Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, principal commissioner, DDA.Non-forest areas with high density plantation are treated as deemed forest by the Delhi government’s forest department. “All development agencies have placed requisition before DDA for equivalent non-forest land for CA as per rules,” said the DDA official.Due to paucity of land for compensatory afforestation in the Capital, the land-owning agency is now exploring if land for CA can be provided in neighbouring states for proposed central government projects in Delhi. In May this year, the DDA wrote to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change seeking clarity on the issue, following which the ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC), which discussed the matter in June end, has asked Delhi authorities to provide additional information about their plan for the Capital’s green cover.“The FAC has been conscious that any relaxation in the compensatory afforestation norms will ultimately lead to reduction in forest cover of Delhi which is not a desirable situation for residents of Delhi in the present and in the future,” as per the minutes of the meeting.DDA officials said that they are yet to get an official communication in this regard.DDA, which is the main land-owning agency in Delhi, said that there is very limited land available in the Capital.“Delhi is largely urbanised. Most of the areas identified as recreational green under the Master Plan have already been used either as parks or for plantation. So, availability of Master plan green areas for the purpose of CA are now very limited,” said an official, who did not wish to be named.With increase in population, another DDA official said, the limited vacant land parcels available in Delhi also need to be reserved for planning public utilities.Compensatory afforestation can also be done on degraded land -- it is to be spread over twice the extent of the forest area diverted -- in case of projects implemented by the central government or its public sector undertakings.The official said this is the reason why the DDA wrote to the environment ministry, asking if degraded forests for CA can be given in neighbouring states for Central government projects proposed in Delhi.However, not everyone is in favour of looking for land outside for projects in Delhi. “This is an ecologically flawed idea. The move, if allowed, will defeat the purpose of compensatory afforestation. It should be done in the same state. The focus should be on sustainable development and cities need to take necessary measures and frame policies to bring down use of private vehicles etc. Just building flyovers is not a solution,” said Vijay Dhasmana, ecologist and curator of Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurugram.A DDA official said that with Yamuna rejuvenation work going on at a fast pace, “there is not much land available for CA as most of the floodplain area has already been committed to the compensatory plantation requirement of various agencies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-struggling-to-provide-land-for-compensatory-afforestation-in-delhi-101629051320676.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Painted storks make an early visit at Delhi zoo; officials plan guided birdwatching tour||New Delhi: This monsoon, the Delhi zoo has an early winged visitor which usually arrives from eastern parts of the country around mid-August. “This year, painted storks were spotted here as early as on August 6. The numbers have been growing since... Usually they are seen arriving from eastern parts of the country by mid or late August. The zoo is one of the few places in Delhi where painted storks nest and breed, which is one of the major factors for the zoo to be considered a birding spot,” said Ramesh Kumar Pandey, Delhi zoo director.Almost 140 painted storks have already arrived, zoo officials said, adding that the shallow water bodies in the zoo are full of the winged creatures with long, yellow beaks. “By the end of August, the numbers may reach more than 500,” said Pandey.With the season for migratory birds just beginning, the zoo authorities plan to organise guided birdwatching tours for students and bird enthusiasts over the coming weeks. “We plan to organise the first guided trip over the coming week when there will be more number of birds. It will be organised on a day when the zoo is closed for visitors. Initially, we plan to have a group of 20 bird watchers. We will hand over a pair of binoculars to the participants and lead the tour,” said Pandey.According to zoo officials, August to October is the peak breeding season for the painted storks which stay here till March before flying away with their chicks.“A structured bird-watching tour can be good learning for bird enthusiasts as well as students. The zoo does have a good diversity of bird species and could emerge as one of the many birdwatching sites for birders in Delhi,” said Pankaj Gupta, a birder.The zoo has at least 50 kinds of free-ranging avian species most part of the year including herons, white-breasted kingfisher, cormorants, parakeets, yellow-footed green pigeon, brown-headed barbet, black ibis, grey hornbill, jungle babbler and spot-billed ducks.According to a research paper titled “Breeding patterns of painted storks at Delhi zoo” authored by Abdul J Urfi, from school of environmental sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, the Delhi zoo has been an important breeding site for the painted stork since 1960. “Most nesting occurred in mesquite trees (Prosopis juliflora) on islands in the ponds at the Zoo. The breeding season begins in late August. This zoo site may be the only nesting colony site for the painted stork in the Delhi region,” it stated.Birders said that though the painted stork, a wetland bird, is found in many marshes and green patches in Delhi, they have been found nesting only at the Delhi zoo. Close to Delhi’s border, the Sultanpur National Park, essentially a bird sanctuary on the Gurugram-Jhajjar highway, is also known for a huge nesting colony of painted storks. “The painted storks have been spotted there as well,” said Gupta.The Delhi zoo opened on August 1, more than two months after it was shut during the second wave of the pandemic.The Delhi zoo was shut for visitors on March 18 last year, a week before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, and was followed by the avian flu in January this year. The zoo had finally reopened on April 1 this year, only to be closed again on April 15, as the second wave of the pandemic struck the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/painted-storks-make-an-early-visit-at-delhi-zoo-officials-plan-guided-birdwatching-tour-101629051201977.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Solapur bidi workers seek hearing on suggested ban on cigarette, bidi sale amid Covid||A union of bidi workers, which represents around 70,000 women who work in bidi manufacturing units in Solapur, has approached the Bombay high court (HC) through former MLA Narsayya Adam, seeking to intervene in a public interest litigation (PIL) pertaining to improper Covid management during the pandemic. The union filed the intervention application after the HC, in a previous hearing of the PIL, had sought to know the stand of the Centre and state government in the face of reports by experts that smokers were more prone to contracting Covid-19 as their lungs were weakened due to smoking. The application by Adam and general secretary of the union Mahamadgaus Shaikh, filed through advocate Sarang Aradhye, stated that in light of the HC bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni suggesting a temporary ban on sale of cigarettes and bidis during the pandemic, bidi workers were seeking permission to be heard before any adverse orders, that would prejudice the union workers, were passed. The application stated the bidi manufacturing business in Solapur has been going on since more than 150 years and the source of livelihood of around 500,000 people is solely based on bidi manufacturing and the business associated with it. The applicants said if any decision is taken by the government in this regard, it will affect all such persons. The application further stated there is absence of material including research about Covid-19 victims addicted to smoking, and hence it was necessary to hear the applicants before any orders or directions are passed.“If any adverse action is taken and sale of bidi and cigarettes is banned during pandemic, serious harm and prejudice will be caused to the workers whose bread and butter is dependent on said business, as due to the ban, bidi manufacturing will be completely stopped... The court may direct the petitioner to implead the applicants as party respondent in the PIL,” it stated.Similar intervention applications have also been moved by Federation of Retailers Association and Mumbai Bidi Tambaku Vyapari Sangh, opposing the suggested ban on smoking and sale of cigarettes and bidis. In June, this year, the state had submitted a June 15 report by director of Tata Memorial Centre Dr Rajendra Badwe which referred to several research and global studies indicating that smokers are likely to be more prone to Covid-19 infection. The state had, however, informed the HC it was not contemplating any blanket ban till there was conclusive proof. The application is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/solapur-bidi-workers-seek-hearing-on-suggested-ban-on-cigarette-bidi-sale-amid-covid-101629051081397.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Only one Covid vaccination centre in Diva; locals upset||Residents from Diva are upset that they have access to only one government vaccination centre while the area has a population of more than 600,000. Meanwhile, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has provided more than two vaccination centres at other wards. Residents said they have often faced overcrowding and difficulty in getting access to vaccine, hence they approached local political leaders to resolve their problem. “We have only one centre in Diva and hardly any private vaccination centres. We are left with no option but to travel to far off areas to get jabs. The centre at Diva is always crowded. People turn up at 3am or 4am to wait in queue to get vaccinated. Our issues are not attended to while people from Ghodbunder Road have access to more than three centres in their vicinity itself,” said Sunita Jadhav, 42, resident of Diva. Since the past two months, the centre at Diva has allowed only walk-in vaccinations, leading to long queues. “We have mobile vaccination facility that reaches out to places which do not have enough provision to set up vaccination centres. Often our mobile vaccination units have pit stops at various places in Diva for the convenience of residents,” said Dr Khushboo Tawri, Medical officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-one-covid-vaccination-centre-in-diva-locals-upset-101629050781203.html
15-08-2021||Other||Five high-mast Tricolours unfurled by CM, ministers across Delhi||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal marked the Independence Day on Sunday by unfurling the Tricolour on a 115-feet tall pole in East Kidwai Nagar. Four more similar flags were inaugurated by other Delhi government ministers in Patparganj, Shakur Basti, Kalkaji and Dwarka.The national flags inaugurated on Sunday are part of the Delhi government’s project to set up 500 flag poles across the city by January 26 next year, for which ₹45 crore was allocated in the government’s 2021-22 budget.“To promote patriotism among the people, Kejriwal government installs sky-high tirangas at five places across Delhi as part of 75th Independence Day celebrations,” the government said in a press statement.“Five tirangas have been installed in Delhi. By the upcoming Republic Day (January 26), 500 tirangas will be ready. The purpose of installing the national flags in Delhi is to instil a sense of patriotism among people. When a person steps out to work, they should see the tiranga and feel love for their country... In the hustle and bustle of daily life, we often forget about our country. Now, these tirangas will act as a constant reminder of love and patriotism towards the nation,” said Kejriwal, addressing the Independence Day event in East Kidwai Nagar.“Delhi will be the first city in India where such a large number of tricolors will be installed. While we are filled with pride and patriotism seeing the tricolor, in the real sense, patriotism is when we work for the progress of our society,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, after unfurling the Tricolour in a 115-feet pole in Patparganj.Inaugurating a flag in Shakur Basti, health minister Satyendar Jain said, “We must never forget the sacrifices of our freedom fighters and should draw lessons from their legacy. Sacrifice and service of our medical fraternity in battling Covid-19 is a perfect example of patriotism.”Earlier in the day, Kejriwal announced that government schools in the city will roll out deshbhakti (patriotism) curriculum from September 27, and from October 2, the government will roll out a yoga programme at public parks, residential areas and community halls. The scheduled launch dates of the two programmes coincide with birth anniversaries of Bhagat Singh and Mahatma Gandhi respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-high-mast-tricolours-unfurled-by-cm-ministers-across-delhi-101629050601805.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Shirdi airport all set for upgrade||In a boost to temple tourism, the Shirdi airport will now be able to land bigger planes. The over 350-hectare airport is located at Kakadi in Kopargaon, which is 14-km from Shirdi. The airport will soon be able to carry out flight operations at night. Work on a new passenger terminal to handle rising footfalls and a cargo terminal, which will increase exports of horticultural produce like flowers and fruits from the region to locations across India, will also begin at the facility.It has surpassed airports like Aurangabad, Nanded, Nashik and Kolhapur in terms of passenger load and is the fourth busiest airport in Maharashtra after Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. On March 22 last year, two days before the nationwide Covid-pandemic induced lockdown was imposed, a total of 26 flights (13 each of landings and departures) were recorded at Shirdi, with around 20,000 to 25,000 people coming in daily. “The 2,500-meter runway was unable to accommodate bigger planes... These aircraft need a larger flight run for a take-off and must cover a certain distance after landing before they come to a halt. When the flight operations at the airport were stopped (after the lockdown was imposed), we utilised the opportunity to extend the runway length from 2,500m to 3,200m,” said Deepak Kapoor, vice-chairman and managing director, Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC). The extended runway was tested and completed recently.Kapoor said this would allow large aircraft to land and lead to airlines ferrying more pilgrims to the temple town in a plane.The MADC has installed and tested night-landing infrastructure at the airport. It has written to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is mandated with installing the necessary weather instrumentation for the purpose. The IMD has instructed its western region office to undertake the work. Once it is completed, night landing can be launched at the airport. This will enable pilgrims to attend the kakad aarti (the aarti performed at the crack of dawn) in Sai Baba temple without coming there a day earlier. While the runway extension and taxiways cost around ₹41 crore, the night landing infrastructure with CAT-1 lights and other equipment cost ₹9.85 crore.The present terminal building can handle 10,000 to 12,000 passengers daily, and the MADC is planning a new passenger terminal that can cater to around 20,000 to 25,000 passengers per day. It has sought ₹230 crore from the state for the new terminal building. The capacity expansion will ensure the airport can handle around 35,000 passengers.Kapoor added the Government of India had permitted cargo operations from the airport and in the pre-Covid period, they exported 250kg flowers to Delhi and 400 kg of fruits like pomegranates and grapes to Chennai and Bengaluru. “This will create an additional source of revenue for farmers... There is a lot of horticulture and floriculture around Shirdi. Based on a market survey, we realised that there is a huge demand for marigold and rose flowers in Chennai and Delhi. The farmers had to transport these flowers to Nashik, which affected the quality due to the low shelf-life and consequently, the prices,” he said. The MADC also plans to construct a separate cargo terminal to ensure seamless cargo operations and has appointed a consultant, who will submit a report in around two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-shirdi-airport-all-set-for-upgrade-101629050601136.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray urges people to be careful to avoid another lockdown||As daily cases in Maharashtra are declining, albeit at a very slow pace, restaurants and malls have reopened in the entire state from Sunday. Local train services also resumed in Mumbai and surrounding cities. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday urged citizens to take all sorts of precautions to prevent further spread of Covid-19. He said the government was easing down restrictions but people need to be careful, else the government will have to impose a lockdown once again.On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 4,797 new Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 6,392,660. The tally of active cases stands at 64,219 as 3,710 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state saw 130 casualties with the highest deaths recorded in Kolhapur at 32. Of them, 14 were found in the district and the remaining in the city. It was followed by Satara with 31 fatalities.“We are giving a lot of relaxation in restrictions, but the danger is yet to be over. Some countries have again started facing a spike in cases. We all need to be very cautious so that we don’t have to face a similar situation again. Last and this year we faced the havoc of Covid. Cases in the state are under control but we have to take a lot of precautions. Considering the oxygen demand and supply and if daily cases rise again, we will have no option but to impose lockdown restrictions once again. Hence, Covid protocols have to be strictly followed,” Thackeray said in his address at a flag hoisting ceremony on the 75th Independence Day.He also said that the government wants to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic in the next year. “We will become free from Covid-19 pandemic in the next one year and celebrate the next Independence Day in a Covid-free environment,” Thackeray said.On Sunday, Mumbai clocked 262 new cases, taking the count to 739,331 till date. It also recorded four fatalities, pushing toll to 15,981.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 199,963 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.39%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 12.54%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state has administered 203,253 vaccine doses on Sunday, according to the data available on Co-Win portal, pushing the total count to 49,414,314 doses so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-urges-people-to-be-careful-to-avoid-another-lockdown-101629050541159.html
15-08-2021||Noida||Three persons arrested for theft in Greater Noida factory||Three persons were arrested on Sunday for allegedly stealing electronic goods worth ₹15 lakh from a factory in Greater Noida’s Surajpur. The suspects were identified as Kishan Singh, 25, a native of UP’s Badaun, Rajesh Thakur, 24, a native of Sitamarhi in Bihar, and Shakil Malik, 25, a native of Sahibabad in Ghaziabad. They lived in a rented accommodation in the Ecotech 3 area, police said, adding that several stolen items were recovered from their possession. Ajay Kumar, SHO of Surajpur police station, said that on the night of August 8, the suspects had burgled into the factory at Site-C in Surajpur. The factory owner, Dinesh Kumar, filed a complaint the next day at Surajpur police station. “We deal in manufacturing metal sheets. The thieves broke the locks of the factory and decamped with two LED television sets, two air conditioners, two fans, and one smartphone, among others. There was no security guard at the factory on night. When we reached the factory next morning, we spotted the theft and informed police,” the complainant said. A case was registered against unknown persons under sections 380 (burglary) and 457 (house trespass) of IPC, police said, adding that the thieves stole valuables worth ₹15 lakh. “We launched an investigation into the case. On Sunday, we received information about the suspects’ movement near Nikko Mor in Surajpur. A police team reached the spot and arrested the three suspects,” the SHO said. The police conducted a search at their hideout and recovered some of the stolen items, including an LED TV, two fans, and one inverter, among others, from their possession. Police said that the suspects used to conduct recce and then stole valuables from the factories and sold them at cheap rates. The suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-persons-arrested-for-theft-in-greater-noida-factory-101629050301749.html
15-08-2021||Noida||Mercury on rise, rains likely in three days||The mercury on Sunday remained well above season’s average, keeping the city warm as the weather analysts predicted rains only after three days.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Noida on Sunday recorded the maximum temperature at 36.7°C, three degrees above the season’s average. The city’s minimum temperature was 29°C, the season’s average. On Saturday, the city had recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 35.9°C and 28.8°C, respectively.“On Monday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 37°C and 26°C,” said an IMD official.The weather analysts said that rainfall is likely after the next three days that would bring relief to the region. “The break monsoon condition continues in the city. This condition may continue for another few days with respite possible only after three days. The NCR may see low rainfall around August 18 that will further increase to moderate over some parts of the region,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), at Skymet, a private weather forecasting company.In the break monsoon condition, the monsoon trough confines to Himalayan foothill regions only and stays there for sometime depriving other plain region of rains.So far, Noida has been rainfall deficient. According to the IMD, the city has received about 71% deficient rainfall since June 1 till date. It has so far seen 97mm rainfall against the expected 331mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-on-rise-rains-likely-in-three-days-101629050301169.html
15-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar celebrates 75th Independence Day||Specks of saffron, white and green dotted the city as national flags were hoisted at different offices in Gautam Budh Nagar district on the occasion of 75 years of India’s Independence.Hoisting the national flags at the police commissionerate in Sector 108 and Surajpur police lines, Gautam Budh Nagar’s commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said the police have to maintain their mental and physical strength for maintaining peace and harmony in the society. “We need to patiently hear genuine complainants and have a hard stand against criminals and anti-social elements,” he said. Singh, who is among the four officers from Uttar Pradesh selected for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service,also said that the nation should be proud of its freedom fighters and martyrs of India’s freedom struggle. “We should think of moving forward and take the country ahead,” he said. District magistrate Suhas L Y, who hoisted the national flag at the collectorate premises in Surajpur, said freedom fighters have freed the country of foreigners and internal difficulties. “In today’s world, India has emerged as a global country. The country is progressing in every field. We are committed to have a work culture, where the benefits of different schemes should reach the last person. A lot more needs to be done,” he said. Appealing everyone to unite to maintain the spirit of nationalism, the DM said modern India has many more miles to go in every field. “We have to take steps in becoming a developed country by correctly guiding and motivating our youngsters,” said Suhas. Among other programmes, an octogenarian woman hoisted the national flag at a primary school in Khanpur in Dankaur block. All the students later took the pledge of safety, respect and self-dependence. The farmers were felicitated at a programme held at Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Chhaulas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-celebrates-75th-independence-day-101629050243032.html
15-08-2021||Noida||Retired colonel loses ₹99,991 in online fraud in Noida||A 65-year-old retired colonel, who is a resident of Noida’s Sector 29, has lost about ₹1 lakh in an online fraud, police said on Sunday. The complainant, Colonel (retd) AK Rajpal, is presently engaged in teaching at a private college. “I received a text message on my mobile phone on the night of August 10. The message stated that my SMS services have been blocked and I should contact a number for its restoration,” he said. When he contacted the given number, the suspect asked him to download a mobile application. “The suspect then asked me to recharge my mobile phone for ₹11. I did it through net banking. The suspect stole my net banking details and fraudulently withdrew ₹99,991 from my bank account,” he said.Then Rajpal called the bank and got the account blocked to prevent further transactions, police said. On August 11, he visited the cyber cell of the Noida police and filed a complaint. After preliminary investigation, the cyber cell on August 13 forwarded the complaint to Sector 20 police station for an FIR. Munish Chauhan, station house officer of Sector 20 police station, said a case has been registered against unknown suspect under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and Section 66-D of IT Act. “We are seeking help of the cyber cell to trace the suspect through IP address and call details. The suspect will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/retired-colonel-loses-99-991-in-online-fraud-in-noida-101629050242447.html
15-08-2021||Other||Noida: 16 development projects worth ₹15cr inaugurated on I-Day||The Noida authority inaugurated 16 development projects worth ₹15.45 crore during the Independence Day celebrations at Sector 6 main administrative building on Sunday in the presence of GB Nagar MP Dr Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, member of Rajya Sabha Surendra Nagar and other officials. It also inaugurated public utility services for women.The authority officials, along with leaders who had congregated at the venue, hoisted the national flag and subsequently dedicated all the development projects to the general public. “We have inaugurated 16 different projects worth ₹15.45 crore. These projects will benefit general public as the civic services have been strengthened. We should celebrate Independence Day by serving general public and there is no better way to celebrate this day than dedicating these projects to people,” said Sharma, who is also a former Union minister. The authority inaugurated a project related to development of drains, footpath and central verge in sectors 74, 77, 116, 117 worth ₹2.88 crore, road construction in Sector 72 worth ₹2.26 crore, interlocking tiles in Sector 119 at a cost of ₹2.14 crore, service road repair in Sector 116 worth ₹1.85 crore, construction of an amphitheatre for ₹ 1.49 crore, footpath work in Master Plan 2 road worth ₹1.42 crore, an electric chamber for cremation for ₹1.19 crore, a fountain park worth ₹73 lakh and remaining work related to footpath and central verge in sectors 94, 124, 127 etc. The authority also inaugurated a pink toilet for women in Sectors 18 and 150, and a ‘Beti Padao Beti Bachao’ sculpture in Sector 38 to spread awareness on women safety in the city.“The Sculpture will inspire people to save girl child and also motivate them to work towards women safety,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-16-development-projects-worth-15cr-inaugurated-on-iday-101629050241787.html
15-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Fitness enthusiasts cycle for 75km to mark 75th Independence Day||A group of more than 25 fitness enthusiasts from different high-rises of the city marked the 75th Independence Day by cycling for 75km on Sunday. The cyclists said that their aim was to bring awareness among the denizens about a healthy lifestyle. The ride started at 4.30am from Manav Rachana School in Sector 51 and ended at 9am at Meghdutam Park in Sector 50, via the City Centre , Mahamaya Flyover, Pari Chowk, and Metro Depot in Greater Noida. The Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA), a residential body, organised the event named NOFAATHON. The cyclists said that while the ride to commemorate the Independence Day was thrilling, the “cycling in the city is not easy, especially due to the poor conditions of various roads”. They pointed out the lack of proper cycling tracks and safety of riders in the city. “More than 25 residents from over 10 high-rise societies participated in the event covering a distance of 75km to celebrate the 75th Independence Day. The participants expressed concerns over several potholes and broken roads on the route. Such conditions discourage other residents to come forward and participate in such a recreational event. We urge the authorities to help make the city roads more cycle friendly and improve the already existing cycling tracks,” said Rajiva Singh, president of NOFAA.According to the official figures, the city has 17 different cycling tracks of total length 62.52km across 10 work circles (barring work circles 6 and 7). The longest track is of 12.30km along sectors 145, 146, 147, 154 and 161, while the shortest is 300 metres near Mahamaya Balika Inter College in Sector 44.However, the cyclists said that none of the tracks are in proper condition. “Most of the cycling tracks have eroded or are encroached upon. They are full of potholes, or are used by commuters to evade signals,” said Singh.Ashmita Arora, a resident of Sector 75 who participated in the event, said that Noida has some beautiful green patches but riding a cycle along them is a dangerous affair. “We have to be extra cautious as there are so many potholes and rough patches. Also, since all roads are not properly illuminated, we were dependent on our cycle lights since it’s early morning. Such experiences discourage many cyclists from plying on roads. Our today’s ride was aimed at raising such issues, including potholes and dark stretches,” said Arora.Officials of the Noida authority said that they are working on improving the condition of roads in the city. “We are already working on making the roads pothole-free. We have fixed over a thousand potholes in the past week,” said an official, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, two other groups -- Noida Express Cyclists (NEC) and Noida Express Walkers ( NEW) -- on Sunday concluded a 300km week-long cycling and 75km week-long walking challenge, respectively, and also held a separate 75km cycle ride marking the 75th Independence Day.“The week-long challenges and the 75km one-day cycle ride were held to promote a healthy living. A number of group members participated in the challenge and resolved to maintain a healthy living,” said Dr DK Gupta, who is the member of the NEC and NEW groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-fitness-enthusiasts-cycle-for-75km-to-mark-75th-independence-day-101629050240534.html
15-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Ineligible people book slots for booths meant only for parents, turned away||Healthcare workers in Gautam Budh Nagar district are having to turn away beneficiaries, who book their slots at the parents’ special (Abhibhwak Vishesh) Covid vaccination booths as they do not qualify or meet the conditions --of having a child of 12 years and below--based on which the inoculation centres have been set up. The special vaccination booths have been set up at the J P International school, which administers around 100 doses per day, and at a primary school in Bisrakh, which administers 300 shots a day, exclusively for parents whose children are 12 years and below. Both the centres are administering Covishield vaccines. Officials said that while the CoWIN app doesn’t have a mechanism to restrict unmarried people from booking slots at the special vaccination booths for parents, people too don’t pay attention to the exclusivity of the booths. Dipesh Kumar, a health worker deployed in the vaccination booth set up at Bisrakh, went into a tizzy on Friday as he had to cancel the slots of many bachelors through the CoWIN portal. “We know these beneficiaries haven’t deliberately booked their slots here as the portal doesn’t restrict them in doing so. People who have at least one child below 12 years of age are eligible to get vaccinated at these booths. Parents who have booked their slots for vaccination here need to produce a document of their child’s age proof to avail of the facility,” he said. Echoing similar views, Rakesh Kumar, a healthcare worker deployed at the vaccination booth in J P international school at Greater Noida Omega-1, said only beneficiaries who can furnish a document establishing the age of their child as 12 years or below can get a jab at these booths. “In the absence of such a document, they will not be vaccinated. On an average, we refuse at least 25 people daily, who are either unmarried or do not have any issue,” he said. Shekhar Suman Singh (49), who lives in Greater Noida, had to return from JP International school on Friday without taking the second dose. “My children are settled in the US. The nomenclature ‘Abhibhawak Vishesh’ caught my attention and I booked the slot without going through details. I was informed at the booth that since my children do not fall in the 12-year-old age bracket, I am not eligible to take the jabs. Anyway, it was my fault and I’ll get it from some other booth after booking the slot again,” he said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, said, “Following directions from the Uttar Pradesh government, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has started vaccinating parents of children below 12 years of age against Covid-19 from June 1. “I’ve also got reports that few ineligible beneficiaries turn up every day at these two booths without checking the criteria to be vaccinated at these booths. Since we don’t have any mechanism to mention the exclusivity of these booths, people book the slots unknowingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ineligible-people-book-slots-for-booths-meant-only-for-parents-turned-away-101629050180563.html
15-08-2021||Gurugram||Residents mark 75 years of independence with flag hoisting, cultural programmes||Residential societies organised fun activities and cultural programmes on Sunday to mark 75 years of India’s independence. Flag hoisting was followed by programmes and felicitation of staff members in most societies whereas a few restricted gatherings and events due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Children also participated in the events and learnt about the country’s heritage through paintings and plays. Many residential societies also released balloons after flag hoisting and singing the national anthem.Residents of Vipul Greens in Sector 49 celebrated the day with cultural programmes. They felicitated domestic helps, security guards and other helpers, and motivated them to take part in a talent hunt of dancers and singers. “Children put on performances and a few stalls were set up for children and residents. High tea was served to the residents after two hours,” Amit Jindal, the president of Vipul Greens residents’ association, said. The gated communities of Central Park Flower Valley and Central Park Resort on Sohna Road marked the day with a march past and a parade, respectively, to pay tribute to freedom fighters. Besides singing and dancing, fun activities such as tug-of-war, lemon race, kite flying, musical chairs and zig-zag race were held. Food and beverage stalls were also set up. Residents of Fresco Apartments also celebrated the day and asked all residents to join the celebration from their balconies. Flag hoisting was done by senior citizens. “This time, due to Covid-19, we restricted the celebrations and did not allow residents to gather near the flag hosting station,” Nilesh Tandon, the president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA), said. The RWA arranged a trampoline ride and all-terrain vehicles for residents. Around 60 residents of DLF Phase-1 gathered at A Block for flag hoisting, following which underprivileged children from Chakkarpur village put on dance performances and took part in a drawing competition. They also received gifts and prizes. Sangeet Mahajan, a resident of Block E, said that this is a special year due to the Olympics wins and she wanted to share the happiness with the underprivileged. “We narrated the story of India’s struggle and how our country got independence. It was an hour-long session where they even took notes and left with sweets and goodies,” she said. In DLF Phase-2, events were restricted but the guards were felicitated and given thermostat water bottles that they could carry on duty.Residents of Sector 22 also unfurled the national flag at the Sector 22 market. Rakesh Malik, the president of the market, said that they restricted the gathering to 15 people because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. In Palam Vihar, the national flag was unfurled by residents at the Rezangla war memorial to pay tribute to the martyrs. Residents of Vatika India Next in Sector 82 organised painting competitions for children and distributed kites, which they said is a sign of freedom that is associated with our Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-mark-75-years-of-independence-with-flag-hoisting-cultural-programmes-101629048681063.html
15-08-2021||Gurugram||Corporates, govt staff felicitated during Independence Day celebrations||At least 15 corporate companies and 82 employees from various government departments were felicitated by the governor of Haryana, Bandaru Dattatreya, during the 75th Independence Day celebrations at Tau Devi Lal Stadium on Sunday for their contribution in handling the second wave of Covid-19 this year.Dattatreya, the chief guest for the celebrations, unfurled the national flag and inspected the parade troupes at the stadium. In his address, he pointed towards the state’s excellence in industrial production, automobile industries, foreign investment, education, sports and agriculture.The governor also highlighted the new schemes run by the state government to support farmers in the state. He said that for the development of agriculture, farmers are getting electricity at minimum rates per unit. “At least 5,309 villages across the state are getting 24-hour electricity supply. The state government has taken a historical decision to cut the electricity rates by 37 paise per unit,” he said.To ensure indigenous products developed by micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) in the state can have a market, Dattatreya said that a new department has been created to promote the small-scale industry. “Under this policy, the target is to generate 500,000 new jobs,” he said.Appreciating the duties performed during the pandemic, the governor felicitated officials of Maruti, M3M, DLF, Hero Motocorp Limited, iamgurgaon, Doctors for You, CISCO and IFFCO for arranging beds, oxygen concentrators, medicines and testing kits in April and May when the Covid-19 wave was at its peak.Gayatri Paul, the chief executive officer (CEO) of DLF Foundation that supplied 10,000 oximeters to the CM’s Covid Relief Initiative and set up oxygen plants in Bulandshahr and Gurugram, said, “It is a great honour for DLF Foundation to receive this award. We are humbled and remain committed to contributing meaningfully to the social development of the state and making a difference in people’s lives.”Dr Payal Kanodia, a trustee of M3M Foundation, said, “I would like to take this opportunity to thank the governor of Haryana and district administration for recognising our efforts in serving the nation during Covid-19. There couldn’t be a better day than this to get felicitated for our efforts.” The organisation had established a 400-bed Covid Care Centre with the help of the district administration.Employees of the deputy commissioner’s office, commissionerate of police, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, health, electricity, sports and education departments, among others like Gurujal and Indian Red Cross Society, were also felicitated. Dattatreya appreciated the performance of athletes from Haryana at the Tokyo Olympics and said that the state has awarded about ₹23 crore, government jobs and other facilities to athletes from the state.He mentioned setting up the country’s first training institute to tackle the challenges related to cybercrime in the city. He also mentioned the 112 helpline that was launched as an umbrella go-to number for emergencies. Students of government schools presented cultural performances, including yogas such as surya namaskar and lezium performance. The governor announced a reward of ₹3 lakh for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/corporates-govt-staff-felicitated-during-independence-day-celebrations-101629048624275.html
15-08-2021||Gurugram||E-rickshaw zone comes into effect, 600 vehicles to be launched||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will launch 600 e-rickshaws in the city on Monday and put into effect the city’s first electric three-wheelers zone (ETWZ), officials said on Sunday. Diesel and CNG autorickshaws will not be allowed to operate in the zone, they said.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will kick off the e-rickshaws from Galleria Market around 11am. While 150 e-rickshaws will be flagged off from the Galleria Market, 450 will start off from other points in the zone. The launch of the vehicles and the creation of the electric three-wheelers zone project is being referred to as the Parivartan project.A spokesperson for the district administration said that Khattar will inaugurate three projects in the city, costing around ₹259 crore, and preside over the district grievance redressal meeting on Monday afternoon.“The Haryana chief minister will first launch the Parivartan project. Under this project, there is a plan to run electric three-wheelers in place of diesel-powered three-wheelers that are currently running in Gurugram. This is a joint effort of the MCG, regional transport authority (RTO), and Gurugram traffic police. Under this project, initially, 2,000 diesel-powered three-wheelers will be replaced at a cost of around ₹6 crore by e-three wheelers,” the spokesperson for the district administration stated in a release.According to MCG officials, the zone covers Udyog Vihar, Ambience Mall, DLF Phases 1, 2, 3 and 4, DLF-5, Cyber City-Golf Course Road stretch, Mall Mile, Huda City Centre (HCC), sectors 28 and 29, and Wazirabad.Gurugram traffic police and MCG officials have been carrying out awareness programmes for diesel autorickshaw drivers since July and cautioned them that upon entering the barred zone, they will be penalised and that repeated offences may lead to vehicles being impounded.The launch of e-rickshaws is a part of MCG’s plan of replacing 2,000 diesel autorickshaws with a cleaner mode of transportation to reduce the city’s air pollution. Efforts in this regard have been underway since last September.MCG officials did not disclose the fare details of the 600 e-rickshaws. However, they said that the fee will be nominal.“Taking cognisance of the high level of air pollution as well as the longstanding demand of citizens to introduce a metered mode of travel, the MCG is launching e-rickshaws across the city. This will not only help residents but also assist drivers, as the running and maintenance costs (of e-rickshaws) are far lower than diesel autorickshaws,” Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, the commissioner of MCG, said.In coordination with a private electric mobility service, the MCG has set up five electric parking and charging hubs in the zone. The charging hubs at Udyog Vihar and Wazirabad have a capacity of accommodating and charging 150 vehicles, while the ones at Huda City Centre, MG Road Metro station and Sikanderpur have a capacity of accommodating and charging 20-50 vehicles each. The MCG has also proposed setting up charging hubs in DLF Phase-3, Guru Dronacharya Metro station and Galleria Market, which will also have a capacity of accommodating and charging 20-50 vehicles each.The formation of an electric three-wheelers zone was announced by the MCG on July 9 following a meeting with Gurugram traffic police officials, district transport department officials and representatives of a private electric mobility service.In April, the MCG held a meeting with diesel autorickshaw owners and drivers to sensitise them about the environmental harms caused by diesel autorickshaws and MCG’s policies, including monetary aid, for switching to the electric mode of transport.However, members of autorickshaw unions said that they were not consulted and that they received mixed information on whether CNG autorickshaws will be allowed to operate in the zone.“Our union was not called for any meeting with MCG officials and the matter was discussed with auto owners and a few drivers alone. While we are not against the move, we want clarity on whether CNG autos can ply in the ETWZ as we have received mixed information on the matter,” Yogesh Sharma, state general secretary, Haryana Auto Chalak Sanghatan, said.According to Sharma, there are 8,265 diesel autorickshaws in Gurugram.“The MCG needs to ensure that they have some form of parameters or standards for e-rickshaws to ensure that only the safest and sturdiest e-rickshaws are introduced in the city,” said Sewa Raman, an urban transport system design expert and a faculty member with the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/erickshaw-zone-comes-into-effect-600-vehicles-to-be-launched-101629048622806.html
15-08-2021||Gurugram||Khattar to inaugurate water supply, waste facility and electric vehicles||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will inaugurate infrastructure projects worth ₹259 crore in the city on Monday, following which he will take part in the monthly grievance redressal committee meeting and participate in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rally in Jamalpur, officials said. A spokesperson for the district administration said that CM Manohar Lal Khattar would inaugurate a water supply project in sectors 81 to 99. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority undertook the project at a cost of ₹76.21 crore, through which piped water supply will be provided to 16 sectors, 81 to 91, 93, 94 and 99, located along the Dwarka Expressway. The water supply will also start partially in five adjoining residential sectors through a 55.33-kilometre-long water pipeline that was laid, said officials. With the inauguration of the project, developers can apply for new water connections and can get a regular water supply for the residents instead of depending on water tankers for the purpose. Khattar will also inaugurate a solid waste management project digitally, which is being made operational in Sonepat. An electric three-wheeler project will also be launched in the city on Monday in Sector 28. The electric three-wheeler project is being launched to replace the diesel autorickshaws operating in the city to reduce pollution. As per a rough estimate, over 8,000 diesel autos operating in the city need to be replaced. Khattar will chair the monthly grievance committee meeting later in the day, which will be held in Sector 44. After the meeting, the chief minister will go to Jamalpur village near Pataudi to participate in the Jan Ashirvad Yatra, which is being organised by the BJP in south Haryana and parts of Rajasthan to felicitate the newly appointed union cabinet minister Bhupinder Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khattar-to-inaugurate-water-supply-waste-facility-and-electric-vehicles-101629048621198.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s Afghan students granted permission to join campus||Afghan students enrolled in the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay have sought permission from the institute to return to campus as conditions deteriorate in war-torn Afghanistan. Almost all cities in Afghanistan have fallen to the insurgent group Taliban, which is engaged in a military takeover of the country. As the Taliban waits to take over the presidential palace in capital Kabul, scores of Afghans have been attempting to flee the country.“The nine students, who registered during the current semester, have been permitted by IIT-B to come to the campus. Since these students are ICCR sponsored students, ICCR Mumbai office is working closely with the Indian Embassy in Kabul to issue visas to the students,” said Amit Agrawal, dean, international relations, IIT-B. The two senior students admitted in 2019 and 2020 are already on campus. At IIT-B, one student from Afghanistan is admitted to the academic years 2019 and 2020. In the current academic year, nine Afghan students have been admitted to the M-Tech programme and have been attending lectures online, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, amid deteriorating conditions in Afghanistan, the nine students had requested the institute to allow them to come to campus. “We offered admission to quite a few students from Afghanistan in the Master’s programme this year under scholarships from Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR). Because of online instructions, they were participating in the class from home. However, due to rapidly deteriorating conditions in their homeland, they wanted to come out of their country and join the hostels on the campus. Although we have approved their request to come to the campus as a special case, we are not sure how late it is for them to pursue their dreams. We hope that they are all safe and can join us soon,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B. Renu Prithiani, regional director, ICCR Mumbai, declined to comment on the matter. Vinay Sahasrabudhe, president, ICCR, remained unavailable for comment. “These Afghan students, through their training at IIT-B, like our other alumni, would play crucial leadership roles in developing their country, once the current nightmare ends. These international students later in life will become the greatest ambassadors of our country. It is imperative that these students and their families, along with others, are safe today. They are in our prayers,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombays-afghan-students-granted-permission-to-join-campus-101629046401176.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees heaviest rains in over two weeks||After a prolonged dry spell lasting more than two weeks, Mumbai received its heaviest showers of August on Sunday. In the 24 hours ending at 8.30am, the city’s automatic weather station at Santacruz recorded 25.6mm of rain (considered to be ‘moderate’), while Colaba recorded heavier showers with 42.8mm of rain in the same period.Parts of the city’s northern suburbs, in addition to Thane and Navi Mumbai, experienced isolated heavy showers, recording between 40 to 70mm of rain in 24 hours ending 8.30am on Sunday. Bhayander saw the heaviest showers as per data from the IMD’s mesonet system, with 69.5mm of rain. Moderate to intense intermittent spells of rains over the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued till about 2pm, before petering out toward the evening. Experts and officials attributed the revival to an upper air cyclonic circulation forming over the Bay of Bengal, which has helped to activate a monsoon trough along the Maharashtra coast and strengthened rain-bearing westerly winds.“As we had predicted earlier this month, we are starting to see signs of a monsoon revival over the Konkan coast. The next two weeks will see higher chances of moderate to heavy rains. Over Mumbai, rains are expected to be moderate for the next three days at least. When the circulation over the Bay of Bengal intensifies into a low-pressure area, we will get heavy rains again in about four to five days,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional centre in Mumbai.Mumbai has been placed under a ‘green’ category weather alert till August 19, indicating chances of light-moderate rain, which will be scattered and isolated. More widespread rain is expected around August 19. The maximum and minimum temperatures, for the next week, are expected to remain around 30 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-heaviest-rains-in-over-two-weeks-101629045440749.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Parliament, judiciary, media do not have independence to work freely, Raut slams Centre||Nearly a week after opposition parties met at Congress leader Kapil Sibal’s home, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that it was decided that unless all opposition parties unite, they will not succeed in the 2024 general election. Raut also targeted the Central government and said that the independence of several institutions is dying today as the Parliament, judiciary and media are unable to function freely. He asked if independence meant not allowing political opponents to speak in the Parliament and calling marshals to stop them from doing so.The Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member of Parliament (MP), in his weekly column Rokhthok, also said that Sibal said unless elections move back to the ballot paper, instead of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), success in polls is not possible.“Opposition parties met at Kapil Sibal’s home on [last] Monday over dinner. There was a consensus among all that unless we come together, we will not succeed. But a law expert like Kapil Sibal raised questions over the manner of voting. Sibal said that until we do away with EVMs, we will not succeed in 2024. We must fight to get the ballot paper back. I do not speak without evidence. Sibal is not a leader or a lawyer who would merely shoot in the dark. The EVM issue will have to be resolved. Where there is a huge question mark over the election process, what can one speak on democracy and the Parliament,” Raut wrote in his column published on Sunday.Over the past few weeks, opposition parties have united against the BJP-led government in the monsoon session that concluded last week. Around 15 opposition parties took on the Centre over the Pegasus snooping reports and held protests. They collectively held meetings chaired by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Raut said that for the past few days “democracy is dead in Delhi” and said that opposition was stifled in the Parliament by the “absolute majority” of the ruling party. “Democracy crushed under the boots of ‘Marshal’ Law in the Parliament... While we celebrate the Amrut Mahotsav of the country’s independence, many institutions are losing their independence. Parliament, judiciary, media do not have the independence of working freely. Political opponents are not allowed to speak in the Parliament and an army of marshals is brought there. Is this freedom?” Raut asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parliament-judiciary-media-do-not-have-independence-to-work-freely-raut-slams-centre-101629045140796.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court orders police to probe former NCP MLA’s role in 2016 firing case||The sessions court has directed the Nehru Nagar police to investigate the alleged role played by former Nationalist Congress Party MLA Milind Kamble in connection with the 2016 firing at a construction site manager.According to the prosecution case, on August 19, 2016, Kamble’s driver Mangesh Waghmare, a resident of Sakharabai Shingare Chawl in Kurla had fired six rounds from a country-made pistol at the site manager - Anil Laxman Bhise. Four bullets had hit Bhise but he survived the attack.Sessions judge Dr UJ More, while ordering further investigation in the case observed, “The incident of six bullets shot by a revolver in the body of the applicant/ complainant took place near the container /room at about 2.30pm. On the date of the incident after being shot by the last bullet, only Milind Kamble and Gautam Shinde were present, meanwhile, the accused ran away. This is suspicious needs to be investigated properly.”Almost five years after the incident, Bhise approached the sessions court pleading to direct the police to investigate Kamble and his bodyguard Shinde’s role in the firing.Bhise alleged that he was attacked by Waghmare on instructions of Kamble, as he was not getting the consent for the redevelopment of the chawl where Bhise and Waghmare were residing. It was alleged that Waghmare had used Kamble’s pistol which was in the car at the time of the incident.Bhise had raised suspicion about the circumstances under which Waghmare attacked him. He has also claimed that the statements of Shinde and Kamble were contradictory.Bhise’s lawyer contended that when Kamble had a car at the time of the incident, why did he not take him to Sion hospital. Bhise was taken to Rajawadi Hospital in an autorickshaw.Bhise has alleged that at the time of the incident, a man with ₹22 lakh was sitting in the car. However, the police charge sheet has no mention of it.“On this count also further investigation is required by inquiring that unknown person and about ₹22 lakhs cash in his hand,” the court said while directing the police to further investigate.“In this case being certain role in the commission of an offence, as the revolver i.e., the weapon which is used for attempting murder, was lying in that car only. It is to be noted that Ex-MLA Milind Kamble was not accompanied by the injured complainant at Rajawadi Hospital and Sion Hospital. On that count also investigation needs to be carried out by the investigating agency,” reads the court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-orders-police-to-probe-former-ncp-mla-s-role-in-2016-firing-case-101629043640667.html
15-08-2021||Other||Andhra Pradesh extends night curfew as Covid-19 cases continue uptick||The Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday extended coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions, including night curfew, in the state till August 21 with more than half of the districts reporting a rise in infections.State principal secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal said the curfew between 10pm and 6am that was scheduled to come to an end on August 14, has been extended till August 21. He said the decision was taken after an extensive review of the Covid-19 situation in the state.“Following Covid-appropriate behaviour is a must at all congregations. Any violation will attract action as per the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” Singhal said, adding the cap on gatherings would also remain in place.He also directed commissioners, superintendents of police, and district collectors to strictly enforce all restrictions across the state.Also Read | Covid-19 fear: Family in Andhra Pradesh locks itself for 15 monthsHowever, schools in Andhra Pradesh for the current academic session of 2021-22 will resume classes on Monday. The decision to reopen schools was taken by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy after chairing a high-level review meeting in July.Restrictions in place1. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) will continue in the state even during non-curfew hours, Singh said.2.  Not more than 150 people will be permitted to attend social gatherings and functions, including marriages and religious events.Current Covid-19 situation in Andhra PradeshThe southern state is one of the top five most-affected states in India at the moment with the active case count standing at 17,865. As many as 1,506 new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the overall tally of the state to 19,93,697, the state Covid-19 bulletin data showed. With 16 new fatalities, the death toll in Andhra Pradesh climbed up to 13,647. A total of 1,835 fresh recoveries have taken the number of recovered cases in the state to 19,59,290.Some districts such as East Godavari, Chittoor, Nellore, West Godavari, Guntur and Prakasam reported more than 100 new cases on Sunday. East Godavari reported the highest number of fresh infections with 319 cases, followed by Chittoor with 217 cases, the bulletin revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-pradesh-extends-night-curfew-as-covid-19-cases-continue-uptick-101629041650917.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Car outside MLA Surve’s office loaded with crackers, not explosives, says Mumbai Police||The Dahisar police on Saturday found a suspicious car loaded with firecrackers parked outside Shiv Sena Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Prakash Surve’s office in Dahisar. According to Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order), the sumo jeep found near Surve’s office was checked and identified. On further investigation, the police found that the vehicle had been loaded with firecrackers. Patil said that the owner of the vehicle was identified as M Bobde who stays in a nearby building. “The officers found the Paytm QR code sticker on the vehicle and got the number of the owner after scanning it. He was then called to the police station,” said Patil, adding that the owner claimed that he sells firecrackers on the road and due to rains he had kept the firecrackers in the vehicle.“We will verify all the angles though and take legal action against the owner of the vehicle,” added Patil.Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police(North) said, “The owner of the vehicle has been selling firecrackers in Dahisar for the last eight-nine years. He could not keep the firecrackers at his home as water had entered his home. So he kept them in his car. No suspicious intent has been found till now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/car-outside-mla-surve-s-office-loaded-with-crackers-not-explosives-says-mumbai-police-101629043160689.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi records slight increase in daily Covid-19 tally, reports zero fatalities||Delhi logged 53 new cases of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on Sunday, taking the tally of the national capital to 1,437,091. The day’s tally marked a slight increase over the 50 cases reported on Saturday and the day before. Delhi’s positivity rate now stands at 0.08 per cent, after 65,007 tests, including 45,971 RT-PCR, were conducted the previous day, according to a health department bulletin.The national capital did not report any death in the last 24 hours, a day after it broke its trend of recording zero fatalities. No person died due to Covid-19 in Delhi on July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11, August 12, and August 13. August 15 marked the 10th time Delhi saw no Covid-related fatality since the second wave of the pandemic hit the country earlier this year. The death toll stands at 25,069.At present, Delhi has 513 active Covid-19 cases, of which, 169 are under home isolation, while 287 individuals are being treated in hospitals and four are admitted to Covid care centres.Vaccination has been slowly gaining ground and the health bulletin said that almost 1.15 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the national capital since the inoculation exercise started on January 16, and over 32 lakh people have received both doses, with 1,57,709 beneficiaries being vaccinated in the last 24 hours. The national capital's stock of coronavirus vaccine will last for only the next six days, the Delhi government had said on Saturday.The city health department officials had recently informed the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that if the present rate of supply of vaccines continues, it would take another year to fully vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries aged above 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-slight-increase-in-daily-covid-19-tally-reports-zero-fatalities-101629028750343.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||This hawker has property worth crores, runs extortion racket in Mumbai stations||The authorities have slapped charges under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) on a hawker, his wife and six other associates accused of extortion, and attached many of his properties worth crores.The Government Railway Police said the accused, Santosh Kumar Singh alias Bablu Thakur, has properties, including two high-end cars and a motorcycle, 10 houses in Mumbai, two land plots at his native place in Uttar Pradesh, a five-acre agricultural land, 1.5 kg gold, insurance policies worth around ₹10 lakh and cash in about 30 bank accounts.Thakur was allegedly involved in extorting money from hawkers at railway stations and would beat and attack them with sharp weapons if they refused to pay, a police officer said, adding the accused has been booked under several Acts, besides (MCOCA).The accused was running the extortion racket at Dadar, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Byculla and Kurla railway stations here as well as stations in neighbouring Thane city and Kalyan town, the official said. Thakur and his wife Rita Singh have multiple cases registered against them and many of them are still pending in court, Dadar Government Railway Police's (GRP) senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Katkar said. "We have invoked the MCOCA against Thakur, his wife and six other associates and attached their properties. The last case was registered against them under Sections 387 (extortion) and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and further investigation is underway,” the official said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/this-hawker-has-property-worth-crores-runs-extortion-racket-in-mumbai-stations-101629032790040.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to start yoga classes in parks, community centres from Oct 2: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that the AAP government will start yoga classes in parks, community centres and other such places across the city from October 2 to make yoga a "public movement".He made the announcement after hoisting the tricolour at the Delhi Secretariat on the occasion of 75th Independence Day.He said people celebrate the International Yoga Day once in a year in the name of Yoga and then get busy in their daily routine."India gave yoga to the world but in our country it is becoming extinct slowly. To make yoga a public movement and to make it a part of everyone's life, we will start yoga classes from October 2 this year in Delhi's parks, halls and community centres," Kejriwal announced."Elaborate preparations are being made for this. An army of yoga instructors is being created. If 30-40 people in any residential colony come forward, the Delhi government will provide them yoga instructors for free," Kejriwal said while addressing the gathering.The CM said yoga is a technique which keeps mind, body and soul healthy and appealed people to practise it regularly."Please start doing yoga and keep yourself and your family healthy," he said.In his speech, the Chief Minister paid homage to freedom fighters as well as to doctors, nurses and paramedics who lost their lives while serving people during the coronavirus pandemic.He also announced to start teaching ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum at Delhi government schools from September 27 as a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh.He also termed Delhi as the "laboratory of governance" as, he said, its initiatives were being discussed the world over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-start-yoga-classes-in-parks-community-centres-from-oct-2-kejriwal-101629027616328.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Independence Day 2021: Another year of dismal sales for kite sellers due to Covid-19||In the run-up to Independence Day, seeing skies full of vibrant and unique kites is a sight to behold. The streets of Old Delhi are flooded with enthusiasts making their way through the stalls, checking and picking out the latest kite designs. However, Covid-19 has spelt subdued business for kite sellers in Lal Kuan, the wholesale hub for kites in Delhi, the second year in a row. Shop owners reveal a further decline in sales than last year and a dearth of buyers. Some also opine that the craze of kite flying has diminished. Drop in sales “The business has decreased by 50%. On average, we used to get 10-12 customers. Now, it has reduced to only five or six,” says Altaf Qureshi from Kallu Bhai Patang Wale. The reason for the drop in sales could be the financial losses or personal losses amid the pandemic, believes Himanshu Gupta from Bishan Chand & Sons. He says, “Now people have the mindset that pehle apne ghar ki needs poori karni hai, baad mein occasion dekhenge.”Restricted timings The guidelines to shut shops earlier than usual are hindering the sales, too. Qureshi says, “Earlier, we used to be open till 11pm or 12am as wholesale buyers come at that time. Now we shut our shops by 9pm.”Lack of interest in kite-flying The sellers also feel the craze of kite-flying is fading. “School ke bachche kaafi aate they, ab schools are shut so there’s hardly any crowd,” says Mohammed Ahmed from Haji Kite House. To this, Qureshi adds, “Bachchon ka dhyan mobile phone mein divert ho gaya hai.” Less demand, less supply Ahmed says, “Stock jo tha wahi nikaal rahe hain. It’s a challenge to even sell this lot.” Gupta, too, has placed a smaller order with dealers. He says, “Customers from Haryana used to come and buy kites in bulk, but ab bahar ke aate nahin hai lene.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/independence-day-2021-another-year-of-dismal-sales-for-kite-sellers-due-to-covid19-101629019279230.html
15-08-2021||Jaipur||2 killed, 4 injured after truck carrying LPG cylinders catches fire in Rajasthan||Two people were killed and four others were injured in explosions after a truck loaded with Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders caught fire near Dantri village on the Jaipur-Ajmer border on the expressway in Rajasthan late on Saturday night, said police officials. The sounds of explosions were heard for several kilometers from the spot and the traffic on the Ajmer-Jaipur expressway remained blocked for a long time after the incident, police said. Jaipur Rural’s additional superintendent of police Gyan Prakash said the reason for the truck catching fire is still unclear. He said it was carrying around 300 gas cylinders when it caught fire, he said. Police said there were six people aboard the truck and two of them- suspected to be the driver and the cleaner—were blown to pieces in the explosion while others got injured while trying to escape. The police stopped traffic movement on the highway after the incident. The explosions continued for around 45 minutes resulting in a long traffic jam. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/2-killed-4-injured-after-a-truck-carrying-lpg-cylinders-catches-fire-in-rajasthan-101629015438639.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains open for fully vaccinated passengers: Check SOPs here||Mumbai local train services resumed for people who have taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Sunday, after a gap of four months. Passengers were restricted from commuting in local trains in the first week of April after the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. Local train services resumed on February 1 this year, after nearly a year of the network remaining off-limits for people beginning March 2020 amid the first wave of the pandemic.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on August 8 said that in order to continue the economic cycle, the state government is imposing certain criteria and restrictions to allow ordinary passengers to travel locally. “Passengers who are fully vaccinated will be able to travel by local from August 15,” Thackeray added.Ahead of its resumption of services of local trains, the state government on Thursday launched an online facility to enable citizens who have taken their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine a fortnight ago to obtain passes to travel in suburban trains.Here are the SOPs issued for travelling in Mumbai local trains:1. Passengers who have smartphones can download the train pass through a mobile application. "Passengers who do not have a smartphone can take photo passes from municipal ward offices in the city as well as suburban railway stations. These passes are for local travel which will have QR codes so that the railway administration can verify their authenticity. I urge you not to allow anyone to obtain passes illegally. Get fully vaccinated and travel," Thackeray said.2. Universal passes with Quick Response (QR) code are being made available to the commuters through both offline and online systems. The offline system of verification of vaccination certificates and issuing passes was started outside railway stations by municipal bodies and now the commuters could also get their certificates verified and obtain e-passes online by logging on to http://epassmsdma.mahait.org/.3. Special squad teams consisting of ticket checking staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) have been deployed for inspection of vaccination certificates and railway passes both by the Central Railway and the Western Railway. Ticket checking inspectors have also been deployed inside local train compartments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-open-for-fully-vaccinated-passengers-check-sops-here-101629011320661.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal says launch of Deshbhakti curriculum in Delhi schools from Sept 27||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the roll out of the Deshbhakti (patriotism) curriculum from September 27 in government-run schools in the city and Yoga programme at public parks and community halls on October 2. These programmes were mentioned in the Delhi budget 2020-21 presented by the Kejriwal government.In his Independence Day speech from the lawns of the Delhi Secretariat, Kejriwal further elaborated on Delhi’s experience with Covid-19 pandemic while appreciating the role of healthcare and frontline workers in fighting the pandemic. He also highlighted the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) efforts to enhance public welfare services and act as a role model for other states.“For the last 1.5 years, people are facing the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic and a large number of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have lost their lives. India has witnessed two waves of Covid-19. Delhi has witnessed four – in June 2020, September 2020, November 2020 and April 2021. The April wave in Delhi was the most dangerous. There will hardly be any family in Delhi which has not seen infection among relatives. So many of them lost their loved ones. It was an emotional phase for us. Our ministers, MLAs, officers worked 24x7 to save lives,” said Kejriwal in his Sunday’s speech.At its peak, Delhi recorded more than 28,300 new Covid-19 cases in 24-hours on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22. The Covid-19 surge left the city’s healthcare system overburdened, which was worsened by a severe crisis of oxygen, resulting in a high number of deaths.The chief minister further said, “I salute the doctors, nurses and paramedics who served us with utmost dedication. They are no less than a soldier. There was an existing Delhi government scheme to help martyred soldiers’ kin with ₹1 crore in financial assistance. We extended the same scheme to healthcare and frontline workers. Lives of people are priceless. This amount is the minimum token of gratitude for their service to the people of Delhi. Delhi government stands with the patients too.”“The children who have been orphaned are our children. We can’t abandon them. We have made a scheme for them too. We have also made a scheme for those who lost breadwinners,” said Kejriwal – referring to financial assistance schemes under which children orphaned by Covid-19 and households losing their primary breadwinners in Delhi are entitled to a monthly financial assistance of ₹2,500.Highlighting the AAP government’s role in the education sector, the chief minister said: “In 74 years, in schools of our country, we have taught physics, chemistry, maths, history but not patriotism. We assumed that students would learn that themselves. I am happy to announce such a curriculum in Delhi’s schools to encourage our students to take pride in the nation. This will be a completely activity-based programme to make children understand their roles and duties as a responsible citizen. Every child will be prepared to contribute to nation building and sacrifice everything for the nation. There is no better day to start the programme than Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary. He had sacrificed his life for the nation at the age of 23. I also urge parents to discuss patriotism and responsibilities with children when they are home.” Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary is on September 28.Kejriwal said he was happy to announce that the Delhi board of school education has signed a MoU (memorandum of agreement) with the international board to offer a much sought after and internationally recognised curriculum in the city schools.Kejriwal also claimed that Delhi had become a good governance laboratory under his party’s rule. He said his government recognised its responsibility to provide quality basic services including education, healthcare, water and electricity to residents and the AAP government’s model was now being adopted by other political outfits.“We are doing experiments on every aspect of governance. Recently we made the regional transport offices provide all services online—no queue, no crowd, no loss of working day, no touts. If one does not know how to use the internet, just call 1076. We started with the transport department. Slowly, we will provide all government services online. In recent years, we launched the doorstep delivery model – which has more than 150 services now. In schools we launched a happiness class aimed at medication, positivity, encouragement. We launched entrepreneurship classes,” he said, naming a few initiatives of the government.Highlighting the importance of Yoga and meditation along with Gandhian values, Kejriwal said, “We have to make Yoga a part of people’s life. This year from October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, we will launch a programme of Yoga classes in parks and community centres. We are training a large number of yoga instructors for the programme. If groups of residents of any colony ask us about instructors, we will help them under the programme.”He further spoke of his ambitions to bring Delhi’s per capita income at par with Singapore’s and bidding for the Olympics in 2048, promises made during the budget session of the assembly earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-says-launch-of-deshbhakti-curriculum-in-delhi-schools-from-sept-27-101629013098970.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi preparing to host Olympics after 2047, says Kejriwal on Independence Day||On the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the national capital is making preparations to host the Olympics. Noting that the country has not been the host country for the prestigious international games so far, the Delhi chief minister said, “We will prepare to present our case [to host the Olympics] after 2047, we have to take Delhi to such a level.”Also Read | Kejriwal gives nod to Deshbhakti Curriculum for Delhi govt schoolsKejriwal's address on Sunday had a special mention for India's Olympic medallists. Notably, India gave its best performance at the Olympics yet, this year, with the country bagging seven medals in the multi-sports event, including a historic gold from javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra. Congratulating the athletes for their achievement, Kejriwal said that India needs to prepare for "70 medals now".Kejriwal said that his government has set up Delhi Sports University, which is not only for athletes from the national capital but for the entire country. “I call upon everyone to come and avail the facilities,” the chief minister of Delhi said.Earlier this year, too, Kejriwal had indicated that it is the Delhi government's dream to host the 2048 Olympics, when he said he would approach the central government and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) for it."A vision has been provided in the Budget that 2048 Olympic games should be held in Delhi. Delhi will bid for the 2048 Olympics. We will take up whatever infrastructure and other necessities that are needed to be created for it," he said.Also Read | Kejriwal reviews road revamp projects in cityAnnouncing a slew of other measures on the Independence Day, Kejriwal also declared the rollout of the 'Deshbhakti Curriculum', which seeks to include patriotrism-based studies in the syllabus. The ‘Deshbhakti Curriculum’ framework draws on three primary goals, which are “Knowledge, Values, and Behavior,” according to the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-preparing-to-host-olympics-after-2047-says-kejriwal-on-independence-day-101629008695475.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal announces ‘Deshbhakti Curriculum’ in Delhi govt schools from Sept 27||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the Aam Aadmi Party-led government’s decision to launch ‘Deshbhakti Curriculum’ in Delhi schools from September 27 as a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. Kejriwal hoisted the national flag at the secretariat building on the occasion of India’s 75th Independence Day.“Our curriculum teaches physics, chemistry but not patriotism. This 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' will instil patriotic values in our children. Delhi government schools will be imparting international-level education as a pact has been signed with International Baccalaureate,” Kejriwal said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo noted that the Delhi government has set up a sports university, not only for Delhi but for the entire nation and he called upon everyone to avail the facilities.Expressing his gratitude towards the paramedical staff who helped in the contribution to Covid-19 fight, the Delhi chief minister said, “Salute doctors and paramedical staff who laid down their lives during Covid pandemic; immensely thankful to them. The Delhi government gave ₹1 crore to families of frontline workers who lost their lives during the pandemic; want to tell them we are with them."He urged everyone to come together on the 75th year of Independence and fill the nation with spirit of patriotism.Kejriwal also congratulated the Olympics medal winners. “Congratulations to Olympic medal winners, need to prepare for 70 medals now. We will prepare to present our case to host Olympics after 2047, have to take Delhi to such level,” he said in a tweet.Kejriwal said Delhi has given a model of governance to the nation with kind of innovations and ideas being brought to the table. “Goa has made 16,000 litres water free to every family, other governments think of providing free electricity, like the model we have in Delhi,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-announces-deshbhakti-curriculum-in-delhi-govt-schools-from-sept-27-101629007460908.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train services resume for general commuters after four months||Fully vaccinated general commuters were allowed to avail services of the Mumbai local trains beginning Sunday after a gap of four months.Nearly 120,000 monthly season universal passes have been issued so far since August 11 to residents who have completed 14 days since receiving the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the eligibility criteria set by Maharashtra government for allowing the general population to travel on the local train network in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.The general commuters were banned from local trains in the first week of April after the second wave hit, only two months after the services had resumed on February 1 after nearly a year of the network remaining off limits for the general public beginning march 2020, due to the outbreak of the first wave of the pandemic.There was no incident of crowding reported inside local trains and on suburban railway stations early on Sunday morning on both the Central and Western Railways, officials said.Universal passes embedded with Quick Response (QR) code are being made available to the commuters through both offline and online systems. While the offline system of verification of vaccination certificates and issuing passes was started outside railway stations by municipal bodies, commuters could also get their certificates verified and obtain e-passes online by logging on to http://epassmsdma.mahait.org/Railway authorities have stated that special squad teams consisting of ticket checking staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) have been deployed for inspection of vaccination certificates and railway passes both by the Central and the Western Railway. Ticket checking inspectors have also been deployed inside local train compartments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-services-resume-for-general-commuters-after-four-months-101629008958630.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Independence Day: The India we love||In our diversity, there is unparalleled beauty. As we proudly carry on the legacy of our unity in diversity, we celebrate India’s rich handicrafts that represent our history, our eclectic culture, religions and traditions. Our photo editor Jasjeet Plaha took these shots with her smartphone in the picturesque Karma Lakelands, Gurugram, attempting to do justice to the ethos of our great nation that has sailed through the mightiest of storms, only to emerge stronger and more united than ever. Happy Independence Day!Photos: Jasjeet PlahaConcept: Shara Ashraf PrayagStyling and Production : Ruchika GargFeaturing: Actors Sapna Dutta & Rohit Tanan, models Sweksha Singh, Manpreet Singh, Anita Sharma & Aman VohraLocation: Karma LakelandsAgency: SS Model Management Hair and makeup: Blossom Kochhar AcademyJewellery Designer: Archana AggarwalOutfits: Khanijo, Shanti Banaras, Saundh, Shilpsutra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/independence-day-the-india-we-love-101629008371096.html
15-08-2021||Dehradun||Fake Covid testing scam: Probe report questions role of 2 health officers||Health officials in Haridwar ignored the first inkling of a major scam in Covid-19 testing during the Mahakumbh in mid-April by allowing private firm Max Corporate Services to continue tests despite concerns of irregularities being raised, an inquiry conducted by Haridwar’s chief development officer (CDO) Saurabh Gaharwar, has revealed.Gaharwar submitted the report to Haridwar district magistrate Vinay Shankar Pandey on Saturday.A district administration official aware of the development said the report, running into over 1,100 pages, has majorly raised questions over two senior health department officials on handing the contract to Max Corporate Services, which further let sub-contracts to various testing laboratories.An official, privy to the report and speaking on the condition of anonymity, said: “The report has raised questions on the role of district chief medical officer and the Kumbh mela health officer for not taking any major action to check and stop the irregularities in the Covid testing.”“The report also raised questions on how Max Corporate Services got the contract from the Mela health department without proper verification. The firm neither had experience of conducting tests nor did it have a registered office...,” said the official.While attempts to contact Mela health officer Dr Arjun Sengar went unanswered, Haridwar CMO Dr SK Jha refused to comment on the report.“As far as Max Corporate Services is concerned, I had already stated that its application was rejected for conducting Covid-19 tests in Mahakumbh as it was not listed by the Indian Medical Research Council,” Jha said.Allegations of fake testing surfaced at the Kumbh after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/fake-covid-testing-scam-probe-report-questions-role-of-2-health-officers-101628976635533.html
15-08-2021||Lucknow||Cattle smugglers fire at police team in Pilibhit, FIR lodged||Three alleged cattle smugglers fired at a police team that intercepted them in the Puranpur area of Pilibhit district in western Uttar Pradesh on Friday morning, police officials said on Saturday. An FIR was lodged against the unidentified smugglers.Circle officer Lallan Singh said: “The police team that was travelling in a jeep escaped the attack unhurt. But a bullet hit the bonnet of their vehicle. Based on the complaint filed by Dharmendra Singh, an assistant sub-inspector who was present in the vehicle, an FIR has been lodged against the smugglers.”The FIR was lodged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cattle-smugglers-fire-at-police-team-in-pilibhit-fir-lodged-101628972509859.html
15-08-2021||Other||Pak’s I-Day: Indian, Pak troops exchange sweets along LoC||The armies of India and Pakistan exchanged sweets along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir, to mark the latter’s Independence Day. “Indian Army and Pakistan Army exchanged sweets at Poonch-Rawalakot crossing point and Mendhar-Hotspring crossing point in Poonch district on Wednesday,” said a defence spokesperson. “Greetings and best wishes of peace and harmony were conveyed to the Pak Army representatives. The gesture was appreciated by both the armies and is expected to further promote goodwill and mutual trust,” he added. A senior BSF officer also said sweets and pleasantries were exchanged between BSF and Pak Rangers on four meeting points along the 200km-long international border in Jammu region. “Today, Pak Rangers and BSF exchanged sweets on the occasion of Pakistan’s Independence Day at various border outposts along the 200km long Indo-Pak international border from Kathua to Akhnoor,” said BSF Jammu frontier DIG SPS Sandhu. The sweets exchange programme was held at Chamliyal, Chinaz and Octroi posts. At Octroi post, Pak Rangers officer Ashiq led his side. This was the second exchange of sweets between the countries after the Pulwama terror attack on a CRPF convoy by a suicide bomber that left 40 CRPF personnel dead on February 14, 2019. It was carried out by a Jaish suicide bomber, who rammed a vehicle carrying over 100kg of explosives into the CRPF bus in Pulwama district. The attack also left many critically wounded. On July 21, both countries had indulged in sweets diplomacy on the Indo-Pak borders to celebrate the festival of Eid-ul-Adha. On August 10, director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said that “after a brief lull following a renewed truce deal between the two DGMOs on February 25, infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir has resumed” and that “terror camps across the border were still intact.” India will reciprocate with a similar gesture on Sunday on the occasion of her Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paks-i-day-indian-pak-troops-exchange-sweets-along-loc-101628972646074.html
15-08-2021||Other||Migrants’ immovable property in Kashmir to be protected||With a view to provide relief to Kashmiri migrants and protect their properties in the Valley, the administrative council has proposed protection of immovable properties.The administrative council that met under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday issued instructions for preservation and protection of migrants’ immovable property and removal of encroachments from there.“To streamline the preservation and protection efforts, the administrative council also approved the proposal of revenue department to confer powers of commissioners upon the deputy commissioners of Kashmir division under the Agrarian Reforms Act,” the government spokesman said.He said the department of disaster management, relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction was directed to develop an online portal for facilitating migrants to apply for correction of records, demarcation and removal of encroachments, and alienation by way of fraud or distress.“The disposal of such applicants has also been made time-bound under the Public Services Guarantee Act,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrants-immovable-property-in-kashmir-to-be-protected-101628971985921.html
15-08-2021||Other||135 new Covid cases, no deaths in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 135 fresh Covid-19 infections, of which 98 cases were in Kashmir while 37 were in Jammu. For the second consecutive day, the UT recorded no deaths.As many as 156 patients also recovered from the virus, taking the active case count to 1,303. Srinagar district currently has the highest number of active cases at 326 followed by Jammu district with 130 active cases. As many as 15 districts had no or single-digit cases.So far, 3,17,627 people have recovered from the virus, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.23%. Since the outbreak last year, Jammu and Kashmir has recorded 3,23,325 cases in all, of which 4,395 have succumbed.Officials said that 53,557 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/135-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101628971686072.html
15-08-2021||Other||No trains services in Kashmir on I-Day||Train services will remain suspended in Kashmir on August 15 on the occasion of Independence Day, officials said. They said the train services from Banihal in Jammu to Baramulla in north Kashmir (and vice versa) – a distance of 137 km with 17 stations – will remain suspended throughout the day.“The services have been suspended as a routine measure on August 15,” said Saqib Yousuf, chief area manager, Northern Railways, Srinagar.The decision came after police wrote to the rail authorities on Saturday to suspend the services.Very high security measures are in place across Kashmir to celebrate the Independence Day. There have been a number of attacks such as grenade throwing and hit-and-run firing cases by militants on security forces in the Valley in the run up to August 15.Rail services were fully restored in Kashmir on July 14 after improvement in Covid-19 situation in the valley. The Kashmir stretch of the railways is yet to be connected with the rest of the country. The standalone section from Banihal, considered the gateway to Kashmir in the south, to Baramulla in north Kashmir is 137 km long and is very popular among the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-trains-services-in-kashmir-on-iday-101628971325812.html
15-08-2021||Other||Covid-19: All 20 districts in Jammu and Kashmir in green zone||All 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir are in the green zone as per the benchmarks set for assessing the Covid-19 situation, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha was informed by officials during a review meeting on Friday.Members of the Covid Task Force, deputy commissioner and senior superintendents of police were present during the meeting. Sinha asked the officials concerned to apply the learning from the past and prepare themselves to tackle the future challenges of a possible third wave. “With full capacity utilisation of the vaccination, raising enforcement level, strict compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, increasing surveillance activities, scaling up of testing and contact tracing, J&K will emerge as a winner in the fight against the global pandemic,” said Sinha.Vaccination updateAtal Dulloo, additional chief secretary, health and medical education department, gave a detailed briefing on the district-wise analysis of the Covid situation.He informed the chair that Srinagar has achieved 98% vaccination coverage of the first dose in the 45 and above age group, while Doda, Reasi, and Udhampur have achieved 97%, 96%, and 97% coverage respectively.“All 20 districts are in the green zone as per benchmarks set for assessing Covid-19 situation,” Dulloo informed.The LG Sinha emphasised on the need to continuously monitor the situation.“In the previous meeting, I had said that the next 100 days are crucial. We need to continuously monitor the evolving situation and implement new strategies, besides expanding our outreach and deploying sufficient workforce to overcome any health exigency,” he said.The LG also instructed the officials to put extra efforts and take innovative measures for achieving 100% inoculation of the first dose under the 18-44 age group.He further asked the civil and police administration to maintain close coordination to ensure on-ground implementation of Covid control measures and adherence to protocols.Congratulating the districts for achieving 100% vaccination among the targeted population, the Lt Governor observed that the UT is ensuring equitable allocation, distribution, and administration of vaccine.“DCs and health officials should increase the average rate of per-day vaccinations in order to achieve the set targets,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-all-20-districts-in-jammu-and-kashmir-in-green-zone-101628971025854.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan school alumni funds phones for students to continue with online classes||Deepali Joshi, 37, a computer teacher who lost her job during the lockdown was struggling to manage her children’s online education due to lack of a mobile phone. Her husband who used to run a cybercafé was also out of work due to the lockdown.The school her seven-year-old daughter studies in will be giving them a phone to ensure the girl’s education is not affected.The Balak Mandir Sanstha Primary School at Tilak Chowk in Kalyan (W), a Marathi medium school established in 1949, took the initiative of giving mobile phones to those students who are deprived of online education as their parents could not afford one. The school, which has around 500 students, gifted mobile phones to 35 students recently. The funds for the phone were allotted by the alumni of the school.Joshi said, “The phone which I have is given for my son’s online class. I was clueless about my daughter’s online class. Also my husband’s phone is an old model. When the school decided to give her a phone, she was happy. During the lockdown, we both lost our jobs and have also taken up selling stationeries. However, that also did not succeed as the schools are shut and most people buy stuff online now-a-days,” said Joshi.After collecting the funds, the school also formed a team to do a survey of those students who were not able to attend the online class due to lack of mobile phones. The team visited their houses and checked their financial condition and learned about the ordeals of the parents.“Most of the students who were not able to attend the online class are from remote areas. Their parents could not afford phones. We decided to give them one so that their education was not affected. We also helped them with SIM cards and did the recharge for two months so that they start attending the lectures online,” said Vilas Likhar, a Class 4 teacher at the school.Yogita Sutar, 38, a parent of two girls, said, “My younger daughter could not attend the class for two months as I had only one phone to give to my elder daughter for her class. She was upset about it while we were struggling to buy a new phone. My husband works in Mumbai and we earn very less. Now, she had started attending the class regularly”Vrushali Kulkarni Joshi, 29, an alumni of the school, said, “When I came to know about the school initiating to give phones to the students, I decided to discuss this in my alumni group and most of them agreed. We managed to raise ₹1 lakh and give to the school. I passed out in 2006-07, and I am still connected to my school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-school-alumni-funds-phones-for-students-to-continue-with-online-classes-101628969526587.html
15-08-2021||Other||Kathua chopper crash: Submarine rescue unit of Navy being flown in||The search operations for Indian Army pilots and the helicopter which had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam on August 3 has intensified with the submarine rescue unit of Indian Navy being flown in to locate the wreckage digitally at a depth of approximately 80 to 100 metres at the bottom of the lake.“Indian Air Force has lifted heavy equipment from Vishakhapatnam to Pathankot for speeding up the underwater search. Indian Army and all other agencies, including Indian Navy, Indian Air Force, NDRF, Ranjit Sagar Dam Authority, district authorities and locals are sparing no efforts for bringing the operations to a final conclusion,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.On August 11, on the ninth day of intense searches since the helicopter crashed into Ranjit Sagar dam in Basohli area of Kathua district, the rescuers had located the wreckage of the ill-fated machine at a depth of nearly 80 metres in the vast lake.“The wreckage of the #ArmyHelicopter that had crashed into the #RanjitSagarReservoir has been identified at a depth of approx 80m from the surface of the reservoir. Heavy duty #RemotelyOperatedVehicles are being flown in to assist the recovery operations,” the Western Command had posted on its Twitter handle. The families of the two pilots—a lieutenant colonel and a captain, have been reportedly camping at Mamun cantonment on Pathankot. The expanse of the dam is 25km long, 8km wide and more than 500 feet deep. The Rudra helicopter had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake near Pathankot on August 3 around 10.43 am. Built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), the chopper was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake, said a second official. The helicopter belonged to the Army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which earlier lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kathua-chopper-crash-submarine-rescue-unit-of-navy-being-flown-in-101628969525454.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra administers close to a million Covid-19 vaccine doses in a day||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded its highest single-day figure for Covid-19 vaccine doses — 961,495, as of 11.30pm. The total doses administered have reached 49,176,203. A total of 12,807,025 citizens are fully vaccinated, data revealed.State health minister Rajesh Tope said this showed that Maharashtra can administer one million doses daily. “Vaccination is the only weapon to contain Covid-19 and if we get regular supply of doses, we will be able to do such mass vaccinations,” said Tope. “Today [Saturday], we have proved that we can undertake vaccination of at least 10 lakh people in a day,” he added.The previous highest was on July 3 when around 811,000 doses were administered.The Maharashtra assembly even passed a resolution demanding at least 30 million doses per month. The state government has been complaining that the Central government was providing insufficient doses.This has resulted in an erratic vaccination drive with authorities suspending the drive on some days. Now with the railways allowing only fully vaccinated people to travel, there has been a rush of people seeking vaccines.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said large-scale vaccination is the need of the hour. “Vaccines reduce the severity of the virus and it is necessary to save lives. We need to increase the pace further,” said Dr Mandot..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-administers-close-to-a-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-101628968986531.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin Singaporean jailed for hurting religious feelings of bus driver||SingaporeA 53-year-old Indian-origin Singaporean was jailed here on Friday for hurting religious feelings of a person and being drunk in public, according to a media report.He was sentenced to 13 weeks and 12 days after he pleaded guilty to one charge each of uttering words to wound the religious feelings of a person and being drunk in public, The Straits Times reported.Another two charges of harassment and breaching Covid-19 regulations were taken into consideration for sentencing.Singh had been just released from prison on remission from June 29 to August 7 when the incident happened, the report said.On June 30, he was drunk and boarded a public bus, while not wearing a mask over his nose and mouth.On reaching a bus interchange, Jasvinder approached the bus driver and asked him in his ear about his race.After the bus driver told him, Jasvinder began to shout at the driver, calling him a terrorist. He also made references to the driver’s religion and mother.He continued to annoy the driver even after the bus arrived at the interchange about 10 minutes later, shouting at him and challenging him to a fight after alighting.He called the bus driver a terrorist and insulted his religion, the report said.Singh was arrested after the police were called.On Friday, the court heard that Singh has repeatedly run afoul of the law since 2014.He was previously convicted of harassment in June, and received a jail term of five months, 10 weeks and two days, with an enhanced sentence of another 18 days. This was backdated to December 8 last year.Before that, he was jailed for two months and given a 55-day enhanced sentence in April last year.This was for spitting on the floor of a hotel at the airport and shouting, “corona, corona”, after taking food from the hotel’s buffet line and smashing plates when staff stopped him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-singaporean-jailed-for-hurting-religious-feelings-of-bus-driver-101628968865078.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Capt orders increase in Covid tests to 60,000 per day||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday ordered Covid tests to be increased to at least 60,000 per day.The statement comes amid projections that Covid cases will double in about 64 days at the current growth rate. At present, the Covid tests are in the range of 45,000 to 49,000 per day.Chairing a Covid review meeting, the CM directed the health department to undertake priority sentinel testing for patients at government and private hospitals, travellers at entry points, government offices, industries, labour colonies, staff at marriage palaces, restaurants, pubs, bars, gyms etc. Amarinder also directed the health department to gear up for full utilisation of the additional vaccine supply, of which he had been assured by the Union health minister. Noting that more than half of the eligible population of the state had already received one dose of vaccine, with the entire available stock being used without any wastage, the CM said he had, during his meeting with the Union health minister earlier this week, sought immediate supply of 55 lakh doses to inoculate Punjab’s eligible population. He had been assured of increased supplies, said Amarinder. Stressing that there was no doubt regarding vaccine effectiveness, the CM urged all eligible persons to come forward to get themselves vaccinated. According to a study to monitor Covid-19 vaccine effectiveness conducted by Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh, it has been found that vaccine has been effective in reducing positivity by 95%, hospitalisation by 96% and deaths by 98%, the meeting was informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-orders-increase-in-covid-tests-to-60-000-per-day-101628968745087.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||British Sikh engineer’s low-cost washing machines to head to India||LondonA London-born Indian-origin engineer’s project to supply low-cost washing machines to countries such as India, where hand washing of clothes remains a time-consuming exercise, has got off to a good start following field research in camps in Iraq.Navjot Sawhney, who set up his washing machine project three years ago to provide energy efficient manual washing machines to low-income regions, has been working with volunteers and partners to conduct research ahead of supplies.The organisation has also launched a crowdfunding appeal on just giving to raise 10,000 pounds to aid the delivery process.“At the washing machine project, we believe in the power of innovation to empower lives. That is why we have developed an off-grid, manual washing machine, which saves 60-70% of time and 50% of water, for people in low-income and displaced communities,” notes the charity’s fundraising drive.“This idea was born out of a friendship. Nav, our founder, was on a sabbatical in rural South India, making clean cook stoves when he met his neighbour, Divya. It was through their conversations at the end of each day that Nav came to realise the significant burden unpaid labour places on women,” it notes.Sawhney was on a sabbatical from his engineering career in the UK when the idea of a hand-cranked washing machine struck him.“While in Tamil Nadu, I lived in a small village called Kuilapalayam. The community had limited access to continuous electricity, and water was switched on twice a day,” recalls Sawhney.“My next-door neighbour Divya and I became excellent friends. While we talked, she would hand wash her clothes. I was always so shocked at how long and how much effort it would take to conduct the relatively unproductive task,” he said.This led to him coming up with the “Divya 1.5” model of his manual washing machine, inspired by a simple salad spinner. Now 30 of the Divya 1.5 will be used at Mamrashan Refugee Camp in Iraq with the help of the charity Care International. It is expected to positively impact 300 people and save up to 750 hours annually per household, equivalent to two months of daylight hours. Sawhney plans to head to Iraq at the beginning of September to help distribute the machines.Later this year, the washing machine project aims to fulfil orders to refugee camps in Jordan. Eventually, the plan is for these machines to be shipped to other parts of the world, including India and Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/british-sikh-engineer-s-low-cost-washing-machines-to-head-to-india-101628968625183.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Will Maharashtra guv clear all 12 MLC nominees easily?||After the Bombay high court’s (HC) remarks over the nomination of the 12 members for the legislative Council from the governor’s quota and the subsequent meeting between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, some development is expected over the issue, which has been a reason for the ongoing friction between the Raj Bhavan and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Raj Bhavan officials opined that Koshyari is unlikely to clear the proposal easily and may raise questions over some of the recommendations made by the MVA government. The 12 names recommended to the governor from the fields of literature, science and art, social service and cooperative movement are as per the provision of filling a sixth of the posts in the upper house of the state legislature. The MVA government, ruled by Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, had recommended four names each to Koshyari last November for the posts, which are lying vacant since May-June last year. But he has not taken any decision on the names. MVA leaders have been accusing Koshyari of playing politics over the nominations. In response to a petition, HC had on Friday said that the governor is duty-bound to declare his decision on the nominations within a “reasonable time” and the failure to do so defeats the statutory intent. HC also said that the governor should have communicated his reservations about the list to the chief minister (CM) instead of keeping the posts vacant indefinitely, which amounts to an unreasonable time lapse.The MVA government’s council of ministers, led by CM Uddhav Thackeray, had submitted the list of 12 members recommended to be appointed by the governor on November 6. The list included the names of actor Urmila Matondkar, Vijay Karanjkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi from the Shiv Sena; farmers’ leader Raju Shetti, former minister Eknath Khadse, Yashpal Bhinge and folk singer Anand Shinde from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP); and Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant, Anniruddha Vankar and Muzaffar Hussain from the Congress.“Though the governor’s meeting in Delhi on Friday evening was a scheduled earlier, the duo [Shah and Koshyari] must have discussed the remarks by the court. The governor will now have to act upon the state government’s recommendations, but it does not mean that all the 12 names will be cleared immediately. In 2015, the then Uttar Pradesh governor and former BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) leader Ram Naik had deferred the appointments to the Council recommended by the Samajwadi Party government in the state. After a lot of noise, Naik had cleared a few of the nine names recommended. Koshyari, too, is likely to adopt a similar approach after the court remarks,” said a Raj Bhavan official, requesting anonymity.“The recommendations of the council of ministers are binding on the Governor as Article 163 says: There shall be a council of ministers with the CM as the head to aid and advice the governor. It also adds that the discretionary powers of the governor exist for constitutional reasons, under which the appointment of the 12 members does not fall. In this case, under Article 167, the governor can raise queries related to credentials of the nominees from the respective fields they have been recommended. But ultimately, the power of the decision over whether any particular nominee fits into the recommended category lies with the cabinet and not the governor,” said constitutional expert Ulhas Bapat, adding that in his opinion the time taken by the Maharashtra governor to clear the proposal is unreasonable.After the MVA government had made the recommendation in November, Naik had said: “The governor cannot replace his own name as the recommendation by the cabinet is binding on him, but he can seek clarification from the government on the proposal. I released the first list of four out of nine recommended names after three months and refused to clear the remaining ones as there were criminal and income tax cases against them. The then CM Akhilesh Yadav had to replace the names, which were later approved.”“We hope that the honourable governor will clear the names as soon as possible. I don’t know if the meeting between Koshyariji and Amit Shahji was in the capacity of their constitutional posts or as former party colleagues, but we expect the recommendations to be cleared now,” state minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said.Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said, “The constitutional provisions can’t be different in two different states. The nominations made by the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar after being elected last November were cleared by the governor within days. How could there be a different treatment in Maharashtra while dealing with the similar constitutional affairs? The governor will have to reply to this question,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-maharashtra-guv-clear-all-12-mlc-nominees-easily-101628968505456.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||3kg heroin seized along Pak border in Gurdaspur||AMRITSARThe special task force (STF) of Punjab Police recovered 3kg of heroin near the India-Pakistan border falling under the Kalanaur sub-division of Gurdaspur. Officials said the contraband was smuggled from Pakistan and was concealed in a battery of a tractor across the barbed-wire fence. The seizure was made after disclosure of an accused, who was arrested under the charges of NDPS Act a few days ago, they said. “The arrested man told us that three packets of heroin, which is suspected to have smuggled from Pakistan a few days ago, have been concealed between the barbed-wire fence and the zero line at an abandoned area,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP-STF), Amritsar, Vawinder Mahajan.An STF team was sent to the border to coordinate with the Border Security Force (BSF) and launch a search operation. “During the search, three packets of heroin weighing 3kg and 130gms were recovered from the tractor battery,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3kg-heroin-seized-along-pak-border-in-gurdaspur-101628968325166.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure safety of Afghan Sikhs: SGPC to Centre||AMRITSARThe Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and external affairs minister S Jaishankar to ensure the safety of Sikhs living in Afghanistan and make arrangements for their evacuation in view of the deteriorating security situation in that country.The Taliban completed their sweep of the country’s south on Friday as they took four more provincial capitals in a lightning offensive that is gradually encircling Kabul, just weeks before the United States is set to officially end its two-decade war.In a letter to the PM and other ministers, SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said the apex gurdwara body will arrange for the settlement of Sikhs who would come from Afghanistan.She said only around 20 Sikh families are left in Afghanistan and these too are living under fear. Meanwhile, the World Punjabi Organisation has appealed to the Union home minister for early evacuation of 257 Afghan Hindu and Sikh families from Kabul.In a statement, international president of the organisation Vikramjit Singh Sahney said it is the need of the hour to bring the Afghan-origin Sikhs and Hindus safely to India as their lives are in grave danger.The organisation is ready to do the needful for the rehabilitation of those who would come from Afghanistan and provide them training for job-oriented courses free of charge, the statement said.Sahney had last year sent three chartered flights to evacuate 500 Hindu and Sikh families from Kabul, Ghazni and Jalalabad and other areas of Afghanistan.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-safety-of-afghan-sikhs-sgpc-to-centre-101628968264994.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai slums free of Covid-19 containment zones||The city is completely free of containment zones in its slums. The last two slums that were under containment at K-East ward, which covers Andheri East, were released on Friday. Meanwhile, there are still 30 micro containment zones in non-slum pockets of the city. This again establishes the fact that non-slums areas are the main source of Covid-19 infection in the city. Meanwhile, amid Covid-19 cases declining in the state, the lockdown will ease from Sunday onwards. Restaurant owners can extend business hours till 10pm, while shopping malls will be open to the public. Further, fully vaccinated citizens will be allowed to travel in suburban trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Private offices can function round-the-clock at full strength, while restrictions on people attending weddings have been relaxed. Containment zones are places where positive cases have been detected and that surrounding area have been sealed to protect everyone inside and outside from further spread. When the second wave started from the middle of February, the city had 54 active containment zones in slums. This increased to around 80 by the end of April when the pandemic curve was at its peak. However, this number is far less than compared to the first wave. In May last year, over 650 slums were under containment zones where movement of the dwellers were strictly regulated. With a steady decline in Covid-19 cases, the last two containment zones at K-East ward have been released. “We had two slums under containment zones which have been released. For the first time this year, we don’t have any containment zones,” said Prashant Sapkale, ward officer of K-East. Since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, nearly 2,800 containment zones in slums have been released in the city. Meanwhile, the city has 30 sealed buildings, with five or more cases which are also referred to as micro containment zones. These are spread across 10 wards, out of 24 wards, with the highest in K-West (Andheri, Jogeshwari). If there are fewer than five Covid-19 cases in a building, then the floors of the building where the active Covid-19 patients are identified are sealed by the civic body. As per BMC data, there are around 1,300 sealed floors in separate buildings across the city. More than 50% (6,534,460) of Mumbai’s total population of 12,442,373 (as per 2011 census) resides in slum areas, making the inhabitants vulnerable to contracting the infection owing to their poor and unhygienic living conditions. But as the BMC figure shows, non-slums residents were the major contributors of the second wave. “We have conducted ward-wise studies in the second wave which showed that 90% of the cases are from residential buildings. There can be several contributing factors like high sero prevalence in slums as shown in sero surveys,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The Covid-19 containment proactive strategies not only helped BMC in controlling cases in slums, but their ‘Dharavi model’ also bagged them national fame and appreciation.Through door-to-door surveys at slums, BMC created a health map that helped diagnose Covid-19 patients faster and maintain a record of high-risk patients who were immediately isolated in Covid Care Centres (CCC).“We followed three strategies in slums— test, isolate and treat. Other than RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction), we have been conducting rapid antigen tests on the floating crowds in slums,” added Kakani. At present, the average growth rate of the last seven days stands at 0.04%. Coming to the ease in lockdown, state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said people need to take adequate precautions, while facilities are opening up. “The easing is being done to facilitate the economic cycle and all precautions should be taken to curtail the Covid-19 transmission rates. If people let their guard down and don’t adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, then we are in trouble again due to the impending third wave,” he warned.The second wave this year was more severe than last year’s first wave as it infected more people and caused more deaths than the first one. This resulted in lockdown. As the state opened up, all shopkeepers and restaurant owners were allowed to function till 4pm only. On August 3, only shopkeepers were allowed to function till 10pm while restaurants were not given any relief. This resulted in anger among the hoteliers who protested to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Now the state has also extended their timings till 10pm.Romi Chaddha, director of the Cosmic Group, which has four hotels in Mumbai, said they would be opening three of their outlets on Sunday. “We are taking all precautions as it is not just our consumers but it even our health is at stake due to this pandemic,” said Chaddha.Also, those visiting shopping malls will also have to carry the final vaccination certificate,Private offices whose employees are fully vaccinated have been allowed to keep their offices functional 24X7, but they have to stagger the work hours and keep 25 per cent strength at one time.Gymnasiums, parlours and salons in the state will be allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity. The spas and gymnasiums will be allowed to function till 10pm, The government has allowed weddings in open place with a cap of 200 people. In case the venue is a closed hall, the number has been limited to 100 or 50 per cent capacity of the venue, whichever is less.Indoor games have been allowed till 10pm provided everyone is fully vaccinated.BMC officials say that in view of the shortage of vaccines, they will allow employees of the shops to work only if they have taken at least on vaccine dose. However the owners should ensure that the employee also takes the second one.Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 5,787 Covid-19 new cases with 134 deaths. Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 265 with 6 deaths, thus bringing its total death toll to 15977.The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 63,87,863.There were 2,14,215 tests done on Saturday while the number of recoveries clocked 5352.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 63,262, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 1,34,909. There are currently 63,262 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 14,738 patients, followed by Satara with 7295 active patients and Sangli with 6,591.The death toll has now reached 134,909, with Pune leading with 18,727 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,977 and Thane with 11,142.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-slums-free-of-covid-19-containment-zones-101628968212230.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 51 fresh cases Covid in Punjab||ChandigarhFour more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday as 51 cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 5,99,896, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 16,340 people in the state. One death each was reported from Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda and Hoshiarpur.The number of active cases rose to 572 from 568 on Friday. Ludhiana and Mohali reported seven cases each, followed by six each in Hoshiarpur and Pathankot and five in Patiala. With 40 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,82,984, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-deaths-51-fresh-cases-covid-in-punjab-101628968146437.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||IT Rules: Bombay HC stays 2 clauses, says people would be starved of liberty of thought||People would be starved of the liberty of thought and feel suffocated to exercise their right of freedom of speech and expression, if they are made to live in the times of content regulation on the Internet with the code of ethics hanging over their head as the Sword of Damocles, the Bombay high court (HC) said on Saturday while staying two clauses of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021.“This regime would run clearly contrary to the well-recognised constitutional ethos and principles,” said the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while staying clauses (1) and (3) of Rule 9 of the IT Rules.Rule 9 (1) required publishers to observe the code of ethics laid down under the IT Rules. Rule 9(3) provided for a three-tier mechanism – self-regulation by the publishers, regulation by self-regulating bodies of the publishers and oversight mechanism by the Centre – for ensuring observance of the code of ethics and for addressing grievances made in relation to the publishers.The interim order came on a petition filed by Agij Promotion of Nineteenonea Media Pvt Ltd, which owns and operates digital news web portal The Leaflet, and a public interest litigation filed by Mumbai-based journalist Nikhil Wagle.They had moved HC challenging the validity of the new IT Rules, contending that the rules are ex-facie draconian, arbitrary and patently ultra vires the provisions of the parent legislation – the IT Act and the provisions of Articles 14, 19 (1) (a) and 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution which guarantee fundamental freedoms to the citizens.HC accepted their contentions and held that Rules 9 (1) and 9 (3) infringe on fundamental freedoms of the petitioners.“Dissent in democracy is vital,” said the bench. “For proper administration of the state, it is healthy to invite criticism of all those who are in public service for the nation to have a structured growth, but with the 2021 Rules in place, one would have to think twice before criticising any personality, even if the writer/editor/ publisher may have good reasons to do so” the bench added.HC said the indeterminate and wide terms of the new IT Rules bring about a “chilling effect” qua the right of freedom of speech and expression of writers/ editors/publishers because they can be hauled up for anything if the inter-departmental committee (to be set under the Rules) so wishes. “The 2021 Rules are, thus, manifestly unreasonable and go beyond the IT Act, its aims and provisions,” said the bench.The court added that allowing the operation of the 2021 Rules in its form and substance to operate would result in the writer/editor/ publisher standing the risk of being punished and sanctioned, should the inter-departmental committee be not in favour of criticism of any public figure. “It is, therefore, quite possible that the writer/editor/publisher on contravention of the provisions of clause (1) of Rule 9 of 2021 Rules, but without even transgressing the boundaries set by clause (2) of Article 19 of the Constitution, may expose himself/itself to punishment or sanction under the 2021 Rules.”HC concluded that allowing Rule 9 as it is “would generate pernicious effects” and therefore, stayed operation of Rules 9(1) and 9(3).The bench also found the two rules ultra vires the provisions of the IT Act, as the Rules introduced measures for contravention of provisions of two completely different enactments – the Press Council of India Act and the Cable Television Network Act – by introducing the code of ethics for publishers of the news portals, online news aggregators etc.HC, however, refused to stay Rule 7 of the new IT Rules which seeks to withdraw the protection granted to intermediaries under section 79 (1) of the IT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/it-rules-bombay-hc-stays-2-clauses-says-people-would-be-starved-of-liberty-of-thought-101628968145249.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||ASI hurt as car driver tries to run over him in Patiala||Signalled to stop for checking ahead of the Independence Day, a car driver tried to run over Punjab Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in Patiala’s Leela Bhawan area on Saturday afternoon. ASI Suba Singh received multiple fractures in his leg. The video of the incident went viral on social media in which a car bearing a Haryana registration number and a farmer union flag was stopped for checking. Instead of showing documents, the car driver steered the vehicle towards the ASI. DSP Hemant Kumar said a case of attempt to murder has been registered.“The mischievous element dragged the ASI for some distance. The ASI’s leg was fractured,” a police official said. Later, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh in a tweet said: “Strict action has already been initiated and FIR under Section 307 has been registered. Have asked the @DGPPunjabPolice to immediately identify the culprits and bring them to book. Relieved to know that the ASI Suba Singh is safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asi-hurt-as-car-driver-tries-to-run-over-him-in-patiala-101628968024861.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Security beefed up in Mumbai for Independence Day||Mumbai Police has stepped up security across the city in view of the Independence Day celebrations. Additional police personnel have been deployed at important government installations such as Mantralaya, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), etc. Security cover has also been strengthened at major religious places, market areas, hotels, railway and metro stations, bus depots, atomic research centres and defence installations, said a police officer.There is no specific terror alert from intelligence agencies to Mumbai this year ahead of Independence Day, but the police are not taking any chance and have prepared a comprehensive security arrangement for the city. Deputy commissioner of police (operations) Chaitanya Siriprolu, who is the Mumbai Police spokesperson, said, “Units of bomb disposal and detection squad (BDDS) would regularly scan the premises of major government and private installations. Police personnel will be posted at important government offices such as Mantralaya, and anti-sabotage measures such as frisking of persons and checking of premises by BDDS, will be carried out.”All police stations will maintain high alert in the form of static deployment and patrolling to prevent any untoward incident, DCP added. The anti-terror cell (ATC) and beat officers in all police stations have been activated to gather intelligence. Night patrolling staff and good morning squads have been directed to be on high alert to prevent law and order issues, the Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said. The special branch, crime branch, protection and security branch, including BDDS, will be on their toes. Officers from the social media lab (SML) would ensure extensive vigilance on social media platform to ensure that offensive and sensitive posts are prevented from going viral and disrupting law-and-order situation, another officer said.Crime branch officers are entrusted with responsibilities of keeping tab on the history sheeters in the city. Crime branch personnel would also be part of the security bandobast and would patrol in plain clothes.The city’s combat teams and quick response team (QRT) will be stationed strategically on standby for immediate response, if required.The police on Friday also carried out a mass prevention drive – All Out Operation. In this drive, the police carried out surprise checking, nakabandi, combing operations and also intensified patrolling and nabbed 79 wanted accused. The combing operation was carried out at 230 places. The police also arrested 121 accused were arrested under anti-narcotics laws, while 37 people were held for the illegal possession of weapons. Action has also been taken against 46 criminals for violating externment orders, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/security-beefed-up-in-mumbai-for-independence-day-101628967425057.html
15-08-2021||Other||Modi should announce repeal of farm laws on I-Day: Selja||Haryana Congress’s state president Kumari Selja on Saturday said PM Narendra Modi should announce a repeal of three farm laws on August 15 that has propelled the ongoing farmers’ agitation.“He should give this gift to the countrymen from the Red Fort during his Independence Day speech,” she said in Ambala. She hit out at the ruling BJP and RSS for doing politics by organising Tiranga Yatra in state.The former Ambala MP was here to honour around 50 freedom fighters and their families at a party event in Aggarwal Bhawan. She vowed for a national movement by the families of freedom fighters and the party to get rid of the BJP rule.“Along with the brave fighters, Congress played an important role in the freedom struggle. Mahatma Gandhi was the biggest hero of the anti-imperialist fight and the BJP and RSS have no role to play in it. Now they are trying to rewrite history,” Selja said.Congress MLA from Mullana constituency, Varun Chaudhary backed her and said, “Like the colonialists, the BJP government is not ready to listen to the countrymen and is refusing to even acknowledge their problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-should-announce-repeal-of-farm-laws-on-i-day-selja-101628967307540.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity Buzz: Kirron’s absence felt at project launch in Chandigarh||The first phase of the public bicycle sharing initiative was launched by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore with much fanfare at Shanti Kunj, Sector 16, Chandigarh, last week. The launch was attended by all top UT officials, some of whom even cycled a distance with the administrator. The launch board, however, mentioned that the inauguration was conducted in the presence of Chandigarh member of Parliament Kirron Kher when she is away to Mumbai for cancer treatment. Cholera outbreak in Zirakpur triggers political blame game After two residents died and 430 cases of cholera surfaced in colonies of Baltana township last week, leaders of the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party resorted to blaming each other. Akali MLA NK Sharma said the Congress government had failed to change water and sewerage pipes in the area over the past six months leading to the situation, while the Zirakpur municipal council president Udayvir Singh Dhillon, who is from the Congress, claimed that it was the SAD-BJP to blame for not replacing the pipes during its rule. AAP leader Navjot Saini blamed both the Congress and the SAD besides the administration for negligence.Real first phase recycled A day before the launch of the first phase of the public bicycle sharing system, confusion prevailed among journalists and cycling enthusiasts. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had inaugurated the bicycle sharing system on December 10, 2020, which the Chandigarh Smart City Ltd had called the first phase. So, when a clarification was sought, a UT official said, “Oh! That (December 10, 2020) inauguration wasn’t the first phase; it was only the inauguration of the cycle4change competition. This is the real first phase.” Help pours in for sportsperson turned parking attendant Ritu After the media highlighted the plight of Ritu, a national level boxer and volleyball player who is forced to work as a parking attendant at Sector 22, Chandigarh, last week, help started pouring in. Ritu and her three siblings do odd jobs for a living and to support their ailing father. Her story moved many to extend a helping hand. First, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma handed over a boxing kit to her and promised all help for her coaching. Youth Congress president Manoj Lubana gifted a bicycle and promised to take her case up with the Chandigarh administration. He urged the administration to consider her for a home guard’s job. Frantic calls as Class 11 admissions get underway While Class 11 admissions opened in government schools from August 11, the education department hadn’t posted what time the online process would begin, leading to many frantic calls by parents on Wednesday morning as they were unable to find the link. Education department officials later clarified that the admissions would open from noon. Though glitches were seen in previous years, this time the link was functioning properly in about 15 minutes. Till Saturday, about 11,500 students had registered and paid the registration fee through the portal. PU student elections unlikely this year, too With Panjab University (PU) yet to decide on reopening the campus, student elections are unlikely this year again. Elections could not be held last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, this time students were hopeful that the elections will take place if the university reopens. PU sources said that a phased reopening of the campus for students is on the cards, but it is yet to be announced. The last PU student elections were held in 2019. Inputs by Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-kirron-s-absence-felt-at-project-launch-in-chandigarh-101628967246144.html
15-08-2021||Lucknow||Nishad party chief meets Amit Shah, BJP chief Nadda, discusses UP assembly polls||Nishad party chief Sanjay Nishad met Union home minister Amit Shah as well as BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi on Saturday, and appeared pleased after the meeting. “We discussed the 2022 UP polls and how together we could win the elections,” Nishad said on the phone from Delhi after the meeting, indicating that his party would continue its alliance with BJP for the 2022 UP assembly polls. “More such meetings would be held,” he said. Sanjay’s son Praveen, currently the BJP MP from Sant Kabir Nagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, too, was present at the meeting. Earlier, Sanjay Nishad had expressed unhappiness at his party not getting representation in the recent expansion-cum-reshuffle of the Union council of ministers last month.Sanjay Nishad, who claims his party has influence in 160 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, had previously met chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Lucknow on June 23. The BJP in UP has delayed announcing names of four candidates for MLCs and Sanjay Nishad is expecting that his party would bag one of these nominations. There is no clarity yet on whether, months ahead of the elections, the Adityanath government would opt for a reshuffle-cum- expansion but Sanjay Nishad is also among the claimants if there were to be one, party leaders said.Sanjay Nishad responded with “dekhiye (let’s see)” when asked on the likelihood of his becoming an MLC or a minister in UP. He wouldn’t say if these issues also figured in his talks with BJP leaders.“We discussed 2022 UP polls and also discussed the political and constitutional ‘hissedari’ (share) of Nishads in governance,” he said.In 2018 Lok Sabha by-polls, Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen Nishad had stunned the BJP by winning the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, the BJP wooed the Nishad party and Praveen won the Sant Kabir Nagar seat on the BJP ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nishad-party-chief-meets-amit-shah-bjp-chief-nadda-discusses-up-assembly-polls-101628967244932.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||HPSC refuses to interfere on plea allowing submission of job form after prescribed date||The high court has refused to interfere in a plea that demanded a candidate, who had submitted his online form for a job, be allowed to submit the same after the cut-off date. The HC bench of justice HS Madaan said, “The petitioner by not complying with the requirement of submission of self-attested hard copy of the application form within the stipulated period, no fault can be found with rejection of his candidature.” Rohit Kumar, a Kaithal resident, had applied for the post of manager electrical advertised by the Haryana Public Service Commission for appointment in the HSIIDC to an advertisement put out in July 2018 and revised in June 2019. He submitted all documents as asked for through online modewere submitted but subsequently when the candidates were asked to send the self-attested hard copy of the application form, he could not do so as he had misplaced the same. His application was rejected by the HPSC, a decision he had challenged in the HC. The HPSC had maintained that candidates as per general instructions were directed to retain printed/hard copies of their online application form, so that they should not face any problem in sending the hard copy to the commission as and when required and if a candidate fails to do so, his candidature would liable rejected. It was also submitted that if this plea is accepted, there would be 150 odd other applicants whose candidature has been rejected due to various reasons. The court, taking into account the submissions of the HPSC, observed that no ground is there to issue any direction to the HPSC to supply hard copy of the application form to the petitioner to enable him to submit the same after self attesting it, since the last date for doing so has already been elapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpsc-refuses-to-interfere-on-plea-allowing-submission-of-job-form-after-prescribed-date-101628967184797.html
15-08-2021||Other||HSSC paper-leak: One more accused held from Pulwama||The special investigation team of Kaithal police have arrested another accused in the paper leak case for the recruitment of male constables of the Haryana Police from Pulwama.Police said accused Nazir Ahmed Khande, a resident of Pulwama district, has been arrested for his alleged involvement in the case. Police have taken him on three-day transit remand for further interrogation.Kaithal SP Lokender Singh confirmed the arrest and said police team and the accused are on their way to Kaithal from Srinagar.Police associated with the investigation said Ahmed’s arrest may help police to get a clue about the source from where main accused Narender, of Hisar, had allegedly purchased the answer keys at ₹1 crore and later sold them to many at ₹12- 18 lakh per candidate in different districts with the help of Ramesh Kumar, of Kaithal, who runs a coaching centre.Officials said Ahmed was in contact with another accused Raj Kumar who has already been arrested and is on 10-day police remand.Ahmed was allegedly involved in a deal between Raj Kumar and the unknown source who provided the answer keys.As of now, police have arrested 17 people in the case and more arrests are likely as the police teams are conducting raids to arrest the person who leaked the answer keys to the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hssc-paper-leak-one-more-accused-held-from-pulwama-101628967124752.html
15-08-2021||Other||BJP leaders takes out Tiranga Yatra in Karnal||Hundreds of BJP workers, led by Haryana party in-charge Vinod Tawde and state BJP president OP Dhankar, participated in a Tiranga Yatra in Karnal on Saturday.Addressing the party workers, Tawde praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing “real freedom to the poor and the farmers” by launching many schemes including Ujawala Yojana, Jan Dhan Yojana and Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme.He urged people in state to remember the sacrifices of soldiers who laid their lives for the country. The Yatra started from Ramlila Ground and the participants paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Bhim Rao Ambedkar and martyrs.Dhankar said Congress leaders ignored the contribution of many leaders and freedom fighters.“They had always worked for unity of the country but Congress has always tried to divide people for their political advantages,” said Dhankar.“Congress leaders have always misled people on many issues including three farm bills, Triple Talaq Bill, scraping of Article 370 and the Citizenship Amendment Act.Dhankar said the motive of the Yatra is to raise awareness among youths about the sacrifices of Indian soldiers and to inculcate the spirit of patriotism in them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leaders-takes-out-tiranga-yatra-in-karnal-101628967006884.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club: KS Brar, Brig Gill win I-Day Cup||Showing off their mettle, KS Brar and Brig HS Gill paired well to win the Independence Day Cup golf tournament, which concluded at the Chandigarh Golf Club greens here on Saturday.The triumphant duo won the final on the 17th hole. Brar and Brig Gill carried forward their form in the tournament to walk away with the title. They were two holes up on the 17th hole. They were pitted against APS Kahai and Gauhar Pruthi.After playing five rounds, two teams had made it to the Independence Day Cup final. The elimination rounds had been taking place for 45 days. A lot of matches went into the playoffs after the mandatory 18 holes. A total of 64 golfers took part in the tournament.Independence Cup, which has been taking place for the last 40 years, is an annual feature at the CGC, but due to Covid-19 restrictions, the tournament was not played last season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-ks-brar-brig-gill-win-i-day-cup-101628967004915.html
15-08-2021||Bangalore||Schools to reopen in K’taka dists with less than 2% TPR||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday announced that schools will be reopened in districts with Covid test positivity rate of less than 2%. Schools in border districts recording an increase in cases will remain shut. “All parents, teachers and non-teaching staff should be vaccinated. In case the positivity rate goes beyond 2% in any districts after schools are reopened, they should be closed and reopened after a week looking at the situation,” Bommai told reporters after holding an emergency meeting with health experts and the cabinet.He said a standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening schools is ready and it will be released at the earliest. The state government had earlier decided to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from August 23. The government has also announced that the decision to reopen schools for students up to Class 8 will be taken in the last week of August after looking in all aspects of a third wave. The government has decided to decentralise the fight against Covid-19. “Directions have been given to make district-specific Covid-19 plans,” Bommai said. He said the BBMP commissioner has been given the power to impose strict measures in the city if the positivity rate in Bengaluru city goes beyond 2% and bed occupations reach 40%. “At present, the positivity rate is around 0.75%. The authority to implement the required steps is now with the BBMP commissioner,” said Bommai. “The situation is different in each district. In some districts the positivity rate is high, while in some other districts death rate is high. In Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Hassan, Mysuru, Kodagu, Bengaluru rural, Chamarajanagara, Shivamoga and Chikkamagaluru, which are border districts, we have identified places where testing and vaccination have to be increased,” Bommai said. In a new policy, the government has decided that in areas and villages within 10 km of Kerala and Maharashtra border, complete testing has to be done. The government has identified Raichur, Kalburgi, Ballari, Bidar, Koppal, Haveri, Vijayapura, Tumkur, Chikkamagaluru and Bengaluru rural as districts with poor testing rates. “Instructions have been given to increase the testing in the coming days,” Bommai said. The chief minister said that the six genome testing labs will be opened within the next three weeks. These labs will be spread across the state. “The labs will be set up in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shimoga, Hubli, Kalburgi and Belagavi. The new delta variant has to be studied carefully and we need to keep track of any new variants. So, these labs are important. The tests take two to three weeks, so we want to have more centres,” he said. The chief minister said that the state has administered close to 40 million vaccinations. “I will be meeting the union health minister and asking for 10 million vaccinations so that the entire population can be vaccinated,” he said. The state is recording 1,500 plus Covid cases on an average and so far 15,919 deaths have occurred due to the virus. The state reported 1,632 new cases on Saturday, taking the active caseload to 22,698. Bengaluru accounted for 377 new infections, taking its active cases to 8,200. As many as 25 fatalities were reported across the state on Saturday, which took the state’s toll to 36,958. Bengaluru’s toll due to Covid-19 jumped to 15,934, with 1 death being reported on Saturday, according to the state health department. Dakshina Kannada district, which borders Kerala, reported 411 new cases, which is the highest reported in the state. All other districts recorded less than 200 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/schools-to-reopen-in-k-taka-dists-with-less-than-2-tpr-101628966944624.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Chhatbir Zoo gets dinosaur park||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday inaugurated the Chhatbir Dinosaur Park in a virtual ceremony.The park is one of its kind and will cope up with the international standards of zoo education to understand the fascinating prehistoric dinosaurs. Developed in collaboration with Alertview Group on a public-private partnership model, the Park houses real-size, interactive robotic models of dinosaurs. Total ₹5 crore was spent on the facility, which will provide factual information on dinosaurs.Sidhu also inaugurated a newly-developed water exhibit for otters at Chhatbir Zoo. The exhibit was created with see-through glass facility for visitors to enjoy the playful underwater movements of the otters. Total ₹35 lakh have been spent for conservation and upkeep of the animals.Zoo field director Naresh Mahajan said both the facilities were now open to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-chhatbir-zoo-gets-dinosaur-park-101628966885361.html
15-08-2021||Other||Flood water recedes from many localities in UP’s Prayagraj||After flowing above the danger level (84.73m) for about 10 days, water level of both Ganga and Yamuna in Prayagraj has started to recede at a brisk pace giving much-needed relief to thousands of people affected by the floods.The level of Ganga (as recorded at 4pm on Saturday at Phaphamau was 83.96m, at Chatnag it was at 83.04 m and Yamuna was flowing at Naini at 83.72m, said officials of flood control unit.The officials further said the water level in Ganga was receding at a speed of 7cm per hour at Phaphamau and 5cm per hour at Chhatnag. Likewise, Yamuna at Naini was receding at a speed of 6cm per hour. Flood water has started receding in several areas of the city, including Chota Baghara, Bara Baghara, Bakshi Khurd, Sadiabad, Shivkuti, Guas Nagar, Salori, Karelabagh, Daraganj, Nagvasuki, Harshvardhan Nagar etc.The downward trend comes as good news for residents and the district administration alike as many of the localities that where earlier approachable only by boats were now accessible by cycles and foot. Even some residents have started coming back to their houses while others were providing essential items to those who had opted for staying back in the houses. “In our locality, while the families had shifted to relief camps, it was the responsibility of students like me to guard the belongings but now as the water is receding many people are coming back,” said Rajesh Patel, a student who was putting up at Chota Bagrada locality. Rajesh Srivastava, an aspiring civil servant staying at Daraganj said, “Last one week was pure hell with water level rising with each passing hour. It was harrowing staying in the first floor of my rented room watching the river water inching close. But thankfully the water has receded dramatically during the past 24 hours.” However, the receding water has left behind a trail of filth and waste. Piles of garbage, silt, rotting vegetation, sewage, plastic etc can be seen piled up everywhere.The district administration said massive drive to clean up the localities has started. “Now that the flood water is receding and leaving behind piles of garbage the cleaning work has started in all these localities,” said PRO of Prayagraj Municipal Corporation, PK Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flood-water-recedes-from-many-localities-in-up-s-prayagraj-101628966827710.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate polls: Former senators, students protest||Panjab University (PU) students, former senators and candidates on Saturday held a protest outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar against the postponement of polling for the registered graduates’ constituency.The protest call was given by various student bodies of PU including National Students Union of India (NSUI), Students For Society (SFS), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA), Students Organisation of India (SOI) and Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar). However, former PU senators and a few candidates of the graduates’ constituency also joined in.The protesters condemned varsity’s move to defer polls and demanded that they be conducted immediately.The registered graduates’ constituency was to go to polls on August 18, but PU on Friday deferred polling saying that the decision was taken for the “time being” in view of non-availability of required booths in Punjab and Haryana.DPS Randhawa, who is contesting from the constituency, said, “These are deliberate attempts to tinker with the democratic set up of PU. We are against the deferring of polls and we will not stop until elections are held.”The registered graduates’ constituency is the largest with around 3.61 lakh voters who elect 15 members to the senate. Polling booths are set up across seven states/UTs.“I think this was all planned because for the first time the polling of this constituency was scheduled on a working day. Voters can be given alternative booths to vote wherever the varsity is facing problems, but elections should be held immediately because the PU is functioning without a governing body,” said Jagwant Singh, general secretary of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), who is also a candidate.Meanwhile, Panjab University Teachers' Association also issued a statement on Saturday that the postponement of elections was not good for restoration of democracy: “PUTA will continue to fight till democracy is restored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-polls-former-senators-students-protest-101628966826553.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||14 Haryana cops to get police medals||Fourteen Haryana cops have been selected to receive Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG), President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS) and Police Medals for Meritorious Service (PMMS) on Independence Day.A police spokesperson said the medals were announced by the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday.While two Haryana police officials – ASI Rakesh Kumar ASI and constable Pawan Kumar – will be conferred with PMG.Dr CS Rao, ADGP, director Haryana Police Academy (Madhuban), has been selected for the PPMDS.Those who have been selected for PMMS include Dr Hanif Qureshi, IGP IRB Bhondsi; Raj Kumar, ACP Panchkula; Ramjit Singh, DSP State Crime Record Bureau Madhuban; Sanjeev Balhara, DSP traffic Gurugram; Chaman Lal, Inspector 4th Battalion HAP Madhuban; Nirmala Devi, lady inspector CID Panchkula; Manoj Kumar, sub-inspector police headquarters Panchkula; Mewa Singh, sub-inspector police headquarters Panchkula; Jasbir Singh, sub-inspector GRP Ambala Cantt; Sukhpal Singh, E/SI State Vigilance Bureau Panchkula; and Gurnam Singh, ASI 4th IRB Manesar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14-haryana-cops-to-get-police-medals-101628966824802.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||First vax dose: Chandigarh achieves 100% inoculation||The Chandigarh health department on Saturday achieved 100% inoculation of the targeted population with at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.According to the latest electoral list, around 7,29,822 people in Chandigarh are above the age of 18 and are eligible to get vaccinated. As on Saturday, 7,32,368 (100.3%), including migrants, had taken their first shot while 2,43,975 (33.4%) were fully vaccinated. In the last one week, around 9,400 people were inoculated daily.“The 7.32 lakh people vaccinated at Chandigarh centres could be local residents or from other states (migrants or floating population). Similarly, many people with Chandigarh address are staying elsewhere and got vaccinated there. However, we can definitely say a majority of the people has been vaccinated,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh.So far, 26,847 healthcare workers and 48,329 frontline workers have taken the first jab in Chandigarh, besides 3,92,561 people in the 18-44 age group and 1,68,435 in the 45-59 age group. Also, 96,196 senior citizens have been vaccinated.‘Drive to continue with same intensity’“Even though we have achieved the target, we will continue the drive with the same intensity to vaccinate each and every person residing in Chandigarh, irrespective of their home state,” said Dr Kang, adding that more camps will be set up and door-to-door drives will also be escalated.Dr Kang said daily Covid-19 cases have dropped significantly and hospitalisation and infection severity has reduced because of the high vaccination rate in the city. “So far, only 34% of the population is fully vaccinated in Chandigarh and we aim to complete the vaccination cycle of all the targeted population. People must come forward to take their second dose as this booster dose will help in building enough antibodies in the body to fight the virus,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-vax-dose-chandigarh-achieves-100-inoculation-101628966704707.html
15-08-2021||Other||Farmer shot dead in Firozabad village after dispute over dog bite||Agra A farmer was shot dead on Saturday morning after a dispute over dog bite in Tiliyani village under Sirsaganj police station of Firozabad district. The accused Deepa Kumar has fled from the village. Police have registered a case for murder against him and are trying to trace him. “The incident took place on Saturday morning when accused Deepa Kumar fired thrice at 45-year-old farmer Ram Kumesh. Both lived in Tiliyani and had a dispute on Thursday evening,” informed Praveen Singh, the inspector in charge at Sirsaganj police station. “Deepa Kumar has a pet dog which had bitten Krishna, the nephew of Ram Kumesh on Thursday evening. Both families had a quarrel that day but were pacified. Ram Kumesh was angry and had a heated exchange with Deepa again on Saturday morning,” said Singh. “The accused brought out his gun and fired thrice at Ram Kumesh who died on the spot. The accused fled the village. Efforts are on to arrest him. A case for murder was registered against him at Sirsaganj police station on Saturday,” said the inspector. The body was sent to the District Hospital in Firozabad for post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmer-shot-dead-in-firozabad-village-after-dispute-over-dog-bite-101628966644508.html
15-08-2021||Other||Give mutual easier access for Indians, Pakistanis to visit heritage sites: Peaceniks||AMRITSAR Peace activists from India and Pakistan have demanded that citizens of both the countries must be provided easy access to visit their birthplace or place of their fathers or forefathers in both the countries to reduce tension between both the countries.Passing a declaration at the annual event held to remember those killed in the communal violence triggered during the 1947 partition, members of Hind-Pak Dosti Manch, Folklore Research Academy, Punjab Jagriti Manch and South Asia Free Media Association (SAFMA) also sought early reopening of Kartarpur Corridor.They also urged the governments of India, Pak and Bangladesh to resolve all bilateral issues through dialogue only. Seeking reopening of the international trade through Attari-Wagah border, they also carried out a candle light vigil near the border in memory of those killed during the Partition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/give-mutual-easier-access-for-indians-pakistanis-to-visit-heritage-sites-peaceniks-101628966524466.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Head constable gets police medal from home ministry||The Union ministry of home affairs has conferred the Police Medal for Meritorious Service upon Chandigarh Police head constable Sunil Mehta on the 75th Independence Day. Mehta, who is posted as a reader with the senior superintendent of police (traffic), played an important role in the introduction and implementation of the e-challan system.Mehta joined the Chandigarh Police in 2002 and was the commander of his batch’s passing-out parade. He has also been involved in compiling and maintaining data for the traffic police and has worked for creating awareness on road safety rules. The home ministry on Saturday announced that 1,380 police personnel have been awarded medals, including President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, Police Medal for Gallantry, President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-head-constable-gets-police-medal-from-home-ministry-101628966344477.html
15-08-2021||Other||Malerkotla City-2 SHO gets Punjab CM’s ‘Rakshak Padak’ award||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Saturday announced that sub-inspector Jasveer Singh, posted as SHO City-2 Malerkotla, has been conferred the chief minister’s Rakshak Padak award. Jasveer had shown the highest level of courage by rescuing a family after their house, situated over a shop in Malerkotla, caught fire, a note from the government said. The Punjab governor also announced names of 15 officers/officials including AIG STF Ludhiana Range Snehdeep Sharma; DCP Jalandhar Gurmeet Singh; ADCP-4 Ludhiana Rupinder Kaur Sra; ADCP investigation, Ludhiana, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti; DSP detective Moga Jangjit Singh and DSP detective Amritsar Rural Gurinderpal Singh to be conferred with CM’s Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty. Others getting the medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty include inspectors Gurpreet Singh, Surinder Kaur, Bithal Hari; SI Lakhbir Singh; assistant sub-inspectors Kanwaljeet Singh; Amandeep Singh, Jagdeep Singh and constables Jagjit Singh and Daljit Kumar. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta congratulated the awardees and thanked the Punjab government for recognising the services of their department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malerkotla-city-2-sho-gets-punjab-cm-s-rakshak-padak-award-101628966285714.html
15-08-2021||Other||Farming on fallow lands to get boost||Tamil Nadu tabled an exclusive budget for agriculture on Saturday, a first of its kind in the state and a key initiative is to bring 1.18 million hectare of fallow land into cultivation. State agriculture minister MRK Panneerselvam presented the budget in the assembly on the day the DMK government completed 100 days in office. A sum of ₹34220.6 crore is provided for the demands of the agriculture and its related departments for 2021-2022.The state has carried out preliminary surveys in 36 districts where currently an area of 1.93 million hectare of fallow lands has been identified. “Fallow lands are the next level of hope to expand agriculture in Tamil Nadu,” said Panneerselvam. “Area under cultivation will be increased by making the fallow lands into fortune lands.” The scheme will be implemented in 2,500 village panchayats in the current year.By increasing cultivation areas, augmenting water resources and other measures, Panneerselvam said his budget’s aim is to achieve overall agricultural development and self-sufficiency in all the villages of Tamil Nadu by collaboration with allied departments. This will be implemented under a grant scheme -- Kalaignarin Anaithu Grama Orunginaintha Velaan Valarchi Thittam -- named after DMK patriarch and five-time chief minister MK Karunanidhi. The scheme will be implemented annually in one-fifth of the total 12,524 village panchayats in Tamil Nadu with an aim to cover them all in the next five years. Experts are of the opinion that bringing back fallow lands into cultivation is feasible but say that the execution should be comprehensive. “If the farmer has kept a land fallow for less than two years, it can be easily brought in because it would have been kept fallow for specific reasons during that particular year mostly due to insufficient water supply,” says R Gopinath, senior scientist, MS Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF). “But older fallow lands require more effort as many of these are in the hands of small and marginal farmers, so they cannot spend on irrigation and land development activities.” He says that it’s also important to know what kind of crops they’re going to cultivate. “The intervention should be throughout the life cycle of the crop,” says Gopinath. “Even if the fallow lands are in rainfed regions, you can use rainfed crops by providing adequate support in all aspects. If the government offers packages which include seed, money for land preparation activities and input subsidies and help them market, it will boost farmers to bring those lands into cultivation.”The state also has a vision to achieve food and nutritional security in the next 10 years. As paddy is the principal crop in Tamil Nadu, a special paddy production plan is in place to cover an area of 1.9 million hectare with an aim to achieve the production of about 7.5 million metric tonnes. Contending that indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides have affected soil fertility, environment and affected people’s health, the Budget highlighted that there is awareness among people giving momentum towards the demand for organic produce. A separate wing for organic farming will be established within the agriculture department. To encourage farmers, the government will give input subsidies for adopting organic farming. Addressing another healthy eating food, the budget points out that in Tamil literature people had relished millet flour with honey. But with the increase in the consumption of rice, millets are gradually disappearing from the native soil as well as in rural homes. This is seeing a reverse once again as people are replacing rice with millets and there are exclusive restaurants for millet based food. “Millets and minor millets can be cultivated with minimum inputs,” Panneerselvam said. Millets can grow well even in low rainfall areas and the farmers will be given training to cultivate millets and facilities will be provided to market their produce. The government said that it would award the best performing farmers in organic farming, exporting produce and also local inventions in agriculture. Agro Industrial Corridor in Cauvery Delta AreaThe Cauvery delta area covering five districts -- Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Trichy -- will be declared as an Agro Industrial Corridor. This is to promote agro-based industries by plugging infrastructure gaps, creating new industrial infrastructure and by attracting private investments to the region, Panneerselvam said. Rice, pulses, banana, and coconut, among others, are produced throughout the year in this region. The government will take the help of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) department to improve the existing industrial estates, create new industrial estates, improve road connectivity to have better linkage with markets and ports and to augment power supply infrastructure. “The current facilities available are only to harvest and sell grains and agricultural produce immediately. But this move facilities value addition,” says Gopinath. “For instance, paddy stock can be converted into a product, and pulses which are declining in this area can be promoted through industries. It can also be turned to reduce input cost of farmers and bring them better incomes through these value-addition activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farming-on-fallow-lands-to-get-boost-101628966284671.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||I-Day parade: Cops on vigil amid farm protest threat in Chandigarh||Amid threats issued by protesting farmers, around 650 Chandigarh Police personnel will keep vigil during the Independence Day parade in the city on Sunday morning.In the neighbouring Panchkula city, Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been imposed to ban a gathering of more than five people within a kilometre of the venue. Also, around 1,000 cops will be on duty while 30 nakas have been set up to keep a check on miscreants. In Mohali, around 500 policemen will be deployed. “Police will remain vigilant at the borders and will monitor who all enter the city. Personnel will also remain stationed at major intersections and at the Parade Ground in Sector 17,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh, Kuldeep Singh Chahal.Police also carried out flag marches in their respective jurisdictions in the past couple of days besides making announcements in markets, asking citizens to report suspicious elements. During a special drive at Burail, which has many guest houses and hotels, 105 “suspicious” people were rounded up for questioning.Meanwhile, in view of the pandemic, the At Home function has been cancelled for the second year in a row, and only invitees will be allowed to attend the parade in Sector 17. People are not allowed to bring items, such as bags, matchbox, knife, cigarettes, weapons, liquor, flammable items, black flags and posters, and should carry their photo ID. Traffic movement has been restricted around the venue from 6:30 am to 11:30 am. In Panchkula, agriculture and framers welfare minister JP Dalal will hoist the national flag during the district-level event at Indradhanush Auditorium in Sector 5 around 9am.Cameras and mobile phones will not be allowed. There will be no entry without an invite and all should wear mask.Assistant commissioner of police Vijay Kumar Nehra said security arrangements have been strengthened in view of the ongoing farmer protests and other security threats. All markets, coaching institutes and other shops within a kilometre of the venue will also remain shut.In Mohali, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu will hoist the national flag during the Independence Day function at Shaheed Major Harminder Pal Singh Government College, Phase 6. The function will begin at 8.58 am and end at 10 am. There will be no cultural programme, but an award ceremony will take place .Wearing of masks and social distancing is mandatory, said deputy commissioner Girish Dalayan, while adding that visitors should reach the venue by 8.30 am. Meanwhile, SSP Satinder Singh said there is no specific intelligence input about farmers planning to disrupt the proceedings, but 500 cops will be on vigil during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iday-parade-cops-on-vigil-amid-farm-protest-threat-in-chandigarh-101628966224561.html
15-08-2021||Mumbai||Hair, eyes, skin infections: Is Covid affecting us in more ways?||In the first week of July, a 45-year-old woman walked into Tardeo’s Bhatia Hospital with a lump of hair packed into a zip-locked plastic bag. The Parel resident had recovered from Covid-19 in May but since then she was troubled by severe hair fall. “I wanted you to believe that I am not exaggerating. I am losing enormous amounts of hair every day,” she told the consultant dermatologist, Dr Saurabh Shah. The Sars CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 is known to attack the lungs, often in a debilitating manner. Patients who have a severe form of Covid-19 take several months to recover fully, battling fatigue, aches and breathing difficulty. But the viral infection is leaving its mark in more ways than we know. Patients are struggling with sudden and severe hair loss, skin infections, eye ailments and medical experts have gradually started linking these conditions to after-effects of Covid-19. Often, after a major illness like typhoid, jaundice, dengue, malaria or sometimes due to crash diets and fasting, people experience severe hair loss that needs medical attention. “We call this condition chronic telogen effluvium- hair loss triggered by certain stressers,” said Shah, who treated the 45-year-old Parel resident with a cocktail of tricho-nutrients such as biotin, copper, iron, zinc, magnesium, selenium among others. Tricho nutrients are supplements prescribed to maintain healthy hair. In addition to the supplements, the woman was also treated with Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) therapy, which involved injecting her platelets into the scalp to accelerate the hair growth. Of the 20 odd people with hair loss related complaints that Shah consults daily, nearly 10 to 12 have a Covid-19 history. He said that the numbers have increased during the second wave when Covid-19 affected a huge number of people. Doctors said that men and women have been equally affected with post-Covid hair loss. Many patients are in the age group of 25 to 30, without any underlying ailments like thyroid or diabetes, suddenly losing lumps of hair. “On a positive note, those with a Covid history are responding to hair loss treatment sooner, as compared to let’s say a typhoid patient who would need treatment for several weeks altogether,’ said Shah. It is believed that Sars CoV-2 could be damaging the hair follicles leading to the immense shedding of hair. However, doctors say that the hair fall is self-limiting in most cases as patients regain their immunity over two to three months. But one must see a dermatologist if the hair fall continues. Hives, herpes zosterCovid-19 affects the immune system of the patients leaving them susceptible to a range of secondary or opportunistic infections that strike when the body’s defence mechanism is functioning sub-optimally. Doctors are treating a range of skin infections such as red patches, hives (itchy, raised bumps), blisters among others. These skin conditions have been noticed in patients freshly diagnosed with Covid-19 or in the post-Covid phase. Some patients have complained of skin infections just before testing positive for the disease and most respond to anti-histamine drugs. In the West, there have also been reports of a condition called Covid toes wherein the patients’ toe or other fingers develop discolouration, swelling and blisters. Patients have difficulty in wearing shoes due to this condition. In Mumbai, some doctors have seen increased cases of herpes zoster- a painful rash caused by the reactivation of varicella-zoster virus- in patients with Covid-19 history. “This is the virus that causes chickenpox. It remains dormant in the patient’s body and reactivates when the immunity of the person is at its lowest,” said physician Dr Hemant Gupta. “It could be that Covid is precipitating the reactivation,” he said. Shah from Bhatia Hospital, for instance, has seen double the number of herpes zoster patients every month as compared to pre-Covid times. A majority of them have a recent Covid history, he said. Red eyes, ocular hypertension In some patients, Covid-19 erupted with conjunctivitis along with other symptoms suggesting that ocular manifestations due to the virus were possible. In many others, Covid-19 and its treatment impacted eyes in newer ways. For instance, a 34-year-old Thane resident who suffered from a severe bout of Covid-19 in April was hospitalised and put on multiple drugs including Remdesivir, steroids and antibiotics. Soon after discharge, the digital entrepreneur began suffering from red eyes and his left eye felt heavy. A thorough ophthalmological consultation revealed that he had developed ocular hypertension- increased pressure in the eye. “A high dose of steroids or long use of steroids could lead the raised pressure in the eye,” said Dr Ragini Parekh, head of the ophthalmology department at the state-run Sir JJ Hospital. “A lot of Covid-19 patients are put on steroids which may be leading to such problems,” she said. According to Parekh, Covid-19 patients typically suffer from asthenopia or ocular fatigue and could have symptoms like dry or watery eyes, tiredness, sensitivity to light among others. A March 2021 paper published in the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology had cited cases of Covid-19 patients who suffered from diminution in vision, gradual blurring, the onset of diplopia (double vision), swelling of the eyelid among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hair-eyes-skin-infections-is-covid-affecting-us-in-more-ways-101628965804812.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||We deserve peace, world powers must act: Afghan students in Chandigarh||“I have been unable to contact my relatives in Badakhshan province of Afghanistan, which recently fell to the Taliban. I do not know how and where my three uncles and their families are,” says 23-year-old Meena Azimi, anxiety palpable in her voice. Azimi, who studies at Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45B, Chandigarh, is among the Afghan students who gathered at the student centre of Panjab University (PU) on Saturday to condemn the continuous onslaught of the Taliban, which has been rapidly gaining territory in Afghanistan. The protesting students held placards that read, ‘we deserve peace’.“Our country is on the brink of a humanitarian crisis. Taliban fighters are killing innocent people and families are being displaced,” she says.It is estimated that around 350 students from Afghanistan are enrolled in higher education institutes in Chandigarh, many of whom are studying at PU as well.Ali Nazar, who studies at DAV College, Sector 10, says, “My family is in Kabul and they are scared. Many of my relatives live in the provinces that have been captured. Citizens are suffering and want an end to the war. The Taliban should end this violence and come to an understanding with the government. Our only hope is the United Nations and world powers. They must act.”As per recent reports, the Taliban now controls around half of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces. Political science student, Abdul Monir Kakar, who has been in India for the last six years, says, “People in Afghanistan are trying to flee to other countries. Families are trying to arrange for visas.”Panic prevails in every part of Afghanistan and other countries must intervene so that peace can prevail, the students said. “The future of the Afghan people is uncertain. Casualties are mounting by the day. It is high time that the government and Taliban came to an agreement,” said Zahid Aria, 29, who studies at PU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/we-deserve-peace-world-powers-must-act-afghan-students-101628963344288.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi doctor dies, was on heart-lung bypass machine support for three months||A 39-year-old resident doctor of a Delhi government hospital who had contracted Covid-19 during the second wave died on Saturday after being on ECMO support (similar to a heart-lung bypass machine) for nearly three months and undergoing a lung transplant earlier this month.The doctor’s family had received ₹83 lakh for his treatment from the Delhi government, upon the intervention of the National Human Rights Commission.The doctor, identified as Amit Gupta, was a senior resident with the department of paediatrics at Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital but couldn’t get a bed in the hospital after contracting the infection on duty. He was admitted to Maharaja Agrasen Hospital and then shifted to Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital when his condition deteriorated and was put on ventilator support.With the condition of his lungs not improving, the family had to look for ECMO beds (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is a machine that performs the functions of the heart and the lungs) as a bridge for a lung transplant.Gupta was a contractual staff of the Delhi government, due to which they are not entitled to healthcare benefits on the lines of regular employees. “The Delhi government is paying an ex gratia of ₹1,00,00,000 to the next of kin of the corona warriors, but not taking care while they fell sick during the course of their public duties,” the NHRC had observed on May 19 on a complaint filed by Gupta’s family.The NHRC had asked the union health ministry as well as the Delhi government to offer adequate medical care and financial protection to contractual medical and paramedical staff, including “getting medical insurance to facilitate their treatment in private hospitals in these testing times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-doctor-dies-was-on-heart-lung-bypass-machine-support-for-three-months-101628961604432.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Gunshots outside Paharganj hotel on I-Day eve triggers security scare||Local police was sent into a tizzy on Saturday after reports of gunshots outside a hotel in Paharganj were received even as the city was on a high-alert in view of Independence Day on Sunday. The police later clarified that the incident was not “terror-related”.“We received a call at the Paharganj police station at 3:37pm regarding a quarrel and firing near Hotel Relax in Nehru market area. The injured person, Rajesh,35, was taken to a hospital with a gunshot injury in his left arm. He runs a taxi business and has around 4-5 vehicles. Another person, Bhupender also sustained knife injuries on thigh and in his head. Bhupender is the brother of a bad character named Gajender alias Banner,” said a police spokesperson.In police lexicon, a bad character is a person, whose record is maintained at the police station and whose activities are monitored because the person has a history of crimes.Police said they were probing the firing, and have learnt that it was the result of a quarrel between two groups. Police suspect Gajender fired the bullets.“Both injured are levelling allegations against each other. A couple of empty cartridges were found on the spot, besides from two misfired rounds. We are taking legal action,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gunshots-outside-paharganj-hotel-on-i-day-eve-triggers-security-scare-101628961543975.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 6 held for SIM card racket||Six men, who bought SIM cards using fake documents and sold them to frauds involved in cybercrime, have been arrested, police said on Saturday. Police said they have recovered over 1,500 SIM cards that were procured using fake identity papers from outside Delhi. Police said the men operated the racket in Delhi, Haryana, and Odisha.The six were traced after police launched a campaign against people using phone connections with illegal identity papers, as part of their security drill ahead of the Independence Day.The first arrest came on July 30, when police received a tip-off about two men, involved in the racket, who were coming to north Delhi’s Haiderpur to deliver the cards to their contacts.Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police(north west) said the two men purchased the sim cards from other states and used it to create email addresses on the phone and make accounts on e-shopping sites. The two men told the police about their contacts and their employers, following which four people were arrested from Haryana and Odisha.“Till now total 6 accused persons have been arrested and total of 1,549 SIM cards have been recovered. They disclosed that they obtained these SIM cards using forged documents and used these to create IDs on various shopping portals to purchase mobile phones. They used to sell these mobile phones to cyber criminals who cheated people online,” DCP Rangnani said, adding that the police are on the lookout for two other persons involved in the racket.Police are also probing the nature of the cyber crimes that these men were involved in after getting the phones activated using fake documents.Investigation so far has revealed that the two men, currently absconding, sold the SIM cars to people who run fake call centres. Of the six men arrested three are from Delhi, two from Odisha and one from Haryana.In another similar racket busted in south Delhi, four men were arrested for misusing identity paper of genuine customers and using it to get SIM cards. The four, police said, sold SIM card to those who run fake call centres. Police seized at least 261 SIM cards issued by one of the men, who is a SIM card seller in South Delhi’s Tughlakabad Extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi6-held-for-sim-card-racket-101628961543333.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||We will teach patriotism in our schools: Delhi CM Kejriwal||On the eve of the 75th Independence Day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal initiated the roll-out of the ‘Deshbhakti curriculum’ to be adopted in all Delhi government schools. While receiving a copy of the curriculum from a team comprising education directorate and State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) officials, Kejriwal said that while the country had focused on all other subjects over the years, Deshbhakti (patriotism) was not taught in schools.“We kept on teaching Physics, Chemistry, Maths for 70 years, (but) no one thought of teaching children Deshbhakti. I am delighted that the Deshbhakti curriculum will be launched in schools of Delhi to instil patriotism in young minds,” he said.The chief minister tweeted to congratulate parents, students, and the education department on the initiation of the curriculum. “The Deshbhakti curriculum is all set to be implemented in Delhi schools on the 75th anniversary of Independence. Love and Patriotism towards the country will help youngsters build India as our freedom fighters aspired it to be,” tweeted Kejriwal. Emphasising on the need to celebrate the spirit of freedom daily, Kejriwal said that the celebration of Independence Day in Delhi government schools will no longer be symbolic, but substantive.In August 2019, the Aam Aadmi Party promised to introduce Deshbhakti curriculum in all Delhi government schools once re-elected to power. Following the announcement, a committee was constituted by SCERT in October 2019 to prepare the curriculum. Earlier this year in March, while presenting the annual budget, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced that the Deshbhakti curriculum will be introduced in the 2021-22 academic session. Last week, the government announced that the governing council of the SCERT has adopted the framework for the curriculum. According to officials, the government plans to launch the curriculum in public schools as soon as schools reopen.Aimed at instilling a sense of respect towards constitutional values, the curriculum follows the pedagogical guidelines of the National Curriculum Framework 2005 and ideas of National Curriculum Framework 2020, the government said in a press release on Saturday.The curriculum framework focused on eight learning outcomes such as self-awareness, self-confidence, problem-solving, practising constitutional values, pluralism and diversity, environmental sustainability, ethical social behaviour, collaboration and social and civic responsibility.With the goal of creating awareness and inculcating a sense of respect for constitutional values among students, the curriculum will cover three overarching themes: Knowledge (awareness of constitutional values, plurality and diversity, and freedom struggle, among others), Values (honesty, integrity, love and respect for the country) and Behaviour( standing up against injustice, scientific reasoning), the release stated.The curriculum will be implemented through a 5 stage process that will entail class discussions, team activity among students, and homework to engage with the family and the larger community. Evaluation for the curriculum will be done through self-assessment, peer assessment, and assessment by the teacher on a regular basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-will-teach-patriotism-in-our-schoolskejriwal-101628960883086.html
15-08-2021||Delhi||Six Delhi cops who fought riotous mob get police medal for gallantry||Six Delhi Police officers who were part of the team that brought under control communal riots in north-east Delhi in February last year have been awarded the Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), including one posthumously.All six winners were involved in the same incident that took place at Chand Bagh area.Amit Sharma, who was then posted as the deputy commissioner of police, Shahdara district, his junior ACP Anuj Kumar, who was then assistant commissioner of police of Gokalpuri subdivision, head constable Ratan Lal and constables Pradeep Sharma, Mohit Kumar and Naveen were deployed on duty when a mob of nearly 30,000 was on a rampage in the Chand Bagh area on February 24, 2020.According to the citation, the six officers were attacked by the mob on main Wazirabad road. DCP Sharma who was injured during heavy stone pelting by the crowd, which also attacked other police personnel. The citation said that Ratan Lal was hit by a bullet in his head. Both Sharma and Lal fell unconscious on the road.ACP Sharma and the three constables carried DCP Sharma and Lal; jumped at least two 2-metre fences on the road; and managed to get a private cab to take them to the hospital, despite being chased by around 40-45 rioters, police said.Lal succumbed to his injuries at east Delhi’s GTB hospital.A video of this particular incident is available on social media sites.At least 53 people died, and over 600 were injured in the Delhi riots. The clashes started when groups of people -- one supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act and another opposing it -- clashed near the Jafrabad Metro station on the evening of February 23. It snowballed into large-scale Hindu-Muslims clashes in parts of north-east Delhi between February 23 and 27.Delhi police have arrested at least 21 persons as key conspirators who planned and orchestrated the riots. The arrested persons included prominent faces of the anti CAA protests such as former JNU student Umar Khalid, student activists Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Safoora Zargar. Police have alleged that the arrested persons planned the riots, mobilised the rioters under the garb of the sit-in anti-CAA protests while the alleged suspects have denied the allegations and accused police of launching a witch-hunt against anti-government voices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-delhi-cops-who-fought-riotous-mob-get-police-medal-for-gallantry-101628960703084.html
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding truck mows down four, including two cops, in Ambala||Two policemen on Dial 112 emergency duty and two farmers were crushed to death by a speeding truck opposite Jaggi City Centre in Ambala Cantt on National Highway-44 in the wee hours of Saturday. The deceased were identified as exempted assistant sub-inspector (EASI) Nasib Dass, 53, of Ambala, constable Balwinder Singh, 42, of Kurukshetra, Manish Kumar, 35, and Pardeep Kumar, 32, both vegetable farmers from Yamunanagar. The accident took place at 4am when beat in-charge Dass received a call from the police control room about a scuffle following an accident between a car and a truck. He along with constables Balwinder Singh and Pawan Kumar, who all were on night duty, reached the spot. Pawan Kumar, who survived the accident, said he was attending to traffic when a speeding truck bearing a Rajasthan number coming from the Ambala Cantt side hit them. “I jumped away just in time, but the truck rammed into the car and stopped after hitting the other truck. Both the policemen and the farmers were caught in between the vehicles and died on the spot,” the constable said. The truck driver fled after the incident. He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code at the Baldev Nagar police station.“We are trying to contact the truck owner in Rajasthan to ascertain his whereabouts,” said station in-charge sub-inspector Balbir Singh. Cops were sole breadwinnersEASI Dass, who belonged to Jalbera village in Ambala, was with the Haryana Police for the past 35 years. He was his family’s sole breadwinner, as both his sons are still studying while his daughter is married. “Now, I’m the eldest male member in the family. I don’t know how we’ll run the household,” said his elder son Sunil, who was present outside the trauma centre. Constable Balwinder, an ex-serviceman, joined police in 2015, and belonged to Dudhi village in Kurukshetra. His 19-year-old son is also studying. The two farmers were friends and belonged to the same village, Kulpur, in Yamunanagar. They were in Ambala to sell their produce.State home minister Anil Vij, IG Bharti Arora and SSP Hamid Akhtar reached the civil hospital in the city to meet the families of the victims. Vij announced ₹50 lakh compensation along with a job each to the families of both the policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-truck-mows-down-four-including-two-cops-in-ambala-101628935020159.html
15-08-2021||World||Albania, Iran offer temporary refuge as thousands of Afghans flee Taliban siege||With the Taliban taking over the reins in Afghanistan, some countries have started offering temporary refuge to people fleeing the borders of the war-torn nation. Earlier on Sunday, President Ashraf Ghani fled the country along with thousands of other citizens and foreigners as the militant Islamic outfit entered Kabul.The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said more than 550,000 people in Afghanistan have fled their homes due to the conflict since the beginning of 2021 and about 1,26,000 people have been displaced since July until August 9, the Associated Press reported. The agency however said that the displacement was largely internal.Here is a look at the some countries that have offered temporary refuge to Afghan citizens as the Taliban move close to assuming power.AlbaniaAlbania’s Prime Minister Edi Rama on Sunday said the country is ready to temporarily host hundreds of refugees bound for the United States. “NATO member Albania is ready to shoulder its share of the burden,” he said on his Facebook page. “Washington has already asked Albania to consider the possibility of serving as a transit country for a number of Afghan political immigrants whose final destination would be the United States,” he added.IranIran, which shares a border with Afghanistan, has set up camps in three provinces along the border to provide temporary refuge to fleeing Afghans. “Camps have been built in border areas in three provinces,” Reuters reported, citing an interview by interior ministry official Hossein Qasemi.CanadaOn Sunday, Canada suspended diplomatic operations in Afghanistan citing the security situation. It also said it would reopen its embassy if the situation allowed its staff to be safe. On Friday, the country had announced that it would take in 20,000 vulnerable people, who face direct threat from the Taliban.QatarThe US government is in talks with Qatar to draft an agreement to temporarily house thousands of Afghan refugees who worked with the US troops, ANI reported.TurkeyPresident Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey would work with Pakistan to help stabilise the situation in Afghanistan to prevent a new flood of refugees. “Turkey is facing a growing migratory wave of Afghans transiting through Iran. We will continue efforts to enable the return of stability in the region, beginning with Afghanistan,” AFP quoted Erdogan as saying, alongside his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/albania-iran-offer-temporary-refuge-as-thousands-of-afghans-flee-taliban-siege-101629049060517.html
15-08-2021||World||US ready to work with Taliban if people’s rights are respected: Blinken||The United States is willing to work with the Taliban if they respect “basic rights” of its people - of women and girls, specifically - and do not harbour terrorists, secretary of state Antony Blinken said in an interview to CNN on Sunday.Missing from the list is the insistence on a peaceful, negotiated settlement after the Taliban’s swift return to power.“A future Afghan government that upholds the basic rights of its people and that doesn’t harbour terrorists is a government we can work with and, and recognise,” Blinken said in response to a question if the Biden administration would ever consider recognising the Taliban-led government.“Conversely, a government that doesn’t do that, that doesn’t uphold the basic rights of its people, including women and girls... that harbours terrorist groups... that have designs on the United States... that’s not going to happen,” he said.When and if in government, they might need assistance from the international community and support of the international community, the secretary said, adding, “none of that will be forthcoming, sanctions won’t be lifted, their ability to travel won’t happen” if they are not sustaining the basic rights of the Afghan people and if they revert to supporting or harbouring terrorists who might strike the US.A negotiated, peaceful and political settlement has been a key part of the world’s wishlist - certainly for the US, India and the UN Security Council - for recognising and working with the Taliban, along with respect to basic rights and severing all ties with terrorists.During a visit to India in July, Blinken said at a news conference, “There’s only one path (for the Taliban to seek international recognition), and that’s at the negotiating table to resolve the conflict peacefully and to have an Afghanistan emerge that is governed in a genuinely inclusive way and that’s representative of all its people.”A US representative to the UN Security Council was more forthright during a briefing of the body on August 6. “We will not accept a military takeover of Afghanistan,” said Ambassador Jeffrey DeLaurentis of the US permanent mission to the UN. He added that the Taliban will become an international pariah should it choose that path. It did pick that path though.Envoys of the United States, China, European Union, India, Pakistan and other countries conveyed a similar to the Taliban and Afghanistan government representatives in Doha on Thursday that any country will not recognise any government “imposed through the use of military force”, according to report by Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ready-to-work-with-taliban-if-people-s-rights-respected-blinken-101629048741139.html
15-08-2021||World||Nepal calls for evacuation of at least 1,500 Nepalis in Afghanistan||Nepal's government on Sunday called for the evacuation of an estimated 1,500 Nepalis working as security staff with embassies and with international aid groups in Afghanistan amid Taliban taking control of Kabul on Sunday."We have formally written to embassies requesting them for the evacuation," Nepal foreign ministry spokesperson Sewa Lamsal told Reuters in Kathmandu.Lamsal said the government has also set up a panel to determine the exact number of Nepalis working in Kabul and elsewhere in Afghanistan."The government will make arrangements for their evacuation also," she said.Nepal does not have a diplomatic presence in Afghanistan but thousands of Nepali men work as security guards in diplomatic districts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-calls-for-evacuation-of-at-least-1-500-nepalis-in-afghanistan-101629047821194.html
15-08-2021||World||Why Ashraf Ghani, Afghanistan's best academic, failed||Ashraf Ghani, who left Afghanistan on Sunday following the Taliban's rapid advance through the country and into Kabul, was twice elected Afghan president, as well as being one of the country's best-known academics.President Ghani left the country hours after the Taliban entered the capital, government officials said. It was not yet clear where he was headed, or how power would be transferred.First elected president in 2014, Ghani took over from Hamid Karzai, who led Afghanistan after the US-led invasion in 2001, and oversaw the conclusion of the US combat mission, the near-complete withdrawal of foreign forces from the country, as well as a fractious peace process with the insurgent Taliban.He made the effort to end decades of war his top priority, despite continuing attacks on his government and security forces by the Taliban, and began peace talks with the insurgents in the Qatari capital of Doha in 2020.However, Ghani, known for his quick temper alongside his deep thinking, was never accepted by the Taliban and peace talks made little headway.Foreign governments were frustrated by the slow progress of talks, and calls grew for an interim government to replace his administration.During his presidency, he managed to appoint a new generation of young, educated Afghans into leadership positions at a time the country's power corridors were occupied by a handful of elite figures and patronage networks.He promised to fight rampant corruption, fix a crippled economy and transform the country into a regional trade hub between Central and South Asia - but was unable to deliver on most of these promises.LONG ROADA US-trained anthropologist, Ghani holds a doctorate from New York City's Columbia University and was named one of the "World's Top 100 Global Thinkers" by Foreign Policy magazine in 2010.His road to the presidency was hard-fought.He spent almost a quarter of century outside Afghanistan during the tumultuous decades of Soviet rule, civil war and the Taliban years in power.During that period, he worked as an academic in the United States and later with the World Bank and the United Nations across East and South Asia.Within months of the events of the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan, he resigned from his international posts and returned to Kabul to become a senior advisor to newly-appointed President Karzai.He served as Afghan finance minister in 2002, but fell out with Karzai, and, in 2004, was appointed chancellor of Kabul University, where he was seen as an effective reformer as well as forming a Washington-based thinktank that worked on policies to empower some of the world's most impoverished people.In 2009, Ghani, who belongs to Afghanistan's majority Pashtun ethnicity like Karzai, ran for president but came in fourth, securing about 4% of the national vote.He continued to work in important roles in Afghanistan, including as Afghanistan's "transition czar", chairing a body overseeing security transition from NATO to Afghans.With Karzai barred by the Afghan constitution from standing for a third time, Ghani mounted a successful second campaign in 2014. He was re-elected in 2019.His relationship with Washington and other Western capitals was uneasy.He was a vocal critic of what he termed wasted international aid in Afghanistan and often did not see eye to eye with the West's Afghan strategy, particularly as they looked to fast-track a slow and painful peace process with the Taliban.In an interview with the BBC, Ghani said: "the future will be determined by the people of Afghanistan, not by somebody sitting behind the desk, dreaming".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-ashraf-ghani-afghanistan-s-best-academic-failed-101629046983826.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban entered Kabul to 'prevent looting' as cops flee, says spokesperson||Hours after Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani left the country, the Taliban ordered their fighters on Sunday to enter capital Kabul to “prevent looting” after local police deserted their posts. The militant group's spokesperson Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the troops would prevent looting amid the panic that prevailed following the Islamic militant outfit’s takeover of the capital.Earlier, Mujahid had said, “Taliban fighters are to be on standby on all entrances of Kabul until a peaceful and satisfactory transfer of power is agreed," said spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid.The insurgents later said they were seeking complete power and there would be no transitional government following their lightning sweep across Afghanistan that led back to the capital two decades after the Taliban was overthrown by US-led forces.Taliban fighters entered the presidential palace and took control of it, two senior Taliban commanders in Kabul said. The Afghan government did not confirm this.American diplomats were evacuated from their embassy by helicopter to the airport as local Afghan forces, trained for years and equipped by the United States and others for billions of dollars, melted away.Ghani's destination was uncertain: a senior Interior Ministry official said he had left for Tajikistan, while a Foreign Ministry official said his location was unknown and the Taliban said it was checking his whereabouts. Some local social media users branded him a "coward" for leaving them in chaos.Also Read: 'Will not bow to Taliban', says Afghanistan vice president as Ashraf Ghani fleesTaliban fighters reached Kabul "from all sides", the senior Interior Ministry official told Reuters and there were some reports of sporadic gunfire around the city.A Kabul hospital said more than 40 people wounded in clashes on the outskirts were being treated, but there did not appear to be major fighting. It was not clear yet how power would be transferred.The Taliban said it was waiting for the Western-backed government to surrender peacefully.The government's acting interior minister, Abdul Sattar Mirzakawal, said power would be handed over to a transitional administration."There won't be an attack on the city, it is agreed that there will be a peaceful handover," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-entered-kabul-to-prevent-looting-as-cops-flee-says-spokesperson-101629040249679.html
15-08-2021||World||What lies ahead for Afghanistan as top leadership flees Kabul? 10 points||The top leadership of Afghanistan, including President Ashraf Ghani and people close to him, fled the country on Sunday a day after promising remobilisation of the army to save Kabul from the Taliban. After major provinces of the country fell in front of the insurgent group like a pack of cards, the Taliban on Sunday reached Kabul and by the night, the presidential palace was under Taliban authorities.What lies ahead for Afghanistan1. An interim setup is being negotiated. Reports said former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali may head the interim government.2. But according to another report, the Taliban do not want any power-sharing after this unopposed sweep.3. A Taliban official said they will soon declare the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan from the presidential palace in Kabul.4. Reports said Ashraf Ghani has handed the authority of solving the crisis to political leaders. A delegation of Younus Qanooni, Ahmad Wali Massoud, Mohammad Mohaqiq will travel to Doha on Monday for talks.'Will not bow to Taliban', says Afghanistan vice president as Ashraf Ghani flees5. After the negotiating parties reach an agreement, Ashraf Ghani will resign handing over the power to the transitional government. Many reports, however, claimed Ghani already resigned.6. Kabul on Sunday was the centrestage of the major political power shift as foreign missions in the country pressed into action to evacuate their officials, citizens.7. Several Afghan leaders arrived in Pakistan for a conference in the future of their nation. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has been pitching for a compromise government having representatives of both the present Afghan government and the Taliban.8. 'The world abandoned Afghans', is the emotion that echoed on social media as Kabul fought the crisis. Kabul was occupied by the Taliban when I left the city. I think there will be a new govt...Whatever has happened has happened because of Ashraf Ghani. He betrayed Afghanistan. People will not forgive him: Jamil Karzai, former MP and second cousin to former Afghan President Hamid Karzai said after reaching Delhi.9. US Secretary of state Blinken said the US mission in Afghanistan has been successful. "The fact of the matter is this: We went to Afghanistan 20 years ago with one mission in mind. That was to deal with the people that attacked us on 9/11. That mission has been successful," he told ABC.10. Pakistan, accused of supporting the Taliban, said it is closely following the unfolding situation in Afghanistan. "We hope all Afghan sides will work together to resolve this internal political crisis," the Foreign Office said in a statement.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-lies-ahead-for-afghanistan-as-top-leadership-flees-kabul-10-points-101629046213909.html
15-08-2021||World||Malala Yousafzai says shocked, deeply worried for women as Taliban seize Kabul||Activist and Nobel Laureate Malala Yousafzai on Sunday expressed her shock and horror at the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban. Stating that she was deeply worried about women, minorities and human rights advocates living in the war-torn country, Yousafzai urged global, regional and local powers to call for an immediate ceasefire. The rights activist further called for urgent humanitarian aid and protection of refugees and civilians as the militant Islamist outfit entered the panic-gripped capital city of Kabul signalling an end of a 20-year Western experiment aimed at remaking Afghanistan.Earlier in the day, the Taliban said they respected women's rights. Women will be “allowed” to leave homes alone and they will have access to education and work, but they will have to wear the hijab, a Taliban spokesperson told Reuters.Born in Pakistan in 1997, Yousafzai was shot in the head by a Taliban gunman at the age of 15 on her way back home from school in the Swat District. She was targeted for speaking out about the plight of girls in her region, who were banned from going to school by the Taliban.We watch in complete shock as Taliban takes control of Afghanistan. I am deeply worried about women, minorities and human rights advocates. Global, regional and local powers must call for an immediate ceasefire, provide urgent humanitarian aid and protect refugees and civilians.Thousands of Afghans, fearing the Taliban could reimpose the kind of brutal rule that all but eliminated women’s rights, rushed to leave the country, lining up at cash machines to withdraw their life savings. The desperately poor — who had left homes in the countryside for the presumed safety of the capital — remained in their thousands in parks and open spaces throughout the city.Also read | Speed of Taliban advance stuns countries as US scrambles to airlift embassy staffThe country’s embattled president, Ashraf Ghani, also left the country, joining his fellow citizens and foreigners in a stampede even as the Islamic outfit called for peaceful transition of power and tried to calm residents of the capital, insisting their fighters would not enter people’s homes or interfere with businesses. They also said they would offer an “amnesty” to those who worked with the Afghan government or foreign forces.“No one’s life, property and dignity will be harmed and the lives of the citizens of Kabul will not be at risk,” the insurgents said in a statement.Also read | Afghan filmmaker Sahraa Karimi's video of running on Kabul street goes viralBut there have been reports of revenge killings and other brutal tactics in areas of the country the Taliban have seized in recent days. One female journalist, weeping, sent voice messages to colleagues after armed men entered her apartment building and banged on her door.“What should I do? Should I call the police or Taliban?” Getee Azami cried. It was not clear what happened to her after that.Many chose to flee, rushing to the Kabul airport, the last route out of the country as the Taliban now hold every border crossing. NATO said it was “helping to maintain operations at Kabul airport to keep Afghanistan connected with the world.”The US. Embassy in Kabul later suspended all operations and told Americans to shelter in place, saying it has received reports of gunfire at the international airport.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malala-yousafzai-says-deeply-worried-for-women-as-taliban-takes-over-kabul-101629045557108.html
15-08-2021||World||US Embassy in Kabul tells Americans to shelter in place after receiving reports of gunfire at the international airport||The US Embassy in Kabul has suspended all operations and told Americans to shelter in place, saying it has received reports of gunfire at the international airport.The US is racing to airlift diplomats and citizens out of Afghanistan after the Taliban overran most of the country and entered the capital early Sunday.“The security situation in Kabul is changing quickly and the situation at the airport is deteriorating rapidly," the embassy said in a statement."There are reports of the airport taking fire and we are instructing US citizens to shelter in place. The US Embassy in Afghanistan has suspended consular operations effective immediately. Do not come to the Embassy or airport at this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-embassy-in-kabul-tells-americans-to-shelter-in-place-after-receiving-reports-of-gunfire-at-the-international-airport-101629044686658.html
15-08-2021||World||'Will not bow to Taliban', says Afghanistan vice president as Ashraf Ghani flees||As the Taliban claimed to have taken control of the presidential palace in Kabul on Sunday, vice president Amrullah Saleh announced on social media that he will never bow to the Taliban, not under any circumstances. "I will bever betray the soul and legacy of my hero Ahmad Shah Masoud, the commander, the legend and the guide. I won't disappoint millions who listened to me. I will never be under one ceiling with the Taliban. NEVER," the vice president wrote on Twitter as negotiation for an interim setup was going on. Reports said Saleh left Kabul and might have gone to Panhshiri Valley.Afghan President Ashraf Ghani was evacuated by the United States and was taken to Dushanbe in Tajikistan, sources said. It is not yet confirmed whether he has resigned from the post or not.What lies ahead for Afghanistan as top leadership flees Kabul? 10 pointsReports said Ashraf Ghani has handed the authority of solving the crisis to political leaders of the country. Acting defence minister Bismillah Mohammadi said a delegation, comprising Younus Qanooni, Ahmad Wali Massoud, Mohammad Mohaqiq, will travel to Doha on Monday for talks.After entering Kabul, the Taliban announced that the fighters have been ordered to exercise restraint. There was no attack, no celebratory gunfire as the insurgent group after decimating the Afghan army in major parts of the country, sees the opportunity of a bloodless coup. A smooth transition of power within a few days.To much surprise of the global leaders, the Taliban swept through Afghanistan in a matter of weeks as soon as the withdrawal of the US and NATO forces began. In many cases, the militants faced little resistance from Afghan’s US-trained military, raising questions over Ashraf Ghani's leadership. Elected in 2014, Ghani took over from Hamid Karzai, who led Afghanistan after the US-led invasion in 2001 and oversaw the conclusion of the US mission. Ghani was never accepted by the Taliban and "peace talks" made little headway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-not-bow-to-taliban-says-afghanistan-vice-president-as-ashraf-ghani-flees-101629043780752.html
15-08-2021||World||Canada’s parliament dissolved, snap polls on Sept 20||Canada will have snap polls on September 20 over two years before the tenure of the ruling Liberal Party government was to end. Canada’s governor-general Mary Simon agreed to dissolve parliament following a request from the country’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Trudeau announced about the decision outside the governor-general’s residence at Rideau Hall in Ottawa following a nearly hour-long meeting with her.As Trudeau announced the forthcoming election, he focused on the Covid-19 pandemic and his government’s efforts in meeting that challenge and that of vaccinations, a sign of how significant that issue may be in helping him secure a majority when the next House of Commons is constituted.The process of starting the campaign, called dropping the writ in Canadian electoral parlance, commenced with the governor-general’s decision. The campaign period will be for the shortest permitted length - 36 days.Trudeau arrived at Rideau Hall on Sunday morning, with his wife Sophie Gregoire and their three children.The snap polls will proceed despite the country being at the beginning of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with all other major Federal parties opposing national polls under such circumstances. However, with Trudeau’s holding a lead in opinion surveys, he will seek to convert the present minority for his ruling Liberal Party into a majority.The final results of the election, though, may not be available the same night as the date of voting, as Elections Canada expects mail-in ballots to surge, from 50,000 in 2019 to 5 million this year. It has already warned that the counting may take between two to five days beyond election day.The Trudeau-led Liberal Party government is in a minority in the House of Commons, with 155 MPs, as against 119 for the principal opposition party, the Conservatives. When the last Federal elections were held in October 2019, the Liberals captured 157 seats, short of the 170 majority mark and also trailed the Conservatives in vote share, with 31.1% against 34.3%.The election call will come as the coronavirus situation in the country worsens. On Friday, Canada’s chief public Health officer Dr Theresa Tam cautioned that the latest national seven-day moving average of 1,609 new cases reported daily, between August 6 and 12), marked an increase of 70% over the previous week. “Following the recent rise in cases, we are now seeing early signs of increases in severity trends,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-parliament-dissolved-snap-polls-on-sept-20-101629043040618.html
15-08-2021||World||Afghan filmmaker Sahraa Karimi's video of running on Kabul street goes viral||Afghan filmmaker Sahraa Karimi, who was the first woman to be appointed as the director-general of state-run Afghan Film, on Sunday posted a video of what happened in the city as the Taliban entered the capital. The video went viral on social media along with the message that the filmmaker posted a few days ago appealing to all the film communities in the world.Later she took to Twitter and said when she shot the video she went to a bank to get some money, but the bank was closed and was being evacuated. "I still cannot believe this happened, who did happen. Please pray for us, I am calling again. Hey ppl of this big world, please do not be silent, they are coming to kill us," she wrote. Taliban surrounded Kabul, I were to bank to get some money, they closed and evacuated; I still cannot believe this happened, who did happen.Please pray for us, I am calling again:Hey ppl of the this big world, please do not be silent , they are coming to kill us. pic.twitter.com/wIytLL3ZNuIn the video that she shared on Instagram on Sunday, she could be seen running amid a heightened activity on the street. "This is not a clip from a scary movie, This is the reality in Kabul. Last week the city hosted a film festival & now they running away for their lives. Heartbreaking to watch but the world is do nothing," Iranian journalist Masih Alinejad wrote sharing the video on Twitter. A post shared by Sahraa Karimi صحرا كريمي (@sahraakarimi)"We need your voice. The media, governments and the world humanitarian organisations are conveniently silent as if this 'peace deal' with the Taliban was ever legitimate. It was never legitimate. Recognising them gave them the confidence to come back to power. The Taliban have been brutalising our people throughout the entire process of the talks. Everything that I have worked so hard to build as a filmmaker in my country is at the risk of falling. If the Taliban take over they will ban all art. I and other filmmakers could be next on their hit list...this war is not a civil war, this is a proxy war, this is an imposed war and it is the result of the US deal with the Taliban," Sahraa Karimi wrote two days ago.
15-08-2021||World||Speed of Taliban advance stuns countries as US scrambles to airlift embassy staff||A little more than a month ago, US President Joe Biden was telling reporters there was “zero” chance of a parallel between the chaotic American withdrawal from Saigon at the end of the Vietnam War in 1975 and the drawdown in Kabul as part of a deal with the Taliban. “The Taliban is not the...North Vietnamese army. They’re not remotely comparable in terms of capability. There’s going to be no circumstance where you see people being lifted off the roof of [the US] embassy in...Afghanistan. It is not at all comparable,” Biden said during a media interaction on July 8. The chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen Mark Milley, too had rejected comparisons to the exit from Saigon. Milley said he didn’t “see Saigon 1975 in Afghanistan”, and that the “Taliban just aren’t the North Vietnamese Army”. But as video footage emerged on Saturday of US military helicopters flying sortie after sortie from the roof of the US embassy in Kabul, ferrying diplomats and officials to the city’s airport as the sound of sporadic gunfire reverberated across the capital, the images were eerily similar to the desperate flights by military helicopters that carried American officials and South Vietnamese citizens from the roof of the US mission in Saigon to naval vessels close to Vietnam’s shore. Even more eerily, the same helicopter was involved in both airlifts – the Chinook, though the ones currently being used in Kabul are a more modern version. In 1975, the US embassy had become the last refuge for scores of South Vietnamese citizens who feared persecution at the hands of the victorious North Vietnamese forces. In Kabul, there was no such safe haven for thousands of Afghans who have worked with US forces as translators, guides and aides and now fear being targeted by the Taliban. The Biden administration has already faced criticism from US lawmakers for the manner of its exit from Afghanistan, with some drawing parallels to the scenes witnessed in Saigon more than four decades ago after Washington announced it would deploy 3,000 troops to provide security for the withdrawal from Kabul. “President Biden’s decisions have us hurtling toward an even worse sequel to the humiliating fall of Saigon in 1975,” leading Republican Senator Mitch McConnell was quoted as saying by AFP. Mike Rogers, the Republican ranking member of the US House Armed Services Committee, said in a statement on August 12 that the American people are “are watching President Biden’s Saigon moment unfold before us”. He added: “Our allies are watching as Afghanistan rapidly deteriorates and President Biden still claims he does not regret his unconditional withdrawal. Make no mistake, the consequences of President Biden’s haphazard withdrawal will be felt for decades.” The speed of the Taliban advance – capturing close to 20 out of Afghanistan’s 34 provincial capitals over the past week, many of them without a fight – and the march to the capital this weekend went against assessments by most countries. According to an Indian assessment made last month, the Taliban was expected to change its strategy only by the end of August, when all the US forces would have pulled out, and move towards key urban centres after taking over vast swathes of rural areas. The Indian side has prepared for all contingencies and eventualities, and authorities in New Delhi were scrambling on Saturday to finalise plans for evacuating Indian diplomats and citizens from Kabul. The government had recently informed Parliament that there were 1,500 Indians in Afghanistan but officials said this figure had come down to a few hundreds as many people working on development projects had already been sent back or had returned on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/speed-of-taliban-advance-stuns-countries-as-us-scrambles-to-airlift-embassy-staff-101629040940833.html
15-08-2021||World||President Ashraf Ghani leaves Afghanistan as Taliban take over Kabul||Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani left the war-torn country on Sunday as the Taliban entered the capital Kabul and said they were seeking complete power. Earlier, the insurgents had ordered their troops to remain outside the Afghan capital ahead of talks on a peaceful transition of power. The Western-backed Ghani is said to have left after resigning as the President. Ghani's destination was uncertain. While a senior interior ministry official said he had left for Tajikistan, a foreign ministry official said his location was unknown and the Taliban said it was checking his whereabouts. Some local social media users branded him a "coward" for leaving them in chaos.Two officials from the militant Islamist group told Reuters there would be no transitional government following their lightning sweep across Afghanistan, two decades after they were overthrown by US-led forces.There were reports of sporadic gunfire around the city, but there was no significant fighting and the Taliban said they were waiting for the Western-backed government to surrender peacefully.According to the Reuters report, Taliban commanders said they have taken control of Afghan presidential palace, but the Afghan government was yet to confirm this.The United States is evacuating its embassy in Kabul, said secretary of state Antony Blinken, while maintaining the “Afghan mission” has been successful. Television images showed a stream of helicopter flights, ferrying passengers from the US embassy to the airport as local Afghan forces, trained for years and equipped by the United States and others for billions of dollars, melted away.Also read | Women will have freedom, foreigners can leave: Taliban on possible new regime“We’re relocating the men and women of our embassy to a location at the airport,” Blinken said on ABC’s “This Week.” “That’s why the president sent in a number of forces to make sure that, as we continue to draw down our diplomatic presence, we do it in a safe and orderly fashion and at the same time maintain a core diplomatic presence in Kabul.”The US will completely pull out all embassy personnel within three days, CNN reported earlier, citing people familiar with the situation, leaving a small core of staff to operate at the airport.Taliban fighters reached the outskirts of Kabul earlier on Sunday in culmination of a three-week offensive in which the Islamic militant group seized large portions of the country with very little resistance. Taliban forces now hold all of Afghanistan’s border crossings, the Associated Press said.“The Islamic Emirate instructs all its forces to stand at the gates of Kabul, not to try to enter the city,” the Taliban said in a statement on Sunday, using the group’s formal name. “Negotiations are under way to ensure that the transition process is completed safely and securely, without putting the lives, property and honor of anyone in danger.”It was unclear exactly how the talks would take place, or where. The AP reported that Taliban negotiators were heading to the presidential palace in Kabul to prepare for a transfer of power. Yet Bismillah Mohammadi, Afghanistan’s acting defense minister, said Ghani had extended authority to a delegation headed to Doha for talks with the Taliban on Monday.The militant group has sought to reassure the country and the world that it will act responsibly as it prepares to resume power, following the swift collapse of a US-trained Afghan army after President Joe Biden ordered American troops to withdraw by August 31.On Sunday, Ghani’s office said on social media that national forces have Kabul “under control and there’s no need for the people to worry”. However, some key Afghan officials had suggested it was just a matter of time before the Taliban took power.“Until the transfer of power, the security of Kabul is our responsibility,” Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal, Afghanistan’s acting interior minister, said in a video message posted on the ministry’s Facebook page.On Saturday, Biden boosted the US troop deployment in an attempt to ensure an “orderly and safe drawdown.” The authorisation adds about 1,000 US personnel to the deployment of 3,000 Marines and soldiers announced this week and 1,000 troops already at the airport and the embassy, according to a defence official.Defending his decision to withdraw the troops from Afghanistan after 20 years -- America’s longest war, Biden said, “I was the fourth president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan -- two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not, pass this war onto a fifth.”Meanwhile, thousands of Afghans fled to Kabul in the face of the Taliban advance as the crisis threatened to spill outside the country’s borders and send waves of refugees as far as Europe. People also flocked to Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport hoping to catch a flight out. “We’re expecting to be evacuated -- I hope we’ll be out in a few days,” Emir Sayit, a Turkish civil engineer, said by phone on Sunday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-ashraf-ghani-leaves-afghanistan-as-taliban-enter-kabul-101629035678464.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban demand peaceful transfer of power after reaching Kabul: Top developments today||With a Taliban regime in Afghanistan imminent, the militants belonging to the group have entered the capital city of Kabul and have been asked to wait after the government had conceded that it was preparing for a transfer of power.Several countries have shut their embassies in the country, following the rapid takeover by Taliban after the US had started pulling back its troops. Also, the return of the Taliban to power after two decades have sparked fears that the group would resort to its hardline, ultra-conservative form of government.Here is all you need to know about the top developments in the country on Sunday -||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-demand-peaceful-transfer-of-power-after-reaching-kabul-top-developments-today-101629035469758.html
15-08-2021||World||Popular Chinese actor faces boycott for visiting Yasukuni Shrine in Japan||The China Association of Performing Arts (CAPA) on Sunday called for the boycott of a popular Chinese actor after photos surfaced online showing him visiting the controversial Yasukuni Shrine in Japan in 2018.The shrine in Tokyo is seen in neighbouring countries including China and South Korea as a symbol of Japan’s past militarism and right-wing politics.The shrine honours Japan’s war dead among them 14 World War II leaders convicted by an Allied tribunal as war criminals.The Chinese actor Zhang Zhehan’s - a heartthrob among young Chinese known for acting in movies and period dramas - visit to the shrine sparked outrage among the public after photos were circulated online of him posing there.CAPA was quoted as saying in a notice published on Sunday that actors should understand history. “Ignorance should not be an excuse…Yasukuni Shrine is the spiritual tool and symbol of Japanese militarism in launching its war of aggression and a place where right-wing Japanese forces deny history and beautify the war,” the Global Times said, quoting CAPA.“As a public figure, he has been deficient in historical knowledge, and completely unaware of the nation’s trauma, which is totally unreasonable,” the state-run People’s Daily said.“The misbehaviour of actor Zhang Zhehan severely harms national feeling and brings baneful influence to his young age-group audience. Hence, we demand members not to engage him in any employment,” said the association.An apology from the 30-year-old where he said he was ashamed of his ignorance hasn’t worked.According to Reuters, more than 25 companies in China, beverage maker Coca-Cola Co and Danish jeweller Pandora have announced the termination of partnerships with Zhang.Separately, China and South Korea have blasted Japanese defence minister Nobuo Kishi’s visit to the shrine last week.China expressed its strong dissatisfaction and resolute opposition to the visit, Chinese defence ministry spokesperson, Wu Qian said.The shrine is “a spiritual tool and symbol of Japanese militarism and its invasion of foreign countries”, the statement said.Kishi’s act reflects “Japan’s wrong attitude towards its history of aggression and its sinister intention to challenge the postwar international order”, the statement added.In Seoul, Lee Sang-ryol, the South Korean foreign ministry’s director-general for Asian and Pacific affairs, summoned Naoki Kumagai, deputy chief of mission at the Japanese embassy to lodge a protest against the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/popular-chinese-actor-faces-boycott-for-visiting-yasukuni-shrine-in-japan-101629033680510.html
15-08-2021||World||Women will have freedom, foreigners can leave: Taliban on possible new regime||Ahead of the imminent fall of the Afghanistan government making way for an interim set up, the Taliban which had set an example of a horrifying reign between 1996 and 2001, on Saturday said they respect women's rights. Women will be allowed to leave homes alone and they will have access to education and work, but they will have to wear the hijab, a Taliban spokesperson told Reuters. Whipping, stoning were common forms of Taliban punishment in the earlier regime, but as Reuters reported, the spokesperson said that policy on punishments will depend on courts. Media will be allowed to criticise anyone, but they should not indulge in character assassination, the spokesperson said.The return of the Taliban is a nightmare for Afghan women, and as apprehended, the Taliban insurgents in Kandahar have walked into the offices of Azizi Bank and ordered nine women working there to leave, Reuters reported. Male relatives can take their place, the Taliban said.Former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali may head interim Afghan govt: ReportsThe insurgent group told Reuters that n Taliban fighter was allowed to conduct celebratory gunfire right now as the negotiation for peaceful power transfer is still going on. Foreigners in the city can leave if they wish, the Taliban said. But if they continue to stay, then they will have to register their presence with Taliban administrators, the spokesperson said.Watch: Taliban surround Kabul, in talks with Ashraf Ghani govt for power transitionAfghanistan President Ashraf Ghani is expected to step down within the next few hours, Russian news agency Sputnik reported. With Afghanistan's former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali likely to be roped in to head the interim government, the Taliban are expecting the power transfer peacefully in the next few hours.In just over a week, the Taliban have seized nearly all of Afghanistan raising questions over the monumental failure of the Afghan army. The warlords on whom Ashraf Ghani was banking for remobilising the army surrendered to the Taliban in the last few days apparently leaving no option in front of the Afghan government. The talks in Doha too didn't result in any breakthrough.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-will-have-freedom-foreigners-can-leave-taliban-on-possible-new-regime-101629028568711.html
15-08-2021||World||Former interior minister Ali Ahmad Jalali may head interim Afghan govt: Reports||Ali Ahmad Jalali, former interior minister of the country, is likely to head the interim government in Afghanistan, reports said as on Sunday the Taliban entered capital Kabul and engaged in a negotiation with the Afghan leadership for a peaceful transition of the government. Citing diplomatic sources, Reuters said Ali Ahmad Jalali, US-Based academic and former Afghan minister is tapped to head the interim afghan administration. He also served as the former Afgan ambassador to Germany.Ali Ahmad Jalali was born in Kabul but was a US citizen since 1987 and resides in Maryland in the US. In 2003, Jalali had returned to Afghanistan and was appointed the minister of interior under the transitional government at that time. In 2004, he was reappointed again as the interior minister and served the post until September 2005.Jalali was a former colonel in the army and was a top advisor at the Afghan Resistance Headquarters in Peshawar during the Soviet invasion."Poor leadership, lack of logistical sustainability, and absence of operational and tactical coordination has taken a heavy toll on the lives and reputation of the dedicated Afghan soldiers. The rapid fall of one-third of Afghanistan provincial capitals within one week belies the much-hyped claims of tenacity of the Afghan National Defense and security forces as they fast crumbled in the face of advancing insurgent fighters. This brings to mind an old military adage saying, “Those who governed well did not arm; those who were armed well did not draw battle lines; those who drew battle lines well did not fight; those who fought well did not lose; those who lost well did not perish," Ali Ahmad Jalali recently tweeted commenting on the recent escalation. The Taliban fighters reached Kabul on Sunday and said they do not want to take over Kabul by force. Negotiation for a peaceful transfer of the government was what they demanded. Afghanistan interior ministry said Kabul won't be attacked and people of Kabul will remain safe as they are working towards a peaceful transfer of power to a new interim government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-minister-ali-ahmad-jalali-may-head-interim-afghan-govt-reports-101629023299621.html
15-08-2021||World||Peaceful takeover of Kabul, assurance to citizens: What Taliban said as they prepared to come back to power after 20 yrs||On Sunday the Islamist insurgent force Taliban came closest to assuming power in Afghanistan after being ousted 20 years ago by the United States. The collapse of the Afghan government happened at a breakneck speed which left most allies stunned as they scrambled to evacuate their officials and citizens from the country.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the group is in talks with the Afghan government "for a peaceful surrender" of Kabul, after insurgents entered the capital's outskirts. "The Islamic Emirate instructs all its forces to stand at the gates of Kabul, not to try to enter the city," a spokesman for the Taliban tweeted.The Taliban asked Afghan civilians to remain in their country and not leave out of fear. The order came as Kabul residents reported seeing insurgents peacefully enter some of Kabul's outer suburbs, triggering panic and fear in the population. “No one's life, property and dignity will be harmed and the lives of the citizens of Kabul will not be at risk," the Taliban said, reported Reuters. The Afghan Presidential Palace tweeted on Sunday that Afghan security forces had control of Kabul even though firing occurred at a number of places in the capital.Reuters reported that the streets of Kabul were choked with traffic as people were rushing to either get home or reach the airport. "Some people have left their keys in the car and have started walking to the airport," one resident told Reuters by phone. Another said: “People are all going home in fear of fighting,”Also Read: Kabul won't be attacked, assures Afghan minister as Taliban inches closerThe Taliban spokesperson also assured those who have served the Afghan government and the military that they will be forgiven, as the group does not intend to take revenge. However, 84 Afghan servicemen crossed the border to Uzbekistan and asked for assistance, the ministry said.
15-08-2021||World||Chinese pharma company to set up Covid-19 vaccine plant in Sri Lanka||China and Sri Lanka are set to deepen their bilateral “vaccine diplomacy” with a leading Chinese pharma company preparing to set up a manufacturing plant to make anti-Covid jabs in President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s home district, Hambantota.The new plant will be set up under an agreement that will allow Colombo to source nine million Covid-19 vaccine doses from the Chinese pharma company that sets it up, Sri Lankan ambassador to China, Palitha Kohona, told HT.A deal between Sri Lanka’s State Pharmaceutical Corporation (SPC), a state-owned enterprise, and China’s Sinovac Biotech is “fairly close to completion,” Kohana said.“It will be set up in the dedicated pharmaceutical manufacturing zone [in Hambantota],” the Sri Lankan envoy said.The Sinovac vaccine is one of the two Chinese jabs approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) under its “emergency-use listing”; the other being from state-owned Sinopharm.The development comes months after India gifted 500,000 doses of the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine to Colombo, which kicked off Sri Lanka’s vaccine roll-out in late January.But in the first week of April, Sri Lanka had to temporarily suspend its vaccination programme because of the delay in the supply of AZ jabs from India.The Sino-Lanka vaccine arrangement was subsequently hastened after India stopped supplying vaccines to neighbouring countries to meet its domestic need for jabs following the devastating surge in local Covid-19 cases March onwards.Kohona said it was originally India that was supposed to supply vaccines to Sri Lanka, but the plan fell through because of the Covid-19 crisis. The SPC had approached the Chinese government to set up a vaccine plant in the zone earlier this year, given the rising demand for Covid-19 vaccines in Sri Lanka, Kohona said.The SPC and Sinovac then finalised the deal and the specifics of the plant are currently being worked out.The Sri Lankan government has earmarked some 400 acres of land in the Hambantota-Arabokka area and announced tax exemptions for foreign companies ready to set up manufacturing units.“The need for vaccines in Sri Lanka will last a long while. People will need [vaccines in the future as well],” Kohona said.The new plant will be located in the same district where the lease of the China-built Hambantota port for 99 years to Beijing has raised strategic and military concerns for India.Over the years, China has pumped billions in Sri Lanka in critical infrastructure projects including in the Colombo Port City project, roads, highways, and power plants.Beijing is now also leading in its supply of vaccines to Sri Lanka.China has so far donated some 2.7 million vaccine doses to the island nation, a mix of the two Chinese jabs. Colombo has additionally purchased more than 12 million doses from China as well.Majority of Lankan citizens have so far received the Sinopharm vaccine, Chinese state media reported.Besides the Indian and Chinese vaccines, Colombo has procured vaccines from Japan (Pfizer) and Russia (Sputnik).In July, it also received more than 1.5 million doses of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine from the US under the Covax mechanism.Until Friday, over 11 million first dose Covid-19 vaccines had been administered across Sri Lanka under the ongoing mass vaccination programme for citizens above 30 years of age.According to official figures, the leading vaccine being administered across the country is the Sinopharm vaccine from China with 9,246,429 first doses administered and 3,116,114 second doses administered as of last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-pharma-company-to-set-up-covid-19-vaccine-plant-in-sri-lanka-101629022579455.html
15-08-2021||World||Kabul won't be attacked, assures Afghan minister as Taliban inches closer||Afghanistan's acting interior minister Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal said on Sunday that Kabul won't be attacked and that the transition would happen peacefully, Afghan TV network Tolo News reported.Mirzakwal's televised statement to Tolo News follows claims by Taliban leadership that they won't take the Afghan capital "by force" and that negotiations were on the government for a “peaceful surrender” of Kabul.Acting Interior Minister Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal said Kabul will not be attacked and that the transition will happen peacefully. He assures Kabul residents that security forces will ensure the security of the city. pic.twitter.com/uim9LVqn9qAccording to multiple news agencies, Taliban asked its fighters to stand at the gates of Kabul and not try to enter the city. It also assured that the security of Kabul must be maintained till the completion of the transition process. Taliban negotiators headed to the presidential palace on Sunday to discuss the transfer, said an Afghan official who spoke on condition of anonymity even though it remained unclear when that transfer would take place, according to Associated Press.“We do not intend to take revenge on anyone. All those who have served in military and civilian sectors in the Kabul administration are forgiven and safe. All should stay in their own place and home and not try to leave the country,” Taliban said in a statement, accessed by various news agencies, and urged the Afghan civilians to not leave the country.Despite the pledges, many rushed to leave the country through the Kabul airport, the last route out of the country as the Taliban laid siege on every border crossing.ALSO READ | As Taliban knocks at Kabul's doors, here's what to look out forAs Taliban fighters inched closer towards Kabul, top Afghan officials, including Lower House speaker Wolesi Jirga, Mir Rahman Rehmani and other leaders reportedly left the warn-torn country on a Pakistan International Airlines flight. On Saturday, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani told the nation that the defence forces were being remobilised, even as he highlighted  he added that “extensive consultations" were being held at "home and abroad”.Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden ordered deployment of 5,000 troops to Afghanistan with aim for orderly and safe drawdown of American personnel from the troubled country. ALSO READ | Taliban lock Indian consulates for ‘security' in Kandahar, Herat: SourcesBiden, however, ruled out any change in his plans for pullout of US troops  from Afghnistan before September 11. US secretary of state Antony Blinken spoke to Ghani and assured him of support in defending Kabul.As of Sunday, Taliban took over the control of 23 of Afghhan 34 provinces, including Zaranj, Shebergahn, Kunduz, Faizabad, Ghazni, Kandahar, Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif, Jalalabad and Lashkar Gah.In a related development, Russia's foreign ministry official Zamir Kabulov told news agency Ria Novosti on Sunday that Moscow does not plan to evacuate its embassy in Kabul, after assurances from the Taliban that their embassies would be safe. Russia is working with other countries to hold an emergency UN Security Council meeting on Afghanistan, the Associated Press reported.The US and other countries rushed to evacuate their citizens from the capital on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aghanistan-taliban-takeover-kabul-seige-us-troops-pullout-afghanistan-crisis-101629019184238.html
15-08-2021||World||'Peaceful transition': Taliban leaders head to presidential palace in Kabul||After announcing that the Taliban won't take over Afghan capital Kabul by force, Taliban negotiators on Sunday afternoon headed to the presidential palace for a 'peaceful transition of power', news agency Associated Press reported. The official, who spoke to the news agency on condition of anonymity “because of fear of reprisals”, said the goal was a peaceful handing over of the government to the Taliban. Acting interior minister Abdul Satar Mirzakwal said the transition will take place peacefully, Tolo news reported.The Taliban leadership on Sunday said they don't intend to take over the capital by force and also asked Kabul citizens to not panic and leave the city. Lives and properties will not be harmed and the insurgent group does not intend to take any revenge, Taliban leaders told news agencies.Also Read: No forceful takeover of Kabul, people are safe, say Taliban; demand peaceful surrender of capitalAfter the fall of Jalalabad, Afghanistan's last major city apart from Kabul which was not held by the Taliban, the insurgent group advanced towards the capital and around noon, the presidential palace confirmed firing in Kabul. The presidential palace, however, downplayed the firing and said the security situation is under control.Soon after it entered Kabul, the Taliban said they will not use force as they demand a peaceful surrender of the capital. Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen told Al-Jazeera English satellite news channel that the insurgents are “awaiting a peaceful transfer of Kabul city.”On Saturday, President Ashraf Ghani addressed the people of the war-torn country and said the situation will not be allowed to escalate any further. However, the situation changed as the warlords with whom he negotiated a few days ago surrendered to the Taliban or fled, leaving Ghani without a military option.On Saturday, the President consulted leaders and it was decided that negotiation for a ceasefire and an interim set-up will be pursued. Whether the ‘peaceful transition’ that the interior ministry has indicated is an interim government is not known as the details of the negotiations are yet to be made public. The international leadership has reacted to the Taliban advancement in Kabul and Russia said it is working with other countries to hold an emergency UN Security Council meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peaceful-transition-taliban-leaders-head-to-presidential-palace-in-kabul-101629019684945.html
15-08-2021||World||No forceful takeover of Kabul, people are safe, say Taliban; demand peaceful surrender of capital||As Taliban fighters entered the outskirts of the Afghan capital on Sunday, the Taliban leadership claimed that the lives of the citizens of Kabul are safe as the insurgent group will not take the Afghan capital by force and negotiation with the government is on for a peaceful surrender of  Kabul. A Taliban spokesperson has told Reuters that they are in talks with the Afghan government for a "peaceful surrender" of Kabul.This comes a day after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani addressed Afghan nationals and said the Afghan leadership is mobilising the army and the situation won't be allowed to escalate anymore. He said he was in talks with international leaders and after having back-to-back meetings on Saturday, it was decided that an authoritative team will negotiate a ceasefire and an interim set up with the Taliban leadership. Also Read: Taliban launch final assault on Kabul, enters capital's outskirtsTaliban leaders engaged in talks with the government in Doha said fighters have been asked to stand at the entry points at Kabul. Afghan forces must stop gunfire and allow passage to all civilians and foreigners now, while the Taliban have not used force in Kabul, the Taliban leader told Reuters."We do not intend to take revenge on anyone. All those who have served the government and military will be forgiven," a spokesperson told Reuters. Citizens of Kabul do not need to panic, the Taliban spokesman said urging Afghan civilians to not leave the country due to fear.The Taliban advancement in the capital was only a matter of time as the insurgent group reached near the capital on Saturday. Early on Sunday, Jalalabad, Afghanistan's last major city besides the capital not held by the militants, fell to the Taliban and militants posted photos online showing them in the governor’s office in Jalalabad. At around noon, the Afghan Presidential palace on Sunday said firing was heard at a number of points around Kabul, but the security forces were in control of the city. US officials said they were ferrying their diplomats from the embassy to the airport and more and more troops were being sent to aid the evacuation process.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-one-killed-in-kabul-taliban-say-they-won-t-take-afghan-capital-by-force-101629016806538.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban launches final assault on Kabul, enters capital's outskirts||Taliban fighters entered the outskirts of Kabul on Sunday as panicked workers fled government offices and helicopters began landing at the U.S. Embassy in the Afghan capital, further tightening the militants' grip on the country.Three Afghan officials told The Associated Press that the fighters were in the districts of Kalakan, Qarabagh, and Paghman in the capital. The militants themselves didn't acknowledge the advance, though they earlier took Jalalabad, near a major border crossing with Pakistan, the last major city other than Kabul not under their control.Also Read | Has Kabul fallen to the Taliban? Here's what we know so far in 10 pointsIn a nationwide offensive that has taken just over a week, the Taliban has defeated, co-opted, or sent Afghan security forces fleeing from wide swathes of the country, even with some air support by the U.S. military.The rapid shuttle-run flights near the embassy began a few hours later as diplomatic armored SUVs could be seen leaving the area around the post. The US State Department did not immediately respond to questions about the movements. However, wisps of smoke could be seen near the embassy's roof as diplomats urgently destroyed sensitive documents, according to two American military officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation.The Czech Republic also approved a plan to begin withdrawing their Afghan staff from their embassy after earlier taking their diplomats to Kabul International Airport.President Ashraf Ghani, who spoke to the nation Saturday for the first time since the offensive began, appears increasingly isolated as well. Warlords he negotiated with just days earlier have surrendered to the Taliban or fled, leaving Ghani without a military option. Ongoing negotiations in Qatar, the site of a Taliban office, also have failed to stop the insurgents' advance.Thousands of civilians now live in parks and open spaces in Kabul itself, fearing the future. While Kabul appeared calm Sunday, some ATMs stopped distributing cash as hundreds gathered in front of private banks, trying to withdraw their life savings.Militants posted photos online early Sunday showing them in the governor's office in Jalalabad, the capital of Nangarhar province.Abrarullah Murad, a lawmaker from the province told The Associated Press that the insurgents seized Jalalabad after elders negotiated the fall of the government there. Murad said there was no fighting as the city surrendered.The militants took also Maidan Shar, the capital of Maidan Wardak, on Sunday, only some 90 kilometers (55 miles) from Kabul, Afghan lawmaker Hamida Akbari and the Taliban said. Another provincial capital in Khost fell later Sunday to the Taliban, said a provincial council member who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals.The fall Saturday of Mazar-e-Sharif, the country’s fourth-largest city, which Afghan forces and two powerful former warlords had pledged to defend, handed the insurgents control over all of northern Afghanistan.Atta Mohammad Noor and Abdul Rashid Dostum, two of the warlords Ghani tried to rally to his side days earlier, fled over the border into Uzbekistan on Saturday, said officials close to Dostum. They spoke on condition of anonymity as they weren't authorized to publicly speak about his movements.Writing on Twitter, Noor alleged a “conspiracy” aided the fall of the north to the Taliban, without elaborating.“Despite our firm resistance, sadly, all the government and the Afghan security forces equipment were handed over to the Taliban as a result of a big organized and cowardly plot,” Noor wrote. “They had orchestrated the plot to trap Marshal Dostum and myself too, but they didn’t succeed.”In his speech Saturday, Ghani vowed not to give up the “achievements” of the 20 years since the U.S.-led invasion toppled the Taliban after the 9/11 attacks.The U.S. has continued holding peace talks between the government and the Taliban in Qatar this week, and the international community has warned that a Taliban government brought about by force would be shunned. But the insurgents appear to have little interest in making concessions as they rack up victories on the battlefield.“We have started consultations, inside the government with elders and political leaders, representatives of different levels of the community as well as our international allies,” Ghani said. “Soon the results will be shared with you,” he added, without elaborating further.Many Afghans fear a return to the Taliban’s oppressive rule. The group had previously governed Afghanistan under a harsh version of Islamic law in which women were forbidden to work or attend school, and could not leave their homes without a male relative accompanying them.Salima Mazari, one of the few female district governors in the country, expressed fears about a Taliban takeover Saturday in an interview from Mazar-e-Sharif before it fell.“There will be no place for women,” said Mazari, who governs a district of 36,000 people near the northern city. “In the provinces controlled by the Taliban, no women exist there anymore, not even in the cities. They are all imprisoned in their homes.”In a statement late Saturday, however, the Taliban insisted their fighters wouldn't enter people's homes or interfere with businesses. They also said they'd offer an “amnesty” to those who worked with the Afghan government or foreign forces.“The Islamic Emirate once again assures all its citizens that it will, as always, protect their life, property, and honor and create a peaceful and secure environment for its beloved nation,” the militants said. “In this regard, no one should worry about their life.”Despite the pledge, those who can afford a ticket have been flocking to Kabul International Airport, the only way out of the country as the Taliban took the last border crossing still held by the government Sunday at Torkham. Pakistan’s Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed told local broadcaster Geo TV that Pakistan halted cross-border traffic there after the militants seized it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-launches-final-assault-on-kabul-enter-capital-s-outskirts-report-101629013667790.html
15-08-2021||World||As Taliban knocks at Kabul's doors, here's what to look out for||The insurgent Taliban have captured almost all of Afghanistan, leaving the government in control of little more than the capital Kabul and its immediate surroundings.Here are some facts about the city and previous assaults:Current situationThe city's population of 5 million people has been swollen with thousands fleeing other parts of the country. Thousands of troops from the United States and Britain are flying in to secure the airport and their embassies as foreign missions start evacuating personnel.The Afghan army has vowed to defend the capital.Kabul covers an area of about 1,000 square km (400 sq miles) and is ringed by mountains. There are four main roads into the city: from Maidan Shahr in the southwest, Pul-e-Alam in the south, Surobi in the east and Bagram in the north.The Taliban took Pul-e-Alam on Saturday without much resistance, a local provincial council member said.The Taliban say they are close to capturing Maidan Shahr.They have already taken Ghazni, down the road from Maidan Shahr, and have a strong presence in surrounding areas.On Sunday, the Taliban took the eastern city of Jalalabad without a fight. The main highway from there to Kabul passes through Surobi.Past assaults on KabulIn 1996, the Taliban conquered Kabul from the Mujahedin alliance with an assault through Surobi. After winning a battle at Surobi, the Taliban marched unchecked into Kabul.In 2001, U.S.-backed forces re-took Kabul with an attack from the north, entering the city via Bagram after a barrage of air strikes killed hundreds of entrenched Taliban fighters who had formed a defensive ring.Bagram airbase, 64 km (40 miles) north of Kabul, is the country's most significant military asset and was the seat of the U.S. military during the 20-year-long Afghan war before they vacated it just a month ago. The base is now in the hands of the Afghan military.Power and talksThe Taliban have no air power and have used artillery and rockets followed by ground assaults while capturing several cities and provincial capitals in recent weeks. Some areas have fallen without a fight as provincial leaders sought to avoid bloodshed and surrendered.A bloody battle for Kabul could be avoided if a political solution is struck between the government and the Taliban.The insurgents have insisted they will not negotiate with a government headed by President Ashraf Ghani.Ghani has shown no inclination to move. On Saturday, he said he was in urgent talks with local leaders and international partners and that "re-integration of the security and defence forces is our priority".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-taliban-knocks-at-kabul-s-doors-here-s-what-to-look-out-for-101629010672257.html
15-08-2021||World||Japan marks 76th anniversary of WWII defeat; no Suga apology||Japan marked the 76th anniversary of its World War II surrender on Sunday with a somber ceremony in which Prime Minister Yosihide Suga pledged for the tragedy of war to never be repeated but avoided apologizing for his country's aggression.Suga said Japan never forgets the peace that the country enjoys today is built on the sacrifices of those who died in the war.“We will commit to our pledge to never repeat the tragedy of the war,” he said in his first speech at the event since becoming prime minister.Suga did not offer an apology to the Asian victims of Japanese aggression across the region in the first half of the 20th century — a precedence set by his predecessor Shinzo Abe, who was frequently accused of trying to whitewash his country's brutal past.In a largely domestic-focused speech, Suga listed damage inflicted on Japan and its people, including the U.S. atomic attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the firebombing of Tokyo and other cities and the fierce battle of Okinawa, and mourned for them.Emperor Naruhito, in contrast, expressed “deep remorse” over his country’s wartime actions in a carefully nuanced speech that followed the footsteps of his father, who devoted his 30-year career to making amends for a war fought in the name of Hirohito, the current emperor’s grandfather. Naruhito also said he hoped that people can put their hearts together to overcome the difficulty of the pandemic while seeking happiness and peace for all.Amid Tokyo’s surging coronavirus infections, about 200 participants, reduced from about 6,000 before the pandemic, mourned for the dead with a minute of silence. Masks were required, and there was no singing of the national anthem.Suga vowed to cooperate with the international community in tackling global issues under “proactive pacifism,” a vision that Abe promoted to allow Japan to play a greater military role in international conflicts.Beginning 2013, Abe stopped acknowledging Japan’s wartime hostilities or apologize in his Aug. 15 speeches, scrapping a nearly 20-year tradition that began with the 1995 apology of Socialist leader Tomiichi Murayama.On Sunday, before attending the ceremony at Tokyo’s Budokan hall, Suga laid flowers at a nearby national cemetery for unknown soldiers. While Suga stayed away from controversial Yasukuni shrine, he did send a religious offering to the shrine, Japanese media reported.Victims of Japanese actions during the first half of the 20th century, especially the Koreas and China, see the shrine as a symbol of Japanese militarism because it honors convicted war criminals among about 2.5 million war dead.Abe, who stepped down as prime minister last year, prayed at the shrine Sunday, and so did three other members of Suga’s Cabinet. Two other ministers visited the shrine Friday.The visits sparked criticism from China and South Korea.On Sunday, South Korea’s Foreign Ministry in a statement urged Japanese officials to show “sincere remorse through action” so that the countries could develop “future-oriented ties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-marks-76th-anniversary-of-wwii-defeat-no-suga-apology-101629009871174.html
15-08-2021||World||Canadian ex-diplomat calls for Pak to be sanctioned over its role in Afghanistan||As the Taliban are running amok in Afghanistan sparking a humanitarian crisis, a former Canadian ambassador to the country has called for sanctioning Pakistan, claiming that it is allegedly invading its neighbouring country using hardline proxies.Chris Alexander, who was the first resident Canadian ambassador to Afghanistan from 2003-2009 and also served as the UN secretary general’s deputy special representative for Afghanistan, is among the key voices behind the viral hashtag #SanctionPakistan, which calls for Islamabad to be held accountable for its alleged role in the Afghan crisis. The Conservative Party member stressed that “strong and decisive” action is required from the UN to ensure the capital city of Kabul doesn’t fall to the Taliban.Alexander, also former cabinet minister for citizenship and Immigration, tweeted, “Anyone denying or omitting to condemn the fact of Pakistan’s invasion is now complicit.”He also claimed that there was an emerging nexus between China, Pakistan and the Taliban. Alexander told HT that the “world should worry a great deal” about this development and its implications. “Apart from being Pakistan’s mercenaries, the Taliban are UN-listed terrorists. Anyone cozying up to them is playing a dangerous game,” he added.He has come under repeated attack from Islamabad for his claims that Pakistan has played a role in destablising Afghanistan and enabling the Taliban to expand its footprint. Last week, Pakistan’s consul general in Toronto complained to Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole to take action against Alexander.Alexander described that complaint as “unbelievable” and a “journey to the heart of Pakistani psychology and its understanding of how democracies work”.“If they’re writing to Erin and making ridiculous statements, it shows they’re a bit desperate,” Alexander said. He asserted that Pakistan needs to be “held to account” for the “threat to international peace and stability that it’s been underwriting”. In this regard, he said, India had the “deepest experience, but the whole world has been a victim of their ploy”.While the #SanctionPakistan hashtag is a recent trend, the position is not a new one taken by Alexander. In a report he authored titled “Ending Pakistan’s Proxy War in Afghanistan”, released in March by the Ottawa-based Macdonald Laurier Institute (MLI), he claimed that “Pakistan’s aim was to break Afghanistan’s post-2001 constitutional order by installing a Taliban-led coalition to replace the current government, which [Pakistan’s] ISI sees as a stalking horse for India”. He added, “Without ISI support, the Taliban-led proxy war would end quickly.”He also wrote that “every serious partner of Afghanistan now has a duty to enact far-reaching sanctions against those individuals and agencies in Pakistan responsible for this covert proxy war in Afghanistan”. Among his recommendations was listing Pakistan as a state sponsor of terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-ex-diplomat-calls-for-pak-to-be-sanctioned-over-its-role-in-afghanistan-101629008358225.html
15-08-2021||World||Has Kabul fallen to the Taliban? Here's what we know so far in 10 points||The Taliban has entered the outskirts of Afghanistan’s capital of Kabul, the Associated Press reported on Sunday citing Afghan officials. The AP reported that the officials said there hadn't been any fighting yet. The Taliban fighters were in the districts of Kalakan, Qarabagh and Paghman, it added.AP also reported that the Taliban did not immediately acknowledge their presence in the capital. However, government offices suddenly began sending workers home early Sunday as military helicopters buzzed overhead.Also Read | Taliban at Kabul's doorstep, US embassy asks staff to wipe sensitive documentsHere's what we know so far in 10 brief points:1 . Taliban entered the outskirts of Kabul on Sunday as the United States and other nations rushed to evacuate the city. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s office said national forces “have the city under control and there’s no need for the people to worry.”2 . Taliban said in a statement they don't plan to take Kabul 'by force' as sporadic gunfire echoes in the Afghan capital, reported The Associated Press. “The Islamic Emirate instructs all its forces to stand at the gates of Kabul, not to try to enter the city,” the Taliban said in a statement, referring to the group’s formal name. “Negotiations are underway to ensure that the transition process is completed safely and securely, without putting the lives, property, and honor of anyone in danger.3. The Taliban also seized the provincial capital of Maidan Wardak on Sunday, which is about 90 kilometres from Kabul.4. Jalalabad, the last major city outside of Kabul, fell to the Taliban on Sunday, cutting off the capital to the east and tightening their grip on the nation as tens of thousands fled the rapid advance of the insurgents.5. In merely a week, the Taliban has managed to defeat, co-opt or send Afghan security forces fleeing from wide swathes of the country. The development comes despite the US military providing some air support to the Afghan forces.6. Quoting two officials, news agency Reuters reported that the United States has already started evacuating diplomats from its embassy in Kabul. "We have a small batch of people leaving now as we speak, a majority of the staff are ready to leave...the embassy continues to function," one of the officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said.7. ATM machines in Kabul stopped distributing cash on Sunday as hundreds gathered in front of private banks, trying to withdraw their life savings. News agencies noted that thousands of civilians now live in parks and open spaces in Kabul itself, fearing the future.8. Mazar-e-Sharif, the fourth-largest city in Afghanistan, fell to the Taliban on Saturday, thus handing the insurgents control over all of northern Afghanistan. Mazar-e-Sharif is the very city that Afghan forces and two powerful former warlords had pledged to defend. Atta Mohammad Noor and Abdul Rashid Dostum, two of the warlords Ghani tried to rally to his side days earlier, fled over the border into Uzbekistan on Saturday, said officials to the AP agency on condition of anonymity.9. The United States was sending more troops to the encircled capital of Kabul to help evacuate its civilians, Reuters reports. The fall of Jalalabad has also given the Taliban control of a road leading to the Pakistan city of Peshawar, one of the main highways into landlocked Afghanistan.10. All the provincial capitals now under Taliban control, according to the latest updates, are Zaranj, Sheberghan, Sar-e-Pul, Kunduz, Taloqan, Aybak, Pul-e-Khumri, Faizabad, Ghazni, Firus Koh, Qala-e-Naw, Kandahar, Lashkar Gah, Herat, Pul-e-Alam, Mazar-i-Sharif, Jalalabad, and Maidan Wardak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/has-kabul-fallen-to-the-taliban-here-s-what-we-know-so-far-in-10-points-101629003739961.html
15-08-2021||World||China's Huawei spied, installed data ‘back door’ in Pakistan: Report||China’s Huawei Technologies Co stole trade secrets and spied on Pakistan, a small US-based contractor has alleged and filed a federal court, according to a report. Business Efficiency Solutions LLC (BES) has said in the lawsuit filed on Wednesday in California district court that Huawei asked it to set up a system in China that gave the company access to sensitive information about citizens and government officials from a safe-cities surveillance project in Lahore, the Wall Street Journal has claimed.BES has said in the lawsuit that Huawei’s alleged back door was located in a database that consolidated sensitive information, including national ID card records, foreigner registrations, tax records and criminal records, for law enforcement. “Huawei-China uses the proprietary DES (Data Exchange System) system as a back door from China into Lahore to gain access, manipulate, and extract sensitive data important to Pakistan’s national security,” the BES lawsuit alleges, according to WSJ.The California-based software company has said after it installed the DES in Lahore, Huawei demanded in 2017 that it install a duplicate DES in China’s Suzhou. BES said it would give Huawei direct access to the data being gathered in Pakistan. The company said in the lawsuit it asked Huawei to obtain approval from Pakistani authorities before building the Suzhou system.Also read | India likely to block China's Huawei over security fears: OfficialsMuhammad Kamran Khan, chief operating officer of the Punjab Safe Cities Authority, which oversees the Lahore project, said they have begun looking into BES’s allegations. “Our team is examining the accusations and sought an explanation from Huawei. We have also put a data security check on Huawei after this issue. So far, there has been no evidence of any data-stealing by Huawei,” Khan told WSJ.A Huawei spokesperson said the company doesn’t comment on ongoing legal cases, according to WSJ. “Huawei respects the intellectual property of others, and there is no evidence Huawei ever implanted any back door in our products,” she said.Also read | Chinese court convicts Canadian Michael Spavor on charge of espionageHuawei has been under scrutiny for allegedly installing "backdoor" vulnerabilities to spy for China and the US has also said that the company’s equipment could enable Chinese espionage in the countries that install it. Huawei has repeatedly said it would never spy on behalf of any government.According to several reports, China last week hacked multiple public and private sector groups in Israel in an attempt to gain business interests. The Chinese have been conducting similar cyberattacks in Iran, Saudi Arabia and other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-huawei-spied-installed-data-back-door-in-pakistan-report-101629004305415.html
15-08-2021||World||PM Trudeau to meet Canada’s governor general seeking call for snap polls||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is scheduled to meet the country’s governor general Mary Simon on Sunday evening, India time, which is likely to lead to the announcement of snap polls. Those elections are likely to be held on September 20.Trudeau holds a lead in the latest opinion surveys, and is pushing for snap elections in a bid to convert his minority Liberal Party government into a majority one.At the scheduled meeting at Rideau Hall, the governor general’s official residence, Simon is expected to accept Trudeau’s recommendation to dissolve the House of Commons and call for fresh elections, a process called “dropping the writ” in Canadian electoral parlance.The snap polls will take place despite Canada seeing the start of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with major parties opposing national polls under such circumstances. The final results may not be available on night of the polling as Elections Canada is expecting the voting to involve as many as five million mail-in ballots due to the pandemic situation – up from 50,000 during the last general elections in 2019. Elections Canada has already warned that the counting may take between two to five days.The Trudeau-led Liberal Party government is in a minority in the House of Commons with 155 MPs as against 119 for the principal opposition party, the Conservatives. At the 2019 national elections, the Liberals had captured 157 seats, short of the 170 majority mark, and also trailed the Conservatives in vote share, with 31.1% against 34.3%.With Covid-19 cases on the rise, Canada’s Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam cautioned that the latest national seven-day moving average of 1,609 new infections reported between August 6 and 12 marked an increase of 70% over the previous week. “Following the recent rise in cases, we are now seeing early signs of increases in severity trends,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-trudeau-to-meet-canada-s-governor-general-seeking-call-for-snap-polls-101629003617727.html
15-08-2021||World||Taliban seizes Afghanistan's Jalalabad, Kabul remains only major stronghold||The Taliban raced closer to a complete military takeover of Afghanistan on Sunday after capturing more major cities, leaving only the isolated capital Kabul for them to conquer.The insurgents took control of the key eastern city of Jalalabad on Sunday, just hours after the seizing of the northern anti-Taliban bastion of Mazar-i-Sharif -- furthering an astonishing rout of government forces and warlord militias achieved in just 10 days."We woke up this morning to the Taliban white flags all over the city. They entered without fighting," said Jalalabad resident Ahmad Wali, confirming a claim on social media made by the Taliban.President Ashraf Ghani's government appeared to be left with few options as the Taliban effectively surrounded Kabul -- either prepare for a bloody fight for the capital or capitulate.On Saturday Ghani sought to project a semblance of authority with a national address in which he spoke of "re-mobilising" the military while seeking a "political solution" to the crisis.But the loss of Mazar-i-Sharif and Jalalabad are huge back-to-back blows for Ghani and his government.It left the Taliban -- who have fighters less than an hour's drive from Kabul -- holding all the cards in any negotiated surrender of the capital.President Joe Biden ordered the deployment of an additional 1,000 US troops to help secure the emergency evacuation from Kabul of embassy employees and thousands of Afghans who worked for American forces and now fear Taliban reprisals.That was on top of the 3,000 American soldiers deployed in recent days, and 1,000 left in-country after Biden announced in May that the final withdrawal of the 20-year military presence in Afghanistan would be completed by September 11.That decision has come under increased scrutiny given the collapse of the Afghan armed forces, but he insisted Saturday there was no choice."I was the fourth president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan -- two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not, pass this war onto a fifth," Biden said.Heavy fightingIn Mazar-i-Sharif, Taliban fighters quickly took charge."They are parading on their vehicles and motorbikes, firing into the air in celebration," said Atiqullah Ghayor, who lives near the city's famed blue mosque.Warlords Abdul Rashid Dostum and Atta Mohammad Noor, who had led a militia resistance in the city to support government forces, had fled to Uzbekistan, about 30 kilometres to the north, an aide to Noor said.Noor later tweeted that they had been betrayed by the military and were in a "safe place", adding: "I have a lot of untold stories that I will share in due course."As the Taliban closed in on the capital, panicked residents formed long lines outside banks, hoping to withdraw their savings. Some branches appeared to have already run of cash.Residents near Pul-e-Charkhi prison outside Kabul told AFP they heard gunfire coming from the facility -- possibly the result of an inmate uprising.In his first address to the nation since the Taliban launched their sweeping offensive, which was recorded, Ghani said he wanted to stop the violence."I will not let the imposed war on people cause more deaths," he said, appearing sombre and sitting before an Afghan flag.Ghani said the armed forces could be "remobilized" and consultations were taking place to try to help end the fighting, but offered few specifics on what his administration was planning.The presidential palace later said: "A delegation with authority should soon be appointed by the government and be ready for negotiation."Further details were not immediately available.'Crying night and day'For Kabul residents and the tens of thousands who have sought refuge there in recent weeks, the overwhelming mood was one of apprehension and fear.Muzhda, 35, a single woman who arrived in the capital with her two sisters after fleeing nearby Parwan, said she was terrified."I am crying day and night," she told AFP. "If the Taliban come and force me to marry, I will commit suicide."The Taliban imposed an ultra-austere brand of Islam on Afghanistan during their 1996-2001 rule.The scale and speed of their advance have shocked Afghans and the US-led alliance that poured billions into the country after toppling the insurgents in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks.Individual Afghan soldiers, units, and even whole divisions have surrendered -- handing the Taliban even more vehicles and military hardware for their lightning advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-seizes-afghanistan-s-jalalabad-kabul-remains-only-major-stronghold-101628999226091.html
15-08-2021||World||Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan's 4th largest city, falls to Taliban||Taliban has captured another major city of Mazar-i-Sharif in northern Afghanistan, leaving only Kabul and Jalalabad, as Afghan forces and militia supporting the government escaped, according to reports. The Taliban said in a statement the Islamic Emirate (Taliban) "will, as always, protect their life, property and honour and create a peaceful and secure environment for its beloved nation," according to Reuters.The Sunni Pashtun group said its rapid gains showed it was popularly accepted by the people and reassured Afghans and foreigners that they would not be harmed."They are parading on their vehicles and motorbikes, firing into the air in celebration," Atiqullah Ghayor, a Mazar-i-Sharif resident, was quoted as saying by AFP.Also read | India likely to grant refuge to AfghansAfghan journalist Bilal Sarwary tweeted that there were chaotic scenes in parts of Mazar-i-Sharif and Afghan soldiers were seen fleeing. "One resident told me, there is panic, fear and chances of clashes inside the city," Sarwary said.Reuters reported citing provincial officials that Taliban fighters entered Mazar-i-Sharif virtually unopposed as security forces escaped up the highway to neighbouring Uzbekistan. Several videos on social media showed Afghan army vehicles and men in uniforms on the iron bridge between Afghanistan's Hairatan and Uzbekistan.Also read | Afghan govt to ‘remobilise’ forces against TalibanWarlords Atta Mohammad Noor and Abdul Rashid Dostum, the influential militia leaders supporting the government, also fled, several reports said. Noor said on social media that the Taliban had been handed control of Balkh province, where Mazar-I-Sharif is located, due to a "conspiracy."Before the fall of Mazar-i-Sharif was confirmed, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani addressed the nation and reassured people that his government will prevent further violence and ensure that stability is maintained. Ghani had flown to Mazar-e-Sharif on Wednesday to rally the city's defences and met with several militia commanders, including Dostum and Noor.Ghani also held talks with local leaders and international partners, including US secretary of State Antony Blinken, on Saturday. The US state department said that Ghani and Blinken discussed urgent efforts to bring down violence in Afghanistan.Also read | Biden increases US deployment to Afghanistan, warns TalibanSeveral Western countries are evacuating their embassy staff, citizens and Afghans who had worked for them from Kabul as the hardline Islamist terrorists have swept through the country in recent weeks as US-led forces withdrew. President Joe Biden said on Saturday he was authorising the deployment of 5,000 troops to help evacuate citizens and ensure an "orderly and safe" withdrawal of US military personnel. According to UK media reports, the British ambassador will leave the country by Sunday evening, UK media reported. They said the United Kingdom, which was sending 600 troops, sped up the departure of Britons.Hundreds of thousands of people from across Afghanistan have taken refuge in Kabul and are living in tents or in the open in the city. As the fighting has escalated it has raised fears of a refugee crisis and a rollback of gains in human rights, especially for women. Muzhda, a single woman who fled to Kabul with her two sisters from nearby Parwan, said she was terrified. "I am crying day and night. If the Taliban come and force me to marry, I will commit suicide," she told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mazarisharif-afghanistan-s-4th-largest-city-falls-to-taliban-101628986632533.html
15-08-2021||World||Quake kills hundreds in Haiti, worsening Caribbean nation's plight||At least 304 people died and hundreds were injured after a major earthquake struck southwestern Haiti on Saturday, authorities said, reducing churches, hotels, schools and homes to rubble in the latest tragedy to hit the impoverished Caribbean nation.The 7.2-magnitude quake, which was followed by a series of aftershocks, struck 8 km (5 miles) from the town of Petit Trou de Nippes, about 150 km west of the capital Port-au-Prince, at a depth of 10 km, the United States Geological Survey said.That made the temblor which was felt as far away as Cuba and Jamaica potentially bigger and shallower than the magnitude 7 earthquake 11 years ago that killed tens of thousands on the island.This one - which occurred around 8:30 a.m. local time - hit farther away from the capital, however. In Port-au-Prince, it was strongly felt but did not appear to have caused major damage, according to Reuters witnesses.Still, Haiti's Civil Protection service said the preliminary death toll stood at 304, with at least 1,800 injured and more people unaccounted for. Preliminary rescue operations by emergency teams and ordinary citizens had enabled many people to already be recovered from the debris.At least 949 homes, seven churches, two hotels and three schools had been destroyed, it said. A further 723 homes, one prison, three health centres and seven schools had been damaged although there was no major damage to port, airport or telecoms infrastructure.Prime Minister Ariel Henry, who flew over the region to survey the damage, declared a month-long state of emergency.The nearest big town was Les Cayes, where many buildings collapsed or suffered major damage, according to authorities."I saw bodies being pulled out of the rubble, injured and perhaps dead people," said Les Cayes resident Jean Marie Simon, 38, who was at the market when the earthquake struck and ran home to see if his family was safe. "I heard cries of pain everywhere I passed through."His wife and 2-year-old child had been bathing and rushed out to the street, naked, just before the front of the house crumbled. Simon gave his wife his shirt and they took refuge in the courtyard of a church with other locals. His mother's house had also collapsed."There are a lot of aftershocks and every time there's one, people run and shout," he said. "My legs are still trembling."Videos posted to social media showed citizens pulling others from debris and crowds of people waiting for medical attention at overwhelmed hospitals.USGS said a significant amount of the population was at risk of landslides, with road obstructions likely. Haiti's Civil Protection service said a landslide had blocked the highway between Les Cayes and the town of Jeremie.Likely to complicate relief efforts is the fact Haiti is now in the probable track of Tropical Storm Grace, which could bring heavy rains and winds early next week.Also, access by road to the southern region, where the quake struck, has been restricted by gang control of key areas although Henry said police would accompany any convoys going to the south.'NEVER A BREAK'The earthquake comes just over a month after the assassination of President Jovenel Moise, who had been ruling by decree, which deepened the country's political turmoil.Meanwhile, swaths of Haiti are facing growing hunger and healthcare services are already overwhelmed by Covid-19.That region had only recently recovered from Hurricane Matthew, which struck in 2016, killing hundreds and causing widespread devastation."This country just never finds a break! Each year of mismanagement did not hurt but the cumulative effects made us vulnerable to everything," said Haitian entrepreneur Marc Alain Boucicault on Twitter."It's going to take years to fix things and we have not even started!"In Port-au-Prince, residents traumatized by the 2010 quake rushed, screaming, into the streets and stayed there as the aftershocks rumbled on."In my neighborhood, I heard people screaming. They were flying outside," said resident Sephora Pierre Louis. "At least they know to go outside. In 2010, they didn’t know what to do. People are still outside in the street."The quake sent shock waves as far as Cuba and Jamaica although there were no reports of material damage, deaths or injuries there."Everyone is really afraid. It's been years since such a big earthquake," said Daniel Ross, a resident in the eastern Cuban city of Guantanamo.He said his home stood firm but the furniture shook."I feel it, man. It wake me up. My roof kind of make some noise," said Danny Bailey, 49, in Kingston.US President Joe Biden said he had authorized an immediate US response and named Samantha Power, administrator of the US Agency for International Development, coordinator of the effort.Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador also said he was ordering the government to prepare immediate relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quake-kills-hundreds-in-haiti-worsening-caribbean-nation-s-plight-101628983788843.html
15-08-2021||World||Covid-19: CDC signs off on 3rd dose for some in US||The top US health agency on Friday recommended an additional dose of two-shot mRNA Covid vaccines for people with compromised immune systems such as organ transplant recipients, cancer patients or those with advanced and untreated HIV infection.“At a time when the Delta variant is surging, an additional vaccine dose for some people with weakened immune systems could help prevent serious and possibly life-threatening cases within this population,” said Rachelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).The third dose should be the same mRNA vaccine - Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna - as the primary shots and are to be administered four weeks after completing the primary vaccination. An estimated 3% of the adult population in America is said to be immunocompromised. And studies cited by CDC in support of this new recommendation showed 40-44% of hospitalised breakthrough cases - those contracting Covid-19 despite being fully vaccinated - were immunocompromised.Delta pushes cases upMeanwhile, the seven-day average of Covid-19 deaths in the US reached 645 on Friday, almost doubling in two weeks to reach the highest point since May, as the Delta variant pushes deeper into the country.Meanwhile, daily infections are up about 66% over the same period and are back at levels last seen in early February - the average topping 128,000 as of Friday, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg.Australia’s most-populous city Sydney tightened restrictions as the Delta variant of the coronavirus spreads throughout the country. New South Wales state recorded 466 new cases in the local community on Saturday. Iranian state media says authorities will impose a six-day “general lockdown” in cities across the country in an effort to curb the Delta variant.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cdc-signs-off-on-3rd-dose-for-some-in-us-101628979979441.html
15-08-2021||World||Ahead of 9/11 anniversary, US issues warning on threat from terrorists||The US department of homeland security (DHS) issued a new terrorism threat advisory on Friday ahead of the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks and amid a resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic.The national terrorism advisory system bulletin said the US faces a “heightened threat environment” from both domestic terrorists “and those inspired or motivated by foreign terrorists and other malign foreign influences”.It cited increased use of “online forums to influence and spread extremist narratives and promote violent activity”.The new advisory updated a January alert following the attack on the US Congress by supporters of then-president Donald Trump, when DHS said the country faced “increasingly complex and volatile” threats from anti-government and racially motivated extremists, often stirred up by online influence from abroad.Meanwhile, a military base in the nation’s capital was locked down for about two hours on Friday, after an armed man ran onto the grounds during a local police investigation of gunshots on the streets surrounding the base.A statement from Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling said the man’s firearm was discovered after the intrusion, and the intruder himself was detained around 2.45pm during “a thorough sweep of the installation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahead-of-9-11-anniversary-us-issues-warning-on-threat-from-terrorists-101628980181983.html
15-08-2021||World||Afghan govt to ‘remobilise’ forces against Taliban||Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani vowed on Saturday to prevent further bloodshed, as Taliban fighters closed in on Kabul after routing his armed forces over the past 10 days.The Taliban, facing little resistance, captured all of Logar province, just south of the capital and detained local officials, said Hoda Ahmadi, a lawmaker from the province. She said the Taliban have reached the Char Asyab district, just 11km (7 miles) south of Kabul. The capital of the province, Pul-e-Alam, is a staging post for a potential assault on Kabul.The insurgents also captured Mazar-i-Sharif, the northern city that was the Afghan government’s last northern stronghold, with security forces fleeing to the Uzbekistan border, a provincial official said late on Saturday.Also Read| Biden increases US deployment to Afghanistan, warns TalibanIn a recorded address to the nation – his first since the Taliban launched their sweeping offensive – Ghani said he wanted to stop the violence “as a historic mission”. “I will not let the imposed war on people cause more deaths,” he said.A Pentagon spokesperson said on Friday “Kabul is not right now in an imminent threat environment, while acknowledging that Taliban fighters were “trying to isolate” the city.The president gave no hint he would resign or take responsibility for the calamitous military collapse, but said the armed forces could be “remobilised” and consultations were taking place to try to help end the war.He offered few specifics on what his administration was planning, with government control over Afghanistan all but collapsed, but the presidential palace later said in a statement that “a delegation with authority should soon be appointed by the government and be ready for negotiation”.The Taliban have made major advances in recent days, including capturing Herat and Kandahar, the country’s second- and third-largest cities, with less than three weeks left before the United States is set to withdraw its last troops. They now control 19 of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces, leaving the Western-backed government in control of a smattering of provinces in the centre and east. The breakneck offensive has raised fears of a full militant takeover or another Afghan civil war.The US military has estimated that Kabul could come under insurgent pressure within 30 days and that the Taliban could overrun the rest of the country within a few months.Ghani’s speech came as US Marines were sent in to oversee an evacuation of embassy employees and thousands of Afghans and their families, who fear retribution for working for the United States during its 20-year occupation.Also Read| India likely to grant refuge to AfghansWith the country’s second-and third-largest cities having fallen into Taliban hands, Kabul has effectively become the besieged last stand for government forces who have offered little or no resistance elsewhere.As the Taliban closed in on Kabul, panicked residents formed long lines outside banks, hoping to withdraw their savings. Some branches appeared to have already run of cash.Insurgent fighters are now camped just 50km away from Kabul, with the United States and other countries scrambling to airlift their nationals out of the Afghan capital ahead of a feared all-out assault.In Kabul, US embassy staff were ordered to begin shredding and burning sensitive material, as the first American troops started arriving to secure the airport and oversee evacuations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-govt-to-remobilise-forces-against-taliban-101628980345549.html
15-08-2021||World||Prez Joe Biden increases US deployment to Afghanistan, warns Taliban||President Joe Biden on Saturday doubled down on his decision to withdraw US forces from Afghanistan despite the Taliban's rapid advances, but pledged to send more troops to evacuate civilians and warned the insurgents not to threaten that mission.After consultations with his national security team, Biden said a total of "approximately 5,000" US soldiers -- up from 3,000 -- will now help organize evacuations and the end of the US mission after 20 years on the ground.He warned the Taliban that any action "that puts US personnel or our mission at risk there, will be met with a swift and strong US military response."Biden's announcement came after Taliban insurgents captured the main northern holdout city of Mazar-i-Sharif and continued their rapid march towards the capital Kabul.Afghan President Ashraf Ghani pledged Saturday not to let the "imposed war on people cause more deaths," and said consultations were taking place to try to help end the war, without offering details.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who was part of the team that conferred with Biden, spoke by telephone with Ghani on Saturday, his spokesman said."They discussed the urgency of ongoing diplomatic and political efforts to reduce the violence," spokesman Ned Price said.Blinken was also expected to "engage with key regional stakeholders" on the escalating Taliban march on Kabul, Biden said.Earlier, US Central Command said more American military personnel had arrived in Kabul to ensure the safe evacuation of American embassy employees and Afghan civilians who worked for US forces.The Pentagon estimates it will need to evacuate about 30,000 people before it completes its withdrawal from Afghanistan by August 31, a deadline set by Biden.Biden's decision to pull troops out of Afghanistan has come under increased scrutiny given the implosion of the country's armed forces, but he said he had no other choice -- and laid some of the blame at the feet of Donald Trump."When I came to office, I inherited a deal cut by my predecessor... that left the Taliban in the strongest position militarily since 2001 and imposed a May 1, 2021, deadline on US forces," Biden said."I faced a choice -- follow through on the deal, with a brief extension to get our forces and our allies' forces out safely, or ramp up our presence and send more American troops to fight once again in another country's civil conflict," he added."I was the fourth president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan -- two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not, pass this war onto a fifth," Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-increases-us-deployment-to-afghanistan-warns-taliban-101628974927343.html
15-08-2021||India||NEP will help fight poverty: PM||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is a means to “fight poverty” as it encourages teaching in regional language and meets the needs of the 21st century. “Today the country also has a new National Education Policy to meet the needs of the 21st century. Now our children will neither stop due to lack of skills nor will they be bound by language barriers.This new National Education Policy is also going to be a great tool to fight against poverty in a way. The basis of winning the war against poverty is also the education, prestige and importance of the vernacular language,” the Prime Minister said while addressing the country on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. The NEP, which was approved by the Union cabinet in July last year, recommends imparting early education in regional languages or mother tongue. He said the NEP has a special feature under which sports have been made a part of mainstream education instead of extracurricular. “Sports are also one of the most effective means to move forward in life,” Modi said.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said that NEP offers greater opportunities. “NEP offers an opportunity to greater economic mobility not just by enabling regional languages but also by offering students choices in adding value to their learning according to their potential. Early learning in regional language, and the choice to switch to global languages are both important for student achievement, and are embedded in the NEP,” she said.Earlier in April, the Prime Minister had said that the NEP frees and empowers students to participate in national development and is futuristic as per global standards.On August 12, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that the government was working to create synergy between education and skills as envisioned in the NEP 2020, for making a future-ready workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-will-help-fight-poverty-pm-101629051800621.html
15-08-2021||India||New species of snake with ‘bindi’ on body discovered in Assam||A team of scientists from India, the United Kingdom, and the United States have discovered a new species of snake in Assam – the first such find from the state in over a century – that is characterised by a red mark on its body that resembles a “bindi”.News of the discovery by a team, which consisted of scientists from Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, Natural History Museum, London and University of Texas, Austin, has been published in the animal taxonomist journal Zootaxa, which is published from New Zealand.The new species has been named ‘Rhabdophis bindi’ as it has “a distinct roughly rhomboidal red-coloured nuchal spot/blotch which is absent from all other species” of the genus Rhabdophis, which has 27 species found across south, east and south-east Asia, scientists said.“The species is named due to its unique red marking on the back of the neck reminiscent of the ‘red beauty spot’ adorning foreheads of Indian women called ‘bindi’,” said Abhijit Das of WII, a herpetologist and faculty member of the endangered species management department, who is associated with the discovery.It was Das who first found a specimen of the species during a 2007 snake survey in and around Barail Hill Range in Cachar district of Assam. In subsequent years, 10 other individuals of the species, found at low elevations of below 100m from sea level, were collected and studied.“It took 14 years from the time it was first seen till it was classified as a new species because we had to compare the new one with all other closely related species found in different countries and had to study many specimens from across the world. It also took time to do genetic analysis of the species,” said Das.Morphologically, the new species is generally around 60cm to 80cm in length, resembles the Himalayan red-necked keelback distributed widely in the North-east. However, the new species appears to reside in lowland evergreen forest. Himalayan red-necked keelback, on the other hand, has been found only in elevations above 600m.“Although majority of zoological discoveries are from northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the discovery of ‘Rhabdophis bindi’ from Assam shows that more such undiscovered species may exist even in the well-explored parts of the region,” said Das.The previous snake species discovered in Assam was a red striped one called ‘Oligodon erythrorhachis’ found in Jeypore area of Upper Assam in 1910 by British herpetologist Frank Wall, according to Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-species-of-snake-with-bindi-on-body-discovered-in-assam-101629051741569.html
15-08-2021||India||Kerala BJP chief booked for hoisting flag upside down on I-Day||The Kerala police on Sunday booked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kerala unit chief K Surendran for allegedly hoisting the tricolour upside down during the flag hoisting ceremony in the party office in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram. But BJP leaders said the move was “a politically motivated” one and the snag was noticed halfway during flag hoisting and it was corrected immediately. But many Left workers took it to social media in a big way alleging that it was noticed only after the hoisting of the flag. The police later filed a case after examining the video footage. The ruling CPI(M), which hoisted the tricolour in its party offices for the first time, also landed in a controversy. Congress leader K S Sabarinathan said at the party headquarters AKG Centre the tricolour was fluttering at the same level of the party flag. He said it was a violation of the National Flag Code which specifically says “no other flag or bunting should be placed higher than or side by side of the national flag.” The BJP also criticised it. “A case should be registered against the acting secretary who hoisted the flag with much fanfare. It shows the party can get away with any crime,” said party leader V V Rajesh. But the CPI(M) denied the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bjp-chief-booked-for-hoisting-flag-upside-down-on-iday-101629051623990.html
15-08-2021||India||Hyderabad, city NCB jointly bust drug unit, 5 arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) said on Sunday that it has busted a clandestine laboratory that was manufacturing alprazolam, a psychotropic substance, in Hyderabad for over two months. “A total of 3.25 kg of alprazolam, ₹12,75,000 accrued from the sale of the drug, a clandestine lab, two cars and a variety of chemicals were seized,” the NCB Bengaluru zonal unit said in a statement.The Bengaluru and Hyderabad NCB units carried out operations based on intelligence inputs. Five people have been arrested in the joint operations, the statement said.Alprazolam is a psychotropic substance belonging to the benzodiazepines class of anti-depressants, the NCB said. “However, the same is largely trafficked illegally for recreational use worldwide. In the states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, alprazolam is widely used as a cutting agent for illicit toddy. Alprazolam-laced toddy is very dangerous and it causes serious health complications, including death.”The bust comes at a time when law enforcement agencies across states, especially in Karnataka, have been cracking down on drugs.During his Independence Day speech, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that preventing all kinds of crime is a priority for the state government. “Our war against drugs is intensified in all districts. There will be no compromise on taking stern action against anti-social elements that disturb the peace of the society,” Bommai said.The laboratory was found operating in the house of a man, Y Sudhakar, in a residential area at Balanagar in Hyderabad.“In the lab, raw alprazolam at various stages of manufacturing was found in lab apparatus like flask, reactor, drier, etc. Some quantity of alprazolam and a large quantity of raw material were seized from this clandestine lab,” the NCB said.The bureau also discovered another laboratory in an adjoining flat in which many instruments and chemicals were found.The NCB said a person, R Pamarthi, who was operating the laboratory, had got a licence for manufacturing genuine medical formulations, but misused the facility for clandestine manufacturing of alprazolam. “The culprits were operating for more than five years,” the NCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-city-ncb-jointly-bust-drug-unit-5-arrested-101629051441240.html
15-08-2021||India||Will protect our land and water: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that his government wants cordial relations with the neighbouring states but added that this would not be done at the cost of its own interests. During the Independence Day address in Bengaluru on Sunday, Bommai said, “We are committed to have cordial relationship with the neighbouring states under the federal system based on the aspirations of the Constitution. However, there will be no compromise in the matters of border, language, land and water of the state.” “Our commitment to the protection of land, water, language and culture of our state is unquestionable. We will take all possible measures under law of the land to avail our rightful share of water,” Bommai said. His statements come at the peak of the stand-off between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka over the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project. Karnataka has proposed to go ahead with the project and has sought necessary clearances from the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government. Bommai, who replaced BS Yediyurappa as the chief minister on July 28, has refused to backdown from this proposed project that has, to some effect, deflected the narrative from the simmering dissent within the cabinet, non-performance of the erstwhile administration and the imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections in the state. River Cauvery is a sensitive issue in both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka that has defined relations between the two very industrious states for generations. The opposition parties in Karnataka have also backed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government to take up the project and assured full support. The chief minister also announced 11 new projects in Karnataka in his speech on Sunday. This includes the development of 750 select Grama Panchayats, including installing street lights, drinking water, 100% waste segregation and safe disposal, installing solar power and a host of other amenities. Bommai said that another programme (Amrith Rural Housing Scheme) will identify and provide housing for all homeless people in 750 gram panchayats. He added that around 750 farmer producer organisations would be set up in the state to promote 36 production and marketing units of agriculture, fisheries and weavers’ products. “Each organisation would be given ₹30 lakh each for three years, amounting to ₹225 crore,” Bommai said. The new schemes come ahead of the yet-be-announced elections in gram and taluka panchayats in the state which the BJP hopes to use to consolidate support ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. Bommai also announced the Amirth Nirmala Nagara, a programme to beautify urban spaces in limits of 75 urban local bodies with funds of ₹1 crore each. “ ₹75 crore will be spent on basic infrastructure such as building, lab, library, toilets at 750 schools, with ₹10 lakh each,” Bommai said. The theme of most of the schemes and programmes announced on Sunday was around the 75th year of Indian independence which included the upgrading of infrastructure of anganwadis, schools, self-help groups and primary health care centres. Bommai reiterated that Karnataka aspires to train and encourage around 75 talented sports persons from the state who have the potential to win medal at the 2023 Paris Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-protect-our-land-and-water-karnataka-cm-101629051261277.html
15-08-2021||India||Meghalaya home minister quits amid stir over top militant’s death||Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui on Sunday resigned from his post amid vandalism and arson over the police encounter of a top militant last week, even as the state government announced a curfew in Shillong and suspended internet services in at least four districts to contain the situation.In his letter to chief minister Conrad Sangma, Rymbui expressed shock over the protests and proposed for a judicial enquiry into the death of banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary, Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew, who was killed in a police encounter on August 13. “I hereby express shock at the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law. Considering the gravity of the situation, I would request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect,” the letter read.Thangkhiew, who surrendered in 2018, was suspected to be the mastermind of a spate of IED attacks, police said. According to director general of police R Chandranathan, he allegedly attacked police with a knife when his home was being raided, provoking a retaliatory shot in which he was killed.Earlier in the day, hundreds of his supporters carried black flags as the militant’s body was taken to the cemetery. Government vehicles were vandalised and a police vehicle was set on fire in the Jaiaw area of Shillong allegedly by his supporters, police said.A curfew in Shillong Agglomeration area of the state capital was imposed from 8 pm on Sunday till 5 am on August 17. Internet services were suspended from 6 pm on Sunday for 48 hours in the districts of East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hillis and Ri-Bhoi.“We have been closely monitoring the situation on the ground since the last couple of days and we are prepared to ensure that the law and order is not breached. Additional companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have been requisitioned to ensure compliance to the ‘total curfew’ order,” a top official in the secretariat familiar with the development told HT on condition of anonymity.No public movement will be allowed and offices, shops and establishments and all educational institutions will remain closed during the curfew, as per the order. “No kind of gathering, public meeting or rally may be held. Exemptions only for medical emergencies, Covid-19 and hospital duty are applicable as per existing orders,” deputy commissioner Kumari Isawanda Laloo said. On Saturday, chief minister Conrad K Sangma said there was ample evidence against Thangkhiew for his role in the recent blast incidents. The Meghalaya Human Right Commission has also taken suo motu cognisance of the encounter, noting, “The instant case appears to have resulted in gross human rights violation which according to Article 21 of the Constitution mandates for protection of life and personal liberty for every person within the territory of India.”The commission has directed the chief secretary to submit a detailed report on the incident within 15 days, failing which the commission has said it will conduct its own investigation into the matter. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-home-minister-quits-amid-stir-over-top-militant-s-death-101629050241209.html
15-08-2021||India||CBI declares ₹5L reward for info on Dhanbad judge’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has announced a reward of ₹5 lakh for anyone sharing “information of importance” on the death of Dhanbad additional sessions judge Uttam Anand, who was fatally knocked down by a three-wheeler on July 28, people familiar with the development said on Sunday. “If anyone has any information of importance, it can be shared with the special crime team of the CBI housed at the CSIR Satkar guest house in Dhanbad through phone numbers 7827728856, 011-24368640 and 24368641. Cash reward of ₹5 lakh will be given to the person who will furnish worthwhile information relating to the crime,” a notice issued by the central agency’s Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the case, read. “The name of the informant will be kept secret,” it added. The Supreme Court as well as the Jharkhand high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the hit-and-run incident after CCTV footage showed the three-wheeler deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge. The auto-rickshaw, which was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district that night.Two persons who were driving the three-wheeler, identified as driver Lakhan Verma and his associate Rahul Verma, were arrested by Jharkhand police the next morning.The apex court had directed the central agency to file a status report on the matter every week with the high court.On Thursday, the CBI submitted its first report with the Jharkhand high court, sharing details of the investigation carried out so far, including recreation of the scene of crime and the interrogation of the two accused. The CBI had taken over the probe after the Supreme Court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-declares-5l-reward-for-info-on-dhanbad-judge-s-death-101629049641043.html
15-08-2021||India||Lack of debate in House causing gaps in laws: CJI||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Sunday rued the “sorry state of affairs” in Parliament, where, he said, laws are being passed without constructive debates, leading to legislation with “a lot of ambiguities”. Speaking at the Independence Day ceremony organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), the CJI recounted the well-constructed debates that used to take place during the initial years after the independence. “Different laws used to be debated and deliberated upon. So, the burden of the courts in interpreting or implementing the laws used to be less. We had a clear picture (of) what the legislature wanted to tell...why they were making such a legislation. Now (there is a) sorry state of affairs...” remarked justice Ramana. He added: “(Now) we see legislation with a lot of gaps, a lot of ambiguities in making laws. There is no clarity in laws. We don’t know for what purpose the law is made...which is creating lots of litigation, inconvenience, loss to the government and inconvenience to the public.”The Chief Justice’s comments come even as the National Democratic Alliance government has been accused of pushing bills through Parliament without having them vetted and reviewed by committees of lawmakers. In the first term of this government, only 27% of the bills introduced were sent to committees; thus far in the second term, only 12% of the bills have been sent to committees. Under UPA-I, 60% of the bills while 71% under UPA-II were sent to committees. The CJI also said that one of the chief reasons for the falling standards of parliamentary debates was the absence of intellectuals and professionals like lawyers in the Parliament. “We have seen how India’s independence struggle was led by lawyers like Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Nehru, Babu Rajendra Prasad...Unfortunately over a period of time, you know what has been happening in the parliament...This is what happens if intellectuals and professionals like lawyers are not there in the Houses,” regretted justice Ramana.He urged the lawyers to participate actively in social life and public life. “Don’t confine yourself to your profession, earning money and living comfortably. I hope and expect good days will come to the country and you will contribute your knowledge, wisdom and experience,” said the CJI. On Wednesday, a bench, headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, too highlighted how the Union government was not assessing the working of a law, its societal impact, manpower and infrastructure required before notifying a new legislation. While dealing with massive vacancies in consumer courts across the country, Justice Kaul had pulled up the Centre for not conducting a legislative impact study before it notified a new consumer protection law in July 2020 and rehauled the entire legal regime, ranging from a wider definition of “consumer,” to enhancing the monetary jurisdiction of the consumer courts at all levels.“Once the legislative committee made these changes, what impact will it have on litigation is the study that should have been carried out. This is the irony of all legislation -- you never do legislative impact study,” the judge had commented.Meanwhile, in his brief address, the CJI also commended the role played by the Supreme Court in protecting rights of people. “The Supreme Court has given more than what the Constitution thought of. Not only by interpreting the Constitution but also by expanding the scope and providing rights to the people taking into consideration problems of the citizenry. The Supreme Court has taken an active role and I hope and expect we will contribute more,” he said.Justice Ramana, who is patron-in-chief of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), further hailed the law on legal services, asserting India is the only country in the world that has 75 percent of its population getting free legal aid. Justices AM Khanwilkar and V Ramasubramanian were also present at the event, besides solicitor general Tushar Mehta and SCBA office-bearers Vikas Singh, Ardhendumauli K Prasad, Pradeep Rai, Rahul Kaushik and Meenesh K Dubey.“An interpretation of laws require an understanding of why these laws were made and how they were planning to plug the gaps in our legal system. Deliberations in Parliament and scrutiny of laws in its committees contributes to this understanding. The debate clarifies the government’s intent and the ministers respond to the debate and clarify questions about the law that MPs may have. These deliberations in Parliament are the only means for judiciary to interpret the intent behind laws,” Chakshu Roy, head of outreach, PRS Legislative Research, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-debate-in-house-causing-gaps-in-laws-cji-101629048981228.html
15-08-2021||India||Afghan students at JNU fear to go back, seek visa extension||About 22 students from Afghanistan studying at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) are not willing to go back to their country and want to extend their visas through academic courses. Afghan students are worried about their stay in India as their visa tenure is about to expire within months.The visa limit for most of these foreign students is getting over by the month of December this year, however, with the situation in Afghanistan turning volatile, no one wants to go back and they want to extend their visa through academic courses such as a PhD, sources said."For a war-torn country like Afghanistan, most of the people are extensively unemployed and trying to escape from either death or captivity. Arranging a 'hefty fee' seems impossible." said Afghan students in JNU while talking to ANI.Terminal students have to leave the hostel by September 23, which is making them unsure of accommodation with narrow financial capacity.Jalaluddin, a JNU student told, "Situation is extremely critical there. I am hoping that the administration will understand our situation and extend my visa permit. Also, PhD in JNU is highly expensive for foreign nationals, and for poor families that are certainly not the possible way out. However, at present, I really don't know what to do."If a student visa expires, one cannot work or study until a new permit is given. Also while extending a visa, one must be sure that his/her passport does not expire at the same time. The study permit cannot be extended beyond the passport's expiry date, said sources.Shafiq Sultan, a student of International Relations and Area studies in JNU told, "My visa will get over by December 31. I was a government employee before I came here to study. I am sure if I go back they will capture me. My family is staying in the area captured by the Taliban and I am unable to contact them for the last one and a half weeks. The tension is scaling up, we definitely need help."Ali Asghar, an Afghan student at JNU, said that his visa tenure will expire within three months. He stated, "I spoke with my father a week ago, he told me my family is escaping to another area because the Taliban may take control over our city. They do not want me to come back but the fee structure for foreign students is extremely high which we cannot bear without family's support. However, my family is completely unemployed."JNU administration released a press note on August 14 stating "Some Afghan students of JNU have requested the JNU administration to facilitate their return to the Campus. As the University has remained closed as per the latest Circular issued by the DDMA, Govt. of NCT, Delhi, this matter is currently being looked into." (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-students-at-jnu-fear-to-go-back-seek-visa-extension-101629048322055.html
15-08-2021||India||India preps to evacuate envoys, citizens still in Afghanistan as Taliban enter Kabul||As Taliban fighters began entering Kabul on Sunday following the collapse of President Ashraf Ghani’s government, Indian authorities scrambled to pull out hundreds of diplomats and citizens still in Afghanistan. The speed of the Taliban’s advance into the capital again took most countries by surprise, though people familiar with developments said the Indian side was well prepared for all contingencies. The Indian Air Force’s heavy lift aircraft, especially the C-17 Globemasters, have been on round-the-clock standby for several days and could be pressed into service at short notice for an evacuation. The Indian side had been anticipating the Taliban advance into Kabul would take a few more days, and reports about the entry of fighters into the city on Sunday as Ghani and his close aides reportedly fled to Tajikistan triggered hectic consultations, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The government is closely monitoring the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan to decide on the evacuation of diplomatic personnel from Kabul, the people said. Specific plans for all contingencies are already in place and all steps will be taken to ensure that the staff of the Indian embassy in Kabul and Indian nationals are not at any risk, the people added. Plans are also in place for the destruction and retrieval of documents and computers at the Indian embassy, which is the only functional mission in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of staff from the consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar over the past year. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on the latest developments in Afghanistan. New Delhi has consistently said it is opposed to any attempt to forcibly capture power in Kabul. Taliban fighters began entering Kabul from all sides without facing any resistance by late Sunday afternoon. The move came hours after the Taliban captured Jalalabad, the last major city in the north that was under government control, without a struggle. The Afghan government’s chief peace negotiator, Abdullah Abdullah, said in a video message posted on Facebook that Ghani had left the country. Former president Hamid Karzai tweeted that a coordination council comprising himself, Abdullah Abdullah and Hezb-e-Islami chief Gulbuddin Hekmatyar had been formed following Ghani’s departure to manage the transfer of power. Taliban spokesmen said some fighters were entering Kabul to prevent chaos and looting. Earlier, in a statement in Pashto, the Taliban claimed “all parts of the country have come under the control of the Islamic Emirate” and said the group’s fighters do not intend to enter Kabul, which is densely populated, “by force or war, but rather to enter peacefully”. The statement added negotiations were underway to “ensure the transition process is completed safely and securely, without compromising the lives, property and honour of anyone”. The Taliban asked its fighters “to stand at the gates of Kabul” and not to try to enter the city, and to also ensure the security of the capital until the transition process is completed. “We reiterate that the Islamic Emirate does not intend to take revenge on anyone, all those who have served in the military and civilian sectors in the Kabul administration are forgiven and safe, no one will be retaliated against,” the statement said. The people cited above said the Taliban’s assurances couldn’t be taken for granted, given the ample evidence that the group’s political leadership isn’t fully in control of fighters on the ground, and the reports of summary executions of security forces and people who backed the government as well as violation of the rights of women and civil society activists. There were also reports of people making a run for banks to withdraw money and to foreign embassies to seek visas to leave Afghanistan. The Indian embassy too has been swamped with requests for visas over the past few days. Kabul airport is currently the only way out of the country, with all land border crossings currently under the control of the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-preps-to-evacuate-envoys-citizens-still-in-afghanistan-as-taliban-enters-kabul-101629048201232.html
15-08-2021||India||Ministers meet Venkaiah Naidu, seek action against opposition MPs||A delegation of seven ministers on Sunday called on Rajya Sabha chairman, M. Venkaiah Naidu and demanded action against some opposition members for what they called “unprecedented, extreme and violent acts” in the House on August 11. The delegation also submitted a memorandum seeking action. On August 11, while protesting in the House some opposition MPs damaged house property and were seen jostling with the marshals who were called in to restrain them. While two Congress MPs, Chaya Varma and Phulo Devi Netam alleged they were manhandled by the marshals, a complaint has been submitted to the Rajya Sabha secretariat by two Marshals claiming they were injured in the melee. The ministers, who had earlier sought action against the opposition MPs, reiterated their demand. During the meeting with Naidu, they referred to the marshals being prevented from discharging their duties. According to an official, Naidu said he will examine the matter for deciding on an appropriate course of action. The delegation consisted of Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Bhupender Yadav, Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan. Deputy Chairman Harivansh was also present. Naidu also held a meeting with Panel Vice Chairman Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair when the incidents took place in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-meet-venkaiah-naidu-seek-action-against-opposition-mps-101629044180754.html
15-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Air India says scheduled flights to Kabul to continue as of now and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monitoring situation in Kabul; flights to continue as of now, says Air IndiaNational carrier Air India is monitoring the situation in Kabul and will continue scheduled flights to the region for the time being, Air India officials said on Sunday. Read moreTMC MP Dola Sen alleges attack on convoy on way to hoist Tricolour in TripuraTrinamool Congress MP Dola Sena said on Sunday her convoy was attacked in South Tripura when she was on her way to hoist the National Flag on the occasion of Independence Day. Read morePM Modi draws criticism in Bengal for error in Red Fort addressPolitical parties in West Bengal on Sunday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for saying in his Independence Day address from Red Fort that freedom fighter Matangini Hazra was from Assam. Read moreBurhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour, no internet snag: I-day firsts for J&KOn its 75th year, Independence Day in Jammu and Kashmir was marked by many firsts as the Valley celebrated the day with fervour. The father of slain terrorist Burhan Wani unfurled the National Flag at a school in Pulwama. Read more'He looked like picking a wicket every ball': Gavaskar hails India pacer who 'did not allow England batsmen to rest'Despite England going wicketless in the first session of Day 3 of the second Test of the series at Lord’s, India staged a late comeback in the day to pick up five wickets for 51 runs. Read moreAfter Raj Kundra’s arrest, Shilpa Shetty makes first appearance, talks about how to control ‘negative thoughts’. WatchShilpa Shetty made an appearance at a Covid-19 fundraiser, We For India, on Sunday. This is her first appearance after her husband Raj Kundra’s arrest last month. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-india-says-scheduled-flights-to-kabul-to-continue-as-of-now-and-all-the-latest-news-101629040529477.html
15-08-2021||India||Burhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour, no internet snag: I-day firsts for J&K||On its 75th year, Independence Day in Jammu and Kashmir was marked by many firsts as the Valley celebrated the day with fervour. The father of slain terrorist Burhan Wani unfurled the National Flag at a school in Pulwama. Muzaffar Wani, a teacher by profession, unfurled the National Flag on the premises of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in the Tral area of Pulwama district on Sunday.For the first time in three years, internet services remained unaffected in Jammu and Kashmir on Independence Day. "There is neither internet shutdown nor restrictions on the eve of Independence Day. Counter drone technology deployed at all sensitive places," the Kashmir Zone Police wrote on Twitter. The Clock Tower in Srinagar's Lal Chowk was also illuminated in colours of the Indian flag on the eve of Independence Day. Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu hoisted the National Flag at the Corporation office on Sunday morning and congratulated the Jammu and Kashmir Police for getting 257 Gallantry Medals this year, its highest-ever tally. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha hoisted the Tricolour on the highest mast of 100 feet in Jammu & Kashmir at the historic Hari Parbat fort in Srinagar.For the first time in Jammu and Kashmir, every government school hoisted the tricolour on Independence Day as directed by the administration. The schools also uploaded videos and photos of the events. Some 23,000 schools unfurled the Tricolour on the occasion of Independence Day. All principals were asked to lead the singing of the national anthem and upload a clipping of the same on a national website.As a part of its celebration of 75 years of India’s independence, the Army unfurled the National Flag atop a 100-feet tall pole in Gulmarg on August 10.The government had relaxed a number of coronavirus-induced restrictions, including the cap on gatherings, for Independence Day celebrations in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burhan-wani-s-father-hoists-tricolour-no-internet-snag-i-day-firsts-for-jk-101629038221818.html
15-08-2021||India||Monitoring situation in Kabul; flights to continue as of now, says Air India||National carrier Air India is monitoring the situation in Kabul and will continue scheduled flights to the region for the time being, Air India officials said on Sunday.An Air India flight 244 took off at 18:06 hours from Kabul for Delhi with 129 passengers.“We are monitoring the situation and as of now continuing with our scheduled flights to Kabul,” an Air India spokesperson said. The airline has a scheduled flight for Kabul from Delhi tomorrow morning at 8 am.On Sunday afternoon, Air India flight 243 from Delhi to Kabul scheduled to land at 13:45 hours held off on landing for nearly two hours while hovering in the air near the capital as reports of the Taliban entering the gates of capital city Kabul emerged. The flight finally landed around 15:30 hours.Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani is expected to abdicate within the next few hours, Sputnik reported on Sunday. Earlier today, the Taliban entered the Afghan capital Kabul from all sides faced with little or no resistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-situation-in-kabul-flights-to-continue-as-of-now-says-air-india-101629038000304.html
15-08-2021||India||Air India says scheduled flights to Kabul not cancelled as of now||Air India on Sunday said it has not cancelled its scheduled flights to Kabul as of now. "We are monitoring the situation and as of now continuing with our scheduled flights to Kabul," a spokesperson of the carrier said on Sunday, refuting reports that it has cancelled all flights in the wake of the crisis in Kabul. As Afghanistan is on the brink of surrendering to the Taliban after the insurgent group entered Kabul on Sunday, an Air India flight landed on Kabul in the afternoon. Then it took off carrying 129 passengers for Delhi.The flight had to hover for an hour in the skies before it could land and then after refuelling it took off at around 6.06pm. But this is not the last flight to Kabul, as Air India has not yet cancelled its scheduled flights, the spokesperson said.On Sunday, Dubai's budget carrier Flydubai temporarily suspended its operations in Kabul. “We will continue to monitor the situation and revise our plans in line with the directives from the authorities - we will be in touch with the passengers regarding their refund and rebooking options,” said flydubai.An Emirates flight from Dubai returned to Dubai instead of landing on Sunday as Taliban militants encircled the city. “Due to the unforeseen temporary closure of the runway at the time of Emirates’ approach at Hamid Karzai International Airport, Emirates flight EK 640 to Kabul operating on 15 August has returned back to Dubai,” the state-owned airline said.The Taliban on Sunday said they won't take Kabul over by force as they are aiming at a peaceful transfer of power. Operations in Kabul airport was also not disrupted on Sunday. NATO said it is helping to maintain operations at Kabul airport to keep Afghanistan connected with the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-says-scheduled-flights-to-kabul-not-cancelled-as-of-now-101629033749626.html
15-08-2021||India||India’s eventful Independence Week||India’s Independence week is going to be pretty eventful, politically speaking. After stormy Parliament sessions last week, the next five days will possibly be dominated by a conversation around the August 20 meeting convened by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi with opposition party leaders, including chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray of Maharashtra, Mamata Banerjee of West Bengal, MK Stalin of Tamil Nadu, and Hemant Soren of Jharkhand. Banerjee has been talking about a united non-BJP front for the 2024 elections. Will this be discussed in Friday’s virtual meeting? The BJP government’s new ministers, meanwhile, will start their Jan Ashirwad Yatra (People’s Blessings March) this week. In Madhya Pradesh, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and social justice and empowerment minister Virendra Khatik will hold a Jan Ashirwad Yatra from August 16 to 24. The government faces a pushback on inflation, and this week is going to make things worse. The wholesale price index (WPI) for July is expected to grow in double digits again, underlining the threat of inflation getting entrenched in the economy. The silver lining could be the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI). It is expected to cross 100 for the first time since the pandemic (it was at 99.4 in the week ending August 8), breaching a psychological post-pandemic barrier. The pandemic, to be sure, is showing no sign of tapering towards an end. Kerala, currently the worst-affected state in the country with consistently 19000-plus daily cases, will see a visit by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya this week. The minister is expected to review Kerala’s fight against the virus and chalk out fresh plans to contain the numbers. He will visit north-eastern states – another region of concern – after his Kerala review. There is no doubt about what the region of focus will be this week for international affairs observers. Afghanistan has been on the brink this past week, and with government forces offering little or no resistance anywhere, it is only a matter of time before the Taliban wrest Kabul as well. The US, perhaps after immense international pressure, has decided to send 1000 troops to safeguard the capital, but in all likelihood, it is too little too late. India will take a call on withdrawing its diplomats and citizens, believed now to be a few hundreds, from Kabul, and also decide on the status of its embassy. Around 8000km west is where India’s playing one of its most difficult cricket tours in recent times. The two big takeaways so far? The celebrated Indian middle order of Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane are all in trouble; their averages started falling in 2018 and have kept falling. Second, the Indian pace attack has just got better, if that was possible, with the addition of Mohammed Siraj. In football, the video of Lionel Messi’s mural being taken down from Barcelona was one of the most poignant images from sport last week, but European football season resumed this weekend and suddenly there is more interest than ever in the fortunes of PSG because of Messi joining the high-profile French club. Back in India, the country’s two most important cities – Delhi and Mumbai – began a crucial phase of their reopening process. Mumbai’s suburban railways are now open to fully-vaccinated people and in Delhi, students from Classes 10 and 12 resume school from today. The big question in everyone’s mind: will the reopening possibly lead to a third wave?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-eventful-independence-week-101629033440144.html
15-08-2021||India||Narcotics worth ₹55 crore seized by Kolkata Police STF||Heroin and Amphetamine tablets worth ₹55 crore in the international market have been seized by the special task force of the Kolkata Police in back-to-back raids held in Bengal’s Malda district since August 12, police said on Sunday afternoon. Four drug peddlers, two of whom are from Manipur and Bihar, have been arrested. According to STF officers, two men were detained in Malda on August 12. Amphetamine tablets (commonly referred to as Yaba) worth ₹5 crore in the international market, were seized from their possession. The arrested men were identified as Md Ismail Sheikh from Kaliachak in Malda and Abhishek Salam, a resident of Manipur. A court in Kolkata remanded them in police custody for 14 days. After interrogating the duo, the STF raided a hideout at Gazole in Malda and seized more than 10 kg of heroin worth around ₹50 crore. Lalit Sahani from Samastipur in Bihar and Sumit Ali Patra from Raghunathgunj in Murshidabad district were arrested in the second raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-worth-rs-55-crore-seized-by-kolkata-police-stf-101629030199839.html
15-08-2021||India||Instead of floods, Assam witnesses less rainfall this monsoon||Floods are a common feature in Assam every monsoon with overflowing waters of Brahmaputra and its tributaries affecting millions across most parts of the northeastern state. However, the state is yet to witness any major flooding this monsoon and several districts of the state have recorded less than normal rainfall leading to concerns among farmers as well as tea growers. “From June 1, when monsoon season officially started, till August 13, the Assam-Meghalaya region has witnessed 21% less rainfall this season than normal monsoon periods,” said Sumit Das, senior scientist at the regional meteorological office in Guwahati. He said the rainfall deficiency in Assam and other parts of northeast was predicted by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and it was not abnormal as it happens due to monsoon variability. The Assam-Meghalaya region has witnessed such variability in past years with deficit rainfall recorded in 2010, 2011, 2013, 2016 and 2018, normal rainfall in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017 and 2019 and excess precipitation in 2020. Between June 1 and August 13, Assam-Meghalaya region (both states are clubbed together for calculation of rainfall data) received 959.9 mm of rainfall against the normal of 1217 mm, recorded during that period. “In northeast, maximum rainfall is witnessed during break-monsoon condition when the monsoon trough lies close to Himalayan foothills as witnessed between last week of June and the first week of July. There was good rainfall during that period but after that the amount of rainfall has decreased,” said Das. Deficient rainfall is a cause of worry for farmers, especially in districts of Upper Assam, where paddy cultivation, which requires a lot of water, starts later than in the districts of Lower Assam. “Water, especially from rainfall, is very important during transplantation of rice. In Lower Assam, we did transplanting in May-June when there was sufficient rainfall. So the impact of less rainfall after that period on rice cultivation hasn’t been much in our areas,” said Puspadhar Das, an award winning farmer from Baksa district. “But there have been reports of areas in Upper Assam getting affected due to less rainfall this season. The only worry is about this deficient rainfall becoming a regular pattern. Then the long term effect is going to be disastrous for farmers,” he added. According to the state government, some districts are experiencing around 20% less rainfall while the deficiency is around 30% in others. Two revenue circles in Golaghat district have been declared drought hit and large parts of Udalguri and Tinsukia districts are stated to be severely affected. “We have sought reports from all districts on the situation and expect to get them by next week. We’ve also asked for details from weather agencies on the average annual rainfall in the past five years especially around the monsoon season. We will need to study those reports to arrive at a conclusion,” said Vinod Seshan, director, agriculture. “The measures to be taken to help farmers will be decided after all details are received. As a first step to aid farmers cope with the issue, we have decided on cultivation of pulses in the next cropping season instead of paddy as it requires less water,” he added. Deficient rainfall has also cast a spell of gloom on Assam’s tea industry, which was hoping to recover this year after suffering last year due to lockdown and other restrictions imposed due to Covid-19. “Tea gardens across Assam will see a big impact due to the drought-like conditions witnessed from March to May, when the first plucking season of tea leaves takes place. It is unlike anything the industry, which is heavily dependent on rainfall, has witnessed in the past 30 years,” said Bidyananda Barkakoty, adviser, North East Tea Association (NETA). “Though there has been some rainfall since June, tea gardens are still experiencing less production due to the impact of deficient rainfall in the first few months of the plucking season. Last year, tea production in Assam came down by nearly 100 million kg due to Covid-19 and this year we could have around 80 million kg less production due to deficient rainfall,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/instead-of-floods-assam-witnesses-less-rainfall-this-monsoon-101629030139880.html
15-08-2021||India||Manali-Leh highway blocked after boulders tumble down mountainside in Himachal||The Manali-Leh National highway 3 in the Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh was blocked on Sunday after boulders tumbled down the mountainside, according to the state disaster department.Due to the incident, which occurred near Killing Sarai, the Shilla Nullah Bridge (Rangrik-Kibber route) in Spiti valley was damaged. The district administration has deployed a team of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for clearing the blocked road and the operation is expected to be completed by Sunday evening.The state has been observing incessant rainfall over the past few days, which caused a massive landslide on August 11 in Kinnaur district. A 30-seater Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, a truck, and four cars toppled down and came under rubble. The death toll due to the landslide rose to 23 on Saturday following the recovery of six more bodies from the debris, deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said.He said that the additional bodies were discovered scattered within a 50-100 feet radius from the wreckage of the bus, which was pushed down 70 metres from the highway in the landslide near Negulsari. “The rescue operation is being repeatedly hampered due to shooting stones in the area,” Sadiq added.The rescue operation is being conducted by respective teams of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, National Disaster Response Force, the Indian Army, and the state police. The district administration has informed of putting one more fork line machine into service for facilitating more bodies feared trapped under the rubble. On Friday, a list of as many as 13 people on the HRTC bus was revealed by the administration.Meanwhile, the flow of the Chandrabhagha tributary of Chenab River, which was blocked on Friday, has returned to normal. The blockage resulted in the formation of a lake that posed a risk to the agricultural fields and human habitations near Jasrath village in Lahaul-Spiti district.Also Read | Kinnaur landslide toll climbs to 23, flow of Chandrabagha river normalDeputy commissioner (Lahaul-Spiti) Neeraj Kumar said that the district administration “as a precautionary measure” has asked the villages downstream to “remain alert.”(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manalileh-highway-blocked-after-boulders-tumble-down-mountainside-in-himachal-101629028096521.html
15-08-2021||India||TMC MP Dola Sen alleges attack on convoy on way to hoist Tricolour in Tripura||Trinamool Congress MP Dola Sena said on Sunday her convoy was attacked in South Tripura when she was on her way to hoist the National Flag on the occasion of Independence Day. Stating that she got no help from law enforcers, Sen said police stood as silent spectators during the incident.Sen’s party colleague in Parliament, Aparupa Poddar, was also reportedly targeted, leaving the latter’s aide injured."Some TMC leaders and I were attacked in Sabroom and Belonia in Southern Tripura where we had gone to hoist Tricolour on the occasion of #IndependenceDay. Police were a silent spectator," says TMC MP Dola Sen. pic.twitter.com/9DmqB8zQgX"Some TMC leaders and I were attacked in Sabroom and Belonia in southern Tripura where we had gone to hoist the Tricolour on the occasion of Independence Day. Police were a silent spectator," the MP was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A day, Poddar, an MP from Arambagh in Bengal, had written on Twitter that Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb’s days in the chair were numbered. She had held a press conference in capital Agartala earlier in the day.Also read | TMC says posters torn in Tripura ahead of Abhishek Banerjee's visit, attacks BJPClashes between leaders and workers of the TMC and the ruling BJP have been reported on several occasions from the hill state over the past few weeks. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has set its eyes on the northeastern state where the Assembly election is due in 2023, even as the BJP has dismissed it as a non-factor in Tripura politics.Several Trinamool leaders, including its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, have visited the state in recent days and claimed to have come under attack from BJP supporters.On Thursday, two TMC workers were arrested for their alleged involvement in a clash between the party and the BJP in Dhalai district. Fourteen other TMC leaders and workers were arrested and later released on bail earlier in connection with the clash that took place at Ambassa on August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-dola-sen-alleges-attack-on-convoy-on-way-to-hoist-tricolour-in-tripura-101629028641213.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi draws criticism in Bengal for error in Red Fort address||Political parties in West Bengal on Sunday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for saying in his Independence Day address from Red Fort that freedom fighter Matangini Hazra was from Assam. Modi, while talking of women who left a mark on India’s freedom movement, mentioned Queen Lakshmi Bai of Jhansi, Queen Chennamma of Kittur and Rani Gaidinliu of Nagaland. In the same breath, he said, “Assam’s Matangini Hazra.” Hazra (1869-1942), an ardent follower of Mahatma Gandhi, was a resident of Tamluk, now in East Midnapore district in West Bengal. She died when the police opened fire on a procession she was leading as part of the Quit India movement. In Kolkata, there are many statues of Hazra and a road is also named after her. In 2002, the government of India paid tribute to Hazra by issuing a postage stamp. The ruling Trinamool Congress said the error amounted to an “insult” of Bengal. “Matangini Hazra is a freedom fighter from Bengal, Mr @narendramodi! With such scant regard for our glorious history, you have insulted all of #Bengal once again. Is @BJP4India committed to erasing our history? Mocking it as they please? SHAME,” the TMC tweeted. The party’s state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “Blunders like these are bound to happen when someone depends on written speech for dramatic effect. The Prime Minister must apologise right now.” In a bid to defend the Prime Minister, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh said, “He made a small mistake. There are thousands of great people who laid their lives for India’s freedom. People should not make an issue out of this.” Ghosh’s statement triggered stronger reactions with the Congress and the Left sharpening their attack. “The Prime Minister should depend less on the teachings of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and people in his secretariat should educate themselves before preparing his speech,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose, a veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader. Congress Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya said, “This is very unfortunate. Matangini Hazra is an icon.” Many academicians, writers and supporters of political parties took to social media and targeted Modi. Some of them said the faux pas showed why BJP national leaders were called ‘bahiragato’ (outsiders) by the TMC during the recent assembly polls. The incident happened a day after the Bengal BJP’s women’s front, the Mahila Morcha, paid tribute to Hazra. “Remembering Bharat Mata’s valiant daughter Matangini Hazra from West Bengal on the 75th Year of Indian Independence,” the Mahila Morcha tweeted on Saturday with images of Hazra, Modi and BJP national president J P Nadda. Incidentally, BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, also hails from East Midnapore district and mentions Hazra in most of his political speeches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-draws-criticism-in-bengal-for-error-in-red-fort-address-101629026783519.html
15-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India safeguards diplomats, citizens in Afghanistan as Taliban enter Kabul and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taliban fighters enter Kabul, India moves to safeguard diplomats, citizensAs Taliban fighters began entering Kabul on Sunday afternoon as part of their lightning blitz against the government-controlled areas, Indian authorities scrambled to ensure the safety of hundreds of diplomats and citizens still in Afghanistan. Read More‘40% of armed Maoists in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra region are women’The representation of women among Maoist cadres in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra has risen to around 40% and several of them are commanders of various units of the banned ultras and are often involved in clashes with security personnel, said a senior Chhattisgarh police officer. Read More2 arrested for posting facebook video threatening violence in JNU on I-DayDelhi Police said it had apprehended two people accused of threatening to cause violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Independence Day, following a complaint by JNU students’ union on Sunday morning. Read MoreStuart Broad takes a dig at India after Bumrah peppers Anderson with barrage of bouncers on Day 3 of Lord's TestThe duel between Jasprit Bumrah and James Anderson on Day 4 of the second Test between India and England on Saturday proved to be an exciting contest. Read MoreAlia Bhatt lauds Sidharth Malhotra for his performance in Shershaah: 'You were too special'Alia Bhatt showered her ex-boyfriend Sidharth Malhotra with praises for his performance in Shershaah. Read MoreIranian girl uses santoor to play beautiful rendition of Jana Gana Mana. WatchThere are certain videos on the Internet that are so amazing that they can give you goosebumps. Read MoreOla Electric scooter S1 launched at ₹1 lakh: Range, features, specs revealedOla Electric scooter S1 has been officially launched in the country at a starting and introductory price of ₹99,999 (ex-showroom). Read MorePUBG Mobile Lite: How to quickly progress and rank up in the game on BGMIPUBG Mobile Lite is a popular battle royale game that is well known for allowing players who do not have the latest high-level specs to play PUBG Mobile. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-safeguards-diplomats-citizens-in-afghanistan-as-taliban-enter-kabul-and-all-the-latest-news-101629025170449.html
15-08-2021||India||Delhi-Kabul Air India flight lands 1 hour later amid tense moments in high skies||A scheduled Delhi-Kabul Air India flight took off on time from the Capital’s Indira Gandhi National airport a little after noon but the reality on the ground in Afghanistan changed dramatically before it could commence its landing. The two hour twenty minute flight had to hold in the air for nearly an hour. The Taliban army, which has swept the war-torn country, reached the outskirts of Kabul and officials in Kabul’s air traffic control were not available to help Air India Flight 243 land.The commercial, passenger flight finally landed an hour later, amid tense moments and drama in the high skies. The flight is also bringing back diplomats and security officials posted at the Indian embassy in Kabul. Indian consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif – two of Afghanistan’s largest cities – were handed over to local staff over the last four weeks and all Indians evacuated via special flights. Only two days ago, the Ministry of External Affairs had said it was not closing the embassy in Kabul but the speed with which the gun-toting Talibs conquered province after province and raced to Kabul, stunned many, including the United States. The United States sent helicopters to evacuate its staff from its mission in Kabul and asked its staff to delete all sensitive information. AI 243, currently at Kabul airport, is waiting to refuel and take-off for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhikabul-air-india-flight-lands-1-hour-later-amid-tense-moments-in-high-skies-101629025580170.html
15-08-2021||India||‘40% of armed Maoists in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra region are women’||The representation of women among Maoist cadres in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra has risen to around 40% and several of them are commanders of various units of the banned ultras and are often involved in clashes with security personnel, said a senior Chhattisgarh police officer. However, women representation in the decision making process of the Maoist is still very low, he added.Sujata (65), in charge of South Bastar division of Maoists’ Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) was one among the key planners in almost all ambushes in South Bastar, which is the core area of Maoists in the country. Even at 65, she carries an AK-47 and speaks six languages including local Halbi and Gondi, the police officer quoted above said.Sujata, the wife of senior leader Mallojula Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji who was killed in 2011 in an operation, is in-charge of logistics and other support in the Teklaguda attack this April, in which 22 security personnel were killed.“Sujata is very active, sharp and important for Maoists in South Bastar. In the April 4 incident, she was continuously talking to Mandvi Hidma during the ambush. Hidma, the head of battalion number 1 of Maoists, led the attack in Teklaguda on security forces. Sujata and his team were rescuing the injured Maoists and also collecting the arms and ammunition of slain security personnel. Mainly, she has been among the key planners of any big attack in South Bastar,” said a senior police officer posted in Bastar.Another prominent woman commander is Sujatakka, who is in charge of the Maad division of CPI (Maoist). The ultras are said to have recruited the maximum number of people from this area in the past two years.“Sujatakka is a powerful woman commander, a member of DKSZC, and she also carries an AK-47. She has been instrumental in hiring many women cadres in Bastar,” the police officer quoted above said. In South Bastar, of the total 653 Maoist cadres, 310 are women and in West Bastar, 169 out of 420 are women. North Bastar division has 106 women among 226 members and the Maad division has 134 women out of the 322 armed cadres in the area, according to police records.Police officials said Sujatakka was instrumental in recruiting women in South and West Bastar divisions, both headed by women and this was the reason that the presence of women cadre was the highest in the core Maoist area.According to figures collected by HT from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra police, the total estimated strength of armed Maoists in the region is 2,498, of which 1,391 are men and 1,107 women. “So, approximately 40% are women, which used to be less than 20% till a decade ago,” a senior Chhattisgarh police officer said.The cadre is from nine divisions of CPI (Maoist) Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC), central committee members of CPI (Maoist), the newly formed Maharashtra – Madhya Pradesh Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone and two other divisions (Mainpuri-Nuapada joint division and Bargarh-Balangir and Mahasamund ( BBM) division which falls in Chhattisgarh and Odisha respectively.However, decision making is still dominated by men. Of the 21 members in the central committee of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), there is only one woman, Sheela Marandi. In the 14 member Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) there are only two women, officials said.Abhishek Pallava, Dantewada’s police chief gave three reasons for Maoists recruiting more women.“Firstly, women are more dedicated and loyal. Secondly, low surrender rates of women cadres and the fact that they are difficult to arrest as they can easily get mixed with villagers. And thirdly, women are traditionally dominant in tribal societies, so involvement of women cadres gives legitimacy to Maoists in this area,” he said.Sunderaj P, inspector general of police, Bastar, pointed out that women have not been able to rise in the hierarchy of CPI (Maoists). “This is evident from the fact that till date not even one women cadre has been inducted into the Politburo of CPI Maoist,” he said, and added that there was no female in their apex military wing, the Central Military Commission (CMC)/State Military Commission (SMC), showing there was no gender equality at the top level in the Maoist organisational structure.An intelligence officer monitoring the Bastar area said representation of women in the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) of CPI (Maoist) gained momentum after the start of Salwa-Judum (from 2006 onwards) and reached the 40% mark, considered very high. He said that during Salwa Judum, women were targeted by special police officers (SPOs) resulting in the women inculcating deep hatred against security forces and a sense of vengeance.“Prior to the Salwa Judum, most female Maoist leaders were members of frontal wings such as Chetna Natya Manch (CNM), cultural wing and Dandakaranya Krantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangh (DKAMS). Very few were in organizational work,” he said.Another senior police officer, who was not willing to be named, said higher representation of women was helping Maoists in establishing better connections with tribals and also in hiring more young people.Shubhranshu Chaudhary, a peace activist working in Bastar, claimed that Maoists strategically used sentiments against “patriarchy” in tribal regions for inducting more women.“As there was very little class conflict in Bastar, Maoists chose to focus on patriarchy in adivasi societies from the beginning as a strategy. They claim Krantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangh, a banned organization, is the world’s biggest women’s organization. They always celebrated 8th March as women’s day in a big way. The high number of women in Maoist outfits is not an accident and it did not increase after Salwa Judum but it is an outcome of a thoughtful strategy implemented in the last 40 years,” said Chaudhary.But an author, who has interviewed many armed women cadres, believes that patriarchy is not the only reason behind women’s participation.“All human societies have elements of patriarchy, but Gond adivasis of Bastar offer far more political and cultural rights to its women than many others. If we say that many Gond adivasi women joined the Maoists ranks to escape patriarchy in their society, we must also acknowledge that these women could leave their families and easily take up arms because their families had given them enough space to exercise their political choices. Urban women face strong opposition when they leave their families, but we have barely seen any resistance in the adivasi community,” said Ashutosh Bhardwaj, who has written extensively on Bastar’s Maoist movement.Sunderaj disagreed with both arguments and said young boys and girls are forcefully and coercively recruited by Maoists. “Those who challenge the Maoist leadership are targeted and punished. Due to this fear factor, parents of young boys and girls cannot stop their children from being taken away,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-of-armed-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-maharashtra-region-are-women-101629024620196.html
15-08-2021||India||Burhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour at Pulwama school on Independence Day||The father of slain Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani hoisted the Tricolour at a school in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on the occasion of the country’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday. Muzaffar Wani, a teacher by profession, unfurled the National Flag on the premises of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Tral, Pulwama, according to news reports.The Jammu and Kashmir administration had directed all departments in the Union Territory, including the education department, to hold a flag-hoisting ceremony on their office premises during the day as part of the Central government’s ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations.Burhan Wani was a self-styled commander of the militant group Hizbul Mujahideen. He and two other militants were killed during an encounter by the security forces in Anantnag district in July 2016.The 22-year-old’s death had triggered widespread protests across Kashmir that lasted for nearly five months leading to loss of many lives, while several others were injured. A resident of Dadsara village in the Tral area, Wani had fast risen through the ranks of the militant group and became the district commander and figured in the list of the agencies’ most-wanted militants.Meanwhile, coronavirus-induced restrictions were relaxed in the Union territory on the occasion of Independence Day. The administration’s cap of not allowing a gathering of more than 25 people was temporarily eased on August 8 for Independence Day celebrations. Further, the department said the celebrations would be held subject to Covid-appropriate behaviour and all district magistrates would have to ensure the same.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burhan-wani-s-father-hoists-tricolour-at-pulwama-school-on-independence-day-101629023792290.html
15-08-2021||India||2 arrested for posting facebook video threatening violence in JNU on I-Day||Delhi Police said it had apprehended two people accused of threatening to cause violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Independence Day, following a complaint by JNU students’ union on Sunday morning. The complainant alleged that the threat was doled out in a video posted on the facebook page of ‘Mahakal Youth Brigade’, police said.Delhi police officials said they also received several PCR calls in the matter. “After receiving the PCR call, police personnel were deployed in plain clothes at all gates. The caller came to police station and filed the complaint, also JNUSU office bearers wrote similar complaint, in which they alleged that the video promotes disharmony and enmity between religions, using inflammatory language and also openly issuing threats to [cause] physical hurt,” said DCP (Southwest Delhi) Ingit Pratap Singh.A case has been registered under Section 153A (promoting enmity), 295A (insulting religious beliefs), 505 and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and an investigation is underway. The police have arrested Uttam Nagar resident Vikas Sehrawat, who was identified as the person giving the call to violence in the video and Raja Kumar, 19, owner of the phone which was used to upload the video. Bringing attention to the two videos posted on the facebook page on August 9 and 14, JNUSU said it gave “an open call to gather and march” into JNU campus on August 15 between 2-6 pm to hoist a saffron flag. “Additionally, in both videos, there is an open call to violence against any students they encounter during their... hate speech towards Muslims,” JNUSU wrote in their police complaint.In the purported videos, the speaker calls for people to gather and enter JNU campus to hoist saffron flags in presence of “anti-national” teachers and students.“This man just threatened JNU students. After the January 5 incident we should be aware of such videos and we need to report to the authorities as soon as possible,” said JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh.On January 5 last year, a group of masked assailants entered JNU campus and attacked 36 teachers and students including Ghosh who received head injuries in the incident. Earlier this month, the Centre informed Parliament that the Delhi Police have not arrested anyone in connection with the violence.On Sunday, JNUSU office-bearers have requested the security branch of the varsity to take “immediate action to resist and stop any untoward incident which can disrupt the harmony within the campus and can pose a threat to JNU community.” Despite repeated attempts, vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar did not respond on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-for-posting-facebook-video-threatening-violence-in-jnu-on-iday-101629022939372.html
15-08-2021||India||Taliban fighters enter Kabul, India moves to safeguard diplomats, citizens||As Taliban fighters began entering Kabul on Sunday afternoon as part of their lightning blitz against the government-controlled areas, Indian authorities scrambled to ensure the safety of hundreds of diplomats and citizens still in Afghanistan.The speed of the Taliban’s advance into the capital again took most countries by surprise, though people familiar with developments said the Indian side was well prepared for all contingencies. The Indian Air Force’s heavy lift aircraft, especially the C-17 Globemasters, have been on round-the-clock standby for several days and can be pressed into service at short notice for evacuation.The Indian side had been anticipating the Taliban advance into Kabul would take a few more days and media reports about the entry of fighters into the city on Sunday triggered hectic consultations, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Also Read | Delhi-Kabul Air India flight lands 1 hour later amid tense moments in high skiesPlans are also in place for the destruction and retrieval of documents and computers at the Indian embassy, which is the only functional mission in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of staff from the consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar over the past year.Taliban fighters began entering Kabul from all sides without facing any resistance, BBC reported. The move came hours after the Taliban captured Jalalabad, the last major city in the north that was under government control, without a struggle.The Afghan presidential palace said in a message in Pashto posted on its Twitter handle that the situation was “under control” and Kabul had not been attacked, though there were instances of sporadic shooting. It said Afghan security forces were working with international partners to ensure the security of Kabul.The Taliban, in a statement in Pashto, claimed “all parts of the country have come under the control of the Islamic Emirate”. It said the group’s fighters do not intend to enter Kabul, which is densely populated, “by force or war, but rather to enter peacefully”.The statement added negotiations were underway to “ensure the transition process is completed safely and securely, without compromising the lives, property and honour of anyone”. The Taliban instructed its fighters “to stand at the gates of Kabul” and not to try to enter the city, and to also ensure the security of the capital until the transition process is completed.“We reiterate that the Islamic Emirate does not intend to take revenge on anyone, all those who have served in the military and civilian sectors in the Kabul administration are forgiven and safe, no one will be retaliated against,” the statement said.The people cited above said the Taliban’s assurances couldn’t be taken for granted, given the ample evidence that the group’s political leadership isn’t fully in control of fighters on the ground, and the reports of summary executions of security forces and people who backed the government as well as violation of the rights of women and civil society activists.There were also reports of people making a run for banks to withdraw money and to foreign embassies to seek visas to leave Afghanistan. The Indian embassy too has been swamped with requests for visas over the past few days. Kabul airport is currently the only way out of the country, with all land border crossings currently under the control of the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-fighters-enter-kabul-india-moves-to-safeguard-diplomats-citizens-101629021319378.html
15-08-2021||India||CJI Ramana says ‘sorry state of affairs’ in Parliament, lack of clarity on laws||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Sunday Parliament was witnessing a sorry state of affairs and there was no clarity of laws leading to a lot of inconvenience for all.Speaking at a flag-hoisting ceremony, the chief justice said earlier debates in the two Houses of Parliament used to be very wise and constructive, but now there was lack of quality in the discussions being held while enacting laws, adding that such a situation usually arose when intellectuals and professionals like lawyers were not present in the House.The CJI’s statement came amid widespread criticism of the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament that came to an abrupt end, two days ahead of its schedule, due to repeated disruptions and ruckus in both Houses."If you see debates which used to take place in Houses in those days, they used to be very wise, constructive… Now, (it is) a sorry state of affairs...There is no clarity in laws. It is creating a lot of litigation and loss to the government as well as inconvenience to the public," the CJI was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“There is no clarity in laws. We don't know for what purpose the laws are made. In the absence of quality debate, we are unable to fathom the intent and object behind the new law: This is what happens if intellectuals and professionals like lawyers are not there in the Houses,” the CJI said.Also read | Mr PM, a straight Q for you: Here's what Derek O'Brien wants to know from ModiThe recent session of Parliament was characterised by strident protests by the Opposition demanding discussions on issues like the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and inflation, a focused and accelerated push of key laws by the government, and plain acrimony. Frequent dins became the order of the day as both the government and Opposition refused to budge from their stand. While the government successfully managed to introduce 15 bills and get Parliament’s approval for 20, some were passed in minutes with no one other than the minister in charge speaking on the same, a norm that has been severely criticised by Opposition leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-says-sorry-state-of-affairs-in-parliament-lack-of-clarity-on-laws-101629019620222.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi addresses nation on India's 75th Independence Day. Here's what he said||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort on the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day. India is celebrating 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' ', marking the 75th year of Independence. A series of events are being organised across the nation to mark the occasion. PM Modi said 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' will infuse new energy and new consciousness among the countrymen.Here is the full text of PM Modi's address on India's 75th Independence DayToday, on the pious festival of the Amrit Mahotsav of freedom, the country is bowing to all its freedom fighters and brave heroes who continue to sacrifice themselves day and night in the defense of the nation. The country is remembering every personality, including the revered Bapu, who made freedom a mass movement, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, who sacrificed everything for the freedom, or great revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh, Chandrasekhar Azad, Bismil and Ashfaqulla Khan; Rani of Jhansi Lakshmibai, Queen Chennamma of Kittur or Rani Gaidinliu or the valour of MatanginiHazra; the country's first Prime Minister Pandit Nehru ji, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who integrated the country into a united nation, and Baba Saheb Ambedkar, who determined and paved the way for the future direction of India. The country is indebted to all these great personalities.While we celebrate our freedom today, we cannot forget the pain of partition that still pierces through the heart of all Indians. This has been one of the biggest tragedies of the last century. After attaining freedom, these people were forgotten too soon. Just yesterday India has taken an emotional decision, we will henceforth commemorate August 14 as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” in the memory of the victims of partition. Those who were subjected to inhuman circumstances, suffered torturous treatment, they could not even receive a dignified cremation. They must all remain alive and never get erased from our memories. The decision of celebrating “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” on the 75th Independence Day is a befitting tribute from every Indian to them.Along with modern infrastructure, there is a great need for adopting a holistic and integrated approach in infrastructure construction. In the near future, we are going to launch the National Master Plan of Prime Minister ‘Gati Shakti’ which will be a huge scheme and fulfil the dreams of crores of countrymen. This scheme of more than 100 lakh crores rupees will result in new employment opportunities for lakhs of youth.It is a moment of pride for us that because of our scientists, we were able to develop two Make in India COVID Vaccines and carry out the world's Largest Vaccine Drive.It was extremely difficult to get vaccines during such a major crisis, with pandemic plaguing the entire world. India might or might not have received it and even if it had received the vaccine there was no certainty of getting that in time. But today we can proudly say that the world's largest vaccination programme is being run in our country. More than 54 crore people have received the vaccine dose. Online systems like Cowin and digital certificates are attracting the world today.Our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation staff, scientists engaged in developing vaccines, millions of countrymen engaged with the spirit of service during this Corona global pandemic also deserve praise from all of us.India’s young generation has made our country proud at the Tokyo Olympics. All such athletes are amongst us today. They have not only won our hearts but also inspired our young generation.The way India has kept the stoves burning for the poor's house by providing free food grains to 80 crore countrymen continuously for months during the pandemic is not only astonishing to the world but also a matter of discussion.It is true that fewer people have been infected in India as compared to other countries; it is also true that in comparison to the population of other countries of the world, we managed to save more citizens in India but it is not something to be proud of! We cannot rest on these laurels. To say that there was no challenge, will become a restrictive thought in the path of our own development.Our goal is to develop a nation where we not only have world-class infrastructure but also move ahead with the mantra of 'Minimum government, maximum governance'.We should not limit the occasion of 75 years of Indian independence to just one ceremony. We must lay the groundwork for new resolutions and move forward with new resolutions. Starting from here, the entire journey of the next 25 years, when we celebrate the centenary of Indian independence, marks the Amrit period of creation of a new India. The fulfilment of our resolutions in this Amrit period will take us to the hundredth anniversary of Indian independence with pride.The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to ascend to new heights of prosperity for India and the citizens of India. The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to create an India where the level of facilities is not dividing the village and the city. The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to build an India where the government does not interfere unnecessarily in the lives of citizens. The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to build an India where there is world’s every modern infrastructure.Amrit Kaal is of 25 years. But we don't have to wait for long to achieve our goals. We have to start now. We don't have a moment to lose. This is the right time. Our country also has to change and we as citizens have to change ourselves too. We also have to adapt ourselves to the changing era. We have started with the spirit of ‘SabkaSaath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’. Today I am requesting from the ramparts of the Red Fort that ‘SabkaSaath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ and now SakkaPrayas are very important for the achievement of our goals.In this Bharat ki Vikas Yatra, we have to ensure that we meet our goal of building an AatmaNirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence.Just as we have made electricity accessible to 100% households, and have made authentic efforts to construct toilets in 100% households, similarly, we now have to move ahead with the goal of achieving saturation of schemes, and, for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline. We have to make our resolutions come true within a few years.Now, we have to move even further. 100% villages should have roads, 100% households should have a bank account, 100% beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat card, 100% eligible persons should have gas connection under Ujjwala scheme and 100% beneficiaries should have Aawas.We have to move ahead with a mindset of cent percent achievement. Till now, no thought was given for our street vendors, who sell their goods on tracks, footpaths and carts. All these colleagues are now being linked to the banking system through the SVANidhi scheme.We have to move forward with the goal of ensuring that every citizen is connected with government's transformative schemes.In the last few years, our government has provided roads and electricity to the villages. Now these villages have been strengthened with optical fibre network data and the Internet.I am happy that just within 2 years of Jal Jeevan Mission, over 4.5 Crore families have started receiving Nal Se Jal; this is our main achievement when the benefit reaches the last mile citizen.Poshanis one of the key focus of our government. The government has also been working on preventive healthcare, and building health and wellness infrastructure.We need to provide hand holding to the backward categories and sectors. With the concern of fulfilling the basic needs, reservation is being ensured for the Dalits, Backward classes, Adivasis and the poor people from general category. More recently, in the field of medical education, reservation has also been ensured for the OBC category in the All India Quota. By formulating a law in Parliament, the right to make their own list of OBC has been given to the states.Be it rice available at ration shop, rice available in mid-day meal, rice available through every scheme will be fortified by the year 2024.The delimitation commission has been constituted in Jammu and Kashmir itself and preparations are also going on for the assembly elections.Ladakh is witnessing a new transformative phase where the government is focusing on building world-class infrastructure.On one hand, Ladakh is witnessing the creation of modern infrastructure, while on the other, ‘Sindhu Central University’ is going to make Ladakh a centre of higher education.There is a huge potential in the fields of tourism, adventure sports, organic farming, herbal medicine, and oil pump in the North East. We have to fully harness this potential and make it a part of the development journey of the country. And we have to complete this work within a few decades of the ‘Amrit Kaal’. Giving a fair opportunity to the capabilities of all is the true spirit of democracy. Be it Jammu or Kashmir, the balance of development is now visible on the ground.Whether East, North East, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, the entire Himalayan region, our coastal belt or tribal region, these will become a big base for India's development in the future.Today a new history of connectivity is being written in the North-East. This is a connectivity of both the hearts and the infrastructure. Very soon the work of connecting all the state capitals of the North-East with rail service is going to be completed.Under the Act-East Policy, today North-East, Bangladesh, Myanmar and South-East Asia are also being connected. Due to the efforts made in the past years, now the enthusiasm for the creation of Shreshtha Bharat and long-lasting peace in the North-East has increased manifold.We are witnessing a new phase in the developmental journey of our villages. It not only has electricity and water but also nurturing Digital Entrepreneurs.Priority is being given to schemes related to education, health, nutrition, roads, employment, in over 110 aspirational districts of the country. Many of these districts are in tribal areas.We have to focus on helping our small farmers. We have to give maximum benefits of the government's schemes to them; be it through DBT or Krishi Rail.Kisan Rail can help small farmers with this modern facility to reach far flung areas on a low cost of produce and transportation. Several products like Kamalam, Shahi litchi, BhutJolokiachillis, black rice or turmeric are being exported to different countries of the world.The government is now focusing on welfare of small farmers. 10 Crore farmer families have directly received over ₹1.5 lakh crore in their bank accounts.SVAMITVA Yojna is transforming the lives in rural India. Drone is helping our rural citizens to map their land and apply for various schemes/loans online.Co-operatives are not just a system with a network of laws and rules, but co-operative is a spirit, culture, and a mindset of collective growth. We have taken steps to empower them by forming a separate ministry. We have taken this step to empower the cooperative sector in the states.In the coming years, we will have to increase the collective power of the small farmers of the country. They have to be given new facilities. We are trying to empower these farmers through SVAMITVA Yojana.We have decided to celebrate this Amrit Mahotsav of independence for 75 weeks. It started from 12th March and will continue till 15th August, 2023. We have to move forward with new enthusiasm and, therefore, the country has made a very important decision.During these 75 weeks of the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence, 75 Vande Bharat trains will connect every corner of the country. The pace at which new airports are being built in the country and the UDAN scheme connecting remote areas is unprecedented.We will have to work together for manufacturing world class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new age technology.Under the Jan Aushadhi Yojana, the poor and needy are now getting affordable medicines. Over 75,000 Health & Wellness Centres have been built and we are working on a network of hospitals at the block level.To further increase our developmental progress, we have to focus on our manufacturing and export.The country has also announced Production Linked Incentive to consolidate our Make in India campaign in the wake of the new economic conditions that have emerged due to Corona. The electronic manufacturing sector stands as an example of the change that is enforced through this scheme. Seven years ago, we used to import mobile phones worth about eight billion dollars. However, now the import has reduced considerably, and today we are also exporting mobile phones worth three billion dollars.Treading ahead on the path of development, India will have to augment both its manufacturing and exports. You have witnessed, just a few days ago, India launched its first indigenous Aircraft Carrier INS Vikrant for trial in the sea. Today India is making its own indigenous fighter aircraft, its own submarine. Gaganyaan is also slated to hoist India's flag in space. This itself is evidential of our immense capabilities in indigenous manufacturing.I want to tell the manufacturers - Every product you make is a brand ambassador for India. As long as that product is in use, the buyer will say - yes this isMade in India.We have to stop the over involvement of government in the form of complex policies. Today, we have abolished over 15,000 unnecessary compliances.We have introduced tax reforms that will give impetus to Ease of Living and Ease of Doing Business.Good and smart governance is required to implement the reforms. Today, the world is also witnessing how India is writing a new chapter of governance.To introduce people centric approach in Bureaucracy, we have started Mission Karmayogiand Capacity Building programme.Today the country also has a new National Education Policy to meet the needs of the 21st century. Now our children will neither stop due to lack of skills nor will they be bound by language barriers.This new National Education Policy is also going to be a great tool to fight against poverty in a way. The basis of winning the war against poverty is also the education, prestige and importance of the vernacular language.In a move towards strengthening BetiBachao, BetiPadhaoinitiative, our daughters will now be able to study in Sainik schools too.Today, be it education or Olympics our daughters are performing tremendously. We have to ensure that they get equal opportunities and they feel safe and respected.More than eight crore sisters in the villages are associated with Self-Help Groups and they design top-end products. Now the government will also prepare an e-commerce platform to ensure a huge market in the country and abroad for their products. When the country is moving forward with the mantra of being vocal for local, this digital platform will connect the products of women self-help groups with people in far flung areas of the country as well as abroad and it will have far-reaching consequences.India is not Energy independent. It spends over Rs. 12 lakh crores on importing energy. As we celebrate 75 years of Independence, we have to ensure that India becomes AatmaNirbharin energy production too.We are giving equal emphasis to Environmental Security as to National Security. Be it biodiversity or land neutrality, climate change or waste recycling, organic farming, India is progressing in all these sectors.In this decade of the 21st century, India will further accelerate its efforts towards the Blue Economy.The Deep Ocean Mission is the result of our ambition to explore the unlimited possibilities of the ocean. The mineral wealth which is hidden in the sea, the thermal energy which is in the sea water, can give new heights to the development of the country.Green Hydrogen is the future of the world. Today, I announce the setting up of the National Hydrogen Mission.We have to make India a Global Hub for Green Hydrogen Production and Export in the 'Amrit Kaal'. This will not only help India to make a new progress in the field of energy self-reliance but will also become a new inspiration for Clean Energy Transition all over the world. New opportunities from Green Growth to Green Job are opening up today for our start-ups & youth.India has also made a move towards Electric Mobility and the work on 100% electrification of Railways is also progressing at a fast pace. Indian Railways has set a target of becoming Net Zero Carbon Emitter by 2030.The country is also emphasizing on Mission Circular Economy. Our Vehicle Scrap Policy is a great example of the same. Today, India is the only country in the group of G-20 countries, which is moving fast towards achieving its climate goals.India has set a target of 450 GW of renewable energy by the end of this decade - 450 GW by 2030. Of this, the target of 100 GW has been achieved by India ahead of schedule.Today India is also solving those subject areas, which were hanging fires for decades and centuries. Be it a historic decision to abrogate Article 370, introduction of GST, a system that frees the country from the web of taxes, a decision regarding 'One Rank-One Pension' for our military friends, a peaceful solution to the Ram Janmabhoomi issue, we have seen it come true in a few years.India’s willpower is realizing all the resolutions whether it is the Bru-Reang agreement in Tripura after decades, constitutional status to the OBC commission or the BDC and DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir for the first time since independence.The nature of global relations has changed after the Second World War. There is a possibility of a new world order post Corona. The world has seen and appreciated India's efforts during Corona. Today the world is looking at India from a new perspective. There are two important aspects of this perception -- one is terrorism and the other is expansionism. India is fighting both these challenges and is also responding strongly in a restrained manner. Our defense preparedness has to be equally strong if India has to fulfill its obligations properly.Our youth is the 'Can Do' Generation, and they can achieve everything they set their mind to.Our actions today will determine our future. Our today will set the theme of our 100 years of India's Independence.I am not a fortune teller, I believe in the fruits of action. I have faith in the youth of my country, I trust the sisters of the country, the daughters of the country, the farmers of the country, or the professionals of the country. This ‘CAN DO’ generation can achieve every unimaginable goal.In the 21st century, no obstacle can stop us from fulfilling the dreams and aspirations of India. Our strength is our vitality, our strength is our solidarity, our vitality is the spirit of nation first - always first. This is the time for shared dreams, this is the time for shared resolve, this is the time for shared efforts... and this is the time to move towards victory.Today is also the birth anniversary of the great thinker of the country, Sri Aurobindo. His 150th birth anniversary will be celebrated in 2022. Sri Aurobindo was a visionary of India's bright future. He used to say that we have to be as powerful as we were never before. We have to change our habits. We have to re-awaken ourselves.When Swami Vivekananda used to talk about the future of India, when he used to see the magnificence of Mother Bharati in front of his eyes, he used to say – Try to look into the past as far as possible. Drink the water of the ever-new spring flowing back there, and after that, look ahead. Go ahead and make India brighter, greater & better than ever. In this 75th year of independence, it is our duty to move forward believing in the immense potential of the country. We have to work together for new generation infrastructure; we have to work together for world class manufacturing; we have to work together for cutting edge innovations; we have to work together for new age technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-india-s-75th-independence-day-here-s-what-he-said-101629018075981.html
15-08-2021||India||India to meet climate goals, be green hydrogen hub: Modi on Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day on Sunday that it is the only country among the G-20 nations that is on the path of meeting its climate goals. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the historic Red Fort in Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announced his government's decision to set up the National Hydrogen Mission, with an aim for India to become the new global hub and the exporter of green hydrogen. “Not only will green hydrogen be the basis of green growth through green jobs but it will also set an example for the world towards clean energy transition,” he said.The Prime Minister also set the country a target of 2047 — when India would celebrate its 100th Independence day — to achieve self-reliance in energy production through a mix of electric mobility, gas-based economy, doping ethanol in petrol to make the country a hub for hydrogen production.“India is not energy independent. It spends over ₹12 lakh crore every year on importing energy. As we celebrate 75 years of Independence, we have to ensure that India becomes self reliant in energy production, too,” PM Modi said.The roadmap for that is to increase usage of natural gas in the economy, setting up a network of CNG and piped natural gas networks across India, blending 20% ethanol in petrol and electric mobility, the Prime Minister said.ALSO READ |  Now is the time to change the world and transform ourselves as citizens: PM ModiHighlighting that the country has achieved a milestone of 100 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity ahead of the target of 450 gigawatts by 2030, the Prime Minister said, “The world believes in India's leadership in environmental issues and International Solar Alliance is an example of that.”Modi said India gives equal emphasis to environmental security as to national security. “Be it biodiversity or land neutrality, climate change or waste recycling, organic farming, India is progressing in all these sectors,” the Prime Minister told the nation from the Red Fort. He also said the country aims to become a net-zero carbon emitter by 2030 and highlighted that work was underway for 100% electrification of Indian Railways.“Our actions today will determine our future. Our today will set the theme of our 100 years of India's Independence,” said the Prime Minister to conclude his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-hydrogen-energy-hub-solar-energy-india-climate-goals-modi-101629012924744.html
15-08-2021||India||‘You've inspired our future generations': PM Modi hails India's Olympic stars in Independence Day address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed India’s Olympic contingent from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort as he addressed the nation on 75th Independence Day. The athletes, PM Modi said, have not only won the nation’s hearts, but they have also inspired future generations.“Today, we have with us our Olympic athletes who made India proud. I request the citizens, those who are present at this ceremony and those watching from different corners of the country, to applaud our athletes by clapping for them. Let’s show our respect to Indian sports, to our young generation, and to our athletes who brought laurels to the country,” urged the Prime Minister, as he led the audience in applauding the athletes. He added, “We can be proud of the fact that our athletes have not only the nation’s hearts, but they have also done something that will inspire generations to come.”On August 3, PM Modi sent an invitation to the athletes to be a part of Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort. In the recently concluded Games in Tokyo, the Indian contingent won a record seven medals, which included one gold medal, two silver and four bronze medals. Neeraj Chopra, the javelin thrower, brought home India’s first Olympic gold in 13 years, after Abhinav Bindra shot his way to gold at Beijing in 2008; Chopra is also India’s second individual gold medallist in the Olympics, after Bindra.On Saturday, they were hosted by President Ram Nath Kovind over high tea. Entire country is proud of the athletes, Kovind said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youve-inspired-our-future-generations-pm-modi-hails-india-s-olympic-stars-in-independence-day-address-101629013731119.html
15-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: On I-Day, Kejriwal says Delhi preparing to host Olympics after 2047 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi preparing to host Olympics after 2047, says Kejriwal on Independence DayKejriwal said that his government has set up Delhi Sports University, which is not only for athletes from the national capital but for the entire country. Read moreMeghalaya hands over erstwhile royal estate in heart of Shillong to ManipurNo one from the Meghalaya government was willing to comment on the seemingly low premium and land revenue charged for the property. Read moreChina's Huawei spied, installed data ‘back door’ in Pakistan: ReportChina’s Huawei Technologies Co stole trade secrets and spied on Pakistan, a small US-based contractor has alleged. Read moreIndependence Day 2021: Viral post remembers Independent India's first Olympic goldThe post is complete with a picture of the winning team as Kishan Lal, the captain of the team is seen standing on the winner’s podium. Read moreFirst Ola Electric S1 scooter rolls out from Ola Future factoryThe Ola S1 e-scooter is expected to be priced at around ₹one lakh and this can further reduce with the state-level subsidies. Read moreJacqueline Fernandez stuns in ultra-glamorous white sareeJacqueline Fernandez gets us excited for a summer destination wedding as she cuts a delicate and sexy silhouette in a sheer white saree. Read moreInside Rhea Kapoor-Karan Boolani's wedding: Sonam Kapoor, Anshula Kapoor are all smilesAfter being in a relationship for over a decade, Rhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani tied the knot in an intimate ceremony on Saturday. Read moreNew Xiaomi Mi Notebook to have Windows Hello, Backlit Keyboard, webcam and moreThe upcoming Xiaomi Mi Notebook has been teased by Raghu Reddy, Chief Business Officer, Xiaomi India. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-on-independence-day-kejriwal-says-delhi-preparing-to-host-olympics-and-all-the-latest-news-101629011441850.html
15-08-2021||India||Meghalaya hands over erstwhile royal estate in heart of Shillong to Manipur||Meghalaya has handed over Manipur a magnificent heritage estate known as Manipur Rajbari (home of Manipur royal family) permanently to amicably settle an old dispute. The development comes at a time when border rows between states in the region have led to deaths and tensions with no immediate resolution in sight.The heritage property which is still inhabited by descendents and agents of the erstwhile Manipur Maharaj (king) will now be converted into Manipur State Bhawan, Manipur chief minister Biren Singh posted on Twitter on Friday.“The historic Manipur Rajbari at Shillong belonged to the Maharaja of Manipur & it was here that Maharaja Bodhachandra stayed during the signing (of) the Manipur Merger Agreement to Dominion of India in Sept 1949. Sadly, the plot no longer belonged to the Royal family of Manipur,” Singh’s post referring to the signing of the agreement to merge Manipur with the Union of India with effect from October 15, 1949 said.He pointed out that the plot measuring 1.93 acres at Redlands in Shillong’s prime and cosmopolitan Laitumkhrah area was handed over after several rounds of talks over a long period of time between successive governments of the two states.“I thank the Govt. of Meghalaya for their cooperation,” Biren Singh added.Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma couldn’t be contacted for his comments.HT managed to see a copy of the legal document certifying the transfer of the royal property, signed on August 12, 2021 by the under secretary to the revenue & disaster management department and addressed to the East Khasi Hills deputy commissioner.Titled “Patta/Possession Certificate for Manipur Bhawan/Rajbari Shillong bearing Holding No. 67 (earlier 6-72) under Ward No. 3 of the Shillong Municipal Corporation,” the official communiqué read, “I am directed to refer to the letter on the subject quoted above and to convey Government’s approval to Settle the land measuring 1.93 acres at Redlands, Laitumkhrah Shillong, in favour of the Government of Manipur, on payment of premium of ₹91,04,784/- including land revenue with effect from 2008 amounting to ₹24,271/-.” The under secretary stated, “This has the Order of the Competent Authority.”No one from the Meghalaya government was willing to comment on the seemingly low premium and land revenue charged for the property, believed to be several times costlier as per market rates. There was also no explanation on how the area of the estate, earlier recorded to be 1.88 acres (according to a survey reportedly conducted by Nanigopal Das, surveyor of directorate of survey, Assam), rose to 1.93 acres in the formal handover, an increase of 2,182.8 sq. ft.It is said that in 1988, Manipur CM R K Joychandra Singh had offered to buy the property for ₹11 lakhs but the deal fell through due to the sudden fall of the Congress government.Once majestic and resplendent abode of the Manipur royals now lies in an utterly dilapidated and unkempt state, unbecoming of its glorious past. Manipur is likely to restore the heritage property to its former glory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-hands-over-erstwhile-royal-estate-in-heart-of-shillong-to-manipur-101629010278290.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi ends Independence Day speech with a poem, calls for action||Prime Minister Narendra Modi ended his speech on the country’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday with a poem as he said nothing can stop India's dreams and aspirations from being fulfilled in the 21st century. PM Modi said today is the right time to start a new chapter in India's development journey by tapping into the unused potential. PM Modi stressed he has full faith in the country’s youth and said that this is a "can-do generation" and can achieve every goal. "Our strength is our vitality, our strength is our solidarity. Our life force is the spirit of the nation first,” PM Modi, who was wearing a traditional saffron safa or a headgear with red patterns and a long tail, also said.Also watch | PM Modi recites poem to end Red Fort speech: 'Yahi samay hai...'Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the 17th-century Mughal era Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, PM Modi said he is not a soothsayer but believes in action. The Prime Minister said every person will have to join hands to fulfil the resolutions the country has taken.Also read | In veiled reference to Pak, China, PM Modi lists 2 challenges facing IndiaPM Modi recited a poem at the end of his nearly 90-minute speech on Independence Day. He recited a few lines during his Independence Day speech and the poem was also shared by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on its Twitter account.यही समय है, सही समय है, भारत का अनमोल समय है।कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो कर ना सको,कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो पा ना सको,तुम उठ जाओ, तुम जुट जाओ,सामर्थ्य को अपने पहचानो,कर्तव्य को अपने सब जानो,भारत का ये अनमोल समय है,यही समय है, सही समय है: PM @narendramodiRoughly translated the poem recited by PM Modi reads:"This is the time, the right timePrecious time of India,There's a power of innumerable arms,There is patriotism everywhere,Get up and wave the tricolour,Hoist India's fate,This is the time, the right timePrecious time of India,There's nothing that you can't achieve,Get up and start working,Know your potential,Know your duty to all,This is the precious time of India,It's time, right time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-ends-independence-day-speech-with-a-poem-calls-for-action-101629008187738.html
15-08-2021||India||Sainik Schools now open for girls as well: All you need to know||A key announcement made by prime minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on 75th Independence Day was that Sainik Schools, which traditionally admit only boys, will now be open for girls as well. “I got messages from lakhs of girls from across the country expressing their desire to study in Sainik Schools. Hence, the government has decided that all such schools across the country will now be open for girls as well,” PM Modi said.Here’s all you need to know about Sainik Schools:(1.) These schools are the brainchild of VK Krishna Menon, who was the Union defence minister from April 1957 to October 1962. Menon conceived this idea in 1961. (2.) An All India Sainik School Entrance Examination (AISSEE) is conducted for admission to Sainik Schools, which follow the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) curriculum. For classes 6 and 9, students are granted admission on the basis of their performance in the entrance exam. For class 11, the basis of admission is marks scored in class 10 board exams.Also Read | Mission Karmyayogi to fuel efficiency in bureucracy: Modi at Red Fort(3.) However, it is to be noted that 67% seats are reserved for students who are from the home state of a Sainik School. The remaining 33% students are admitted from outside the home state. There is reservation also on the basis of Scheduled Castes (15%), Scheduled Tribes (7.5%), Other Backward Classes (27%) and for wards of current and former servicemen (25%).(4.) At present, there are 33 such schools in the country. Uttar Pradesh has three Sainik Schools, while Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan have two schools each.Also Read | In veiled reference to Pak, China, PM Modi lists 2 challenges facing India(5.) These schools are run by the Sainik Schools Society under the Union ministry of defence (MoD). As the name suggests, Sainik Schools prepare students for a career in the armed forces. Hence students here are called “cadets” and have to follow strict rules, which are on the lines of those in military academies.Click here for all live updates of Independence Day 2021 celebrations(6.) As a pilot project, Sainik School in Mizoram’s Chhingchhip began admitting girls from October 2019. PM Modi mentioned the school while making the announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sainik-schools-now-open-for-girls-as-well-all-you-need-to-know-101629007850805.html
15-08-2021||India||Mission Karmyayogi to fuel efficiency in bureaucracy: Modi at Red Fort||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Centre started Mission Karmayogi and set up a capacity building commission to introduce a people-centric approach and efficiency in bureaucracy. The Prime Minister was addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi on India's 75th Independence Day. Modi said these initiatives would help prepare the youth of the country driven by entrepreneurial skills and capacity to fuel the growth of India. The National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building, known as 'Mission Karmayogi, was launched last year to enhance governance through civil service capacity building.ALSO READ: PM Modi coins new mantra, adds Sabka Prayas to Sabka Saath, Sabka VikasThe programme was aimed at training civil servants at various academies by including optimum use of the government's digital learning platform.The Prime Minister said the state-of-the-art training infrastructure under the programme would improve the government's human resources management practices and develop the capacity of the bureaucrats.ALSO READ: Now is the time to change the world and transform us as citizens: PM ModiSpeaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister also stressed the importance of fully utilising the capabilities of India to take it to new heights in the 21st century. He gave a call for ‘Sabka Prayas’ along with ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ for the growth of the country.The Prime Minister highlighted that for the overall development of the nation, it is essential to end the unnecessary interference of government and government procedures in the lives of people.In his 88-minute-long speech, Modi called the new National Education Policy a tool to “fight poverty” as it facilitates teaching in mother tongue in tune with the need of the 21st century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-pm-modi-mission-karmayogi-capacity-building-commission-101629005801815.html
15-08-2021||India||In veiled reference to Pak, China, PM Modi lists 2 challenges facing India||In his 88-minute Independence Day speech from the Red Fort on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the dual challenges of terrorism and expansionism--a veiled reference to Pakistan-sponsored terrorism and China‘s expansionist policy in Ladakh—and India’s resolve to strengthen the armed forces, its growing prowess in defence manufacturing and the government’s full commitment to boost self-reliance in the defence sector.He said that the 2016 surgical strikes and the 2019 air strikes against terror pads in Pakistan sent a strong message to the country’s enemies about the emergence of a ‘new India’ and its resolve to take tough decisions.While the 2016 strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir were India’s first direct military response to the suicide attack on an army camp in Uri, the air strikes against a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror facility in Pakistan’s Balakot followed the Pulwama attack.The PM said India was fighting terrorism and expansionism with courage, and the government would take all steps to strengthen the capabilities of the armed forces.The comments came a day after the government announced the country’s highest and second-highest peacetime gallantry awards --- the Ashok Chakra and Kirti Chakra --- for two Jammu and Kashmir personnel killed in encounters with terrorists.The reference to the fight against expansionism assumes significance in the backdrop of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are in talks to disengage their front-line troops from flashpoints on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).India and China have been locked in a border row for more than 15 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year.The PM made a mention of aircraft carrier Vikrant, locally made light combat aircraft and submarines in his speech, underlining that the projects highlighted India’s indigenous manufacturing capability. India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country, kicked off critical sea trials on August 3 ahead of its planned induction into the Indian Navy in less than a year.Vikrant has put India in a select league --- only the US, the UK, Russia, France and China have the capability to build aircraft carriers. The PM said the government was committed to supporting Atmanirbharta (self-reliance) in the defence sector.He said Sainik Schools across the country would open their doors to girl students. Currently, there are 33 Sainik Schools in the country that account for a large number of candidates who join the armed forces. The decision was taken after a pilot project for inducting girls, launched at Sainik School Chhingchhip in Mizoram three years ago, resulted in success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-veiled-reference-to-pak-china-pm-modi-lists-2-challenges-facing-india-101629006317875.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day: Top quotes from PM Modi's address to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation from the Red Fort as the country celebrated its 75th Independence Day. The speech, which lasted for more than 90 minutes, saw PM Modi make several key announcements. He also listed achievements of his government and laid out plans for the future. Here are some top quotes from PM Modi's speech:(1.) “India indebted to all its freedom fighters”: PM Modi said that today, as the country celebrates its 75th Independence Day, it is remembering every personality who played a part in the freedom movement, and is indebted to them.
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi announces establishment of e-commerce platforms for products by SHGs||The government will establish e-commerce platforms to provide a market for the products made by self help groups (SHGs), said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.Delivering his customary address to the nation on the occasion of 75th Independence Day on Sunday, the Prime Minister said, "There are more than 8 crore women in the village who are associated with self-help groups, who make products. The government will prepare an e-commerce platform for their products to get a big market in the country and abroad."He further said that the country is moving forward with the slogan of 'Vocal for Local'."India has started the 'Local for Vocal' initiative and it is our responsibility to buy indigenous products. Our vision of plastic-free India can only be made true if we stop the use of single-use plastic completely," noted the Prime Minister.Talking about development in rural areas, he said, "Today we see our villages changing rapidly. In past few years, facilities like road, electricity have reached villages. Today the optical fiber network is providing the power of data to villages."As a part of the celebrations Prime Minister Narendra Modi also hoisted the national flag at the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-establishment-of-e-commerce-platforms-for-products-by-shgs-101629003299253.html
15-08-2021||India||In 75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav’, 75 Vande Bharat trains to connect India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that in the 75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav’, which the country is celebrating to mark the journey of 75 years of Independence, the Indian Railways will launch 75 Vande Bharat trains to connect India's far-flung areas. “During the 75 weeks of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, 75 new Vande Bharat express trains will be launched and will connect every corner of the country,” the Prime Minister said in his August 15 address as he compared the Vande Bharat initiative to the UDAN scheme for flights.Also Read | PM Modi coins new mantra, adds Sabka Prayas to Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas“We have to bridge the gap between people who live in villages and those who reside in cities,” the Prime Minister said while elaborating on his vision for a ‘New India’.During the 75 weeks of Azadi Ka #AmritMahotsav, new 75 Vande Bharat Express trains will be launched and will connect every corner of the Country: PM @narendramodi #indiaIndependenceday #IndiaAt75 pic.twitter.com/hjF5U6JJHN‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is the central government's initiative to mark 75 years of Independence from British rule. It is a tribute to the freedom fighters and the struggle that led to the nation as it is today. The government is also organising a number of events across the country throughout this period.Also Read | National Education Policy a means to fight poverty: PM Narendra ModiPM Modi also pitched for a 100 per cent India and said it is essential to fully utilise the country’s capabilities to take it to new heights in the 21st century as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort in Delhi marking the 75th year of Independence. The Prime Minister added, “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, and Sabka Prayaas are very important for the achievement of all our goals."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-75-weeks-of-amrit-mahotsav-75-vande-bharat-trains-to-connect-india-modi-101629000799330.html
15-08-2021||NA||Breaking: British Airways has ordered pilots to avoid Afghan airspace||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:British Airways has ordered pilots to avoid Afghan airspaceA British Airways spokesperson told news agency ANI that pilots have been asked to avoid Afghan airspace due to the rapidly deteriorating security situation there.Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigns following militant leader’s deathMeghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui tendered his resignation on Sunday, citing the encounter of former militant Chesterfield Thangkhiew last Friday. In his letter to chief minister Conrad Sangma, Rymbui expressed his shock and proposed a judicial enquiry should be conducted into the death of the former militant.Taliban say they have taken control of Afghan presidential palaceTaliban commanders say they have taken control of Afghan presidential palace pic.twitter.com/3dGG0GH9J8Death toll from massive Haiti earthquake rises to 724, says govt#BREAKING Toll from massive Haiti earthquake jumps to 724 people dead: govt pic.twitter.com/sTMfJmnQbVAfghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has left the countryAfghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has left that country, reports TOLOnews quoting sources (File photo) pic.twitter.com/yOvHUyfjO4Maharashtra records 4,797 new cases of Covid-19, 130 deathsMaharashtra recorded 4,797 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the state's total tally of cases to 6,392,660. In the last 24 hours 130 deaths have also been reported, which pushed the death toll to 135,039, according to the state health bulletin.Delhi-bound Air India flight AI 244 departed from Kabul at 6.06pmAn Air India spokesperson said on Sunday that the carrier is continuing with its scheduled flights from Kabul as of now. "We are monitoring the situation and as of now continuing with our scheduled flights to Kabul,", the spokesperson stated. Taliban want peaceful transfer of power in the ‘next few days’Taliban want a peaceful transition of power from the present Afghan government in the next few days, a spokesperson of the militant group told news agency AFP. Afghan President urges govt forces to maintain law and order in Kabul#BREAKING Afghan President Ghani urges government forces to maintain Kabul law and order pic.twitter.com/iqX8y1t2ORDelhi logs 53 cases of Covid-19, no new deaths recordedDelhi recorded 53 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally of cases to 1,437,091. No new deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hour. CBI announces ₹5 lakh reward for any information in the murder of Dhanbad judgeThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) announced a reward of Rs.5 lakhs for any information on the murder of Additional Session judge Uttam Anand in Dhanbad. CBI assured that the name of the informant will be kept a secret.Russia does not plan to evacuate its Kabul embassy, says official#BREAKING Russia does not plan to evacuate its Kabul embassy: official to agencies pic.twitter.com/ZBbrku4rcCAfghan Interior Minister says transition will be peacefulAfghan acting Interior Minister Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal told TOLO News that Kabul will not be attacked and that the transition will happen peacefully. He assured Kabul residents that security forces will ensure the security of the city.Taliban say in a statement they don't plan to take Kabul 'by force'Taliban say in a statement they don't plan to take Kabul 'by force' as sporadic gunfire echoes in Afghan capital.Taliban Fighters Enter Outskirts of Kabul, Gunfire in CapitalTaliban forces in Afghanistan entered the outskirts of the capital Kabul, the Associated Press reported, as the U.S. and other nations rushed to evacuate the city.Afghan officials say Taliban enter capital, KabulThree Afghan officials tell The Associated Press that the Taliban have entered the outskirts of the capital, Kabul.Afghan official and Taliban say militants seize provincial capital of KhostAfghan official and Taliban say militants seize provincial capital of Khost as insurgents tighten grip around Kabul, reports AP.Taliban now holds all of Afghanistan's border crossings, leaving Kabul airport as only exitTaliban now holds all of Afghanistan's border crossings, leaving Kabul airport as only exit.The success achieved by India in economic, social and other spheres is widely acknowledged: Vladimir PutinThe success achieved by India in economic, social and other spheres is widely acknowledged. Your country rightfully enjoys high prestige in global arena and plays an important role in solving topical issues of international agenda: Russian President Vladimir Putin.Mizoram reports 467 new Covid-19 cases, 3 more fatalitiesMizoram reported 467 new Covid-19 cases and three more fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the state’s tally to 48,462 and death toll to 180, a health department official said on Sunday.Afghan lawmaker, Taliban say insurgents seize provincial capital of Maidan WardakAfghan lawmaker, Taliban say insurgents seize provincial capital of Maidan Wardak, just west of Kabul, reports AP.Eight people killed, dozens injured in Hungary bus crashEight people were killed and dozens injured when a passenger bus crashed on the M7 motorway en route to Budapest in the early hours of Sunday, police said in a statement.2 dead in Delhi hotel fireTwo persons died after a fire broke out Sunday at a hotel here, officials said.5 dead, 3 injured as car crashes into truck in AlwarFive people were killed and three others sustained serious injuries when the car in which they were travelling in crashed into a stationary cement carrying truck in the early hours on Sunday, police said.Salute doctors and paramedical staff who laid down their lives during Covid pandemic: Arvind KejriwalSalute doctors and paramedical staff who laid down their lives during Covid pandemic, immensely thankful to them: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.13 killed, several injured in Karachi grenade attackA total of 13 people were killed and several others got suffered injuries in a grenade attack in Karachi, Pakistan on Saturday.Fuel tanker explodes in Lebanon, killing 20, wounding dozensA fuel tanker truck exploded early Sunday in northern Lebanon, killing 20 people and wounding dozens more, the Lebanese Red Cross said. It was not immediately clear what caused the blast.South Korea sets up checkpoints, 'bus walls' to block protests amid Covid-19 concernsSouth Korean police mobilised hundreds of buses and set up dozens of checkpoints on Sunday to fend off political rallies in the capital Seoul, as some groups pushed ahead with annual protests in defiance of warnings over the novel coronavirus.K Chandrasekhar Rao hoists the National Flag at Golconda FortTelangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao hoists the National Flag at Golconda Fort in Hyderabad.Internet, mobile services unaffected as J-K celebrates Independence DayFor the first time in three years, Internet and mobile services remained unaffected in Jammu and Kashmir on Independence Day which is being celebrated in the Valley in a relaxed atmosphere, officials said Sunday.Torrential rain lashes Japan, three feared dead after landslideTorrential rain lashed much of Japan on Sunday, submerging roads and buildings in the western part of the country, while three people were feared dead after a landslide in central Nagano prefecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-15-2021-101629002533818.html
15-08-2021||India||National Education Policy a means to fight poverty: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is a means to “fight poverty” as it encourages teaching in mother tongue and meets the needs of the 21st century. The NEP, which was approved by the Union cabinet in July last year, recommends imparting early education in regional languages or mother tongue. While addressing the country on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Prime Minister said, “When our poor daughters and sons will become professionals after studying in their mother tongue then only justice will be done to their abilities. I consider NEP a means to fight against poverty.”He said the NEP has a special feature under which sports have been made a part of mainstream education instead of extracurricular. “Sports are also one of the most effective means to move forward in life,” Modi said.Earlier in April, the Prime Minister had said that the NEP frees and empowers students to participate in national development and is futuristic as per global standards.On August 12, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that the government was working to create synergy between education and skills as envisioned in the NEP 2020, for making a future-ready workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-education-policy-a-means-to-fight-poverty-pm-narendra-modi-101629002478031.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi announces Gatishakti plan, says will help in holistic infra growth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced a ₹100 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Master Plan, which he said will create employment opportunities for the country's youth and help in a holistic infrastructure growth while addressing the nation on its 75th Independence Day. "In the coming days, we will launch the PM Gatishakti Plan, a 100 lakh crore national infrastructure master plan, which will make a foundation for holistic infrastructure and give an integrated pathway to our economy," PM Modi announced from the Red Fort.It will create jobs and new opportunities and bring in employment opportunities for the youth, he added. "Gatishakti will help local manufacturers turn globally competitive and also develop possibilities of new future economic zones. The ₹100 lakh crore Gatishakti initiative will bring employment opportunities for youth and help in holistic infrastructure growth," PM Modi said.PM Modi said that along with modern infrastructure, India needs to adopt a holistic approach to infrastructure construction. "We will have to work together for manufacturing world-class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new-age technology," the Prime Minister said in his Independence Day speech.Also watch: PM Modi hoists national flag at Red Fort on India’s 75th Independence day
15-08-2021||India||Now is the time to change the world and transform ourselves as citizens: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on the 75th Independence Day on Sunday from the ramparts of the Red Fort recounted the struggles of India’s freedom fighters.He remembered the contributions of icons such as Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Laxmi Bai, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel in attaining India freedom from British rule.Lauding the youth of the nation, PM Modi then made a special mention to the medallist of the Tokyo Olympics who were present at the courtyard of the Red Fort. “Not only have the athletes won our hearts but have sown the seeds to inspire the generations to come," he said.PM Modi then said August 14 would from now onward be observed as the ‘Bhibhajan Bibhishikha Divas’ (Partition Horrors Remembrance Day) in memory of the pain and sufferings faced by the people of India during the Partition in 1947.The Prime Minister spoke on India’s efforts to vaccinate its people against the coronavirus disease and lauded the scientists for their contribution.“We are proud of the fact that we didn’t have to depend on any other country for Covid-19 vaccines. Imagine what would have happened if India didn’t have its own vaccine,” PM Modi asked as he highlighted that India has the largest vaccination programme in the world.“CoWin portal has been an example for the world. We have already vaccinated more than 54 crore people against Covid-19, and this was possible because our scientists made sure that we don't rely on anyone," PM Modi said from the Red Fort, even as he lamented the deaths of people who succumbed to the viral disease.PM said that in the journey for India’s development, we don't have to limit our celebrations to 'Amrit Mahotsav' but the country needs to ensure that we meet our goals when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence. “Our goal is to develop a nation where we not only have the world-class infrastructure but also move ahead with the idea of 'minimum government, maximum governance," PM Modi stressed.“The mission of the Amrit Kal is that no matter what the challenge is we should be ahead of the others,” PM Modi said, stressing that hard work and determination of the citizens that fuel India towards achieving its objective.“We don’t have to wait for so long. We can start now, without wasting time. Now is the time, to change the world and transform us as a citizen,” PM Modi said.Modi gave a call for ‘Sabka Prayas’ along with ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ for thee growth of the country. "A time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey. 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas'. Now, 'Sabka Prayas' is important for the achievement of all our goals," Modi added.Modi outlined the development schemes running in India, PM Modi said the Centre’s aim is to reach every section of the society."Benefits of many schemes that started in the last 7 years have reached the doorsteps of crores of poor. From Ujjwala to Ayushman Bharat, the poor of the nation knows the strength of their scheme. Today, the central schemes have picked up the pace and are reaching their goals,” the Prime Minister said, highlighting that India gave free ration to 80 crore people amid the Covid-19 pandemic.PM Modi stressed the need to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities. He added that as many as 4.5 crore people have access to piped drinking water within two years of India launching its ‘Har Ghar Jal’ mission as he said, “It is important to utilise the capabilities of India to its maximum potential to take it to new heights, in the 21st century. In order for us to achieve this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind and the area that needs attention. We have to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities.”Saying that development should be inclusive, the Prime Minister said from eastern India, the northeast to the Himalayan region and the coastal belt or the tribal region would become a ‘big base for India’s development' in the future.Laying stress on the connectivity of heart and infrastructure, Modi said that the work on connecting all the state capitals of the northeast with rail links to Bangladesh, Myanmar and parts of southeast Asia was underway.The Prime Minister also said that medicine underwent a massive transformation and that the Centre's Ayushman Bharat made it possible for the people from the economically weaker section to gain access to quality and affordable healthcare.Modi called for the citizens to utilise India's full capabilities to take it to new heights as he outlined the government's move to give reservations for people from Dalit, backward classes, tribal communities as well as economically weak sections of the general category. He also highlighted that reservation has been granted to the OBCs in medical education recently.Shifting his focus on Jammu and Kashmir next, the Prime Minister said a delimitation commission was set for the northern Union territory and preparation were on hold assembly elections there soon. He said Indus Central University would make Ladakh a seat of higher education.On the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day, the Prime Minister said villages too would churn out digital entrepreneurs soon as they take a leap of development. “Until a few years ago, many villages did not have facilities like road and electricity. Today the optical fibre network is powering internet to villages,” he said.Modi also announced the Centre's proposal to launch Pradhan Mantri Gatishakati Master Plan, a ₹100 crore initiative to facilitate employment opportunities for the youth and aid local manufacturers. He also laid stress on fortifying digital platforms to connect rural women self-help groups to the world.The Prime Minister also announced that girl students would be able to take admissions in Sainik schools across the country. “Our daughters are performing exceptionally well today, whether in areas of education or sports and achieving stellar results in board exams and Olympics. It is a matter of pride for the country,” he said.He encouraged the students to take up sports from their childhood. "There was a time when sports wasn't considered a part of the mainstream. Parents used to tell children that they would spoil their life if they kept playing. Now, awareness regarding sports and fitness is growing. We have seen the results at the Tokyo Olympics this time," Modi said during his address to the nation from the Red Fort.Acknowledging that malnutrition and lack of micronutrients are affecting the growth of children from an impoverished background, the Prime Minister said his government would fortify the rice distributed to the poor through different schemes such as midday meals or public distribution shops with an aim to address the problem of malnutrition by 2024.PM Modi said India needs good and smart governance to implement reforms. "Political will is required to bring in big changes and reforms. The world now knows that there is no lack of political will in India for reforms," he said, adding, “Today the world is also a witness to how India is writing a new chapter of governance.”The Prime Minister said for India to progress, “energy independence is the need of the hour”, as he took the pledge to make the country energy independent by 2047 — when India celebrates its 100th year of freedom — through a mix of electric mobility, gas-based economy, doping ethanol in petrol to make the country a hub for hydrogen production.He also said the country aims to become a net-zero carbon emitter by 2030 and highlighted that work was underway for 100% electrification of Indian Railways.The Prime Minister concluded his speech by saying India was fighting the  challenges of terrorism and expansionism and dealing with them with great courage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-red-fort-prime-minister-narendra-modi-speech-highlights-101628989907977.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day: From dais of Red Fort, PM Modi makes several key announcements||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made several major announcements as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. Also Read | PM Modi pitches for a 100 per cent India, reiterates ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’Here's a look at some key announcements made by PM Modi in his I-day address, his eighth consecutive national address on August 15:
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi coins new mantra, adds Sabka Prayas to Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for a 100 per cent India and said it is essential to fully utilise the country’s capabilities to take it to new heights in the 21st century as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort in Delhi marking the 75th year of Independence. The Prime Minister added, “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas and Sabka Prayaas is very important for the achievement of all our goals." “Now we have to move towards making 100 per cent efforts. We have to make sure that 100 per cent of villages have roads, 100 per cent of households have a bank account, 100 per cent of beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat cards and 100 per cent of eligible people should have a gas connection under the Ujjwala scheme,” PM Modi said as he delivered his customary address to the nation.“A time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation. “For this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind, the area that is lagging behind,” he added.'Pride in Made in India'India will have to increase both its manufacturing and exports moving forward on the path of development, PM Modi said as he talked about the launch of the country’s first indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant for trials at sea. “That's why I tell the manufacturers that your every product is the brand ambassador of India. As long as that product is in use, the buyer will say - yes it is made in India,” he said."All the manufacturers of the country also have to understand that the product you send out is not just a product made in your company. India's identity is associated with it, prestige is attached, trust of many people of India is attached,” he added.Small farmers, villagesIn the coming years, we will have to increase the collective power of the small farmers of the country. “We have to give them new facilities. They must become the country's pride,” he said.“More than 80 per cent of the country’s farmers have less than 2 hectares of land. In the earlier policies that were made in the country, the focus on these small farmers was left. Now decisions are being taken keeping these small farmers in mind,” he said.Also watch | PM Modi hoists national flag at Red Fort on India’s 75th Independence dayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for a 100 per cent India and said it is essential to fully utilise the country’s capabilities to take it to new heights in the 21st century as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort in Delhi marking the 75th year of Independence. “Now we have to move towards making 100 per cent efforts. We have to make sure that 100 per cent of villages have roads, 100 per cent of households have a bank account, 100 per cent of beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat cards and 100 per cent of eligible people should have a gas connection under the Ujjwala scheme,” PM Modi said as he delivered his customary address to the nation.“A time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation. “For this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind, the area that is lagging behind,” he added.Small farmers, villagesIn the coming years, we will have to increase the collective power of the small farmers of the country. “We have to give them new facilities. They must become the country's pride,” he said.“More than 80 per cent of the country’s farmers have less than 2 hectares of land. In the earlier policies that were made in the country, the focus on these small farmers was left. Now decisions are being taken keeping these small farmers in mind,” he said.Also watch | PM Modi hoists national flag at Red Fort on India’s 75th Independence day|#+|He said the country’s villages are changing rapidly. “In past few years, facilities like road and electricity have reached villages. Today, the optical fibre network is providing the power of data to villages, the internet is reaching there. Digital entrepreneurs are getting ready in villages as well, “ he added.There are more than 80 million in the village who are associated with self-help groups and they make more than one product, the Prime Minister pointed out. “Now the government will prepare an e-commerce platform for their products to get a big market in the country and abroad,” he announced.Olympians, freedom fightersPM Modi began his speech by praising India’s athletes who took part in the Tokyo Olympics, freedom fighters and all those who helped the country in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after he unfurled the national flag. “I would like to begin by conveying greetings on this special occasion of Independence Day. This is a day to remember our great freedom fighters,” PM Modi said. “The athletes who have made us proud at Tokyo Olympics are here amongst us today. I urge the nation to applaud their achievement today. They have not only won our hearts but also inspired future generations,” PM Modi said.Watch Live: PM Modi addresses the nation on 75th Independence DayThe Prime Minister paid tribute to all the leaders who fought for India's Independence. "Be it Nehru ji, the first prime minister of India, Sardar Patel, who turned the country into a united nation, or Babasaheb Ambedkar, who showed India the way to the future, the country is remembering every such personality, the country is indebted to all of them".'New energy and new consciousness'In the morning, PM Modi extended his greetings on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. "Greetings to you all on Independence Day. May this year of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' infuse new energy and new consciousness among the countrymen. Jai Hind!" PM Modi tweeted.Lieutenant Commander P Priyambada Sahoo assisted PM Modi as he hosted the tricolour as the ceremony was synchronised with a 21-gun salute fired by gunners of the 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial).Also read | Happy Independence Day: Joe Biden lauds India on its 75th year of freedomIndian Air Force (IAF) Mi-17 V5 helicopters showered petals on the venue as PM Modi hoisted the tricolour. They made an appearance at the Independence Day celebrations after a gap of 24 years. IAF’s Su-30s, Mi-8s and the Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team took part in the 1997 celebrations to mark the 50th Independence Day.Also read | ‘Happy Independence Day, India!’: Google honours dance forms with unique doodleJavelin star Subedar Neeraj Chopra, who won India’s first gold medal in track and field at the Tokyo Olympics, was among the around 240 Olympians, support staff and SAI and sports federation officials were present on the Gyan Path in front of the Red Fort. In Tokyo Olympics 2020, India recorded its best-ever medal haul by winning seven medals - one gold, two silver and four bronze. PM Modi inspected the customary guard of honour at the Red Fort before hoisting the flag. He was then greeted by defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General MM Naravane, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-75th-independence-day-pm-modi-coins-new-mantra-adds-sabka-prayas-to-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-101628991997543.html
15-08-2021||India||Happy Independence Day: Joe Biden lauds India on its 75th year of freedom||US President Joe Biden congratulated India on Sunday as it celebrated the 75th year of its Independence and lauded the biggest democracy in the world.“On this day, August 15, 1947, India achieved its long journey toward independence, guided by Mahatma Gandhi’s message of truth and non-violence. Today, that foundational commitment to respecting the will of the people through democracy continues to inspire the world and is the basis of the special bond between our two nations,” Joe Biden said in a statement.Biden said that over the decades, the ties between US citizens, including a vibrant community of more than four million Indian-Americans, have sustained and strengthened the partnership with India.Highlighting the India-US ties, President Biden said, “This past year, our nations have come together in new ways as we tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, including working in partnership with Japan and Australia—through the Quad—to expand global manufacturing of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines and to strengthen our last-mile coordination to reach people throughout the Indo-Pacific.”Joe Biden stressed that the partnership between India and the United States is more important than ever.“Together, we must show the world that our two great and diverse democracies can deliver for people everywhere. And as we do, the friendship between our nations will continue to flourish and grow. I wish all those celebrating today, in India, in the United States, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-independence-day-2021-joe-biden-india-us-ties-101628991760322.html
15-08-2021||India||‘Continues to inspire the world…’: Joe Biden's message to India on 75th Independence Day||US president Joe Biden issued a statement, congratulating India on its 75th Independence Day, stating that the country achieved its freedom, guided by Mahatma Gandhi's message of truth and non-violence. The statement, issued on Saturday on the eve of the Independence Day, further stated that this foundational commitment to respect the will of the people continues to inspire the world, and is the “basis of the special bond between our two nations.”Also Read | PM wishes India on I-Day, says ‘may this year bring new energy, consciousness’“Over the years, the ties between our people, including a vibrant community of more than four million Indian-Americans, have sustained and strengthened our partnership,” the statement read.Also Read | ‘Happy Independence Day, India!’: Google honours cultural traditions with unique doodlePresident Biden further mentioned that the United States and India have come together in new ways while tackling the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. “This includes working in Quad in partnership with Japan and Australia to expand global manufacturing of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines and strengthen our last-mile coordination to reach the people throughout the Indo-Pacific,” the statement noted, adding that the partnership between the US and India is “more important than ever in this moment of great challenges and opportunities.”Also Read | Independence Day 2021: Here's the list of 144 gallantry awards announcedThe US president further called upon both the countries to show the world that these two great and diverse democracies can deliver for people everywhere.  “the friendship between our nations will continue to flourish and grow. I wish all those celebrating in India, in the US, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day,” the statement concluded quoting president Biden as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/continues-to-inspire-world-joe-biden-congratulates-india-on-75th-independence-day-101628990841073.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day 2021: Watch live telecast of PM Modi's August 15 speech||India is celebrating the 75th Independence Day on Sunday to mark the country's freedom from nearly two centuries of British colonial rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be addressing the nation from the historic Red Fort in New Delhi, where he will also unfurl the national flag. The event will be accompanied by a series of programmes organised by the armed forces and the security officials to salute the tricolour with a guard of honour.Also Read | 75th Independence Day: History, significance and rare factsPrime Minister Modi's speech is expected to start around 7:30am. While there are many attending the event, others can watch the programmes from the comfort of their own homes, especially given the coronavirus pandemic.The Independence Day ceremony on August 15 will be broadcast live on the national channels of the All India Radio (AIR) in Hindi and in English, with patriotic and cultural programmes airing throughout the day. According to reports, the event will be covered by three multi-camera OB fans which provide a 360-degree panorama for the Red Fort broadcast.Also Read | Full text of President Ram Nath Kovind's Independence Day eve addressHere's how to watch the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Red Fort speech on 15th August:TelevisionThe Independence Day speech by PM Modi will be telecast live on Doordarshan's DD National or DD News television channels. The speech will also be telecast simultaneously on other private news channels in a variety of languages.DigitalIf you do not have access to a television network, fret not. The Prime Minister's Independence Day address, live from the Red Fort, will also be telecast on the official YouTube channels of Doordarshan and the Press Information Bureau (PIB). It can also be watched live on the PIB India Twitter account.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, extending his greetings to the citizens of India, said, "Greetings to you all on Independence Day. Wishing you all a very Happy 75th Independence Day. May this year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' infuse new energy and consciousness among the countrymen. Jai Hind!"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-independence-day-2021-how-to-watch-live-telecast-of-pm-modi-s-red-fort-speech-101628986907676.html
15-08-2021||India||PM wishes India on I-Day, says ‘may this year bring new energy, consciousness’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his greetings to the citizens of India as the country is observing the 75th Independence Day this year. "Greetings to you all on Independence Day. Wishing you all a very Happy 75th Independence Day. May this year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' infuse new energy and consciousness among the countrymen. Jai Hind!" PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi will lead the Independence Day celebrations from Red Fort in New Delhi as he will hoist the national flag and deliver the customary address to the nation from the ramparts of the 17th-century monument.Greetings to you all on Independence Day. आप सभी को 75वें स्वतंत्रता दिवस की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। आजादी के अमृत महोत्सव का यह वर्ष देशवासियों में नई ऊर्जा और नवचेतना का संचार करे। जय हिंद! #IndiaIndependenceDayAlso read | ‘Happy Independence Day, India!’: Google honours dance forms with unique doodleIndia is marking its 75th Independence Day as ''Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'' and the government is organising a series of events across the country.Security has been tightened in the national capital for the 75th Independence Day celebrations with counter-drone technology deployed in sensitive areas. Delhi Traffic Police have issued an advisory for the Independence Day function at Red Fort to ensure the safe and smooth flow of vehicles across the city.Also read | Independence Day 2021: Here's the list of 144 gallantry awards announcedMeanwhile, farmers have proposed a tractor parade in the Capital on Independence Day against the three farm laws. "Around 5,000 vehicles and 20,000 farmers will take part in the parade on Sunday. We are ready for the protest. Our protest is against the three farm laws. Women are leading this protest. We want to show the government that we are not broken. The protest is on," a farmer told ANI.Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said that they have sealed Delhi's borders and have been talking to farmers' leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-wishes-india-on-i-day-says-may-this-year-bring-new-energy-consciousness-101628988128425.html
15-08-2021||NA||Independence Day 2021 Highlights: Tricolour unfurled at INS Tabar which is deployed to Portsmouth in UK||75th Independence Day 2021: India is celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ on Sunday, marking the completion of a quarter to a century of freedom from British colonial rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag at the Red Fort in New Delhi this morning and addressed the nation. It was followed by a series of events organised by the armed forces and security personnel saluting the tricolour with a guard of honour.Follow all the updates here:Rashtrapati Bhavan, Parliament buildings in Delhi illuminated on occasion of Independence DayDelhi: Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block, South Block, and Parliament buildings illuminated on the occasion of 75th #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/fko95G9j1qOn the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block, South Block and the Parliament building in Delhi were illuminated, reports ANI. Watch: Beating retreat ceremony at Attari-Wagah border#WATCH | 75th Independence Day: Beating retreat takes place at Attari-Wagah border in Punjab pic.twitter.com/ULNfeDEHLrThe beating retreat ceremony took place at the Attari-Wagah border on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day.India's High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay hoisted the national flag at India House in ColomboIndia's High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay hoisted the national flag at India House in Colombo to celebrate 75th Independence Day.Ex-servicemen hold march at Singhu border on 75th Independence DayOn the occasion of 75th Independence Day, ex-servicemen on Sunday held a march at the Singhu border where protesting farmers are celebrating 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas'.DRDO's Counter Drone Technology installed to monitor Red Fort on Independence DayAdding to the security measures taken as part of India's Independence Day Celebrations on Sunday, a Counter Drone Technology developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was installed to monitor the Red Fort and its surrounding area.Tricolour unfurled at INS TabarTricolour unfurled at INS Tabar which is deployed to Portsmouth in the UK on the occasion of 75th IndependenceDayCorporators in Srinagar hoist national flag at Zero BridgeCorporators in Kashmir on Sunday hoisted the national flag at Zero Bridge in the city on the 75th Independence Day.Team India hoist flag ahead of Day 4 of Lord's TestBefore the start of Day 4 of the ongoing Lord's Test against England, Team India hoisted the tri-colour as the country celebrates its 75th Independence Day.Nitish Kumar hoists Tricolour for 15th time, creates history in BiharHoisting the Tricolour for the 15th time on the occasion of Independence Day, Nitish Kumar on Sunday became the only chief minister of Bihar to have achieved the feat.BRO hoists the national flag at the world’s highest motorable pass Umling LaBorder Roads Organisation (BRO) hoists the national flag at the world’s highest motorable pass Umling La in Ladakh.Mumbai: AAP celebrates I-Day with march and 'cap of honesty'The Aam Aadmi Party's Mumbai unit took out a march from suburban Bandra to Juhu on the country's 75th Independence Day on Sunday with the party workers carrying a huge national flag and wearing the "cap of honesty".We aim to install 500 such National flags till Republic Day across the Capital: Arvind KejriwalWe aim to install 500 such National flags till Republic Day across the Capital, this will inculcate the feeling of patriotism among people: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Members of Parliament's Public Accounts Committee celebrated 75th Independence Day with Army personnel in SrinagarMembers of Parliament's Public Accounts Committee, who are on a 4-day visit to Kashmir and Ladakh to review facilities being provided to Indian troops in mountainous areas, celebrated 75th Independence Day with Army personnel in Srinagar.Bengal Governor urges people to take oath to uphold human rightsWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday hoisted the national flag on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day and urged people to take an oath to uphold human rights.BSF exchanges sweets with Bangladesh forces on 75th Independence DayBorder Securiy Forces exchanges sweets with Bangladesh forces on 75th Independence Day.Russia's president Vladimir Putin greets India on 75th Independence DayThe success achieved by India in economic, social & other spheres is widely acknowledged. Your country rightfully enjoys high prestige in global arena and plays an important role in solving topical issues of international agenda: Russian President Vladimir Putin#IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/Bxk5cZxa7OPresident Kovind pays tribute at National War MemorialPresident Ram Nath Kovind visited the National War Memorial and paid homage to the martyrs who made supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. On the occasion of 75th Independence Day, a grateful nation salutes its brave soldiers. pic.twitter.com/eGqE61QGRiPresident Ram Nath Kovind paid tribute at the National War Memorial on Independence Day. The defence minister, the three service chiefs, and the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) were also present.DRDO's anti-drone system deployed near Red Fort for protectionDelhi | DRDO’s anti-drone system deployed today near the Red Fort on Independence Day to provide protection against any drone activity there pic.twitter.com/unoDVAQDmfNeed to prepare for 70 Olympic medals: KejriwalCongratulations to Olympic medal winners, need to prepare for 70 medals now: KejriwalOther governments are following Delhi model of governance: Kejriwal“Delhi has given a model of governance to the country with kind of innovations and ideas being brought to the table,” Kejriwal said. As an example, the Delhi chief minister highlighted that Goa has made 16,000 litres of water free to every family. “Now other governments are thinking of providing free electricity, like the model we have in Delhi,” he said.Arvind Kejriwal announces ‘Deshbhakt Curriculum’ in Delhi govt schools  from September 27Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hoisted the national flag at the Secretariat Building on Independence Day and announced 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' in Delhi government schools from September 27 as a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. “Our curriculum teaches physics, chemistry but not patriotism,” he said. “This 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' will instil patriotic values in our children.”West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hoists national flag at Red Road in KolkataWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hoists the National Flag at Red Road in Kolkata on 75th Independence Day pic.twitter.com/IhOpHgwJ9mCongress chief Sonia Gandhi hoists national flag in New DelhiCongress president Sonia Gandhi hoists the national flag at party headquarters in Delhi; Rahul Gandhi also present. pic.twitter.com/ClldZCpseCLok Sabha speaker Om Birla hoists national flag in New DelhiLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla hoists the National Flag on Independence Day, says, “We attained Independence after a long struggle, now we are working towards becoming a 'New India' as we celebrate 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' this year.”BJP chief JP Nadda hoists national flag in DelhiDelhi: BJP national president JP Nadda hoists the national flag at party headquarters.#IndependenceDay2021 pic.twitter.com/uIGEOixDxlI wish all citizens of the country on behalf of my party. I pray to the Almighty for the happiness of the society, that there be happiness everywhere in the country and the world, and India leaps forward towards development: BJP national president JP NaddaChhattisgarh CM announces 4 new districts, 29 new tehsilsAt the public address on Independence Day, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced four new districts - Mohla Manpur, Sarangarh-Bilaigarh, Shakti, Manendragarh, and 29 new tehsils in the state.Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb hoists national flag to mark Independence DayTripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb hoists the national flag to mark #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/MaaDVnW2G7Watch: How PM Modi honoured Olympians at Red Fort on 75th Independence Day festPrime Minister Narendra Modi lauded India’s athletes who took part in the Tokyo Olympics. “The athletes who have made us proud at Tokyo Olympics are here amongst us today. I urge the nation to applaud their achievement today. They have not only won our hearts but also inspired future generations,” PM Modi said.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray hoists national flag at the state Secretariat in MumbaiMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray hoists the National Flag at the state Secretariat in Mumbai pic.twitter.com/ZOONjWyIzcChhattisgarh CM hoists national flag at police parade ground in Raipur Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel hoists the National Flag at Police Parade Ground in Raipur, extends his wishes on 75 years of India's Independence. pic.twitter.com/qKjrAIHtEuNavy warships commence Independence Day celebrationsMission Deployed warships of the Indian Navy in the far East, INS Ranvijay & INS Kora mark the commencement of the celebrations of 75th Independence Day pic.twitter.com/JMBPWPhM9mMission Deployed warships of the Indian Navy in the far East, INS Ranvijay & INS Kora mark the commencement of the celebrations of 75th Independence DayPrime Minister Narendra Modi greets Olympic athletesDelhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi greets the Indian contingent that participated in #TokyoOlympics and NCC cadets, who participated in #IndependenceDay2021 celebrations at the Red Fort. pic.twitter.com/cCE4e5PQjEPrime Minister Narendra Modi greeted Olympic athletes after concluding his Independence Day speech at the Red Fort in New Delhi. This was India's best showing at the multi-sports event yet, with seven medals including a gold from javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra.PM Modi concludes Independence Speech at Red Fort, says ‘now is the time for change’Delhi | Prime Minister Narendra Modi concludes his address to the nation on the 75th Independence Day at Red Fort pic.twitter.com/J7yX7x8DvtPrime Minister Narendra Modi concluded his 15th August speech at Red Fort in New Delhi. He said, “Our youth is the 'Can Do' Generation, and they can achieve everything they set their mind to.”“Our actions today will determine our future. Our today will set the theme of our 100 years of India's Independence,” he said.'Won't leave any stone unturned to strengthen the country's armed forces': PMIndia is not only dealing with terrorism but also expansionism. I want to assure our citizens that we will leave no stone unturned in supporting our armed forces: PMPM Modi announces National Hydrogen Mission in view of climate changeToday, I am announcing the National Hydrogen Mission in view of climate change. We have to make India a hub for production and export of Green Hydrogen: Prime Minister Narendra Modi pic.twitter.com/jWcaSdEW3GGreen Hydrogen is the future of the world. Today, I announce the setting up of the National Hydrogen Mission with the aim of becoming the new global hub of Green Hydrogen, and also its largest exporter: PMIndia is the only nation that is on the path to meeting its climate goals: ModiIndia is the only nation that is on the path to meeting its climate goals. It is not energy independent. It spends over Rs. 12 lakh crore on importing energy. As we celebrate 75 years of Independence, we have to ensure that India becomes #aatmanirbhar in energy production too. The world believes in India's leadership in environmental issues and International Solar Alliance is an example of that: PM Modi‘Every Sainik school in India will now be open to women’: PM ModiIn a move towards strengthening Beti Bachao Beti Padhao initiative, our daughters will now be able to study in Sainik schools too. Today, be it education or Olympics our daughters are performing tremendously. We have to ensure that they get equal opportunities and they feel safe and respected: PM ModiNEP to focus on teaching in regional languages: PM ModiNational Education Policy will also focus on encouraging teaching in regional languages. When students will learn their lessons in a language that is close to their hearts, it will surely give them new founded confidence: PM‘People-centric approach’ in bureaucracy: PM ModiTo introduce people-centric approach in Bureaucracy, we have started Mission Karmayogi & Capacity Building programme: PM ModiIndia writing new chapter in governance: PM ModiWe have to stop the over-involvement of government in the form of complex policies. Today, we have destroyed over 15,000 unnecessary compliances. Political will is required to bring in big changes, big reforms. Today, the world can see that there is no dearth of political will in India. Good and smart governance is needed to bring reforms. The world is a witness to how India is writing a new chapter of governance: PM ModiWe will launch ₹100 lakh crore PM Gati Shakti Plan soon: ModiIn the coming days, we will launch PM Gati Shakti Plan, a 100 lakh crore national infrastructure master plan which will make a foundation for holistic infrastructure and give an integrated pathway to our economy: PM Modi at Red FortIndia must focus on manufacturing and export: PM ModiTo further increase our developmental progress, we have to focus on our manufacturing and export. I call upon manufacturers and say that each and every one of your product is India's ‘brand ambassador’: PMOver 75,000 Health & Wellness Centres have been built at block level: PM ModiUnder the Jan Ausadhi Yojana, the poor and needy are now getting affordable medicines. Over 75,000 Health & Wellness Centres have been built and we are working on a network of hospitals at the block level: PM75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav'We have pledged to celebrate 75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav’, starting 12 March 2021, till 15 August 2023. Indian Railways is also being transformed rapidly as the nation progresses towards ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. The country has resolved that 75 Vande Bharat trains will be connecting every corner of the country in 75 weeks of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence: PM ModiDrones helping rural citizens map their land: PM ModiSVAMITVA Yojna is transforming the lives in rural India. Drone is helping our rural citizens map their land and apply for various schemes/loans online: PMPM Modi calls for welfare of ‘small farmers’, says they must become India's prideWe have to deal with the fact that our farmers now have less land to cultivate on. More than 80% of our farmers have less than 2 hectares of land. We have to focus on helping our small farmers. We have to give maximum benefits of the government's schemes to them; be it through DBT or Krishi Rail: PM Modi“The government is now focusing on thewelfare of small farmers,” he said. “10 Crore farmer families have directly received over ₹1.5 lakh crore in their bank accounts.”We have awakened the aspirations of districts left behind earlier: PM ModiPriority is being given to schemes related to education, health, nutrition, roads, employment, in over 110 aspirational districts of the country. Many of these districts are in tribal areas: PM ModiIndia to launch e-commerce platform to connect village artisans with the world: PM ModiThe government will be launching an e-commerce platform to connect village artisans with the world, said PM Modi. “We are witnessing a new phase in the developmental journey of our villages. It not only has electricity and water but also nurturing digital entrepreneurs,” he said.Development should be inclusive: PM ModiDevelopment should be inclusive. The Northeast region, the Himalayan region including Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, the coastal belt, and tribal regions will make a foundation for India's development in the future. Ladakh is witnessing a new transformative phase where the government is focusing on building world-class infrastructure. PM calls for bringing out the potential in northeast IndiaWe have to bring out the potential of our North East and give them equal opportunities in this developmental journey of our nation: PM ModiRice available through every scheme will be fortified by 2024: PM ModiBe it rice available at ration shop, rice available in mid-day meal, rice available through every scheme will be fortified by the year 2024: PMOBC bill will provide reservation to the backward classes of our country: PMIt is essential to fully utilise the capabilities of India to take it to new heights, in the 21st century. For this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind, the area that is lagging behind. To take India to newer heights, our government has passed the OBC bill. It will provide reservation to the backward classes of our country: PMPM Modi pitches for ‘100 per cent’ IndiaNow, we have to move even further. 100% villages should have roads, 100% households should have a bank account, 100% beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat card, 100% eligible persons should have gas connection under Ujjwala scheme: PM ModiToday marks a milestone in India's development journey: PM ModiA time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end, when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey: PM Narendra Modi‘Minimum government, maximum governance’, says PM ModiOur goal is to develop a nation where we not only have the world-class infrastructure but also move ahead with the mantra of ‘Minimum government, maximum governance’. In this Bharat ki Vikas Yatra, we don't have to limit our celebrations to Amrit Mahotsav but ensure that we meet our goals when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence: PM ModiPM lauds India's Covid-19 effortsIndians have fought this battle (Covid-19) with a lot of patience. We had many challenges but we worked with extraordinary pace in every area. It's a result of strength of our industrialists & scientists, that today India doesn't need to depend on any other nation for vaccinesOn Covid-19, PM says 'unbearable pain will remain with us'After all our efforts we also lost many in this fight against Covid-19. This unbearable pain will always remain with us: PMPartition's pains can never be forgottenPartition’s pains can never be forgotten. Yesterday we took an emotional decision of marking 14th August as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’: PM ModiPM Modi begins his address, recalls freedom fightersI convey my greetings on this special occasion of Independence Day. This is a day to remember our great freedom fighters: PM Modi at Red FortPM Modi hoists national flag from Red FortPrime Minister Narendra Modi hoists the National Flag from the ramparts of Red Fort to celebrate the 75th Independence Day pic.twitter.com/0c3tZ6HQ3XPM Modi at Red Fort, inspects guard of honourThe Prime Minister arrived at the Red Fort in New Delhi and inspected the guard of honour organised by the armed forces.PM Modi's motorcade arrives at Red FortPrime Minister Narendra Modi's motorcade arrived at the historic Red Fort in New Delhi.  PM Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat, making his way to Red Fort for flag hoistingDelhi | PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat on the 75th Independence Day(Photo source: DD News) pic.twitter.com/n9sybFSV1fPrime Minister Narendra Modi paid his tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, at Rajghat on 75th Independence Day. He is making his way to the Red Fort for the national flag hosting in a matter of minutes. The live telecast can be watched here.This is PM Modi's 8th speech from the Red Fort: Every I-Day address from 2014-2020 was longer than one hourOn the occasion of Independence Day last year, Prime Minister Modi addressed the nation for 86 minutes. It was his third-longest speech. He spoke for 93 minutes in 2019 and In 2016, the Prime Minister addressed the nation for 96 minutes, his longest speech ever.Prime Minister Modi has spoken for a total of 9 hours and 24 minutes from the Red Fort in his seven years from 2014 to 2020.Rajnath Singh hoists national flag at his Delhi residenceDefence Minister Rajnath Singh hoists the national flag on the 75th #IndependenceDay at his residence in Delhi pic.twitter.com/Uql4S1r3gDOn the occasion of 75th Independence Day 2021, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh hoisted the national flag from residence in New Delhi Independence Day programme begins at Red Fort, National Flag Guard arrivesThe National Flag Guard, with five officers and 130 men from the Indian Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and also the Delhi Police, has arrived.Mi-17 choppers, Neeraj Chopra to be highlight of I-Day celebrationsIndian Air Force (IAF) helicopters are set to make an appearance at the Independence Day celebrations on Sunday after a gap of 24 years. Two Mi-17 V5 helicopters will shower petals on the venue as Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoists the national flag. Read MoreUS greets India on 75th Independence DayExtending wishes on the occasion of India's Independence Day, US President Joe Biden said that New Delhi and Washington must show the world that the "two great and diverse democracies" can deliver for people everywhere.In a statement, Biden said: "I wish all those celebrating today, in India, in the United States, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day". Read More75th Independence Day 2021: Watch live telecast of PM Modi's August 15 speechIndia is celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ on Sunday, a day that marks the 75th Independence Day 2021 for the country from nearly two centuries of British colonial rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be addressing the nation from the historic Red Fort in New Delhi. The event begins at 6:30am.Here's how to watch the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Red Fort speech on 15th August.Prime Minister Narendra Modi greets India on Independence DayGreetings to you all on Independence Day. आप सभी को 75वें स्वतंत्रता दिवस की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। आजादी के अमृत महोत्सव का यह वर्ष देशवासियों में नई ऊर्जा और नवचेतना का संचार करे। जय हिंद! #IndiaIndependenceDayPrime Minister Narendra Modi said: “Wishing you all a very happy 75th Independence Day! May this year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' bring new energy and consciousness among the citizens of the country.” Read MoreIndia felt proud because of me, it's a good feeling: Olympic gold medallist Neeraj ChopraNeeraj Chopra, India's gold-winner at the Olympics, says: “Earlier, we used to watch it (the flag hoisting ceremony) on TV, and now we are personally going there. It is a new experience. We hadn't won a gold medal in individual sports for so long. I felt good that the country felt proud because of me.”Olympic athletes leave for flag hoisting event at Red FortDelhi | Indian Olympic athletes leave from Ashoka Hotel for the national flag hoisting ceremony at Red Fort on India's 75th #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/skfNwWtB54||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-live-updates-prime-minister-narendra-modi-speech-red-fort-15th-august-2021-101628985533983.html
15-08-2021||India||More than 15 million Indians upload anthem videos to mark I-Day: Centre||More than 15 million Indians from the country and across the world have recorded and uploaded their videos of singing the national anthem, ahead of the 75th Independence Day on Sunday, the Union ministry of culture said in a statement.As India is celebrating “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”, the culture ministry launched a unique programme to invite the people to sing the national anthem and upload the video on a government website.Also Read| 20 ITBP troopers get medals for bravery during Galwan clash“Eminent artists, well-known scholars, top leaders, senior officers, brave soldiers, famous sportsmen to farmers, labourers, people with special needs, everyone came together and sang the National Anthem in one voice. From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, from Arunachal Pradesh to Kutch, the voices singing Jana Gana Mana were reverberating from all directions. Our countrymen living outside India also participated with passion and fervour and proved once again that that their heart is always settled in this land of India,” the ministry said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-15-million-indians-upload-anthem-videos-to-mark-i-day-centre-101628983833552.html
15-08-2021||India||A day after Goa protest, Navy hoists flag||The Indian Navy on Saturday unfurled the national flag at South Goa’s Sao Jacinto island, a day after a “slight misunderstanding” with local residents prompted it to cancel the event.The flag hoisting was done as part of the ministry of defence’s initiative under the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” to commemorate 75 years of Independence. On Friday, the spokesperson of the Navy’s INS Hansa base near Dabolim said a team from the Goa Naval Area had visited the islands of the state, including Sao Jacinto. “However, the plan had to be cancelled due to the objection by local residents.”It prompted CM Pramod Sawant issue a warning to them that “anti-India activities” would be dealt with an “iron fist”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aday-after-goa-protest-navy-hoists-flag-101628976791952.html
15-08-2021||India||Odisha CID to probe mysterious death of forest official||A month after the mysterious death of a young forest official of Odisha in his residential quarters in the presence of his wife, the state CID on Saturday formally took over the probe with a 3-member team starting its investigation.Additional DG of CID, Sanjeeb Panda said the agency has already started its probe under the leadership of a Dy SP and is being assisted by a technical team.On July 12, assistant conservator of forests of Paralakhemundi in Gajapati district, Soumya Ranjan Mohapatra had sustained 95 per cent burns at his official quarters while he was reportedly burning old newspapers and some papers. His wife Bidya Bharati, who was present in the next room, has been named as one of the accused with the divisional forest officer Sangram Behera. Mohapatra, an Odisha Forest Service officer of 2020 batch, was rushed to MKCG Medical College and hospital in Berhampur town from where he was shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital of Cuttack. He succumbed to his burn injuries on July 13.Mohapatra’s father Abhiram has accused DFO Sangram Behera and his daughter-in-law Bidya Bharati Panda of having hatched a conspiracy that led to the death of his son. He also alleged that his daughter-in-law and the DFO were in a relationship.Though the autopsy report of Mohapatra said his death was due to 95% burn injuries, it was not conclusive. The lawyer for Mohapatra’s father alleged that the doctor who conducted the autopsy committed several procedural irregularities and should be brought under probe by CID.“In cases of alleged homicide, the usual practice is to preserve the viscera for further chemical analysis at the state forensic laboratory. This was not done in the case of Soumya Ranjan’s death. Besides, the forensic doctor in his autopsy report has not indicated the parts of the body that were burnt through a diagram as is the standard practice. This is going to be a major medico-legal hurdle during trial of the case,” said Partha Sarathi Nayak, Mohapatra’s lawyer.The lawyer said the local police team that probed the case insisted that the ACF’s residence was the crime spot, while there was no trace of fire when his family members visited the house following the incident. It is possible that he was drugged and then burnt to death elsewhere, he alleged.Earlier, the father of the deceased had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home affairs minister Amit Shah complaining against the tardy pace of investigation by local police. “Paralakhemundi police have been beating around the bush for so many days. An unfair and biased probe which is underway has made the incident murkier. Moreover, the DFO who is also a suspect in the case has not been transferred elsewhere, thereby influencing the probe,” he had complained.Last month, an NGO had petitioned the Orissa High Court seeking a CBI probe into the death of Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cid-to-probe-mysterious-death-of-forest-official-101628969165541.html
15-08-2021||India||If CPM can’t protest against BJP, then let workers join TMC: Bratya Basu in Tripura||Criticizing the Tripura CPM for not protesting against the BJP, Trinamool Congress on Saturday urged the political party that they should allow their workers to join the latter if they cannot take their protest to the streets. “As per my experience, BJP is resorting to violence in both West Bengal and Tripura. People need shelter from the terror. When we came here, we were harassed and booked. But CPM is not seen protesting against the BJP. If you can’t come to the streets then let your activists join us,” West Bengal minister Bratya Basu told the media in Agartala. Along with Basu, parliamentarians including Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, Arpita Ghosh, Dr. Santanu Sen and others were also present. Basu claimed that many leaders from the Congress and BJP are in regular touch with them and expected that many more people from different parties would join them soon. “We are focusing on strengthening our organization rather than choosing the face of our unit here. Our party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will take the final call,” said Basu. A day earlier, 30 activists from different political parties including the Tripura Youth Congress working president joined the party headed by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The Trinamool Congress started its journey in Tripura in 1999 with former chief minister Sudhir Majumder. Reacting to Basu’s statement, CPM secretary Goutam Das said that the TMC should not forget that their six legislators, who later switched over to BJP few months before the last Assembly polls, had engineered the poll results in 2018.“We are very much in the field and that’s why our party activists and leaders are facing the heat of violence triggered by BJP. The Trinamool Congress is making baseless comments to get support in the state,” said Das. The Left Front earlier said that they were sufficient to uproot BJP from the state. Abhishek Banerjee, during his visit to the state earlier this month, said that Tripura is their bird’s eye and they would form their government in the state in 2023 assembly polls. TMC bagged 0.30 per cent vote share in the state assembly polls in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-cpm-can-t-protest-against-bjp-then-let-workers-join-tmc-bratya-basu-in-tripura-101628968213303.html
15-08-2021||India||How Tulu cinema came out of shadows to script identity||Y V Rao’s film Sati Sulochana in 1934 marked the emergence of the Kannada film industry, and what followed was discoveries of big stars like Dr Raj Kumar over the next few decades. However, for a relatively less-spoken Tulu, the wait for a movie in their language was long. While local folk art and theatre kept them entertained, Kannada movies were their only option on the theatre screen. Until in 1971, when the first Tulu movie ‘Enna Thangadi’ (my sister) was released at Mangaluru’s iconic Jyothi Talkies. This year, even though muted by the pandemic, the Tulu industry celebrates 50 years of existence. Spoken by over 1.8 million people, Tulu is prevalent in the Tulunadu region consisting of coastal Karnataka and some parts of Kerala. According to the Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger, published by Unesco, Tulu is now considered a vulnerable language. In the fight for language recognition, the cinema has been a pillar of strength. The idea of making Tulu cinema was the result of government policy to promote regional movies. The government announced a subsidy of ₹50,000 for those interested in making movies in the late 60s. Producer and director SR Rajan,, who had made Kannada movies in the past, saw this as an opportunity and made the Enna Thangadi. Veteran artist VG Pal said that even though Enna Thangadi was the first movie to be released in Tulu, another movie – Dareda Budedi -- was made before it but was released a month later. According to Pal, even though colour films were being made in the 1970s since the processing technology was not easily available, initial Tulu movies were made in black and white. “In those days, Madras (Chennai) was the hub of film processing and development. For most of the filmmakers travelling to Madras was a costly affair,” he recollected. Kariyani Kattandi Kandani, the first Tulu colour film was released in 1985. Within a year of making the first Tulu movie, recognition came along. In 1972, Bisatti Babu became the first movie to receive a state government award. In the years that followed, several Tulu movies were recognised, not only within the state but nationally as well. Bangar Patler, Koti Chennaya, Gaggara, Madipu and Paddayi have won National Awards. “Also, Amitabh Bachchan had done voice over for the credit title of 1973 movie Kasdaye Kandane,” Pal added. Over the years, the Tulu movie got its commercial success, and more films were produced in the language. Devadas Kapikad, one of the prominent Tulu theatre artists and filmmakers, said that the industry has been making more than 10 movies every year. “In Tulu speaking regions, there is an increasing demand for good Tulu movies. There are issues with getting theatres whenever a big Kannada movie releases, but people’s response gives us teeth to demand more screens. Many youngsters are now coming with fresh ideas to make good Tulu movies, and it is inspiring,” Kapikad said. An example of the commercial success of the Tulu movie was Chali Polilu, which is one of the longest-running regional films in PVR Cinemas. It even surpassed the Kannada movies by running for over 500 days in PVR. The Covid-19 pandemic caused a big problem to the industry as it resulted in the closure of theatres. However, they soon branched out to the OTT platforms. With a large Tulu speaking population living abroad, the Talkies app, one of the OTT platforms, has gained viewership. By June 2020, the platform uploaded over 100 series and movies. “For those living abroad, especially an average worker from Karnataka in Dubai, going to the movies is very expensive. Since they don’t get content in their language at lower cost, many are signing up.” said Ganesh Kamath, CEO of Talkies App. He added that they have begun producing original movies and web series for the Tulu audiences. Kapikad added that on the 50th anniversary, the industry is struggling to find a way back. “With the theatres closed for two years, most of the artists are suffering. We don’t have big production houses like Kannada or other industries. We are very small operations; we need to keep working. We hope the industry will rise for ashes in the coming days,” he said. The irony remains that the end credit of Tulu movies always rolls out in the Kannada script. Although the script of Tulu is available, it is not very popular, and people continue to write it in the Kannada script. “Movies for us is not just about entertainment. For us, it is about persevering our culture. So, we will continue making movies and spreading our word until our language gets the recognition it deserves,” Kapikad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-tulu-cinema-came-out-of-shadows-to-script-identity-101628967185909.html
15-08-2021||India||Three fire brigade employees die after hydraulic crane collapses||Three firemen died after a hydraulic crane collapsed on them when they were putting up the national flag at the post office building in Maharaja Bada area in Gwalior, the district collector said. The victims were identified as Pradeep Rajoriya, 32, Kuldeep Dandotiya, 35 and Vinod Sharma, 55. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan sent condolences to the bereaved families. He also announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each.Gwalior collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh said, “The trolley of the hydraulic crane of the municipal corporation broke down and the employees, who were sitting on the trolley, fell down. A watchman was also injured in the incident.”After the accident, the family members and other employees of the fire brigade held a protest at Maharaj Bada. They want a high level inquiry into the matter as the crane was purchased a few years ago and never used to douse a fire at any highrise building.“The accident raised questions over the quality of the crane. A detailed inquiry should be conducted. My brother died not because of crane but because of corruption,” said Rameshwar Dandotiya, a relative of one of the victims.An inquiry has been ordered. The additional collector will probe the matter, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-fire-brigade-employees-die-after-hydraulic-crane-collapses-101628967006029.html
15-08-2021||India||Kerala starts mass vaccination drive amid Covid spike||The Kerala government Saturday started a mass Covid-19 vaccination programme in a bid to reduce caseload in the state, following a meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, ahead of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya’s visit on Monday to review the situation in the state.After the state’s containment measures failed to yield desired results, the government decided that maximum inoculations are the only way to reduce caseload and has approached the Centre for uninterrupted supply, according to a senior health ministry official.The district collectors have been asked to supervise the special drive, and at least 500k vaccines will be administered a day. The state has a stock of 1.5 million doses as of now, and expects another million in a couple of days, the official said. Recipients can avail themselves through spot registration or online booking. The government has also made permission mandatory for all public activities during the ongoing Onam season -- Thiru Onam falls next Sunday (Aug 21). Many experts have warned the state that there can be a surge of Covid cases after Onam, so the government has tightened restrictions. In the prevailing situation, the festival will be subdued as the government banned mass gatherings and feasts. The union health minister will reach the state capital on Monday and scheduled a meeting with the CM and health minister Veena George later in the day. He will be accompanied by union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, National Centre for Disease Control director Sujit Singh and other experts. Meanwhile, the state reported 19,451 positive cases with a test positivity rate of 13.91 per cent after 1,39, 223 samples were tested on Saturday, according to the state health ministry. It also reported 105 deaths taking total fatalities to 18,499. Malappuram remained on top with 2,953 cases followed by Thrissur district at 2,459. Four districts reported more than 2,000 new cases. The active case also rose to 180,240. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 38,677 new cases and 478 deaths. The current caseload is 383,673.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-starts-mass-vaccination-drive-amid-covid-spike-101628966705766.html
15-08-2021||India||Independence Day 2021: Here's the list of 144 gallantry awards announced||President Shri Ram Nath Kovind approved 144 Gallantry awards to armed forces, police and paramilitary personnel on the eve of Independence Day. The awards include one Ashok Chakra, one Kirti Chakra, 15 Shaurya Chakras, four Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 116 Sena Medals (Gallantry), five Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) and two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry).The President also approved 28 Mention-in-Despatches to the army personnel for their significant contributions in different military operations which include three posthumous for ‘Operation Rakshak’ and ‘Operation Rakshak’.Babu Ram, ASI, J&K Police will be awarded posthumously Ashok Chakra - the highest peacetime military decoration. For the first time in J&K police history, Ashok, Kirti and Shaurya chakras have been awarded to the force together. On the announcement of service and gallantry medals, Director General of Police J&K Shri Dilbag Singh stated that due recognition of valour and sacrifices of Jammu and Kashmir Police officers and personnel’.Also Read | Independence Day 2021: 1380 police personnel awarded medals, announces MHAHere’s the list of personnel being conferred with gallantry awards on the occasion of Independence Day:Ashok ChakraShaurya ChakraBar To Sena Medal (Gallantry)Sena Medal (Gallantry)Nao Sena Medal (Gallantry)Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry)Mention-in-despatchesOperation RakshakOperation Snow LeopardOperation Rhino||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-here-s-the-list-of-144-gallantry-awards-announced-101628953443936.html
15-08-2021||India||Grenade attack on Assam school near Mizoram border stokes row||On the eve of the 75th Independence Day, tension along Assam-Mizoram border escalated once again on Saturday after a primary school in Hailakandi district of Assam was bombed by unknown miscreants, a senior police officer said.Parts of the lower primary Sahebmara LP School were damaged in the incident that took place around 11.30 pm on Friday at Kachurthal area, Hailakandi superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Upadhyay said, adding that no person was injured.“The bombing was done by miscreants from Mizoram side between 11 and 11.30 pm. The area comes under Ghutghuti police outpost, and we have raised the security immediately after the incident. We are trying to ensure that this incident does not create fear among the residents in the locality. We are also investigating the matter and once it is completed, we’ll be able to give a clearer picture,” he said.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said he will write to his Mizoram counterpart and request for a probe into the blast.As the incident occurred within “our territory, the Assam police will conduct an inquiry into it,” Sarma added.He said that intelligence reports had suggested sporadic incidents may occur along the border and “I had mentioned about it in the assembly on Friday”.This is the second such instance in the area after Muliwala Lower Primary School was bombed in February this year by unknown miscreants, police added.Sahebmara LP School, located within 2 km of the Assam-Mizoram Border, demarcated by Survey of India map, was attacked by grenades while it was closed due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.In February, unknown miscreants used grenades to damage Muliwala Lower Primary School, resulting in hundreds of families moving out of the area in fear. “There has been a series of attempts to terrorise locals by unknown miscreants from Mizoram side throughout the year. They mostly target the government buildings to create panic among the civilians,” said a local from Hailakandi.Mizoram’s chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo said, “This allegation needs to be verified and thoroughly investigated. Those responsible for such cowardly act do not deserve any sympathy.”Superintendent of police of kolasib district, Mizoram Vanlalfaka Ralte said, “The place of bomb blasts is not a disuted area. It is Assam area with clear boundary (Tlawng river), these days as Assam Police are on patrolling duty in the area no Mizo from Bairabi town have entered to the area of Bomb blast. This is the handiwork of some miscreant from Assam who try to defame Mizoram and disrupt the ongoing peace process between Assam and Mizoram.”“Even Bairabi OC talk to the leaders of Sahebmara and they are saying that they do not suspect Mizos,” Ralte added.The border dispute between the two states resulted in an exchange of fire between the policemen from both sides on July 26, causing the death of six Assam policemen and one resident. More than 60 people from Assam, including superintendent of police of Cachar district, sustained severe injuries. Few persons from Mizoram side were also injured.Following the clashes, a 10-day-long economic blockade in Assam prevented transport of goods to Mizoram, resulting in a price rise of essential goods in the state. Under the instruction of the Union government, both Assam and Mizoram have agreed to resolve the border dispute peacefully.It will take time for complete peace to return to Assam’s border with Mizoram, Sarma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-attack-on-assam-school-near-mizoram-border-stokes-row-101628965747078.html
15-08-2021||India||Jaish terror module busted in J&K, UP man among 4 held||On the eve of 75th Independence Day, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday averted a major tragedy by busting a module of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) tasked to trigger violence by planting a vehicle-based IED, police said, adding that they have arrested four terrorists, including a resident of Uttar Pradesh, affiliated to the outfit.“They were planning to disrupt I-Day celebrations by planting a vehicle-based IED in Jammu before August 15,” said additional director general of police (ADGP), Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh.“Four Jaish terrorists and their associates have been arrested by Jammu police in a drive to root out presence of terrorists in Jammu. They were planning collection of arms dropped by drones and supply them to active terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed in Kashmir Valley; planting a vehicle laden with IED in Jammu before August 15 and conducting a reconnaissance of important targets in other parts of the country,” Singh added.Police have identified the four Jaish terrorists as Muntazir Manzoor alias Saifulla, son of Manzoor Ahmed Bhat of Prichoo in Pulwama; Ijahar Khan alias Sonu Khan, son of Intejar Khan of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh; Touseef Ahmed Shah alias Showket alias Adnan, son of Ghulam Mohammad Shah of Jeff in Shopian district; and Jahangir Ahmed Bhat, son of Musthaq Ahmed Bhat of Bandzoo in Pulwama district.Singh said while three Jaish terrorists were arrested from different parts of Jammu, Ijahar Khan was arrested from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh.“Muntazir Manzoor, a member of JeM, was the first to be arrested in this chain. A pistol, one magazine, eight live rounds and two Chinese hand grenades were recovered from him. His truck which was used for transporting weapons to Kashmir Valley was also seized,” said Singh.“Ijahar Khan disclosed that Jaish commander in Pakistan by the name of Munazir alias Shahid had asked him to collect weapons from near Amritsar, which would be dropped by a drone. He was also asked by Jaish to do reconnaissance of Panipat oil refinery, which he did and sent videos to Pakistan,” said the ADGP.“He was also tasked to do the reconnaissance of Ayodhya Ram Janmabhoomi, but was arrested before he could complete this task,” said Singh.The third terrorist Touseef Ahmed Shah was tasked by Jaish commander Shahid and another Jaish terrorist named Abrar in Pakistan to take up an accommodation in Jammu, which he did, Singh added.“He was then asked to procure a second-hand motorcycle to carry out an IED blast at Jammu. The IED for this purpose was to be dropped by a drone. Touseef was arrested before he could complete this task,” he said.The ADGP also informed that the fourth terrorist, Jahangir Ahmed Bhat, was involved in recruitment from across the country.“He worked as a fruit merchant in Kashmir and was constantly in touch with Shahid and had introduced Ijahgar Khan to him. He was doing recruitment for Jaish in Kashmir Valley and from rest of the country,” said Singh.Further work on the remaining module is in progress, Singh added.Meanwhile, security forces have recovered an IED near Koriya village in Kishtwar district. The IED was diffused by the bomb disposal squad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-terror-module-busted-in-j-k-up-man-among-4-held-101628965563774.html
15-08-2021||India||India rose to challenges posed by Covid-19: President Kovind||The Indian leadership “rose to the challenge” posed by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, President Ram Nath Kovind told the nation on the eve of the landmark 75th Independence Day, as he underlined that “no infrastructure, even of advanced economies, could withstand a crisis of such enormous proportions”. Amid an exceptionally disruptive monsoon session over Pegasus spyware, President also reminded that Parliament is the “temple of the country’s democracy”  and provides the “highest forum to discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people”. “We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy,” Kovind said, days after the monsoon session saw the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha utilize only 22 and 28% of its time. “Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people,” the President said, adding that “it is a matter of great pride” for Indians that Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. But invoking the concepts of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity, the president said that India must strive “for more equality in an unequal world and more justice in unjust circumstances.” He added that the road ahead for India is not easy and it will have to “negotiate many twists and turns” but it should be steadfast on the spirit of “unity in diversity”. During the address, Kovind noted that the world desperately needs “a course correction” to protect the environment and hailed India’s Olympics performance, especially the women athletes. The President also said that Jammu and Kashmir are set to witness new dawn, referring to the preparations for an election in the region and said the government has initiated the process of consultation with all democratic stakeholders in the region, urging the locals to work on realising their aspirations through democratic institutions. Talking about the Centre’s efforts to bolster the “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement), he said that the government has opened up the defence, health, civil aviation, power and other sectors and has also improved the ease of doing business in India. “In addition to these, special emphasis is being given to public welfare. For example, the dream of having a home of one’s own is realised (through)… 70,000 crore credit-linked subsidy scheme. The series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our ‘annadata’ farmers and help them get a better price for their produce,” he said. In his speech, Kovind frequently highlighted government schemes—something which is usually seen in the President’s speech to the joint sitting of both Houses in Parliament. The President, however, advised extra care and caution even as “the nation breathes a sigh of relief” and said, “If we have learned our lessons well, we know that this is the time of extra care and caution. We shall not let our guard down. Vaccines are the best possible protection science offers to us. I urge all eligible citizens who are yet to get vaccinated to do so at the earliest,” he said. In a 25-point speech, President spoke over a variety of subjects ranging from India’s upcoming manned space mission Gaganyaan to the country’s success in the recently held Tokyo Olympics. He also spoke on the economic and health impact of the pandemic and praised the vaccination programme and efforts of health workers during the Covid crisis. “This day has a special significance as it marks the beginning of the 75th year of India’s independence for which ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is being celebrated,” the president said while praising the government for distributing food grains to the poor amid the Covid crisis and for announcing a package worth ₹628,000 crores to boost the “selected Covid-affected sectors.” “In particular, it is heartening to note that an amount of ₹23,220 crores are being spent over one year for the expansion of medical facilities,” the president said. President also lauded the performance of India in the recent Tokyo Olympics. He especially praised women and said that India, this year, won the highest medals in its 121 years of Olympic participation. “Our daughters have achieved world-class excellence in playgrounds overcoming many adversities... From higher educational institutions to armed forces, from laboratories to playgrounds, our daughters are making their mark” he said urging all the parents to learn from families of such women and let their daughters also take part in sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rose-to-challenges-posed-by-covid-19-kovind-101628965444948.html
15-08-2021||India||India likely to grant refuge to Afghans||New Delhi The Indian government may grant refuge to Afghan citizens, especially those facing threats or fearing persecution from the Taliban, against the backdrop of the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan. Afghans have begun leaving key cities following the rapid advances by the Taliban into urban centres over the past week. As many as 18 out of 34 provincial capital across Afghanistan are now under the control of the Taliban, including some of the largest cities such as Herat and Kandahar. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there was no immediate update on the issue of granting visas to Afghan nationals fleeing their country though discussions on the matter were underway. Among those who are likely to be granted refuge are political leaders or activists, human rights workers, media personnel, members of minorities and people who have worked with the Indian government, the people said. There has been a sharp increase in requests for Indian visas in Kabul over the past few weeks. Images shared on social media on Saturday showed the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul packed with people waiting for flights out of the country. The airport is currently one of the few ways out of the country and there were reports of people waiting as long as three hours to get into the terminal after buying tickets at counters set up in the parking lot outside. Air India, Emirates, FlyDubai, Pakistan International Airlines and Turkish Airlines are among the airlines currently operating flights to Kabul. With the fall of several provincial capitals surrounding Kabul and the capture of Logar province, located just 11 km south of the city, fears have grown that the Taliban could be knocking at the doors of the capital within a week, if not days. India has provided refuge to several Afghan leaders and their families amid the turmoil of the past four decades. Afghan chief negotiator Abdullah Abdullah’s family currently lives in India and others such as former president Hamid Karzai have lived and studied in the country. Asked about the possibility of India offering refuge to Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities at last week’s media briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government is keeping a close eye on all developments related to the two communities. “Last year, our mission in Kabul had facilitated the return of 383 members of the Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan. Our mission continues to remain in touch with the Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members and we will ensure the provision of all necessary assistance to them,” he said. Several countries have announced plans to give refuge to Afghans facing threats, especially those who have worked with Western countries or foreign troops over the years. The US has plans to help thousands of Afghans under its special immigrant visa programme or as refugees, while Canada has announced it will take in up to 20,000 Afghan refugees, including women leaders, government workers and people facing threats from the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-grant-refuge-to-afghans-101628965443774.html
15-08-2021||India||Four new Ramsar wetland sites recognised in India||Four more wetlands from India – two from Haryana and two from Gujarat – have been recognised as Ramsar site of international importance, taking the number of such sites in the country to 46, covering a total area of 1,083,322 hectares. The Ramsar list aims to conserve an international network of wetlands that are important for sustaining biological diversity.The wetlands that received the tag are Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary and Sultanpur National Park from Haryana; and Thol Lake Wildlife Sanctuary and Wadhvana Wetland from Gujarat. While these are the first two wetlands in Haryana to be recognised under the Ramsar Convention, Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary from Gujarat was given the tag in 2012. With eight wetlands, Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of sites that have received the tag. The convention is an intergovernmental treaty that provides the framework for national action and international cooperation for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources.“It is a matter of pride for us that four Indian sites get Ramsar recognition. This once again manifests India’s centuries old ethos of preserving natural habitats, working towards flora and fauna protection, and building a greener planet,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The development comes at a time when India is heading the UN body on conservation of migratory species of wild animals (CMS), with the government spearheading trans-boundary cooperation on securing the Central Asian Flyway.The Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary is a human-made freshwater wetland and the largest one in Haryana. Over 250 bird species use the sanctuary throughout the year as a resting and roosting site. The site supports more than 10 globally threatened species including the endangered Egyptian Vulture, Steppe Eagle, Pallas’s Fish Eagle, and Black-bellied Tern.The Sultanpur National Park also from the state supports more than 220 species of resident, winter migratory and local migratory waterbirds, supporting more than 10 globally threatened and critically endangered birds.The Thol Lake Wildlife Sanctuary from Gujarat lies on the Central Asian Flyway and supports more than 320 bird species, including more than 30 threatened waterbird species such as the critically endangered White-rumped Vulture and Sociable Lapwing; and the vulnerable Sarus Crane, Common Pochard and Lesser White-fronted Goose.The Wadhvana Wetland is important as it provides wintering ground to migratory waterbirds, including over 80 species that migrate on the Central Asian Flyway. They include some threatened or near-threatened species such as the endangered Pallas’s fish-eagle, the vulnerable Common Pochard, and the near-threatened Dalmatian Pelican, Grey-headed Fish-eagle and Ferruginous Duck.“PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s concern for the environment has led to overall improvement in how India cares for its wetlands. Happy to inform that four more Indian wetlands have got Ramsar recognition as wetlands of international importance,” said Bhupender Yadav, Union environment minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-new-ramsar-wetland-sites-recognised-in-india-101628965266784.html
15-08-2021||India||2 J&K cops among 144 to bag top gallantry awards||Two Jammu & Kashmir Police personnel, one an assistant sub inspector and another a constable, are among the 144 defence and security personnel whose names have been approved for top gallantry awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of Independence Day, according to defence ministry release issued on Saturday.Assistant Sub-Inspector Babu Ram and Constable Altaf Hussain Bhat of the J&K Police were posthumously conferred with the country’s top two gallantry awards -- the Ashoka Chakra and the Kirti Chakra -- for demonstrating outstanding courage during counterterrorism operations in the Union TerritoryThe other awards approved by the President are 15 Shaurya Chakras, four Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 116 Sena Medals (Gallantry), five Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry), two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry) and four medals for the Indian Coast Guard personnel. Babu Ram, who was from the Special Operations Group of J&K Police, was killed during a fierce encounter with terrorists at Pantha-Chokh area of Srinagar in August 2020. Altaf Hussain sacrificed his life while saving his protected person who was attacked by terrorists in Ganderbal. Shahbaz Ahmed, a special police officer in J&K Police, was posthumously awarded the Shaurya Chakra -- the country’s third-highest peacetime gallantry award.“DGP Dilbag Singh salutes fallen heroes, ASI Babu Ram, Const Altaf and SPO Shahbaz of JKP who bring honour and glory to the force in their sacrifice and service to the nation,” the J&K Police said in a Twitter post.The Shaurya Chakra awardees include six army personnel, two Indian Air Force officers, a navy officer, four CRPF personnel and two police personnel. They are Majors Arun Kumar Pandey, Ravi Kumar Chaudhary, Captains Ashutosh Kumar (Posthumous), Vikas Khatri, Rifleman Mukesh Kumar, Sepoy Neeraj Ahlawat, Group Captain Perminder Antil, Wing Commander Varun Singh, Captain Sachin Reuben Sequeira (navy), Deputy Commandant Chitesh Kumar (CRPF), Sub Inspector Manjinder Singh (CRPF), Constable Sunil Choudhary (CRPF), Commandos Debasis Sethy (Odisha Police, Posthumous), Sudhir Kumar Tudu (Odisha Police, Posthumous) and SPO Shahbaz Ahmad (JKP, Posthumous).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-j-k-cops-among-144-to-bag-top-gallantry-awards-101628965263738.html
15-08-2021||India||Consider uniform rule on early release of convicts, SC asks NALSA||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) to consider a uniform policy to be put in place to secure premature release for life convicts who have completed 14 years in jail.A bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “NALSA is requested to consider issuing a uniform country-wide standard operating practice (SOP) for protecting the rights of similarly placed convicts to secure premature release in accordance with the provisions of law.”The Court was dealing with an appeal of a murder convict lodged in Central Jail, Agra in Uttar Pradesh, who had already spent close to 16 years in prison but was not aware of his right to apply for premature release or remission of his sentence after completion of 14 years sentence.This power to grant remission is provided under Section 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure which states, “Where a sentence of imprisonment for life is imposed on conviction of a person for an offence for which death is one of the punishments provided by law, or where a sentence of death imposed on a person has been commuted under Section 433 into one of imprisonment for life, such person shall not be released from prison unless he had served at least fourteen years of imprisonment.”As no lawyer was appearing for the convict, the Court appointed advocate Rajiv Nanda as amicus curiae (friend of the Court) to prepare his defence. The Court was convinced that the conviction was rightly awarded by the trial court and Allahabad High Court under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the petitioner Kadir. While parting with the case, Nanda pointed out that as per the custody certificate issued by the Senior Jail Superintendent at Agra Central Jail, the convict had spent an actual sentence of 15 years, 11 months and 22 days as of 26 June 2021.Nanda pointed out that a deeper malaise prevailed in the system as the jail authorities were indifferent towards helping the convict in applying for premature release. The bench directed the jail authorities to inform the convict of his legal right under Section 433A and directed the District Legal Services Authority to provide the requisite legal assistance to the prisoner. Upon such an application being made for premature release, the Court directed the concerned Sentence Review Board to decide within three months under the relevant rules and regulations.The Court went on to pass another general direction by asking the Uttar Pradesh State Legal Services Authority’s panel lawyers to visit every jail within the state and, after due scrutiny of the nature of the conviction, the term of sentence and the sentence undergone, advise the convicts and assist them in drafting appropriate representations to enable them to pursue their remedies for premature release under the CrPC. In all such cases too, the bench held that applications for premature release will be decided by the competent authority within three months.The Court directed the order to be sent to NALSA, the UP State Legal Services Authority, and all State Legal Services Authorities.Last month, the issue of prisoners languishing in prison without availing remedy for premature release was considered by another bench of the Supreme Court, which directed the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh to decide within eight months of all applications for premature release of life convicts who have undergone 14 years behind bars.This was under a scheme prepared by NALSA which involved a three-step process – three months for prison authorities to identify and collect data about eligible prisoners, three months for the Sentence Review Board to give its decision, and two months for the state government to pass final orders.According to NALSA, over 1,649 prisoners are languishing in prisons awaiting a decision on their premature release requests. Besides, 431 prisoners were eligible to file a request for a premature release but had not applied to date. Since remission policies varied from state to state, the Court directed NALSA to study the various state policies and come out with a uniform scheme to deal with premature release applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-uniform-rule-on-early-release-of-convicts-sc-asks-nalsa-101628965144451.html
15-08-2021||India||20 ITBP troopers get medals for bravery during Galwan clash||Twenty Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, who fought shoulder-to-shoulder with the Army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay in Eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and Gogra Hot Springs during clashes along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) last year, have been awarded gallantry medals ahead of the 75th Independence Day on Sunday.In all, 630 security personnel, including 257 from the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police, have been awarded medals for their bravery, the Union home ministry said on Saturday. The gallantry medals to J&K Police personnel have been awarded for counterterrorism, security, and law and order-related operations. As many as 152 medals have been awarded to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel involved in counterinsurgency and anti-Naxal operations across the country.Overall, 1,320 police personnel across the country have been awarded gallantry, distinguished services, and meritorious services medals.Also Read| ‘Dimensions of security are constantly changing’: Rajnath Singh to armed forcesITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said ITBP has got 23 gallantry medals, of which 20 have been awarded for bravery during Eastern Ladakh skirmishes in May-June 2020.“This is the highest number of gallantry medals for ITBP for the bravery of its men in border face-off/skirmishes/border guarding duties,” Pandey said.The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020 was the deadliest between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in more than five decades and pushed the bilateral relationship to a breakpoint. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead.Pandey said out of the 20 ITBP jawans/officers awarded for gallantry in Eastern Ladakh, eight have been decorated for their gallant acts, meticulous planning, and tactical insightfulness and for defending the country in Galwan on June 15, 2020. “Six personnel have been awarded police medal for gallantry for their bravery during violent face off on May 18, 2020, in Finger IV area while six personnel have awarded for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on May 18, 2020.”The decorated officers of ITBP include Kishor Singh Bisht (Commandant), Rinku Thapa (2nd In Command), Sarat Kumar Tripathi (Deputy Commandant) and Arbind Kumar Mahato, Akshay Ahuja, Pankaj Srivastava, and Dharmendra Kumar Vishwakarma (Assistant Commandants).“In eastern Ladakh, the ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to PLA (People’s Liberation Army)’s advancing troops and brought the situation under control during fierce face-offs and skirmishes. With the highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured troops to the rear,” Pandey said.“Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA. At places, they gave determined responses for about 17 to 20 hours throughout the intervening night in extremely challenging conditions.”Pandey said due to the high-altitude training and survival experience of the force in the Himalayan deployments at the icy heights, the ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay. He added due to the befitting response of ITBP troops at several fronts, many areas were safeguarded.“The ITBP troops showed the highest level of devotion, courage, determination, utter disregard to personal safety even in injured condition and exhibited great professional skills in the face of the violent physical scuffle with the PLA,” Pandey said.In September last year, 300 ITBP personnel were awarded Director General’s Commendation Roll and insignias for bravery by SS Deswal, the head of the force, in Eastern Ladakh.Also Read| August 14 will now mark horrors of Partition: PMCentral Bureau of Investigation (CBI) joint director Manoj Shashidhar, who heads the agency’s key Anti-Corruption Headquarters unit, has been awarded President’s Police Medal for distinguished service.A 1994-batch Gujarat cadre Indian Police Service officer, Shashidhar has been posted with the agency since January last year. Shashidhar is supervising probes into the AgustaWestland scam, Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death as well as corruption case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. He is among six CBI personnel who have been awarded medals for distinguished service. Twenty-four other CBI officers have been decorated for meritorious service.Inspector Neeraj Sharma of the National Investigation Agency’s Jammu branch, who was part of the team that cracked the 2019 Pulwama attack, has also been awarded the medal for meritorious service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-itbp-troopers-get-medals-for-bravery-during-galwan-clash-101628965024528.html
15-08-2021||India||Centre seeks nominations from FICCI to form panel on oversight mechanism||The ministry of information and broadcasting has written to industry bodies to nominate members for the oversight mechanism under the new social media and intermediary guidelines, people familiar with the matter said. The inter-departmental committee, which will form the apex of the three-tier redressal mechanism, will for the first time include members from industry bodies, documents reviewed by HT show.“This is a confidence-building move and will silence the critics of the Oversight Mechanism that assumed that the committee will only comprise of bureaucrats,” a person familiar with the matter said. “The rules already provide for domain experts in committee. Now it has been specified as to from where the domain experts would be drawn from.”The new oversight mechanism will include one member each from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and Confederation of Indian Industry, one member from the Bar Council of India and a member from the Press Council of India. The first two shall be experts from the media and entertainment sector, the third a legal expert and the fourth an expert from the field of journalism.Aside from these, the committee will also have members from ministries such as the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Law and Justice, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of External Affairs, and Ministry of Defence. The ministry has given the industry bodies 10 days to nominate the members.This committee will take a call on whether content posted on over the top platforms such as Netflix and Hotstar, and digital news media websites violates section 69(A) of the IT Act. The oversight mechanism faced pushback from several stakeholders who argued that it would lead to government censorship of content and has been challenged by a number of digital news platforms in court. At present, the government has an inter-departmental committee under the Information Technology Act which is headed by a designated officer from the central government. The order to block a post/account on social media is passed by this designated officer who chairs an inter-ministerial committee comprising officials from the Ministries of Law and Justice, Home Affairs, Information and Broadcasting and the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In). The committee vets requests from several different stakeholders, including states and central agencies, and also gives the intermediary a hearing. The designated officer at present is Pronab Mohanty. The orders are passed under section 69(A) of the IT Act. Under the new guidelines, the ministry of information and broadcasting gets to appoint a separate designated officer. Joint secretary Vikram Sahay will head this oversight mechanism from the ministry of information and broadcasting.The new committee shall meet “periodically and hear the following complaints regarding violation or contravention of the Code of Ethics by the digital media publishers entities referred to under Rule 8, that is, arising out of the grievances in respect of the decisions taken at the level I or level II or for cases where no such decision is taken within the time specified in the grievance redressal mechanism”. Grievances referred to the committee by the I&B ministry will also be taken. Level I of the mechanism refers to the grievance redressal by the platform itself, while level II is the oversight body chosen by the platforms. The new intermediary and digital media guidelines require platforms to appoint officers, grievance redressal officers in case of OTT and digital news media platforms, institute a three-tier mechanism for grievance redressal with an inter-ministerial committee at its apex and give the I&B ministry takedown powers over the content circulated online. The rules, which were notified in February, have been challenged in the court by several digital news media outfits, including LiveLaw and TheWire.HT on July 30 reported that information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare said that the government has not received a single serious complaint where it had to intervene regarding content on over the top (OTT) platforms, such as Netflix and Hotstar, and digital news media outlets since the new intermediary and digital media rules came into effect on February 25. “In the last five months, there has not been a single occasion when the oversight mechanism of the government was used to resolve any complaints,” Khare said then. “This was the purpose of creating a self regulating mechanism; it was always any enabling pro||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-nominations-from-ficci-to-form-panel-on-oversight-mechanism-101628964845782.html
15-08-2021||India||Bombay HC stays 2 clauses of IT Rules on code of ethics||The Bombay high court on Saturday stayed two clauses of the Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 that required publishers of online news portals, online news aggregators, etc to observe the code of ethics and provided a three-tier mechanism for ensuring compliance.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni declared that Rule 9(1) and Rule 9(3) were prima face an intrusion on the freedom of speech and expression and also went beyond the scope of substantial law -- the Information Technology Act, 2000 -- under which the rules were made by the ministry of electronics and information technology.Rule 9(1) required the publishers to observe the code of ethics laid down under the rules, and Rule 9(3) provided for a three-tier mechanism -- self-regulation by the publishers, self-regulation by self-regulating bodies of the publishers and oversight mechanism by the central government -- for ensuring observance of the code and addressing grievances made in relation to the publishers.The order came on public interest litigation filed by journalist Nikhil Wagle and a writ petition filed by digital news portal The Leaflet, challenging the validity of the rules contending that they were arbitrary and infringed the constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression of the petitioners.Senior advocate Darius Khambata and advocate Abhay Nevagi argued on behalf of the petitioners that since the IT Act of 2009 had sufficient provisions to make publishers, news portals and intermediaries accountable for posting any objectionable content and liable for penal action, the new rules tried to supersede the Act and hence were not legally tenable.The central government however defended the rules. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for the Centre, had submitted that the new rules were introduced to bring under control the spread of fake news and illegal content. He had further stated that the concerns of the petitioners regarding Rule 14 and 16 were unfounded as the ministry level committee was yet to be formed.The court accepted the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioners and stayed two clauses of Rule 9. It, however, did not pass orders with regard to Rule 14 and 16, which deal with the formation of a ministry-level committee and blocking of content in case of an emergency as the same was not yet formed. The court allowed the petitioners to approach the court as and when the same were constituted and asked the Centre to file a detailed reply to the petition within three weeks.The court also did not stay the operation of Rule 7 which stipulates that when an intermediary fails to observe the new rules, the provisions of Section 79(1) of the IT Act shall not be applicable to such intermediary and the intermediary shall be liable for punishment under any law for the time being in force, including the provisions of the Act and the Indian Penal Code. Section 79(1) stipulates that “an intermediary shall not be liable for any third party information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by him.”This implies that an intermediary can be held liable for action under the new rules for processing, storing, hosting or transmitting any third party information, data or communication that is objectionable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-stays-2-clauses-of-it-rules-on-code-of-ethics-101628964845204.html
15-08-2021||India||Mi-17 choppers, Neeraj Chopra to be highlight of I-Day celebrations||Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters are set to make an appearance at the Independence Day celebrations on Sunday after a gap of 24 years. Two Mi-17 V5 helicopters will shower petals on the venue as Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoists the national flag, the defence ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The IAF’s Su-30s, Mi-8s and the Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team took part in the 1997 celebrations to mark the 50th Independence Day. The country is now celebrating “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”, marking the 75th year of Independence.Another highlight of the celebrations will be javelin star Subedar Neeraj Chopra, who won India’s first gold medal in track and field at the Tokyo Olympics and is among the invitees.Also Read| More than 15 million Indians upload anthem videos to mark I-Day: Centre“Around 240 Olympians, support staff and SAI and sports federation officials have also been invited to grace the Gyan Path in front of the Red Fort. In Tokyo, India recorded its best-ever medal haul in the Olympics by bagging a total of seven medals — one gold, two silver and four bronze,” the ministry said in a preview of the celebrations.The PM will hoist the national flag and deliver his customary address to the nation on Sunday. Lt Commander P Priyambada Sahoo will assist the PM in hoisting the flag. The ceremony will be synchronised with a 21-gun salute fired by gunners of the 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial).Modi launched “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” from the Sabarmati Ashram at Ahmedabad in March 2021 to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence. The celebrations will continue till August 15, 2023.Before hoisting the flag, the PM will inspect the customary guard of honour at the Red Fort. “The guard of honour contingent for the PM will consist of one officer and 20 men each from the army, navy, air force and Delhi Police,” the statement said.Also Read| August 14 will now mark horrors of Partition: PMAfter inspecting the guard of honour, the PM will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort, where he will be greeted by defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General MM Naravane, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.The General Officer Commanding, HQs Delhi Area, will conduct the PM to the dais to hoist the flag. The National Flag Guard consisting of five officers and 130 men from the army, navy, air force and Delhi Police will present the ‘Rashtriya Salute’ when the PM hoists the flag.Covid-19 warriors will also attend the celebrations. “To honour the Corona warriors who played a vital role in fighting the invisible enemy, Covid-19, a separate block on the south side of the ramparts has been created,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mi17-choppers-neeraj-chopra-to-be-highlight-of-i-day-celebrations-101628964665689.html
15-08-2021||India||Twitter unlocks accounts of Rahul Gandhi, several others||Twitter on Saturday restored the official accounts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and several others, a week after nearly 5,000 handles associated with the party were temporarily suspended for sharing a photograph of the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in the national capital.The accounts were restored after the former Congress chief submitted a consent letter by the parents of the alleged victim, authorising him to use the image, a Twitter spokesperson who did not wish to be named said.“Satyameva Jayate (truth alone triumphs),” the Congress tweeted in its first reaction after its official handle was unlocked.Confirming the development, Vipin Yadav, national coordinator of Congress’ social media department, said almost all the handles belonging to the party and its leaders were unlocked by Twitter on Saturday.On Friday, the victim’s mother told journalists that they have no objection to Gandhi tweeting their image as what he did was in good faith.As part of the appeal process, according to the Twitter spokesperson cited above, Gandhi submitted a copy of the formal consent/authorisation letter to use the referenced image via its India Grievance Channel. “… and based on the written consent provided by the people depicted in the image, our teams initiated the necessary due diligence... the process to review… We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image… and the account access has been restored,” the official said.The spokesperson added that the tweet in which Gandhi shared pictures of the family shall be “withheld in India” and will be invisible to users in the country.“As explained in our Country Withheld Policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in accordance with valid legal provisions under the Indian law(s). The withholding actions are limited to the specific jurisdiction/country where the content is determined to be unlawful and remains available elsewhere,” the spokesperson said.Gandhi’s account was locked by the micro-blogging site on August 7 after he tweeted a photograph of his meeting with the alleged rape victim’s family on August 4. On August 9, Twitter informed the Delhi High Court that the Congress leader’s tweet was in violation of the platform’s policy.Twitter admitted that it was alerted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about Gandhi’s tweet which revealed the victim’s identity. It added that it reviewed the tweet against Twitter rules and policies, as well as the concerns expressed as a matter of Indian law.Accounts of senior leaders such as Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev and Manickam Tagore were also among those temporarily locked.On Friday, Gandhi accused Twitter of being “a biased platform” that “listens to what the government says”. He called the restrictions on his and his party colleagues’ accounts an interference with India’s political process.The NCPCR has moved the Delhi High Court over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-unlocks-accounts-of-rahul-several-others-101628964484211.html
15-08-2021||India||3 Oppn MPs said they won’t chair Rajya Sabha proceedings||As Opposition lawmakers trooped daily into the Well of the House during Parliament’s monsoon session, shouted slogans, and carried placards in the Rajya Sabha over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws, and fuel price rise, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) lawmaker Vandana Chavan and two of her colleagues chose to protest in their own way. They refused to chair the House proceedings and stood by their colleagues in the Opposition.Both Houses of Parliament have 12 presiding officers to run them in the absence of the Rajya Sabha chairman or deputy chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker.Congress lawmaker L Hanumanthaiah and Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s Sukhendu Sekhar Ray also refused to be presiding officers — a role that would have entailed asking Opposition lawmakers to stop protests and return to their seats.“It was not morally the right thing to do. I cannot protest and also go and officiate,” said Chavan.Hanumanthaiah and Chavan met deputy chairman Harivansh to explain their position. “Harivansh understood and said he hoped things would function normally soon and we could resume duties,” said Chavan.The monsoon session of Parliament came to a premature end on Wednesday when it was adjourned ahead of schedule. Protests by a united Opposition and repeated disruptions marred the session even as the government pushed key laws.The TMC’s floor leader, Derek O’Brien, maintained that his party colleague Ray showed “outstanding commitment to the Opposition’s cause.”“Being a senior member, he was one of the obvious choices to run the House. But he refused,” said O’Brien.The Biju Janata Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab, one of the 12 presiding officers in the Lok Sabha, maintained that one cannot find fault in the decision of the three leaders. “It is the prerogative of a member to decide whether he or she wants to sit in the chair and run the House in the chairman’s absence. They cannot be forced to preside,” said Mahtab.After a new government comes in, both Houses ask different parties if they want to nominate a member as presiding officer. “Usually, the presiding officers inform beforehand when they are available to sit in the chair. If anyone is not interested, he or she can simply inform that they are not available,” said Mahtab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-oppn-mps-said-they-won-t-chair-rs-proceedings-101628963523336.html
15-08-2021||India||August 14 will now mark horrors of Partition: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that August 14 will now be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in memory of the struggles and sacrifices people have made, and said that the pain of Partition was something that could never be forgotten.“Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day,” PM Modi tweeted.In a subsequent tweet, he said lessons should be drawn from the violence that erupted during Partition to further enhance harmony and human empowerment. “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment,” he said.Pakistan was carved out as a country after the division of India by the British colonial rule in 1947, and millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives as large-scale rioting broke out. India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.Hours after the PM’s announcement, the Union home ministry issued a notification declaring that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to salute those who sacrificed their lives during Partition.“...the Government of India has decided to declare 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in remembrance of the people who lost their lives during the partition.“Therefore, the Government of India declares 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people of India during the partition,” the notification said.Welcoming the PM’s decision, Union home minister Amit Shah said: “The wound of the partition of the country and the grief of losing loved ones cannot be described in words. I am sure that Partition Horrors Remembrance Day will strengthen peace, love and unity by eliminating the ill-will of discrimination and malice from society.”Thanking the PM, defence minister Rajnath Singh said this decision to remember the sacrifice of the people during the Partition is a “testament to his sensitivity”.August 14 is also the day that Pakistan celebrates as its Independence Day.Commenting on the decision to observe August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, Vijay Chauthaiwale, incharge, foreign affairs department of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said it was time to acknowledge the horrors of Partition and the violence that ensued after India and Pakistan were carved out as two countries in 1947.“This is a long overdue recognition that Partition had resulted in violence, displacement of millions of people, incidents of killing and rape of those who came from the present-day Pakistan. The stories are still vivid and observing this day is a recognition of their sacrifices. Partition was a tragic part of history and the violence that followed it as well. PM Modi has shown tremendous courage by acknowledging the same,” Chauthaiwale said.The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the BJP, has been observing August 14 as the Akhand Bharat Divas to commemorate the Unified India.BJP leader and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the Partition remains a “gaping hole” in the soul of India.“Announcing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day is a rightful tribute to the struggles and sacrifices of our people who were a casualty of the Congress’ ambition and tunnel vision,” he said.The Congress, however, accused the Prime Minister of playing “divisive and diversionary politics”.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that while on one side the Prime Minister congratulates Pakistan on their Independence Day, on the other side he indulges in targeting Pakistan the moment elections are near. “The divisive duplicity of the Prime Minister stands exposed,” he said in a statement.“When there are no elections, the Prime Minister exhibits his love for Pakistan and congratulates the neighbouring country on March 22, the day Muslim League passed the ‘Partition Resolution’ in 1940, and congratulates it on every August 14. But when elections near, he starts diversionary politics at home,” Surjewala said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/august-14-will-now-mark-horrors-of-partition-pm-101628963463338.html
15-08-2021||India||SG declines consent for contempt against former-SC judge Markandeya Katju||The move to initiate contempt of court proceedings against former Supreme Court judge, Justice (Retd) Markandeya Katju for his anti-judiciary comments in a London court failed on Friday as Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta refused to grant consent for the same stating that it was his personal view made as part of his deposition before a court of law.The former top court judge had appeared as an expert witness in defence of Nirav Modi before the Westminster Magistrate’s court in London in September last year. In his deposition, Justice (Retd) Katju stated that Modi will not get fair trial if extradited to India as the Supreme Court of India had become “subservient to the Indian government” and was doing its bidding.The scathing criticism against Indian judiciary formed part of the Westminster court’s judgment of February 25, 2021 ordering Modi’s extradition and rejecting Justice Katju’s statement as being “unreliable” and bearing “hallmarks of an outspoken critic with his own personal agenda”.The damning criticism made by the former judge, however, did not go unnoticed as a Supreme Court lawyer Alakh Alok Srivastava wrote to the Attorney General KK Venugopal in March this year seeking contempt of court action under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act 1971 against the former judge. For filing a contempt plea, consent of Attorney General or Solicitor General is a prerequisite under Rule 3(c) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, 1975.Citing his 16-year association with Justice Katju, AG Venugopal decided on March 30 not to deal with the complaint against the judge and directed Srivastava to approach the Solicitor General. The lawyer wrote to SG Mehta on April 3 and received a response to it on Friday.SG said, “It cannot be denied that the expressions (were) used by Justice (Retd) Katju while voicing his personal views in his evidence regarding the legal system of our nation in general and that of our highest constitutional court - Supreme Court of India.” In the peculiar facts of the case, SG Mehta added, “I deem it inappropriate and inexpedient to dwell much into the issues arising from the expressions used and perception projected by Justice (Retd) Katju as he did so while giving his deposition as a witness before a court of law.”However, not to be seen as supporting the statements made by the former judge, Mehta said, “Our (judicial) system is constitutionally and functionally independent from the executive and guarantees free, fair, neutral, transparent, and effective judicial proceedings, strictly in accordance with the law and the Constitution.”Mehta arrived at this conclusion after carefully going through the judgment passed by the Westminster Magistrate’s court and the deposition given by the former judge and noted that the same was held to be “not reliable” by the London court.The Solicitor General regretted the four-month delay in responding to Srivastava’s petition and said, “As you are aware, the country was passing through one of the most unprecedented human crises during the second wave of Covid-19 requiring my appearance in various courts which led to delay in responding to your letter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sg-declines-consent-for-contempt-against-former-sc-judge-markandeya-katju-101628961424094.html
15-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Afghan provincial capital Mazar-e-Sharif falls to the Taliban||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India logged 38,667 new Covid-19 cases and 478 related fatalities, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Saturday. Later in the day, President Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation on the eve of the 75th Independence Day.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra records highest one-day Covid vaccinations with over 9L jabs administeredA day before the Mumbai suburban train services open for fully-vaccinated people, the Maharashtra health department said on Saturday that the state registered the highest number of single-day vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till 7pm with 936,000 beneficiaries getting inoculated with the jabs. Read moreAfghan provincial capital Mazar-e-Sharif falls to the TalibanAn Afghan lawmaker told the Associated Press that the city of Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of Balkh province, has fallen to the Taliban after the insurgents launched a major assault there early on Saturday.At least 29 killed in 7.2 magnitude earthquake in Haiti#BREAKING At least 29 killed in powerful Haiti earthquake: authorities pic.twitter.com/k0HOqR4n1YArvind Kejriwal to inaugurate 5 flag masts across Delhi on I-DayOn the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day, Hon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal will inaugurate 5 flag masts across Delhi while honouring the bravery of our Corona Warriors.These 5 flag masts are amongst the 500 flags which will be installed by Republic Day.Maharashtra reports 5,787 Covid-19 cases, 134 deathMaharashtra recorded 5,787 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 6,387,863. In the last 24 hours 134 deaths have also been recorded, the death toll now stands at 134,909, according to state health bulletin.Tushar Mehta refuses to grant consent for contempt proceedings against former SC judge Markandey KatjuSolicitor general of India, Tushar Mehta, refused to grant his permission to initiate contempt proceedings against former Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju for his alleged remarks made in the fugitive, Nirav Modi extradition case, reported ANI.Russia says no survivors in the plane crash in Turkey#BREAKING Water-dropping plane crashes in Turkey with seven on board: media pic.twitter.com/CtKSy0y3A7Parliament is the temple of democracy, says President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind during his address to the nation on the eve of Independence Day said that Parliament is the temple of democracy. 7.2 magnitude earthquake strikes Haiti#BREAKING Strong 7.2 magnitude earthquake strikes Haiti: USGS pic.twitter.com/eVo6EE0cbXPresident Kovind hosts Tokyo Olympics contingentDelhi | President Ram Nath Kovind hosts the Olympics 2020 contingent over a 'High Tea' at the Rashtrapati Bhawan"The entire country is proud of our Olympians for bringing glory to the nation," he says.(Source: DD News) pic.twitter.com/7gbnC9ISyNSecurity heightened in Udhampur ahead of Independence DayMK Khan, Commandant, 137 Bn CRPF, told news agency ANI that security has been heightened in Udhampur, Jammu, ahead of tomorrow's Independence Day celebrations. “Security forces are securing the national highway to prevent terrorist activities or incidents ensuring safe movement,” Khan said. J&K Police arrests 4 JeM terroristsJ&K Police arrests 4 JeM terrorists Arrested terrorist, Ijahar Khan was asked by a Pak-based commander to do reconnaissance of Panipat Oil Refinery which he did&sent videos to Pak.He was tasked to do reconnaissance of Ram Temple in Ayodhya but was arrested before it: IGP, Jammu pic.twitter.com/VRDmgpW0IXRemobilisation of armed forces top priority, says Afghanistan's President Ashraf GhaniDeath toll in Himachal landslide accident rises to 23Death toll in Kinnaur landslide accident rises to 23, says ITBP.  Search and rescue operations still underway.Negative RT-PCR report mandatory to enter Punjab from MondayPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has directed that from Monday, those who wish to enter the state will have to show a negative RT-PCR test report or full Covid-19 vaccination certificate.Taliban captures Logar province, just south of KabulAdvancing further towards Kabul, Taliban captures Logar province, just south of the Afghan capital, reports AP.Taliban launches assault on Mazar-e-Sharif: ReportsTaliban have launched a ‘multi-pronged’ assault on Mazar-e-Sharif, a major city in northern Afghanistan, reports AP quoting an Afghan official.Twitter restores accounts of Rahul Gandhi, Congress leadersTwitter unlocks accounts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders. Controversial tweet posted by Gandhi, which led to the account being locked, withheld, and account restored.‘Aug 14 to be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’: PM ModiPartition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day: PM Modi on Twitter‘Should plant more trees to combat climate change’: Om BirlaWe should plant more trees to combat climate change and global warming. There should be more fruit-bearing trees in Delhi. India has always worshiped trees: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla during an event organized at Bharat-ASEAN Maitri Park in DelhiHaryana farmers hold ‘dress rehearsal’ ahead of I-DayHaryana: Farmers conducted a rehearsal in Uchana Kalan, Jind a day before their proposed #IndependenceDay 'Tractor Parade', which will be led by women farmers "Around 5000 vehicles and 20,000 farmers will take part in the parade tomorrow," a farmer says pic.twitter.com/x4zrpMyFFbFarmers in Jind in Haryana's Uchana Kalan hold ‘dress rehearsal’ a day before their proposed Independence Day 'tractor parade', which will be led by women farmers.Himachal landslide: 2 more bodies found; toll rises to 19Two more bodies recovered at the landslide site at Nigulsari in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur on the fourth day of search and rescue operation today, taking the death to 19India's daily Covid-19 caseload falls to 38,667; 478 new deathsIndia adds 38,667 new Covid-19 cases, 478 fatalities and 35,743 recoveries in last 24 hours. Recoveries and active cases currently at 31,338,088, 430,732 and 387,673 respectively: Health ministryNCPCR summons Facebook India head on August 17NCPCR directs Facebook India (trust and safety) head Satya Yadav to appear before it at 5 pm on August 17 via video conference along with details of action taken against Congress MP Rahul Gandhi's Instagram profile for posting a video revealing identify of a 'minor girl victim's family' in Delhi.India must not play any military role in Afghanistan: TalibanIf India comes to Afghanistan militarily and have their presence, I think that will not be good for them. They've seen the fate of military presence in Afghanistan of other countries, so it is an open book for them: Taliban spokespersonNo danger from our side to embassies, says TalibanThere is no danger from our side to embassies and diplomats. We won't target any embassy or diplomat. We've said that in our statements many times. It is our commitment: Taliban spokesperson Muhammed Suhail Shaheen to ANIUS issues new terrorism warning ahead of 9/11 anniversaryThe US Department of Homeland Security, in a new terrorism warning bulletin, has said violent extremists could view the reimposition of Covid-19-related restrictions following the spread of coronavirus variants as a rationale to conduct attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-august-14-2021-101628904877375.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day: History, significance and rare facts||India on Sunday celebrated its 75th Independence Day on August 15, 2021, with the usual pride to mark its freedom from British rule. The Indian Independence movement began during World War I and was led by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. On August 15, 1947, India got its freedom, ending an almost 200-year British rule.Know the history of India's IndependenceThe Indian Independence Bill was introduced in the British House of Commons on July 4, 1947, and passed within a fortnight. It provided for the end of British rule in India on August 15, 1947. After that, India became a free country with the bifurcation of India and Pakistan.Also read | A manifesto for India at 75Some of the great freedom fighters who helped in India's freedom struggle include Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Subhas Chandra Bose and many more.Significance of India's Independence DayIndia's Independence Day is significant as it stands as a reminder of the sacrifices that many freedom fighters made to get independence from British rule. It is a national holiday and it is usually observed throughout the nation with the hoisting of the tricolour, parades and cultural events. India's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru raised the Indian national flag above the Lahori Gate of Red Fort in Delhi on August 15, 1947. It is a tradition that has since been followed by the incumbent Prime Minister, followed by an address to the country.Rare facts about India's Independence Day1. The song ‘Bharoto Bhagyo Bidhata’ composed in 1911 by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore was renamed as ‘Jana Gana Mana’ and adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India as the national anthem on January 24, 1950.2. The Indian national flag with three horizontal stripes of red, yellow and green was hoisted on August 7, 1906, at Parsee Bagan Square in Kolkata. The first variant of India's current national flag was designed by freedom fighter Pingali Venkayya in 1921. The current flag with saffron, white and green colours and the Ashok Chakra in the middle was officially adopted on July 22, 1947, and hoisted on August 15, 1947.Also read | India gets official website for Independence Day, features 360-degree VR view3. Five other countries celebrate their independence on August 15 along with India. They are Bahrain, North Korea, South Korea and Liechtenstein.4. The Indian flag is manufactured and supplied from only one place in the nation. The Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha (KKGSS), located in Dharwad in Karnataka, has the authority to manufacture and supply the Indian national flag. According to the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), the flag is manufactured only with hand-spun and handwoven cotton khadi wafting.Also read | On Independence Day, these US buildings will be lit in colours of Indian flag5. Even after India's independence, Goa was still a Portuguese colony. It was annexed to India by the Indian Army only in 1961. Thus, Goa was the last state to join the Indian territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-independence-day-history-significance-and-rare-facts-101628825261627.html
15-08-2021||Today's||The turn in Afghanistan will threaten Indian security||With the fall of Kandahar, Herat, Lashkar Gah, Ghazni, Pol-e-Alam, Mazar-e-Sharif, Jalalabad, and now, for all practical purposes if not officially, Kabul, to the Taliban, the writ of the Afghan government is over. On Sunday, the Taliban entered Kabul but didn’t immediately mount a military offensive. However, the message was clear and President Ashraf Ghani, along with his core team, left Kabul by the end of the day. There are isolated pockets of resistance all over, but the Taliban is set to take control, if the international community doesn’t intervene.In hindsight, United States (US) president Joe Biden‘s decision to withdraw from Afghanistan and continue negotiating with the Taliban deeply impacted the Afghan society. This process not only legitimised the Taliban, but also bolstered its position in an extremely hierarchical, tribal society.From 1996 to 2001, when the Taliban controlled most of Afghanistan, some areas in the north such as Panjshir and Badakhshan province could stall the Taliban’s offensive. Their contiguity to Tajikistan ensured that the forces resisting the Taliban could be provided supplies from across the borders. However, in the current onslaught, not only did Badakhshan fall, all the border crossings with the sole exception of Torkham with Pakistan were captured by the Taliban. This not only enabled the Taliban to fill its coffers by taxing the movement of goods and personnel, but more significantly, it made the Afghan government dependent on supplies through Pakistan.In the last few weeks, the Taliban has displayed its barbarity. They have shown that they do not believe in adhering to the assurances given by them during their talks in Doha and elsewhere. The Taliban is bound to an obscurantist ideology, which aims to create a puritanical Islamic Emirate, where women and minorities enjoy no rights. Those ignorant of the theological underpinning of the Taliban have long talked of creating a wedge between it and al-Qaeda which has always talked of waging jihad in the name of Amir-ul-Mu’minin, who was Mullah Omar earlier, and now, is Mullah Hibatullah Akhundzada, the leader of the Taliban. Without the Taliban, al-Qaeda’s jihad would be theologically illegitimate.Many in India are suggesting that the government deepen its engagement with the Taliban. However, irrespective of the carrots being offered, the Taliban is unlikely to move away from its basic medieval mindset. As Kabul falls, the preliminary aim of the Taliban to establish an Islamic Caliphate in Afghanistan is close to being met. This will fulfill another theological precondition of jihad (possession of territory) and will lead to a surge in recruitment to al-Qaeda, as was evident in the case of the Islamic State after the fall of Mosul. The emirate will become the hub for spreading violent jihadi ideology, and this jihad is unlikely to remain confined within the geographical frontiers of Afghanistan.After conquering Afghanistan, the foot soldiers of the Taliban will not start tilling the land. They will merely relocate to new battlefields to fight new wars. These could well be in India, which, according to them, is part of “Khorasan” — the arena of “end of time” battles. The fall of Kabul could also result in the surge of new jihadi recruits from India for other terror groups.This will create a significant security threat for India. It is, therefore, essential that all efforts are invested to stall an outright Taliban victory, even at this late stage. If the Taliban does succeed in capturing power on its own, India must rally behind anti-Taliban forces which will consolidate in the coming weeks. Even countries engaging with the Taliban are uncomfortable with the Taliban’s ascendance, as it threatens their long-term interests. India should create an alliance with such countries. Remember, the Taliban won’t be friendly towards India, and will, sooner or later, pose a serious threat to India’s security. It makes far greater sense for India to fight the Taliban in Kabul than to do so in Srinagar or at Wagah.Alok Bansal is director, and Soumya Chaturvedi is senior research fellow, India FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-turn-in-afghanistan-will-threaten-indian-security-101629040220417.html
15-08-2021||Today's||The exhaustion of the carbon budget||In the past three decades, the science of the climate crisis has progressed, but its politics has regressed. In 1992, in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro, when the world met to initiate action on the climate crisis, the science behind the accuracy of how fossil fuels were warming the planet and its implications was still uncertain. But enough was known to sound a warning bell on this impending catastrophe. This is why the framework convention on climate change was agreed upon. At the time, it was accepted that the world needed to come together as these emissions crossed national boundaries. It was accepted that countries had different responsibilities to the contribution of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and, so, they needed to act together, but differently. Rich countries needed to drastically cut emissions and make space for the poorer, emerging countries to grow. But so that these countries could grow differently — with lower emissions of greenhouse gases, mainly CO2 — the richer countries would provide funds and technology. The politics of climate justice would enable cooperation. But since then, we have gone downhill. Now, the Climate Change 2021 report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) bluntly says that the world has run out of time and excuses not to act. It is code red for the planet, these normally circumspect scientists have declared. They are now certain that it is human influence that has warmed the earth. That this warmer world is already beginning to see the impact — from extreme cold to extreme heat of extreme rainfall events. And that each of these events will trigger devastation such as the droughts, floods or fires that we are witnessing today. This is no longer about the future. It is the present, and it will only get worse. This then is their next big certainty — the pace is accelerating and this will mean that we could see an increase of 1.5°C in global temperature measured since 1870 by 2040 or sooner. This is widely considered as a guardrail of what is relatively safe. But consider the fact that at an average increase of 1.09°C, we are seeing such horrific devastation. For most of us, who have keenly observed the language of climate scientists, the 2021 IPCC report is remarkably different. Instead of being punctuated with the usual suffices of uncertainty, it now says, more often than ever, that it is “virtually certain” and can speak with a “high order of confidence” of the human-induced climate crisis impact. It can even attribute this to specific weather events. It indeed is the age of the Anthropocene and we will not go down well in history. This is where politics kicks in. The IPCC report says there is a “near-linear” relationship between cumulative CO2 emissions and the global warming they cause. It says each 1,000 gigatonne CO2 (GtCO2) is likely to cause a 0.45°C increase in global surface temperature. The real twist comes in the next finding, which says that for a 67% chance to stay below 1.5°C, the remaining carbon budget — from January 2020 — is 400 GtCO2 and that at current rates of emissions, this will be exhausted in the next 10 years. Think of the carbon budget like the cake that has already been eaten, and now there are crumbs available for the rest to munch on. This is the real inconvenient truth of the climate crisis. The fact is the carbon budget has been disproportionately appropriated in the past — the politics of action and inaction lies in this inequity. Between 1870 and 1989, the United States, the European Union (EU)-27, Russia, the United Kingdom, Japan, Canada, and Australia emitted 75%. In the next two decades, China, which was just 5% in the preceding period, jumped to contribute 13% of the carbon budget. In this way, the original seven and China have appropriated 74% of the budget from 1870 to 2019. And by 2030, they will take up 60% of what remains to keep the world below 1.5°C. So, it’s apartheid, the climate way. The question is: What do we do in India? We are victims of the impact of the climate crisis. We know this and the IPCC reconfirms that we will see the worst of the devastation in this increasingly warming world. We are the world’s third highest emitter of greenhouse gases (fourth if we take EU-27 as a group) but the scale of our past, current and future emissions is not comparable to the original 7+1 — not in terms of the total amount or in terms of per capita. But now the world has run out of carbon space. We can keep insisting that we are the victims, but it will not be to much avail. We need a strategy to ramp up our actions to combat the climate crisis — because we have the advantage of doing things differently. Also, we have the reason to do this for our own benefit — clean air and clean energy. We must be strident on the need for global action; stress on the inequity of inaction; and show leadership in not just walking, but running the talk. It is a tall order given the fact that emissions of CO2 are still directly linked to economic growth. But it is the order of the times we live in. Sunita Narain is director-general, Centre for Science and Environment, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-exhaustion-of-the-carbon-budget-101629039621939.html
15-08-2021||Today's||Looking back at the 25th, 50th I-Day anniversaries||I am writing these words with a deep sense of grief, even as India celebrates its 75th Independence Day. The monsoon session of Parliament has shattered people’s faith in parliamentary democracy. At this juncture, it must be remembered that Independence and the progress that followed have been achieved through the efforts of generation after generation. Let me explain by going back to the last 50 years, which I have had the privilege of witnessing up close.Let’s start with September 1971. There were photographs of Indira Gandhi everywhere, and the people of Prayagraj (then, Allahabad) felt proud when they said that they were residents of the original city of the Jawaharlal Nehru dynasty. Gandhi was known for her eloquent speeches. We used to hear her speeches on All India Radio, in which she was often heard drawing the blueprint of India’s golden future. However, the conditions on the ground were starkly different.The shadow of the 1965-1967 famine was still looming over the country. Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan were also drought-prone at the time. The country produced only 107.8 million tonnes of food grains. The agricultural situation dipped, and as a result, India had to import about two million tonnes of grain from the United States and other countries. Society was imprisoned in the ruthless system of ration shops. People in villages could not even see sugar for months. Discussions over war with Pakistan were in full swing. And as expected, war broke out in the first week of December. India won a decisive victory over Pakistan, which was now broken into two parts. The country was overwhelmed with pride. Most of us even forgot about the growth rate that had slipped below zero, the queues at ration shops, and the pains of everyday life. This sentiment remained even eight months after the country began to celebrate the 25th year of independence.This was not unnatural, as the literacy rate was only 35%. In those days, the infant mortality rate was 138 of 1,000 newborns. The life expectancy rate was 48.72 years. The British raj was over, but in the country, devotion to kings remained. Political dynasties were taking advantage of this. Their numbers were increasing, and continue to, to this day.Now, fast-forward to 1997. This was the sixth year of economic reforms in India. Computers were becoming a part of life in many sectors and mobile phones began making their presence felt, albeit slowly. Little did we know then that we were inching towards the greatest changes in human civilisation. Education was being privatised and businessmen were opening colleges. It was no wonder that the 2001 Census reflected its impact. India’s literacy rate jumped tremendously, and now, 64.83% of the population was literate. The infant mortality rate also reduced significantly. Now, only 73 of 1,000 newborns lost their lives. The life expectancy rate increased to 61 years. The Green Revolution made it possible to feed a large and growing population.By that time, only states had ayaram-gayaram (turncoat) governments. But soon, the Centre began seeing this trend after the rise of regional parties. At that time, Inder Kumar Gujral was the prime minister (PM) elected by a provisional coalition. It was as if the faction of 40 rich people who ruled in Delhi during the era of the slave dynasty had been re-established. The situation at the borders was poor. Terrorism also established its root in India. After the Northeast, bad news began coming from Kashmir. It was natural for Pakistan to be ambitious in such an unfortunate time. Two years later, the events in Kargil were the result of this situation. The passion of the 25th anniversary was missing in the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of Independence.Now, at the present moment. India has made tremendous economic progress in the last 74 years. Despite the Covid-19 attack, the world believes that we will join the club of the top three economic superpowers — if not today, then tomorrow. This year, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated at 9.5% and India’s literacy rate has reached 78%. The infant mortality rate has dropped down to 28 per 1,000, and the life expectancy is about 70 years. We can, and should, feel proud of this, but in our neighbouring Sri Lanka, infant mortality rate has come down to six per 1,000. So, while we are leaps ahead from where we started, we still have a lot of work to do.Tension still persists at the borders. China is still a major threat. However, India’s tough stance on the border has forced China to retreat in many places, but to assume that the threat is over would be a mistake. The Indian government is aware of this, and that’s why the three armed forces have been brought under one command. The current Chief of Defence Staff, Bipin Rawat, has claimed that India can fight on two fronts.If someone asked me what I consider to be the country’s greatest achievement in the last 50 years, my answer would be just one simple word: Democracy. Every challenge and obstacle, we have overcome democratically. In every civilisation, it is customary to learn from one’s mistakes on the occasion of a birthday. Will politicians take advantage of this opportunity every year? Hopefully, before the next session of Parliament, they will set an example of harmony so that Parliament can discharge its obligation with full dignity.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/looking-back-at-the-25th-50th-i-day-anniversaries-101629039620862.html
15-08-2021||Today's||I dreamt of democracy in Afghanistan. Now, I may be killed||In 2004, I was in the seventh grade when the first free presidential election took place in Afghanistan. For my country, that election was the second most important step after writing its new constitution in building a stabilised democratic society with the help of the international community.Since then, I could not wait to be old enough to vote for my country’s new president. Although I barely knew much about voting rights or participatory democracy, I still felt proud and powerful. I thought my opinion and my vote mattered.Later, I studied at the journalism department of Kabul University, where I learnt about democracy, the right to vote, and freedom of speech. My studies helped me vote in the elections in 2014 and 2019, despite the high risk of being attacked by the Taliban. I voted in 2014 and 2019 amid the risk of being attacked by the Taliban. Back then, for me, as a media student, voting was not the only thing to do. I felt that it was my responsibility to openly talk about its importance with pride. Posting on social media was another way to express myself and convince others to participate in democracy for future generations.In 2015, I went to India to pursue my Master’s degree in Journalism at AJK Mass Communication Research Center in Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. In Jamia, I saw Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Christians, and many others belonging to different communities living together peacefully in the largest democracy in the world. Living and studying in the democratic, diverse, and stable India gave me a dream and a goal: Working for a democratic Afghanistan by preserving and polishing its cultural values, such as hospitality, music, clothing, and men and women working together. This made me return home after graduating, despite having a job at the Pashto department of the international division of the AIR: All India Radio.Soon after returning home, I came back to the journalism department at Kabul University, where I became a teaching assistant and permanent faculty member. I was surprised when I met my students for the first time. Meeting and sharing thoughts with young minds made me happy. I found them much more aware and enthusiastic about democratic values than many from my generation.At the time, I was full of hope, despite the fact that war was still raging in the countryside. I did not lose hope even when, every now and then, bomb blasts and suicide attacks killed people I knew in my own city, Kabul. After every lecture with these enthusiastic young men and women at Kabul University, it made me happy to see that my dream of a peaceful and democratic society was taking shape in front of me.Even the deadly attack on Kabul University on November 2, 2020, which, according to official numbers, killed 32 people and wounded 50 others, including students and faculty members, could not stop us. Just two days after the violent attack, while everyone was still traumatised, we returned to our classes, most of us wearing black to express our grief. We were determined to build a new society.Such acts of solidarity and defiance also made me realise that I was not the only one rooting for a democratic Afghanistan. Almost everyone my age has a similar story. The new generation of Afghanistan, those who went to schools and universities after 2001, and took part in elections in the last 17 years, always dreamed of a democratic society, where humanity was of the most considerable value.Meanwhile, we knew about the corruption and rivalries among the different warlords sharing power, but we considered that as a passing stage and as a bridging point to the future we dreamed of. We were somewhat indulged, because we knew our country was yet to recover fully from the disastrous four decades of war, including the USSR invasion, the civil war among Mujaheddin, and the darkest era of the Taliban.In fact, we thought we could grow up to the point of becoming a democratic example for our neighbours, like Iran, where the regime exercises tight control, for Pakistan suffering under the control of the military, and the Central Asian nation with their fixed elections. To reach our dream, we were confident and counting on our partners in the international community: Europeans, Americans, Indians, Arab nations, and others who came to our country in the aftermath of 9/11.Do not get me wrong. We were not expecting sympathy. Our confidence was pragmatic and based on a common interest. Afghans have been fighting a war on behalf of the world — the war on terrorism. The world had no choice but to stand by our side. This is what we hoped for. The international community did take some initiatives but ultimately we were left to fend for ourselves.Afghans were horrified when Zalmay Khalilzad, the United States (US) Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, signed the Doha agreement with the Taliban in February 2020. The US kept the elected government of Afghanistan out of this deal. It also treated the Taliban as a parallel government. Soon, the Taliban appeared as “honourable guests” in Moscow, Tehran, and Beijing. Our biggest disappointment is not the departure of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces from Afghanistan; it is the treatment of the Taliban by the international community as a legitimate force, equating it with Afghanistan’s elected government. While the Taliban is gaining more territory inside the country and gaining political leverage abroad, many of us live in the fear of being executed. We stand vulnerable to the atrocities of the Taliban. Why? Because we dream of a democratic society. Because we refuse to live under a regime of terror.Baitullah Hameedi teaches at Kabul University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/i-dreamt-of-democracy-in-afghanistan-now-i-may-be-killed-101628950862180.html
15-08-2021||Today's||India-UK: The evolution of a post-colonial relationship||As India enters the 75th year of its Independence, my mind goes back 25 years, to its 50th anniversary and Queen Elizabeth’s visit. Inviting her to celebrate India’s Independence was a generous gesture considering Britain’s past imperial role. It also demonstrated Britain’s hope that the past could stay in the past, and a future partnership of two great democracies be established.The visit ran into rough weather. To woo the British-Sikh vote, a significant factor in several constituencies, the British high commissioner was instructed to negotiate a visit to Amritsar and the Golden Temple. IK Gujral, the then prime minister (PM), made it clear that he didn’t want the Queen to go to Amritsar unless she was willing to apologise for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Eventually, in an embarrassing compromise as far as Gujral was concerned, it was agreed the Queen would visit Jallianwala Bagh and lay a wreath, but she would not apologise. During the visit, the Duke of Edinburgh didn’t make things any easier by questioning the official figures of the number of people killed in the massacre when General Reginald Dyer ordered his soldiers to open fire on a peaceful crowd trapped in the garden. The Queen’s husband was reported as saying that General Dyer’s son had told him that the figure was much lower — hardly a reliable source.Before coming to India, the Queen visited Pakistan. This did not please the external affairs ministry. During the visit, the British foreign minister, Robin Cook, offered to mediate between India and Pakistan. With the unhappiness over Amritsar and the anger over Cook’s blunder, the press coverage of the tour became extremely negative, so much so that the Palace issued a statement saying that the Queen thought the visit was going very well.British PM, Boris Johnson, seems to have learnt the lesson from this sorry story: Don’t push too hard, don’t ride roughshod over Indian sensitivities if you want to negotiate successfully, as he does. He desperately wants a Free Trade Agreement to justify his promise that Brexit will leave Britain free to negotiate far more beneficial trade agreements than those it was tied to by its membership in the European Union.Johnson is taking it step by step. He met Narendra Modi virtually two months ago, and they agreed on an enhanced trade partnership. Modi described this as a “roadmap to a comprehensive Free Trade Agreement”. He also spoke of an ambitious roadmap to elevate India-United Kingdom (UK) relations to a “comprehensive strategic partnership”. That sounds something like the alliance of two great democracies Britain hoped that the Queen’s visit would symbolise.India is a constitutional democracy. According to its first president Rajendra Prasad, its democracy has historic links with Britain. He said, “We have all derived from the British Parliament and we still continue to derive inspiration from its proceedings, from its history....(and) from its traditions.” Furthermore, at the recent G7 summit hosted by Johnson in June, Modi, although only a guest, signed the open societies statement, the joint commitment to strengthen democracy globally.There are now questions being asked about how democratic India is. The United States government-funded non-governmental organisation Freedom House’s 2021 report has demoted India from “free” to “partly free”, alleging discriminatory policies, rising violence and a crackdown on freedom of expression. India has also dropped two places in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s Democracy Index. It alleges a crackdown on civil liberties in India.These allegations have been furiously denied, but the truth is that India’s democracy does have an international image problem, which if it remains, will stand in the way of establishing a comprehensive partnership with Britain. It also makes India’s commitment to the world’s richest nations campaign for democracy appear implausible.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indiaukthe-evolution-of-a-post-colonial-relationship-101628950442133.html
15-08-2021||Today's||Our Olympic champions deserve all the credit||I remember it as clearly as if it happened yesterday. But it was nearly 50 years ago. The curtain had come down on the last performance of Peter Shaffer’s, The Royal Hunt of the Sun. I played the part of Atahualpa, the defeated Inca King. For the Stowe school audience, the novelty of a brown Indian acting as a Red Indian was the cause of much ribaldry. My mates gathered backstage were attracted, no doubt, by the feathers in my hair. But when photographs were taken, they crowded me out. That’s when Bob Drayson, the headmaster, spoke out.“Surely the young man you’ve come to congratulate should be at the centre?” he asked. “You’re grabbing the limelight instead!”That’s exactly what happened when our Olympic heroes returned last week. No doubt the highest in the land were among the first to applaud them, but the way they did it suggested that they wanted the attention on themselves.Consider, for example, the prime minister (PM)’s phone call to the bronze-medal winning hockey team. Both sides spoke on mobiles with the speakers switched on. That was the first surprise. But what really caught my attention — and it can’t possibly have missed yours — is there was a camera in Delhi filming the PM speaking to the team and another in Tokyo filming the team replying to him.That couldn’t have happened unless it was specifically arranged. After all, it’s not usual for people to be filmed talking on the phone. Not unless they want it. In fact, it was particularly surprising to see the hockey team being filmed while replying. Clearly, this was done with a purpose.It became crystal clear when the footage from both ends was adroitly joined and made available to television channels. Thus, a congratulatory phone call to applaud the hockey team transformed into a story about the PM. When it was broadcast, he became the centre of attention. The team and its laurels were reduced to the opportunity that allowed us to witness the great leader’s warmth and large-heartedness. So, are you surprised Drayson’s admonition came leaping back to mind?Now, I’m certain PMs all over the world congratulated their medal winners. But I don’t know of a single other case where it was meticulously and deliberately filmed. Boris Johnson and Joe Biden, or Xi Jinping and Yoshihide Suga would have been overjoyed. Their teams, after all, made it to the top four. But they didn’t make an event out of it. Doesn’t that reflect the veracity of Drayson’s wise words?Initially, this was just an amusing little item. However, the night the team returned, it became a matter of greater concern. That happened at the Ashoka Hotel reception to welcome them home.Remember, the team was the cynosure of all eyes. They were the reason we were watching. Yet, they were dwarfed — not just metamorphically but even literally — by enormous photographs of the PM. There were, at least, three. So no matter where you were seated in the hall or from whichever angle the TV cameras filmed the event, the leader’s large bearded visage was the first thing you saw.As if that wasn’t enough, each of the three ministers who spoke made a point of praising the PM — for the facilities he made available, for his encouragement and vision and, indeed, for the new India he’s created. If it hadn’t been for him, they seemed to suggest, we might not have won any medals. The credit goes to him. Now, governments all over the world go out of their way to help their Olympians. It’s expected of them. But is it fitting to claim credit when you’re felicitating the actual winners?I wonder what Drayson would have said? He had a gift for the mot juste. Perhaps he might have said the backseat is often the best place for the top man. Or he could have muttered sotto voce the quest for publicity can be the undoing of PMs.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/our-olympic-champions-deserve-all-the-credit-101628950383943.html
15-08-2021||Editorials||An ambitious climate blueprint||India will be “energy independent” in 25 years to mark its 100th year of Independence, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day speech. The government’s roadmap includes a gas-based economy, a Compressed Natural Gas and Piped Natural Gas network, and a 20% ethanol blending target. The plan will help reduce energy import of over ₹12 lakh crore annually. The PM also announced that Indian Railways has targeted becoming a net-zero carbon emitter by 2030; he emphasised that the government is serious about circular economy (eliminating waste and pollution, keeping products and materials in use and regenerating natural systems); and announced a national hydrogen mission to increase the use of green hydrogen as a cleaner alternative fuel.Two other announcements are significant because they are already in motion. First, the total installed renewable energy (RE) capacity, excluding large hydro, has crossed the milestone of 100 GW out of the target of 450 GW target by 2030. India is fourth in the world in terms of installed RE capacity. Second, the PM spoke of making India plastic-free. On August 13, the government notified Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, prohibiting identified single-use plastic items by 2022.The PM’s address shows that the government’s ambition is clear. India is willing to take measures to halt the climate crisis and opt for a less-polluting development pathway. The world should acknowledge this, and help the country through finance and green technology. This will enable India (and the world) to not just achieve climate goals, but many of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/an-ambitious-climate-blueprint-101629039682095.html
15-08-2021||Editorials||From 75 to 100, India’s future||In his 88-minute speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort, to mark India’s 75th Independence Day, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi weaved in India’s past, present and future. By recognising the entire spectrum of India’s freedom fighters — including Jawaharlal Nehru, whose legacy the ruling party is uncomfortable with — the PM underlined that India’s struggle for freedom was a collective enterprise and each citizen, known and unknown, deserved credit. By declaring August 14 as the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day — the formal announcement was made on Saturday — the PM was right to acknowledge the suffering and grief that millions underwent at what should have been a moment of unadulterated joy. But while India needs to do more to memorialise its past, it is important that the memory of Partition serves as a reminder of the perils of the politics of hate and religious division and does not end up aggravating it.As is the right of the head of the government, PM Modi sought to highlight the improvement in governance in the past seven years, with a focus on welfare delivery. He also dealt with the pandemic — praising India’s vaccination programme and locally-manufactured vaccines, while acknowledging there were difficulties and mourning the loss of those who succumbed to the infection. He defended the government’s record on agriculture when farm protests continue to rage against new legal reforms, made the small farmer the face of Indian agriculture, and highlighted the need to focus on energy, manufacturing, infrastructure, innovation and technology as sectors that needed a boost in the next 25 years. No one can dispute the need to combine enhanced agri-productivity, leverage the new economy, and work for equity as a three-pronged road map. The challenge, of course, is translating this vision into reality — especially at a time when the government has been less than enthusiastic about a fiscal stimulus to tide over the current crisis and has embarked on (much-needed) reforms without adequate consultation.A key theme in the PM’s speech was the need to liberate citizens from the overbearing hand of the State, especially by removing administrative hurdles. This bureaucratic and legal clean-up is necessary, but the government also needs to recognise that liberty extends to the political realm. Ensuring the ease of living for citizens also requires the State to allow them to express and organise themselves, without fear. Indeed, that is the essence of freedom. A more prosperous, a more harmonious, a more equal, a more just, and a more free India must be the goal for 2047.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/from-75-to-100-india-s-future-101629039680571.html
