19-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Three snatch ₹12 lakh from collection agent, SHO suspended||A 30-year-old collection agent working for a Delhi businessman was allegedly robbed of ₹12 lakh by three armed men in Noida’s Sector 104 on Thursday afternoon. Later, Sector 39 police station house officer Azad Singh Tomar was suspended for “dereliction of duty” in connection with the case.According to police, Sukhveer, a native of Haryana, has been working at the businessman’s store in Delhi’s Kondli for six years. His employer Praveen Garg is a wholesaler dealing in refined oil, they said. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that Sukhveer came to Noida on a scooter to collect money from his employer’s clients. “He visited different shops/clients in Khoda, Mamura, Parthala and Bhangel and collected about ₹12 lakh cash. He was returning to Delhi when three criminals on a motorcycle overtook him and forced him to stop near Hajipur in Sector 104. The suspects snatched his bag containing the cash and mobile phone at gunpoint and fled the spot,” he said. The victim informed police with the help of a passerby and a team from Sector 39 police station soon reached the spot. Singh said it appears that the suspects had conducted a recce of the collection agent before committing the crime. “We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said. Later, the news of the incident was widely shared on social networking sites. Police commissioner Singh said in the evening, “I have called for an administrative preliminary inquiry report. Action will be taken against the policemen for dereliction of duty based on the report.” However, later in the night, the GB Nagar police commissioner said, “The Sector 39 SHO, Azad Singh Tomar, has been suspended for dereliction of duty in connection with the loot case.”Rajesh S, DCP, Noida said that a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC at Sector 39 police station. “We are scanning CCTV footage from nearby areas to arrest the suspects,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-three-snatch-12-lakh-from-collection-agent-sho-suspended-101629397580949.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Operation Muskaan: Mumbai Police traced 128 missing children||The Mumbai Police last month traced 128 missing children under the special drive Operation Muskaan. During the drive, which started in 2014, the Mumbai Police put in extra efforts to trace missing children under the age of 14 years.In the 10th operation in July, 105 girls and 23 boys were traced. Of them, eight children were found to be engaged as child labourers.After tracing the children with the help of child welfare committee and non-government organisations, the police also helped in reuniting the children with their families or arranging their rehabilitation at children’s homes. Police officers said most of the children found were involved in the begging racket or wandering aimlessly on roads and railway stations.A special month-long drive was conducted from July 1 to July 31 during which the police force put in rigorous efforts to track down missing children. Officers said a majority of the cases are of runaway children due to family harassment or fights.Apart from Mumbai Police, Railway Protection Force (RPF) rescued 477 children from railway platforms at stations on Central Railway in the past seven months across Maharashtra and reunited them with their parents. RPF officers said these include 310 boys and 167 girls. Anil Kumar Lahoti, general manager of Central Railway, said the railways play its role of social responsibility by connecting with the runaway children, understanding their problems and counselling them to go with their family. “We appreciate RPF and frontline staff who play an important role by identifying such cases with their innate sense and taking immediate action as a counsellor,” said Lahoti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/operation-muskaan-mumbai-police-traced-128-missing-children-101629397501697.html
19-08-2021||Noida||66% work on Advant underpass completed||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Thursday said that it has completed 66% work on an underpass that will ease connectivity between areas located along the Noida expressway. The authority had started work on this underpass on June 11, 2020 with an aim to provide smooth connectivity between sector 137/142 and sector 168, among others located along the expressway. Once operational, the underpass will benefit the residents living in dozens of newly built housing complexes, commercial areas and IT-enabled firms functional in this cluster, said officials.“We have completed 66 % overall work on this project and the work is in full swing so that we can complete the work at earliest,” said Rajeev Tyagi chief general manager of the Noida authority.The authority that is spending Rs43 crore on this underpass project has scheduled completion of this project on December 10, 2021. This 434-metre length underpass is being built with ‘push back’ technology in a manner so that it does not trouble the smooth flow of traffic.“We are using push-back construction methodology to construct this underpass so that the work is kept going on without disrupting the regular vehicular movement on the Expressway,” Tyagi.“In this technique concrete boxes are casted and pushed through the road embankments through jacking to build beds. The advantage of this technology is that it does not disrupt the traffic above road under which an underpass is being built. And it saves a lot of time in construction,” said Tyagi.Residents said that once this underpass is completed and ready for use we will not have to face traffic congestion on Noida Expressway in order to commute from sector 168/135 side to sector 137/142 side.“As of now existing small underpasses located in this area witnesses huge traffic snarls because two vehicles cannot pass through at one time. As a result we have stuck for long time particularly during peak hours in evening and morning. This underpass will address congestion issues to large extent,” said Deepika Singh, a resident of sector 135.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/66-work-on-advant-underpass-completed-101629397496940.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||56-year-old man in Thane sustains serious injuries after tree branch falls on his head||A 56-year-old man sustained serious injuries after a tree branch fell on his head on Thursday, officials said.According to the Kalwa police, the incident occurred at around 2.15 pm near the Kaveri Setu society in Kalwa on Thursday. The police said that the victim has been identified as Dilip Chavan (56), a resident of Sudam Society in Kalwa. “A huge branch of the tree fell on Chavan suddenly while he was passing by. He sustained serious injuries to his head and left leg. Chavan was on his way home from the Kalwa Market when the incident occurred,” police inspector Bharat Chaudhari, Kalwa police station, said. Chavan was rushed to the Mauli Hospital in Kalwa and later shifted to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa for further treatment. “Chavan has been administered seven stitches to his head. Meanwhile, personnel were dispatched to the scene of the incident and the tree branch was removed,” an officer with the Regional Disaster Management Cell of the Thane Municipal Corporation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/56yearold-man-in-thane-sustains-serious-injuries-after-tree-branch-falls-on-his-head-101629397438286.html
19-08-2021||Noida||Two persons arrested for impersonating in sub-inspector exam||Two persons have been arrested on the charges of impersonation during the physical efficiency test (PET) in Greater Noida for the post of sub-inspector in the Delhi Police and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). Rahul Meena, 25, a native of Alwar in Rajasthan, was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly appearing in the test in place of his younger brother, Ravi Meena, 23, while Shekhar Deshwal, 26, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, was apprehended on Tuesday as he had allegedly used a solver to clear his written examination for the post. The written exam was conducted about six months ago, police said. Bhuvnesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Ecotech 3 police station, said that the PET was held at the CISF campus in Greater Noida on Tuesday and Wednesday. “The officials got suspicious after the photograph and signature of a candidate – Ravi Meena – did not match with the records on Wednesday. When questioned, the suspect revealed that his real name was Rahul Meena and he was impersonating for his brother Ravi,” the SHO said. Following this, Kumar Pratap Singh, senior commandant, CISF, informed police and filed a complaint in this regard, police said. The SHO said a case was registered against Rahul and Ravi under sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and sections 3, 6, 9, and 10 of UP Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 1998. “We have launched a search to arrest Ravi,” he said. In the second case, police arrested Shekhar Deshwal from the same centre on Tuesday. “Deshwal’s photo and signature did not match the records. During interrogation, he revealed that he had cleared the exam with the help of a solver, whose photo and signature were used in the written exam,” Singh said in the police complaint. A case was registered against Shekhar under same sections of IPC and UP Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act. Police are investigating the matter to arrest more people involved in the racket, the SHO said, adding that both the suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-persons-arrested-for-impersonating-in-sub-inspector-exam-101629397256959.html
19-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Three arrested for burglaries||The Greater Noida police on Thursday arrested three persons allegedly linked to five burglaries in the city. Police identified them as Anup Singh (26), Sajid (25) and Anuj Singh (23), all residents of Farrukhabad.Sector Beta 2 police sation house officer (SHO) Rameshwar Kumar said, “On Thursday, we got a tip that the three were in the area. We worked on the information and a police team traced them. The team recovered five silver coins, three anklets, two gold rings, four gold bangles, one gold chain, one mangalsutra, five wrist watches, ₹28,300, and a toolkit to break locks, from them.”Police said Anup Singh was the mastermind. He previously worked as a technician with a mobile phone company in Noida, but lost his job during the Covid-induced lockdown last year after which he decided to commit burglaries, they added. The suspects allegedly told police that they targeted houses that were locked for a few days. Police claimed that their arrests had led to cracking five cases of theft registered in August in Greater Noida. One complainant, Renu , a resident of Sector Beta 2, said that on August 4, 2021, she had gone to visit her sister’s home in Sector Beta 1. “When I returned the next day, I found that the house ransacked. The thieves had fled with ₹1.5 lakh and some gold and silver jewellery and two wrist watches,” she said. Police said the three had the five cases registered against them under section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. “They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-three-arrested-for-burglaries-101629397217189.html
19-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Woman, two aides arrested for killing friend, burying body in her house||Police on Thursday arrested a 19-year-old woman and her two friends linked to the murder of 19-year-old man from Muradnagar who was found buried in the woman’s house on August 11. The victim and suspects in the case are from the village of Khairajpur, said police.Police said that the victim, Mohammad Mursaleen, was allegedly a friend of the woman, who they identified by a single name as Ayesha. An autopsy report confirmed death by strangulation, said a police officer. Police identified the other two arrested suspects as Mohammad Usman and Arif and said two other suspects, Zubair and Zeeshan, were absconding. All were between 19 and 25 years of age, they added.Police said they had succeeded in establishing the sequence of events that led to Mursaleen’s murder. On August 11, Ayesha allegedly called him to her home.“When we questioned her, Ayesha told us that had been pressing her to marry him. She told this to her two suspects - Zubair and Usman who had a previous altercation with the victim over another issue. Thereafter, they planned to get rid of the victim,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). The woman allegedly told the police that when the victim reached her house, her two friends allegedly murdered him, while she kept watch at the door.“They wanted to dispose of the body outside but found that it would be difficult to move out of the locality without anyone noticing. So, they dug up a patch in the house and buried it. Upon questioning and investigation, three suspects were arrested while a search is on for others,” the SP said. Police said Zeeshan helped bury the body.The family of the victim had filed a missing person complaint with the Muradnagar police on August 15 after extensive searches failed to throw up any clues. A police investigation traced his mobile phone SIM card to an ice-cream vendor near the woman’s house. The woman had allegedly wrapped the SIM card in a ₹500 currency note and given it to him in an effort to dispose of evidence, said police. The vendor led police to the woman’s house from where the body was exhumed after she was questioned, said officials.Mursaleen’s family named seven suspects in the case, including Ayesha’s mother, brother and the Ayesha’s friend Arif, in their police complaint following the discovery of body. “The family’s role in the case is being probed as we suspect they knew that the body was buried in the house. Once established, they will also be arrested,” said an officer from Muradnagar police station. Police said that Arif had no role in murder, but was booked for allegedly threatening the victim as alleged by his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-woman-two-aides-arrested-for-killing-friend-burying-body-in-her-house-101629397212556.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Technical glitches in app lead to troubles for anganwadi workers||Arti Salve, 39, an anganwadi worker (AW) in Beed, bought a smartphone worth ₹4,000 in April 2020 for her 12-year-old son’s online school education. But since last month, she has taken away his phone to upload details including photographs of malnourished children, pregnant women and lactating mothers on the centralised application — Poshan Tracker. The smartphone with 2GB RAM that the Centre gave to her in 2019 is unable to support the Poshan Tracker, and Salve doesn’t have the money to buy another smartphone for herself. “We are responsible for collecting data on height and weight of kids to maintain a record of malnourished children, as well as daily data on lactating mothers and pregnant women. This work can’t be done by sitting at home. We are always on the field even amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Salve who gets ₹6,000 as monthly remuneration. Salve’s story is not an isolated case. There are around 125,000 anganwadi workers in the state, earning a monthly income between ₹4,500 and ₹8,000, depending on their years of experience, who are facing the same hurdle with smartphones and the app.Getting no recourse despite repeated complaints and grievances, starting August 17, AWs have started returning the insufficient phones to the state women and child department (WCD) that will continue till the end of this month, as a mark of protest. Since the launch of the protest at least 1,000 phones have been returned, said MA Patil from Maharashtra Rajya ASHA Gatpravatak Karamchari Kruti Samiti.Warranty period is over, AWs asked to pay from their pocketsAround six months ago, under the Union women and child development ministry, Poshan Tracker app was launched in India with an aim to monitor nutritional outcomes in real-time which will be vital in improving maternal and child health.“The app keeps hanging every time they try to upload a photo. So, they have to reinitiate the uploading process repeatedly,” said Patil.The warranty of the phones expired in March. Since then, AWs have to pay for repair from their own pockets, which becomes financially constraining. “These phones are not of good quality. So, often cameras malfunction or hardware gets damaged. Hence, these need repairing which costs between ₹500 to ₹2,000. AWs with such a low salary cannot afford it,” added Patil.Not wanting to stop their work, many AWs like Salve have started using their private phones. However, AWs are not getting the money to charge their internet package. “AWs get ₹599 for a three-month package. But those who are using their private phones are not getting the money. So, they are paying the money from their pockets,” said Kamal Parulekar, secretary, Anganwadi Sevika Union. Additionally, there have also been reports that the app is infringing the privacy of Aws, as without their authorisation the app is automatically uninstalling social media apps like Facebook among others. In July first week, Anganwadi Karmachari Sabha approached the Bombay high court (HC) seeking intervention in the matter. “The payment of AWs’ honorarium is linked to logging in data into the app. These technical errors are affecting the income of AWs. We have, therefore, approached HC with the demand that the pay shouldn’t get deducted,” said Patil.Anganwadi workers have filed complaints with state WCD minister Yashomati Thakur who claimed that the Central government has not released the fund. Despite repeated attempts, Thakur was unavailable for a comment.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many families have lost their livelihood which has affected their income. This has also affected the nutritional intake among children which can increase cases of malnutrition in the state, said activists. “Thus, it is essential to maintain accurate data for the formulation of policies and schemes. If this continues, it will have a long-term impact on the health of children and mothers amid the ongoing pandemic,” said Parulekar. Poshan Tracker riddled with loopholes “Almost 90% of anganwadi workers have completed Class 10 and have mostly studied in Marathi medium schools. They cannot read English, but the application is completely in English. On a daily basis, they have to seek help from neighbours or their children to fill up the forms,” said Patil.Also, there is no option to delete a form. “So, if someone has typed a wrong name in English, AWs cannot delete it from the app. This is leading to inaccurate reporting,” Parulekar. The application doesn’t upload updated information automatically which is further hindering the nutrition plan of the needy children and mothers. The nutrition scheme of the children is divided into three age-wise categories — newborn to six-month-olds; six-month to three-year-olds, and three-year to six-year-olds. But when a three-year-old child becomes a year older, the application doesn’t update it. Thus, the child keeps getting a nutrition package of the second age category. Similarly, women remain enlisted in the category of pregnant even after her delivery. So, she keeps getting the nutrition package of a pregnant woman. Whereas the nutrition requirement of a lactating mother is completely different,” said Parulekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/technical-glitches-in-app-lead-to-troubles-for-anganwadi-workers-101629397207981.html
19-08-2021||Noida||Rains to bring respite to Noida||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday said that the “break monsoon” conditions has ended and that Noida is likely to receive light to moderate rainfall soon. A dry spell of about ten days is finally set to come to an end, experts said as the low pressure monsoon line of trough which was stuck in the Himalayan foothills for some time is now moving and is almost at the doorsteps NCR. “Parts of the National Capital Region (NCR), including Bulandshahr and other parts of the city, already received some drizzle. The break monsoon has ended. The mercury will fall with city over the next three days. The highest possibility of moderate rainfall is between August 21 to 23,” said Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.The break monsoon condition is when the monsoon trough lines, which increases the chance of rain, settles near the Himalayan foothills depriving the plains of rains.The maximum temperature dropped slightly from the previous day to 37.1°C. The IMD expects this to fall below the season’s average of 33.5°C on Friday.“On Friday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 33 and 27°C. There are chances of moderate rainfall,” said an official from IMD.According to the department, Gautam Budh Nagar is 73% deficit in rains. Since June 1, the district has so far received 97mm rain against the normal 360.9mm. At Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 36.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees above the season’s average and 27.5 degrees Celsius, a degree above season’s average. The humidity oscillated between 83 and 55 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rains-to-bring-respite-to-noida-101629397080248.html
19-08-2021||Noida||Second dose coverage at only 26% in GB Nagar||Amid the efforts by the Uttar Pradesh government to increase the second dose coverage in the state, only about 26% of the recipients eligible for the second dose of Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar have received the shots, according to the data from the district health department. The data also shows that nearly 45% health care workers (HCWs) – who had taken their first shot – have not turned up yet at the inoculation centres for their second dose.GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that out of 1,589,815 eligible population for vaccination, as many as 1,482,651 people have taken at least one dose till Thursday evening, which is 93% of the total eligible population. “However, in terms of giving both the shots, the performance of GB Nagar district is not very encouraging. So far, both the doses have been administered to 391,060 persons in the district, which is about 26% of the beneficiaries eligible for the second shot,” he said. The district immunisation officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, said that out of 29,630 health care workers, who were registered for the inaugural phase of vaccination against Covid-19 in January this year, as many as 2,154 HCWs are yet to take their first jab in the district. “Not only that, among 27,476 HCWs – who had taken their first shot – as many as 12,764 have yet not turned up at the inoculation centres for their second dose. A survey by the district health department has found that the maximum number of absentees among them are nursing staff, who have either shifted to some other place or have put in their papers,” he said.In order to increase the number of individuals fully vaccinated against Covid-19, the UP government on August 10 had ordered that all Saturdays starting August 14 will be reserved for those needing their second shot. The order would be applicable at both government and private vaccination centres, the government said.Tyagi said that the highest number of vaccinations has been done in the age group of 18-44 years so far with 1,208,706 doses, which is 64.5% of the total doses administered so far. “The overall doses administered in the district till Thursday evening are 1,873,711. While 423,973 of these doses have been administered to the age group of 45-60 years, the remaining 2,41,032 have been administered to beneficiaries above 60 years,” he said. “Of the total doses administered so far, 1,154,104 doses have been given among the male beneficiaries, while the remaining 718,937 were administered among the females. The percentage of adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI) cases reported in the district so far is 0.001%, much lower than the state’s 0.003% and national average of 0.006%,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-dose-coverage-at-only-26-in-gb-nagar-101629397024873.html
19-08-2021||Other||For 3rd day in row, Ludhiana records 4 fresh Covid infections||For the third consecutive day on Thursday, Ludhiana reported four new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases in Ludhiana to 87,439. No death was reported while the number of active cases went up to 89.There are currently 80 patients in home isolation in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-3rd-day-in-row-ludhiana-records-4-fresh-covid-infections-101629397022175.html
19-08-2021||Noida||One-day campaign focused on vaccinating rural population in GB Nagar||With an aim to increase the Covid-19 vaccination coverage in the rural areas of Gautam Budh Nagar, the district health department on Thursday held a one-day campaign in Dankaur and Jewar blocks. Officials said that 33 new Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) were created in the two blocks for the campaign.The officials said that 19 CVCs in Jewar and 14 in Dankaur carried out vaccination of the rural masses. “The CVCs were created in primary health centres and primary schools in remote villages of Dankaur and Jewar. The campaign also focused on those villagers from Jewar who have been rehabilitated after their land was acquired for the Jewar international airport project,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.According to district immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, a total of 16,350 doses were administered across the district on Thursday. But he did not divulge the number of doses available for the campaign.Tyagi said that targets were specified for the 25 CVCs being run daily in the district. “A target of 11,400 doses was specified at the 25 regular CVCs. But there were no targets specified for the 33 CVCs in Jewar and Dankaur that were created for the one-day campaign. No extra doses of vaccines were provided for the same either,” he said. Tyagi also said that the data on vaccinations done in rural and urban areas of the district has not been recorded separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/oneday-campaign-focused-on-vaccinating-rural-population-in-gb-nagar-101629396956892.html
19-08-2021||Other||Rebuked for blowing pressure horn, Ludhiana man rams car into neighbours||Deterred against blowing the pressure horn and driving rashly, a Kohara resident deliberately rammed his car into his neighbours, leaving four of them injured, on Wednesday.The accused, identified as Gursimran Singh, 20, of Kohara, has been booked along with his father Kulwinder Singh, relative Sharanjit Kaur, brother-in-law and an aide identified as Ruby.Complainant Kulwinder Kaur, 57, told the police that Gursimran used to drive recklessly in the locality and disturb the residents by blowing the pressure horn.Her son, Harpreet Singh, had rebuked the accused for his actions. On Wednesday evening, when Kulwinder Kaur, along with her son, daughter-in-law Gurdeep Kaur and nine-year-old grandson Karamvir Singh, were standing on the street, the accused deliberately swerved the car into their direction and hit them with the vehicle. While Kulwinder suffered a fracture in her hand, her family members suffered minor injuries. The complainant alleged that the accused had executed the crime in collusion with her parents and family members.Focal Point station house officer, inspector Davinder Sharma said a case under Sections 279 (rash or negligent driving), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rebuked-for-blowing-pressure-horn-ludhiana-man-rams-car-into-neighbours-101629396839019.html
19-08-2021||Other||After power-packed Olympics performance, Kamalpreet aims for CWG gold||Riding high on her Olympics’ performance, discus-throw sensation Kamalpreet Kaur, 25, who finished sixth in the finals, has already set her eyes on the next target – the 2022 Commonwealth and Asian Games.“This is no time to rest. I am working on improving my technique and strength. I have already started practising with my coach Rakhi Tyagi,” says the power-packed performer, who had reached Jassowal-Kular, Ludhiana, along with her coach, for a felicitation ceremony at Harvest International School on Wednesday. Kamalpreet and her coach were presented cheques of ₹10 lakh and ₹2.5 lakhs respectively for bringing laurels to the country on the world stage. The cheques were presented by Hardeepak Singh, former IAS officer, on behalf of his brother Harvinder Saran, president of Harvest International.Speaking about her Olympics experience, Kamalpreet said, “I come from a remote village, Kabar Wala, of Malout. To suddenly have the whole nation praying for my win was a matter of great honour. But I worked really hard to reach there.”Her mother, Harjinder Kaur, who was also present on the occasion, said, “It was not an easy ride for my daughter. She used to travel in trains for three days at a stretch to go for training. And add to that the societal pressure. As we hail from a very small town, people there used to discourage us from letting our daughter take up sports. But I am happy that my daughter remained focused on her game and made the country proud.”Kamalpreet’s coach echoed her mum’s views. “It’s her discipline and fighting spirit that have now made her an inspiration for so many girls and women in the country,” said Rakhi Tyagi.The coach further added, “We got only one gold medal in the Tokyo Olympics this time. The day sports becomes a culture in our country, the medal tally would touch the skies.”Meanwhile, Kamalpreet puts all her faith in her coach. “I am not considering training abroad. I would like to train in a quiet village where I would get healthy food and peace of mind,” said the player, who maintained that she would continue to stick to her vegetarian diet.Kamalpreet also voiced her disappointment at her coach not being allowed to travel to Tokyo with her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-power-packed-olympics-performance-kamalpreet-aims-for-cwg-gold-101629396544218.html
19-08-2021||Other||Day after assault on UCPMA chief, 31 booked||A day after two rival groups clashed during the annual general meeting (AGM) of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), 31 people were booked on Thursday for assaulting Daljit Singh Chawla, president of the association. Those booked include president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) and industrialist Gurmeet Singh Kular, cashier Asru Ram Gupta, members Walaity Ram, Vicky Kular, Satnam Singh Makkar and Rajinder Singh Saholi and 25 others who are yet to be identified.Chawla, 65, a resident of Model Town, alleged that the accused thrashed him badly and tossed his turban. He added that they also assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon.Chawla said that Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, secretary of the association, had convened the meeting and invited over 2,000 members. However, due to Covid restrictions, the administration had allowed only 150 members inside the building.“They were accusing me of restricting entry of members. I, along with Sudhir Mahajan, Surinder Singh Chauhan, Rajan Gupta and Ashok Gupta were present on the stage when they turned up there. Then, they assaulted me and tossed my turban. The whole incident was captured on video, which I have submitted to the police as evidence,” he added.Assistant Commissioner of police (ACP, Industrial Area, B) Randhir Singh said that a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Division Number 6.police station. According to the members, the current executive committee of the association has been divided into two groups. While current president Daljit Singh Chawla and secretary Harsimerjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of the remaining six executive members of the association including general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva; senior vice-president Gurcharan Singh Gemco; vice-president Satnam Singh Makkar; joint secretary Walaity Ram Durga; press secretary Rajinder Singh Sarhali and finance secretary Achhru Ram Gupta. Former presidents of the association including Charanjit Vishwakarma, Inderjit Navyug and senior members including Gurmeet Kular and Avtar Bhogal have also formed United Alliance group in support of Sachdeva group. Members added that soon after the AGM commenced at 6:30pm, Chawla and a group led by general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva got into a heated argument over the restriction imposed on the entry of more than 150 members.Sachdeva group alleged that Chawla had approached the administration to restrict the entry. After the Sachdeva group approached the police and members were allowed to enter, a heated argument was witnessed between the two groups.Meanwhile, Kular said that Chawla is trying to get mileage ahead of the elections of the association, which is due in the first week of September. He claimed that there is resentment against him currently and added that the police have lodged the FIR against them under pressure.Members meet police commissioner, seek probeMembers of the United Alliance Group met police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Thursday and sought a probe into the matter. Sachdeva said the meeting was convened following Covid protocol. “The hall of the association building has capacity to accommodate 1,000 members, but they had placed 150 chairs. Another 250 chairs were placed outside the hall. After 150 members entered, Chawla restricted entry of more members,” he said.He added that at the time of incident, Walaity Ram, Asru Ram Gupta and other office bearers were on the stage and are not visible anywhere in the video. “We handed over the videos of incident to the police commissioner and sought a probe,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-assault-on-ucpma-chief-31-booked-101629396478348.html
19-08-2021||Other||Longest monsoon pause in city in last four years: IMD||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/longest-monsoon-pause-in-city-in-last-four-years-imd-101629396297351.html
19-08-2021||Kolkata||CBI, SIT to probe Bengal post-election violence: HC||The Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered separate probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal this year.A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot, under the court’s supervision.“All the cases where, as per the report of the committee, the allegations are about murder and crime against women regarding rape and attempt to rape, shall be transferred to CBI for investigation. It is made clear that it shall be a court-monitored investigation,” the order stated.The investigation of SIT, comprising three senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officers Soumen Mitra (commissioner of Kolkata Police), Suman Bala Sahoo (director general-communication) and Ranveer Kumar (additional director general-administration) will also be monitored by the court and overseen by a retired judge of the Supreme Court. The high court also directed the Mamata Banerjee government to pay compensation to the victims of violence directly into their bank accounts after due verification.The state has said it will appeal the verdict.“I don’t see it as a setback. It is a judgment passed. If the litigant, which in this case is the state, finds that the verdict is not in its interest or beyond law, we have the right to challenge. We are waiting for the order. We will definitely move the Supreme Court,” said Sanjay Basu, advocate who appeared for the DGP of West Bengal along with senior advocates including Abhishek Manu Singhvi. He added that the observations in the order are not correct.Soon after the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made allegations of widespread post-poll violence from across the state. With petitions filed in the immediate aftermath, the high court took cognisance and in June, the court asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to form a seven member committee “considering the fact that there was blatant violation of human rights besides violation of other rights of the victims”. The committee submitted its final report on July 13 recommending a CBI probe, and that trials should be held outside the state.The committee said at least 1,934 complaints were lodged with the state police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson with the committee receiving around 1,979 reports covering 15,000 victims.The order quoted acting chief justice Bindal as saying: “In our opinion, the heinous crimes such as murder and rape deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in circumstances can only be the Central Bureau of Investigation. It is for the reason that in a number of cases, the State had failed to register the FIRs and opined the same to not be cases of murder. In some cases, even after registration of FIR, the observation by the State is that these may result in ‘no case’. This shows a predetermined mind to take investigation into a particular direction.”The order comes as a setback to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), with party MP Saugata Roy saying that the handing over of cases to CBI was a “transgression” on the rights of the state. “I am unhappy with the order. Law and order is a state subject and I think it’s a transgression on the state’s rights as it is not desirable that an external agency like CBI should be allowed to intervene in a state subject repeatedly. We had opposed when the NHRC team submitted its report because some of its members had BJP links. I hope and I expect that the state would go for an appeal against the order,” he said.The BJP attacked the TMC immediately after the order and said that the court had given a strong message, and that it would not be wrong to call Mamata Banerjee a failed chief minister. “The high court has given a strong message. It should be a milestone as the court has made it clear that anarchy has no place in India. It will not be wrong to call Mamata Banerjee a failed chief minister. A chief minister has to protect all citizens. The court has shown that when administration fails, the judiciary comes to people’s rescue,” BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said.In its counter affidavit, the state government argued that the committee was set up to spearhead a witch hunt against the Banerjee’s administration and was a concerted effort to discredit a democratically elected government. Justice Bindal, however, wrote, “Though the issue of bias of three members of the committee was sought to be raised, the argument just needs to be noticed and rejected. It seems to be an argument in frustration, where on the core issue the State has been found on a wrong foot.”In his comments, justice IP Mukerji said parts of the committee’s report that expressed opinion or made recommendations were “non-est” (beyond its jurisdiction) in the eye of the law. Mukerji was critical of the role of the Election Commission of India, saying that it was ECI’s duty to direct or advise the administration to register complaints “which it did not”. In his comments he added that “it is not established that the state has shown apathy to action”, and the investigation process, in his opinion, was at the initial stage.“Truth will prevail. The CBI probe will help people get justice,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh.The Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), also charged the state government with framing false charges against opposition leaders, but also charged the NHRC team of only talking to the BJP. “The state government has framed false charges against opposition leaders at random. I never killed a mosquito but there are two murder charges against me in Bengal,” said CPI(M) politburo member Hannan Mollah.CPI(M) central committee member Rabin Deb said, “Nobody visited the home of Kakali Khetrapal, one of our women activists who was murdered at Jamalpur in East Burdwan district on May 3.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-sit-to-probe-bengal-post-election-violence-hc-101629395637089.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: August sees 41% dip in Covid-19 cases||In a respite to Mumbai, Covid-19 cases seem to be on the decline, data revealed. The first 19 days of August have seen a 41% decrease in cases (5,510 infections), compared to the same period in July (9,339 infections), and a 60% drop from the corresponding time in June (13,978 infections). The figures are amid indication from experts and authorities that the devastating second Covid-19 wave, which started from April, is under control in the city and towards its tail end. The total active cases in Mumbai have also dropped to 3,030 and 85% of the 15,907 beds in Covid-19 hospitals are vacant.Also, Mumbai’s daily positivity rate has dropped. Mumbai on Thursday recorded a positivity rate of 0.5% as the civic body conducted 52,482 tests on Wednesday. The number of new Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday is 282. Overall, Mumbai has conducted 8,798,439 Covid-19 tests at an overall positivity rate of 8.41%. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is part of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task-force, said, “We are at the end of the second wave, but this is the time we need to be extra careful, especially as aspects of routine life are opening up in the city. As a city, if we grow complacent now, our caseload can increase rapidly.”While the overall bed occupancy is very low, the ICU and ventilator bed occupancy is considerably higher. Of the 2,313 ICU beds, 30.4% or 704 beds are occupied, while 1,609 are vacant. Of the 1,310 ventilator beds in Mumbai for Covid-19 patients, 34% or 451 beds are occupied, while 859 are vacant.Dr Om Shrivastav, who is also part of the task force, said, “We have seen more serious or critical patients during the second wave. Even though many Covid-19 patients did not need hospitalisation, those who delayed in getting medical attention developed serious symptoms faster. This aspect of the second wave has lingered and serious patients are still recovering.”Out of data available with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for 2,686 active cases, 38% are symptomatic, 45% are asymptomatic, and 17% are critical. On the contrary, BMC figures from March 2021 show (for 33,961 active cases on that day) 77% were asymptomatic, 21% were symptomatic, and only 2% were critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-august-sees-41-dip-in-covid-19-cases-101629396063077.html
19-08-2021||Other||Preparations on for BKU Mahapanchayat on Sept 5||MEERUT Preparations are in full swing for the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU’s) proposed Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on September 5, with Khap leaders supporting it by organising meetings in villages under their influence. A similar meeting of Deshwal Malik Khap was convened in Lankh village of Shamli district on Wednesday, in which BKU chief Naresh Tikait made a scathing attack on the ruling BJP. He called upon farmers and BKU supporters to sink their differences and team up to ensure grand success of the proposed Mahapanchayat on September 5. “It is the responsibility of all to ensure success of the Mahapanchayat,” said Tikait, hoping that “it will be historic”. Tikait said that if the BJP returned to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, farmers would have to pay ₹100 per hour, ₹1,000 daily and ₹3.60 lakh per year for their electricity bills. “The party’s return to power would bring misery for farmers,” he said. Comparing the price of sugarcane and electricity of UP with neighbouring Haryana, Tikait said “ Sugarcane price in Haryana is ₹350 per quintal and here ( in UP) it is ₹325 per quintal. There farmers pay monthly power bill of ₹250 and in UP it is ₹2100 to ₹2200”. Reminding the people about the BKU’s movements, he said all previous governments listened to farmers. During the movement in Bhopa village of Muzaffarnagar in 1989, the state government provided 10 to 11 tractors to those farmers whose tractors were damaged during the movement and also waived off electricity bill of 37 months. He also mentioned hike of ₹80 in sugarcane price during the rule of Mayawati (BSP) and ₹65 under Akhilesh Yadav (SP). “We should always remember the work done in favourv of farmers”, said Tikait and reminded how late Rajeev Gandhi shifted his rally from the Boat Club in Delhi because of farmers’’ protest. He said the situation was different now and every possible effort was being made to malign the image of farmers and to defame their ongoing movement. People in the meeting assured Tikait of extending their full support to the forthcoming Mahapanchayat. Meanwhile, Thambedar of Gathwala Khap Shayam Singh assured to organise bhandara at the Mahapanchayat to ensure food to the participants. BKU’s former Muzaffarnagar president Dheeraj Latiyan claimed that people were extending their support to the Mahapanchayat in every village of the region, and it would be a historic gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/preparations-on-for-bku-mahapanchayat-on-sept-5-101629396003580.html
19-08-2021||Other||2 hurt as shop-cum-godowngoes up in flames in Ludhiana||A massive fire broke out at a shop-cum-godown selling plastic material in Kucha No 16 of Field Ganj here this morning. Two people, including the factory owner’s son and an employee, suffered injuries in the incident. They were rushed to the hospital for treatment where they are now stated to be stable.The incident took place around 5.30am when the staff was loading disposable plastic material into the truck.Lead fire officer Harjinder Kumar said the fire first broke out at a grocery unit in the building, owned by one Gurdeep Singh. As the fire started to spread, panic-stricken residents living in the vicinity started rushing out of their houses.Gurdeep, along with his son Jagmeet, immediately reached the spot and informed the fire department. Jagmeet tried to open the shutter of the shop, but it fell upon him, leaving him injured.In the meanwhile, Toni, an employee who was stuck inside the store, tried to escape through the stairs but as the fire was spreading quickly, he was left with no option but to go the terrace and jump to an adjoining building. He successfully managed to jump to safety but suffered a fracture in his leg in the process. After this, Jagmeet and Toni were rushed to the hospital.Division No 2 station house officer, Satpal Singh Sidhu, along with the police party and PCR cops, cordoned off the area.He said that around 25 highly inflammable chemical and fuel containers were taken out safely, but a huge pile of disposable plates, cups and polythene bags which were kept in the four-story shop-cum-godown were gutted in flames. Assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) Swarn Chand, 60, said fire tenders containing over 2.5 lakh litres of water and 25 firefighters were pressed into service to douse the flames.He said the fire was brought under control around 11am.Material worth over ₹1 crore gutted in flames, building damaged:According to a relative of Gurdeep Singh, owner of the building, stock worth over ₹1 crore was stored in the building. He said the fire arrangement was in place but before Gurdeep could use the fire hydrant, the blaze spread in the entire building.Harjinder Kumar, the lead fire officer, said the structure of the building has been badly damaged due to the fire incident. He added that the fire hydrant installed by the owner was not functional. The firefighters had to dig a hole in the wall on the fourth floor for using water guns to douse the flames.Authorities failed to check presence of inflammables in building: ResidentsAs police evacuated residents of at least 15 houses located close to the shop-cum-godown in Field Ganj area where a massive fire broke out on Thursday morning, residents complained that authorities had failed to check the presence of inflammables in the vicinity.“We learnt that several fuel containers were stored in the building. This is a densely populated area. What if an explosion had occurred? The building would have collapsed just like the plastic factory at Suffian Chowk (which was gutted in 2017). Who would have been responsible then,” asked Jagjit Singh, 68, a resident of the area.Another resident, Ajit Singh, 62, who had just returned with his wife and daughter, from a trip, said, “We were lucky that we were not at home when the fire broke out. My house is located right next to the building that caught fire. The firemen asked us stay away.”Residents revealed that this was not the first such incident at the shop-cum-godown. A labourer had died after a lift installed in the building fell on him.Tough time for copsThe cops also had a tough time controlling the crowd during firefighting operations as residents continued to assemble near the building, with scant regard for their own safety. Even children were seen walking towards building, some even trying to record the incident on their phones. SHO Satpal Singh Sidhu, who had rushed to the spot with his team, said, “It is the responsibility of elders to teach the children to stay away, but unfortunately even the elders were seen assembling near the building, obstructing the free passage of fire tenders.” Deja vu for firefighters:For the 25 firefighters who rushed to douse the flames, the incident was a stark reminder of Suffian Chowk factory fire in November 20, 2017, which had left 16 persons, including nine fire officers, dead. Witnessing large plumes of smoke, the firefighters were initially reluctant to enter the building. But after an hour of struggle, Pankaj Sharma, Varinder Singh, Gulshan Kumar decided to get in. Lead fire officer Harjinder Singh, who was coordinating the operation, said that due to the heat and smoke, the firefighters were sent in batches. In the absence of proper equipment, many firefighters were seen coughing and gasping for breath as they came out of the building. In the absence of a hydraulic ladder, the firefighter had to risk their lives and enter the building amidst fear that it may collapse any moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-hurt-as-shop-cum-godowngoes-up-in-flames-in-field-ganj-101629395998716.html
19-08-2021||Other||Negative RT-PCR report mandatory for meeting jail inmates||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh prison department has allowed meeting of jail inmates with their family members across the state. The visitors are required to come with a recent negative RT-PCR test report for Covid-19. Close to 300 visitors met inmates in UP jails.The meeting of jail inmates with their kin was banned earlier this year in wake of second wave of Covid-19. According to a press statement issued by the prison department, over 600 people reached at various UP jails on Monday in order to meet their relatives or family member held inside.Only those having negative reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) Covid-19 report tested within 72 hours were allowed to meet the inmates. The others were permitted to use intercom to interact with their family member behind bars.Maximum number of visitors was reported from Lucknow jail where close to 80 people were allowed to meet inmates followed by Mainpuri, Moradabad and Agra where 50, 40 and 28 visitors met inmates. The prison department has made arrangements for proper sanitisation of visitors meeting area.As per the prison department directions, only two visitors were allowed to meet the inmate at a time. The department has also fixed the visiting hours till 2pm on week days. One inmate will only be allowed one visit in a week. The measures were taken in wake of drop in new cases of Covid-19 across the state.As per prison department, of the total 14 lakh inmates in UP jails, close to 92,000 inmates have been vaccinated. Of these, around 20,000 inmates have been given both the doses of the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/negative-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-meeting-jail-inmates-101629395764022.html
19-08-2021||Pune||Eight years since Dabholkar murder in Pune: Will CBI begin trial?||The hearing for the case involving the murder of Dr Narendra Dabholkar in Pune by two men on a bike who shot at him will take place in the Pune special court on Friday. The day also marks eight years since the murder was committed. Going by recent updates however, the case does not seem to have made any progress in the past two-and-a-half years.The murder weapon that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) claimed to have extracted from the Thane creek was later found not to match with the one used to kill Dabholkar, with the report exclusively published by Hindustan Times.Asked if this feels like going back to square one, Dr Hamid Dabholkar, the son of Dr Narendra Dabholkar, said, “It won’t be right to say that the investigation is back to where it began. By now, we have identified and jailed the shooters. The chargesheet has been filed in all four cases. What remains elusive is the bike and the weapon but that seems to be a lost cause given that it has been eight years now. However slow the pace of the investigation may be, the High Court (HC) has allowed for the trial to begin and to continue the investigation to find the main conspirators. So, I take that as positive steps. Our demand this time is going to be to focus on the main conspirators.”The CBI had applied for a stay on hearings in the lower court in October 2020. The stay, coupled with covid-19 pandemic restrictions, resulted in lack of progress in hearings for nine months. The proceedings were adjourned to later dates, even June, and finally started taking shape in July.So far, three persons have been imprisoned in the case under sections 302 (murder), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with section 3(25) of the Arms Act, including Dr Virendrasinh Sharadchandra Tawade, Sachin Prakashrao Andure and Sharad Bhausaheb Kalaskar. The case also includes sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).As part of decongestion procedures during the pandemic, the prison administration shifted Tawade to Yerawada central jail from the Mumbai jail as it was severely overcrowded. However in March, the court passed an order allowing him to be shifted back to Mumbai for medical treatment. While Tawade’s known medical condition was toothache, the exact medical grounds on which he was granted the transfer could not be confirmed as his lawyer, advocate Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, remained unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts to contact him.The CBI in May 2019 arrested advocate Sanjiv Punalekar and his aide Vikram Bhave in Mumbai. While advocate Punalekar got bail within a matter of months, Bhave was granted bail by the Bombay HC only in May. Tawade is an accused in the murder of Kannada scholar M M Kalburgi and is currently on bail whereas Kalaskar is an accused in the murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh.Dr Hamid Dabholkar said, “The forensic evidence has proved that the weapon was common in these cases. It is also on record that the five cases namely, Dr Dabholkar, Kalburgi, Lankesh and the Nalasopara case are a planned conspiracy.”It now remains to be seen if the CBI will initiate trial in one of the most controversial cases of our times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eight-years-since-dabholkar-murder-in-pune-will-cbi-begin-trial-101629395758259.html
19-08-2021||Gurugram||Drain to be constructed between Subhash Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will connect the key master sewerage lines at Subhash Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk to mitigate waterlogging and related issues, by providing a drainage outlet, officials said on Thursday.The GMDA has floated a ₹1.40 crore tender for the project, bids for which will open on September 3. Work is likely to start in mid-September, officials said.Due to the absence of a master drain, sewage often mixes with the master stormwater line flowing through the two junctions, as well as sectors 33 and 72 A. During heavy rains, this clogs the stormwater drains, further compounding waterlogging issues at Hero Honda Chowk and Subhash Chowk, said officials.“Tenders for extending the sewerage line have been floated. Work is likely to commence after mid-September, once the rains subside and the skies clear up. In the interim, we are completing all the formalities for the project,” said Pardeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.Kumar said that the project will also benefit future and current developmental projects in the area as it will give companies and residents a sewage outlet.This monsoon, areas around Subhash Chowk were among the worst-affected stretches, with the underpass at Hero Honda Chowk being shut on two occasions due to heavy rainwater accumulation.Such was the extent of waterlogging at Subhash Chowk on several occasions that pedestrians could be seen holding on to one another and forming a human chain to cross the stretch due to rainwater accumulation up to the waist level. Many also carried their children on their shoulders while crossing the stretch.To fix these issues, GMDA officials said that they will be laying a 600mm wide reinforced cement concrete (RCC) drain with high-density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe, as well as constructing manholes along the three-kilometre stretch.“The entire project is expected to take six months to complete. Due to the Sohna elevated project, several drains were clogged by construction materials that hindered the outlet for rainwater. With the project expected to continue for another two years as well as the need to providing sewerage outlet in general, the existing master drain is being extended between the two junctions,” a senior GMDA official privy to the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/drain-to-be-constructed-between-subhash-chowk-hero-honda-chowk-101629395648975.html
19-08-2021||Gurugram||Rain predicted, mercury set to drop||Mercury levels in the city are set to drop by up to five degrees Celsius (°C) over the weekend, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting rainfall after a gap of almost two weeks. A “yellow alert” was also issued for the district. On Thursday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 37.4°C, which was four degrees above the normal, and a minimum temperature of 25.7°C. The humidity level at the end of the day was recorded at 89%. Over the next four days, the maximum temperature in Gurugram is likely to be between 30-34°C, while the minimum temperature is likely to be around 27°C.A weather warning bulletin issued by the IMD’s meteorological centre in Chandigarh predicted “heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning, squall” in Gurugram till Sunday.According to the weekly forecast of IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers are likely in the city from August 20 to 23. “Till now, Delhi-NCR was experiencing a break from monsoon, but now with south-easterly winds, the moisture content in the atmosphere is high and good rain is expected over the next few days. Due to this, the temperature is also likely to drop by up to five degrees by Saturday,” a senior IMD official said. Meanwhile, the air quality in the city has been in the moderate zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulletin over the past three days. On Thursday, the city had an air quality index of 188, with PM 2.5 the prominent pollutant. The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain largely in the satisfactory category till Tuesday, according to a bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rain-predicted-mercury-set-to-drop-101629395645960.html
19-08-2021||Gurugram||Illegal farmhouse colony in Sohna demolished||An illegal under-construction farmhouse colony on 50 acres in Bhogpur and Kiranaki villages of Sohna was demolished on Thursday, officials said.Officials of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) said that the colony was being developed without necessary permissions from the competent authorities and sold to buyers in violation of norms. A developer has to obtain either change of land use permission or licence to develop a group housing or plotted colony, according to the Haryana urban development rules.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that notices had also been issued to the developers over illegal constructions, directing them to stop further work. “Since the violations did not stop, we decided that the illegal farmhouse colony, under the name of Nature Valley, in Kiranaki and Bhogpur villages of Sohna should be demolished. Four earthmoving machines were pressed into service to demolish the illegal structures spread over roughly 50 acres,” he said.DTCP officials said that a police team of 100 personnel was also called in to provide support for the drive, in which the boundary wall, road network, light poles and guardrooms were demolished.Bhath said that the illegal development of farmhouses on agricultural land or forest land will not be allowed. “Action will be taken against landowners and developers who are selling these properties to gullible buyers. A drone survey is already underway to identify such illegal structures in the district,” he said.According to the details shared by the department, demolition drives will be conducted on the outskirts of the city, particularly in Badhshahpur, Farrukhnagar and Manesar, this month to stop illegal constructions, especially illegal colonies.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that they will also interact with buyers in these areas and make them aware of the futility of buying properties in illegal colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-farmhouse-colony-in-sohna-demolished-101629395640999.html
19-08-2021||Gurugram||OPD delay, staff absence main issues at Civil Hospital, finds chief officer during surprise check||Senior district health department officials found several shortcomings in the functioning of the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 during a surprise inspection on Thursday. Pointing at the delay in starting out-patient department (OPD) services and absence of staff at the registration counters, the chief medical officer said that explanations will be sought and warnings issued to doctors and staff over their lax behaviour in running the hospital.“During the inspection at 8.30am, we found that there was no one at the registration counter, which is at the entrance of the main hospital building. Only four doctors were present in the hospital at the time when OPD services had to start. Since many doctors were not present on time, OPDs started late by almost an hour and affected the functioning of the hospital. Even the hospital pharmacy was closed in the absence of the staff, and the landline number of the emergency ward was not operational,” said Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram. Except for super speciality departments, such as cardiology, neurology, and nephrology, Civil Hospital runs OPD for all departments, including medicine, surgery, Ear Nose Throat (ENT), eye and dental. Every day, the OPD registers a footfall of 1,000-1,500 patients. It is the only government hospital in the city after the main government hospital in Civil Lines was shut in 2019 for reconstruction. Several departments were shifted to the Sector 10 hospital, making it the main government-designated tertiary care centre. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, followed by vaccination, the hospital has been receiving a heavy footfall. Several improvised services, such as setting up oxygen plants and better bed management for Covid-19 patients, have also been undertaken. Yadav said that the purpose of the inspection was to see the routine functioning of the hospital as all health services have been resumed after the second wave of Covid-19. Refusing to give an exact count of staff and doctors who were not available during the working hours, Yadav said that appropriate action will be taken. According to him, calls were being made to doctors to seek explanations for their absence, due to which OPD could not be started on time. “The entire hospital services were hampered due to callousness of the hospital staff. A warning letter will be issued to doctors and staff who were not present. For those who reached the hospital and were late, their assigned privilege leaves will be marked. Those who did not make it to the hospital, their salary for the day will be deducted,’’ said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/opd-delay-staff-absence-main-issues-at-civil-hospital-finds-chief-officer-during-surprise-check-101629395637886.html
19-08-2021||Gurugram||Green pockets with fruit-bearing trees being created to minimise monkey attacks||The Gurugram wildlife department has started plantation of fruit-bearing trees in the district to develop forest pockets in urban areas that can provide habitat to monkeys, birds and small animals, officials said on Thursday.To kick off the initiative, the department has planted around 6,000 saplings over 10 hectares area at the Air Force station in Sohna. MS Malik, the chief conservator of forests for Gurugram circle, said that by planting fruit-bearing trees, the department is trying to develop habitats near urban areas as part of wildlife management.“We are planting trees such as jamun, peepal (sacred fig), gular (cluster fig), shahtoot (mulberry), pilkhan (white fig) and others that are beneficial for wildlife. Along with ensuring the availability of food, these trees have the potential to become homes for birds, monkeys and other small animals. This can also help reduce monkey conflict in the cities,” said Malik.Managing the population of monkeys in urban areas, especially Gurugram and Faridabad, has been difficult over the past few years with frequent attacks being reported by residents. In some instances, monkeys caused severe bruises and cuts. Earlier this month, two children in Sohna were injured in a monkey attack outside their house.Officials said that once these pockets are developed, they would also be able to release captured monkeys here, instead of releasing them in the Aravallis. Apart from Gurugram district, the plantation has also been carried out at two places in the Mahendragarh district.Environmentalists welcomed the move but said that a few such pockets would not solve the problem. “Planting fruit-bearing trees is definitely a good initiative and has good potential to manage man-animal conflict in the coming years, but this would help only when this is done on a large scale. Such plantations should be carried out near a cluster of sectors, as monkeys are found near the most common markets where food is easily available for them. This can also help increase the green cover of Gurugram that stands at 9% of its total area at present,” said Vaishali Chandra, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/green-pockets-with-fruit-bearing-trees-being-created-to-minimise-monkey-attacks-101629395582730.html
19-08-2021||Pune||Auto drivers flout Covid norms in Pune||As the city unlocks, and public transport has started service for common people, many auto-rickshaw drivers can be seen flouting Covid-19 norms and plying more passengers.At many places, autos were seen plying four to five passengers at a time and risking the lives of passengers.“I have joined the office from last week and now travel by shared auto-rickshaw from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) bus stand to Yerawada. There is always a risk and many times at least four to five passengers occupy the rickshaw and social distancing norm is flouted,” said Karan Mhatre a passenger.“The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus frequency is low. We do not have any other option, but to travel by auto-rickshaw,” said Mhatre.Another passenger Rasika Mantri said, “I daily travel from Swaragte to Dhayari for work by a shared auto-rickshaw. To save money and time I take a shared auto ride.”Similar is the situation in all across the city on major routes like Sinhagad road, Katraj to Warje on the bypass highway, Swargate to Hadapsar and Katraj, on the Ahmednagar road and other routes.“People should not risk their lives unnecessarily and follow all precautions. They should behave responsibly,” said Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhagad Road - Warje residents association.“The administration should monitor the situation daily and take action against culprits,” he said.Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “More than taking strict action against such violators auto drivers and passengers should themselves realise the risk of getting infected and behave responsibly. We will also take a review of these busy roads and accordingly take action against violators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/auto-drivers-flout-covid-norms-in-pune-101629395396051.html
19-08-2021||Pune||Pune hotelier booked for Rs30 crore extortion involving a land dispute||The Pune Cantonment police have booked Ali Akbar Jaffri, owner of Camp’s famous Hotel Kohinoor and Vanessa Donald D’Souza, a resident of MG road, for allegedly demanding extortion of ₹30 crore, officials said on Thursday.According to police, the duo has been accused of transferring property in the name of two persons despite engaging in developmental rights with the victim identified as Hemant Bagareddu Motadu (58), a resident of bungalow No. 10 in Pune Cantonment. Motadu later lodged a police complaint in this regard.Despite repeated attempts, Jaffri could not be reached for comment.According to the complaint, the incident took place in hotel Kohinoor in Camp on July 16, 2021.Police officials said Jafri had given the property in question to Hiranandani Properties Private Limited to Niranjan Hiranandani through a memorandum in 2015.He later “fraudulently enacted” the transaction in the name of D’souza. According to the police complaint, he called Motadu at the hotel and allegedly demanded extortion of ₹30 crore and if he did not give the money then Motado would have to face consequences.Mahendra Jagtap, police inspector, said, “An extortion case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) 420, 406, 385 and 34 has been lodged against Jafri and the other accused. It is related to an old land dispute wherein Jafri had sold the same land twice to two different persons. A case has been lodged and investigation is on in the case. No arrest has been made so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-hotelier-booked-for-rs30-crore-extortion-involving-a-land-dispute-101629395277764.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session begins today||The monsoon session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha, starting Friday, will see re-initiation of discussion on the three central farm laws and the issue of registration of cases against protesting farmers.The assembly session, likely to be a short affair, will also give an occasion to the Opposition to question the BJP-JJP regime on examination paper leaks and alleged irregularities in recruitments.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who chaired a meeting of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) on Thursday, said party MLAs have given an adjournment motion to discuss the issue of paper leaks and recruitment scams.“Besides, we will push for suspension of the proceedings to discuss issues of registration of sedition cases against farmers, damage to crops due to waterlogging, delay in giving tubewell connections, rising inflation and unemployment,” he said.“People of Haryana want answers because they are facing innumerable challenges due to the policies of the BJP-JJP government. The government seems to have its eyes closed,” he said.Hooda said the way the state government hid the actual death toll due to coronavirus and lack of oxygen, it is clear that they are shy of facing the reality.“Today, unemployment, crime and inflation are at peak. Haryana is facing four times more unemployment (28.1%) than the country. Scams are being carried out in the name of employment and government recruitments,” he alleged.As per the list of business for Friday, the opening day of the assembly session will also see introduction of six amendment Bills.These are Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Amendment Bill, the Maharishi Balmiki Sanskrit University, Kaithal (Amendment)Bill, the Haryana Enterprises Promotion (Amendment) Bill, the Haryana Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak (Amendment) Bill, and the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Haryana Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-assembly-session-begins-today-101629395096593.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||RTI activist’s arrest: HC orders transfer of investigations to crime branch||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered that the first information reports (FIRs) registered by the Gurugram police against RTI activist Harinder Dhingra and his family be investigated by an agency other that the Gurugram Police Commissionerate. Dhingra and his family members were arrested by the police for allegedly duping banks.Justice Amol Rattan Singh of the HC, in his August 13 order, directed the Haryana director general of police to transfer all such matters to the State Crime Branch immediately, with the ADGP heading the crime branch, presumably senior to the Gurugram commissioner of police to head a special investigating team to go into the allegations against the Dhingra and family.The court though made it clear that it is not making any comment on the correctness of the allegations or merits of the contention made by the petitioner.The HC also ordered in case any FIR is registered against Dhingra, he would be given seven-day notice prior to arrest.“The petitioner is also restrained from leaving the country at least till the next date of hearing before this court, and directed to deposit his passport and that of his family members against whom FIRs have been registered, with the ADGP, crime, on the date that he appears before the said officer,” the HC ordered.The court said though it is considered appropriate by it to pass the aforesaid interim order, it is to be seen as to whether it should be continued or not on the next date of hearing on September 20 upon an affidavit being filed by the ADGP, crime.The petitioner had moved the HC seeking concession of blanket pre-arrest bail upon any criminal case being registered against him at the behest of Gurugram commissioner of police.Counsel for the petitioner contended he and his family are being harassed at the instance of the Gurugram commissioner of police as he has been filing many petitions by way of public interest litigation, bringing to the fore issues such as outstanding external development charges (EDC), telecom fees and also seeking information with regard to the property owned by Gurugram commissioner of police.The petitioner alleged the commissioner of police, has become inimical and hostile towards him because he has filed a complaint against him before the Prime Minister.The court also ordered that Gurugram commissioner of police Krishan Kumar Rao be impleaded as respondent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rti-activist-s-arrest-hc-orders-transfer-of-investigations-to-crime-branch-101629394976108.html
19-08-2021||Other||Kaithal doc couple booked for forging attendance certificates, signatures of the then sitting judges||A Kaithal-based doctor couple was booked for allegedly submitting forged attendance certificates by faking signatures of the then sitting judges posted in Kaithal district in 2003.The accused couple is Dr Neelam Kakkar and her husband Dr BB Kakkar, who are presently posted as consultants at a government hospital in Kaithal after retirement in 2017 and 2021, respectively.An FIR was registered at the Civil Lines police on directions on the court of additional civil judge-cum-judicial magistrate first class Punita Bashamboo. The court has also issued directions for a thorough investigation in this regard.Police have also booked two cops posted in the Economic Cell of the Kaithal police for not taking required action against the doctors when a complaint was filed against them in December last year.As per the FIR, complainant Jaipal had alleged that the doctor couple was posed as medical officers at the civil hospital and during their service in 2003 and they had prepared false attendance certificates by putting signatures of four the then sitting judges. They had even claimed travel allowances from the health department.Talking to HT, the complainant alleged that the couple got transferred to Punaha in 2003. To avoid joining duty there, they allegedly cited that they have to move court for regular hearings in different cases in Kaithal.Jaipal said last year he had filed an RTI application in the office of director general of health, Panchkula regarding records of attendance and as per the records, four judicial officers had reportedly disclosed in letters that some attendance certificates are not genuine.Based on the information, the complainant had moved a complaint to SHO Civil Lines police station and the office of the superintendent of police on December 3 last year for taking legal action and registering an FIR.The Kaithal SP had forwarded the complaint to the Economic Cell, Kaithal for taking necessary action. The investigation was conducted by sub-inspector Mohinder Singh and in-charge Economic Cell Devender Kumar Sharma.“But both the cops disposed off the complaint illegally without hearing the complainant as well as the judicial officers and misused their power,” Jaipal alleged.Now, an FIR is registered under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471, 166-A and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the doctors and the cops. Kaithal SP Lokender Singh confirmed this and said no arrest has been made so far.Meanwhile, Dr BB Khakkar refuted the allegations and said the matter had already been investigated on several occasions and there is no evidence to prove the allegations levelled against them.He alleged that the complainant has some personal interests and is taking up this matter for publicity. The doctor claimed to have a copy of the recent investigation in the case conducted by DSP Vivek Chaudhary in which the DSP claimed that there is no criminal offence found in the probe.Also, in his investigation report, in-charge Economic Cell Devender Kumar Sharma had said that during probe, no evidence to prove the claims of false TA bills were found and there was no record related to the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kaithal-doc-couple-booked-for-forging-attendance-certificates-signatures-of-the-then-sitting-judges-101629394916197.html
19-08-2021||Other||MDU, Guru Jambheshwar University staff protest online transfer policy||The teaching and non-teaching employees of Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) and Hisar’s Guru Jambheshwar University on Thursday protested against the online transfer policy framed by the Haryana government.Randhir Kataria, president of the non-teaching association of MDU, said the state government has been making all attempts to end the autonomy of varsities.“The government is trying to damage the structure of universities by bringing online transfer policy for their employees with non-transferable jobs,” he added.Vinod Goyal, general secretary of Guru Jambheshwar University Teachers’ Association (GJUTA), said the director of higher education has issued a letter stating that there is no proposal to transfer university employees which seems to be a misleading statement.“The government can adopt an offline transfer policy. If it tries to betray the varsity employees, we will hold an indefinite strike,” he added.Indian National Student Organisation (INSO) national president Pradeep Deswal also reached MDU to extend support to the protesters.“Jannayak Janata Party is a coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana but we stand in solidarity with the varsity employees. If the government tries to end autonomy of universities, we will not allow functioning of the varsities,” he said.“The state government should roll back the decisions of the online transfer policy and recruitment by the HSSC at the earliest,” Deswal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mdu-guru-jambheshwar-university-staff-protest-online-transfer-policy-101629394680220.html
19-08-2021||Other||Karnal farmers protest printing of BJP-JJP leaders’ photos on foodgrain bags||Hundreds of farmers held protests at different locations in Karnal on Thursday against the printing of photographs of BJP and JJP leaders on foodgrain bags being distributed to BPL families under the ongoing Annapurna Utsav.“Why did the Prime Minister and the Haryana Chief Minister get their photographs printed on the foodgrain bags when the grains were purchased from the taxpayers’ money?” asked Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a farm leader from Karnal.“Distribution of ration is going on for past several years but the BJP is trying to use it for political gains and spent lakhs on printing photos of the PM and the CM on the bags,” he added.Another farm leader Rampal Chahal said, “We are not against distribution of foodgrains but printing of photographs of BJP leaders on the bags because they do not have any concern for the farmers camping at Delhi borders from past nine months. Now, the BJP-JJP leaders are trying to get cheap publicity by distributing foodgrains grown by the farmers.”The farmers said they are protesting on call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and the agitation will continue till their demand to repeal the controversial farm laws is met.A high drama was witnessed in Gharaunda as farmers protested the visit of BJP MLA Harvinder Kalyan, who was going to distribute ration as part of the Annapurna Utsav.Similar protests were seen in the assembly segments of Assandh and Nilokheri as well where farmers opposed visits of political leaders.Police detained some farmers in Gharaunda but they were released later.MLA Harvinder Kalyan condemned the protests and said there should not be any objection to pictures of the PM and the CM being printed on the foodgrain bags.Chautala slams govt over Anpurna Utsav
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees dip in active cases, records 5,225 new cases||At 57,579 cases, Maharashtra recorded a dip in the number of active cases on Thursday. On Wednesday, the state reported 58,069 active cases, which were fewer compared to 62,069 on Tuesday. However, Pune continues to lead the number of active cases with 12,917 patients, followed by Thane with 7,020 and Satara with 6,792 active patients.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 5,225 Covid-19 new cases and 154 deaths. The state Covid tally now stands at 6,411,570, while the toll has reached 135,567.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the decreasing numbers indicated the decline of the virus. “Active cases are an indicator of the spread of the virus and these figures indicate that we have effectively contained the virus,” said Dr Awate. The peak of the virus saw active cases climb to over 600,000.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital said though active cases have declined, the current situation has still not stabilised. “The manner in which people are getting infected by Delta Plus variant indicates that the third wave is inevitable,” said Dr Shaikh.“People are not observing Covid-appropriate behaviour. Many are roaming without masks, not maintaining social distancing as well as taking part in mass gatherings. This needs to be cracked down by the authorities,” he added.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 282 new cases with five deaths.There were 225,870 tests done on Thursday across the state, while the number of recoveries clocked 5,557. Pune tops the death toll with 18,804 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,935 and Thane with 11,226 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-dip-in-active-cases-records-5-225-new-cases-101629393357536.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Nashik enters Race to Zero campaign, to be carbon neutral by 2040||The state environment and climate change department on Thursday announced the entry of Nashik into the global ‘Race to Zero’ campaign, which was founded last December under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Nashik is the first non-metro city in India to join the global campaign to promote carbon neutrality, with Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad set to follow suit in the next couple of months, said officials privy to the development.The development follows an announcement made in April this year by state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, in a virtual meeting held with Climate Voices — a consortium of three independent environment groups operating in India. “Cities joining ‘Race to Zero’ will seek to prevent future climate threats, create jobs, and unlock equitable and sustainable growth. These cities must publicly acknowledge and recognise the global climate emergency, keeping climate resilience in line with urban decision making, pledging to reach net-zero (carbon emissions) in the 2040s or sooner,” Climate Voices had said in a statement at the time.The environment department in a statement on Thursday also said that Nashik has taken up nine “commitments” which will help it to attain ‘net zero’ status by the year 2040. These include developing ‘complete neighbourhoods’ across the city, where residents will be able to meet most of their needs within a short walk or bicycle ride from their homes, instead of having to travel longer distances using motor vehicles.Nashik also plans to enact regulations that make it mandatory for all new buildings and development projects to operate with net-zero carbon emissions by 2030. Under the Race to Zero initiative, the city will “develop financial support programs to incentivise the deployment of building-scale renewables and mandate the use of renewables through building codes,” the environment department said in a statement.Other commitments include establishing baseline levels of air pollutants to set reduction targets to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. A plan to tackle emissions from the city’s largest contributors is expected to be in place by 2025. The next four years will also see the city attempt to adopt cleaner public transport, with a pilot program for zero-emission buses on the cards during the same period.The city plans to utilise grants to the tune of ₹20.5 Crore, received from the 15th Finance Commission, to reduce air pollution by constructing electric crematoriums and introducing sanitary waste management technologies for the Nashik Municipal Corporation, as unsanitary landfills contribute directly to climate change-associated emissions. “All waste generated in the city will be collected and residual waste will be disposed of adequately in an engineered sanitary landfill,” the environment department said.Commenting on these commitments, Nashik Municipal Corporation commissioner Kailas Jadhav said, “Reducing air pollution is a major step towards tackling climate change and adopting carbon neutrality. Under the Race to Zero initiative, NMC will have a much-needed platform that will support our best practices in that regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-nashik-enters-race-to-zero-campaign-to-be-carbon-neutral-by-2040-101629393174325.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||ICICI Bank theft, murder: Accused stabbed me 17 times, says survivor||“I could see death in front of my eyes, said Shraddha Devrukhkar, a cashier, who was injured in the ICICI Bank theft incident. She returned home after 19 days of hospitalisation. According to police, on July 29, a former bank manager Anilkumar Rajdev Dubey, while attempting a theft, killed the assistant bank manager of the ICICI Bank, Virar (East), and assaulted Devrukhkar with a knife. The locals nabbed the accused while he was fleeing with a bag containing gold and cash. Devrukhkar in her statement to police said, “Dubey first killed the assistant branch manager Yogita Chowdhary and later assaulted me. I pressed the security alarm, after which, Dubey fled from the bank with ₹3.38 crore gold mortgaged by customers to the bank in lieu of the gold loan.”“Devrukhkar had stayed back at the bank with the deceased till late to take stock of the gold and cash reserve, while the other employees had left for the day. The night security guard was yet to arrive,” said senior inspector Suresh Warade.“Dubey arrived at the bank and headed straight to Yogita’s cabin. When I heard the noise of a chair falling, I rushed to Yogita’s cabin and saw her lying in a pool of blood. Dubey then turned towards me and stabbed 17 times in the chest, head, shoulder and other areas,” Devrukhkar said in her statement. “I sounded the alarm but Dubey had locked the glass door from the inside. He had filled his backpack with gold. I found the keys to the main door and managed to open the door. Dubey then chased me and stabbed me. He tried to drag me inside the bank, but as my uniform was drenched with blood, it got ripped and I managed to run. The passers-by then caught Dubey. I could see death before my eyes,” said Devrukhkar to the police.Dubey is currently lodged in Thane jail. “We have seized his car arrested him under section 397 (robbery and dacoity), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder),” said Warade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/icici-bank-theft-murder-accused-stabbed-me-17-times-says-survivor-101629392694693.html
19-08-2021||Other||Punjabis will not fall prey to Sukhbir’s false promises: AAP||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday took a dig at the 100-day ‘Gal Punjab Di’ programme launched by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Sukhbir Singh Badal, calling it ‘Gupp Punjab Di’. “The people of Punjab understand the lies of Badal very well and will not fall prey to his false promises during the 2022 assembly elections,” AAP MLA Aman Arora said at a press conference. He said the 13-point programme presented by the SAD leader was a bundle of lies, posing 14 questions on agriculture laws, power, unemployment, mafia, sacrilege, financial crisis, health and education, drugs and immigration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabis-will-not-fall-prey-to-sukhbir-s-false-promises-aap-101629390774192.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||Ashura to be observed today amid security, Covid protocol||LUCKNOW Amidst tight security and Covid protocol, the city is set to observe Ashura, the 10th day of Moharram, to commemorate the martyrdom of Imam Hussain here on Friday. This year too, there will be no traditional processions, but the administration has permitted burial of ‘tazia’ at the Karbala. The administration has maintained that the tazia burial would be carried out by groups of less than three people while maintaining social distancing. Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad urged people to strictly follow Covid protocols and other guidelines issued by the UP government in this regard. “In the days of Moharram, we all should ensure that Covid guidelines are strictly followed,” he said. The cleric also said people should ensure there are not more than 50 people at a time in ‘majlis’ (religious gatherings). As a precautionary measure, the district administration has made elaborate security arrangements in Old City. The entire area has been divided into sectors and sector magistrates have been deployed to keep strict vigil. Commissioner of police DK Thakur said elaborate security arrangements have been made in Old City in wake of Ashura and it would be ensured that the state government guidelines are followed strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ashura-to-be-observed-today-amid-security-covid-protocol-101629390116406.html
19-08-2021||Other||Bihar: 15 bus passengers injured in road mishap||At least 15 passengers were injured when their Delhi-bound bus skidded off the road and overturned in East Champaran on Wednesday evening, Arun Kumar Gupta, the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Motihari.According to police, the accident occurred near Belwa Madho village when the bus carrying about 76 passengers was on its way to Delhi from Saharsa around 9.15pm on Wednesday.Prima facie, it appears that the driver of the bus drove rashly, causing the vehicle to skid on the road that was slippery because of the rains, Gupta said.“The bus was running at a high speed. We had to ask the driver to slow down but were mocked at by the conductor,” said Niranjan Sharma, who boarded the bus at Darbhanga.Locals helped the occupants get off the bus. The injured were rushed to a local hospital where they were given first aid before being discharged.Police were yet to register a case at the time of filing this report..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar15-bus-passengers-injured-in-road-mishap-101629389934037.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Sex racket busted in Patna hotel, 16 detained||The police on Thursday claimed to have busted an alleged sex racket at a hotel in the capital city and detained 16 persons, including seven girls. However, the hotel owner and main accused managed to escape, officials said.The police also recovered liquor bottles, cell phones and some other objectionable items from the hotel situated on Exhibition Road under Gandhi Maidan police station in the district.According to the police, a raid was conducted at the hotel late on Wednesday night following a tip-off. “The Gandhi Maidan police formed a team to carry out a raid at the hotel around 3 am. A total of 16 persons--nine men and seven women--were taken into custody for interrogation from the hotel. Two persons were said to be drunk,” said station house officer (SHO) Ranjit Vats.The raiding police party also took two hotel staff members and one Pankaj Kumar, who had allegedly taken the rooms on lease for conducting the sex racket, the official said. During interrogation, police found that all the detained women belong to West Bengal and were allegedly brought to Patna on the pretext of providing jobs. “We are interrogating the detained persons to get leads into the racket,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sex-racket-busted-in-patna-hotel-16-detained-101629389816572.html
19-08-2021||Other||CCTVs installed in Mohammadwadi to track speeding vehicles, anti-social elements||PUNE Residents of Mohammadwadi can breathe a sigh of relief as local corporator Nana Bhangire has installed CCTV cameras at strategic spots in the area to keep a track on vehicles over the speed limits, especially two-wheelers.Atik Pathan, office bearer of Gemini Housing society said, “We had demanded CCTV cameras from the PMC to fight the menace of speeding and criminal activities in the area. We are indebted to corporator Bhangire.” Pravin Suryavanshi, another area resident, said, “Accidents had become the norm and our requests to the civic body were neglected. Our elected representative installed the cameras. The PMC has completely failed in its duty while the elected member did the work in record time.” Anandvan Parisar Citizens Forum (APRF) member Nitin Bokey said, “The area was prone to nuisances and it has been a long pending demand of the citizens to install CCTVs.” Corporator Nana Bhangire said, “We had received representations from area residents about rising crime and speeding of two-wheelers in violation of the law. As their public representative it is my duty to make their lives safe and secure. We installed the CCTVs at those locations where the criminals can be caught and cars and two-wheeler riders will be booked.” A ‘live’ feed has been directly given to the Kondhwa Police for strict action against violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cctvs-installed-in-mohammadwadi-to-track-speeding-vehicles-anti-social-elements-101629389813483.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Physical hearing to begin Aug 29 in subordinate courts||The Patna high court on Thursday announced to resume physical hearing in all subordinate courts across the state from August 29 in strict compliance with Covid-19 Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). At present, all courts are only taking up urgent matters virtually such as hearing of bail petitions to ensure that fundamental rights of those in custody are not infringed upon.“The HC directs you to open courts in physical mode to the extent it is possible, along with virtual mode. This hybrid mode be implemented on experimental basis, in consultation with the inspecting judge of your judgeship,” a notification issued by the HC Registrar General, Navneet Kumar Pandey, read.The move, which would facilitate disposal of cases in the state’s 1,400 subordinate courts, comes after several bar bodies and lawyers were demanding to resume physical hearing immediately. A meeting was held on Wednesday of bar leaders, office bearers of the high court and senior advocates in this regard.The order clarified that guidelines or health advisories issued by the Government of India and respective state governments from time to time shall be strictly followed while resuming physical hearing of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/physical-hearing-to-begin-aug-29-in-subordinate-courts-101629389758456.html
19-08-2021||Other||NCL scientists develop novel hybrid technology to disinfect water||PUNE A team of scientists from the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) in Pune, along with support from the Water Technology Initiative of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, has developed a novel hybrid technology called SWASTIIK (Safe Water and Sustainable Technology Initiative from Indian Knowledgebase), that is a combined solution to disinfect water and offer possible health benefits of natural oils.Using modern technology and traditional knowledge of Ayurveda SWASTIIK claims to disinfect water completely. Scientists Dr V M Bhandari and his group at CSIR-NCL Pune, with support from the DST, developed the hybrid technology that involves boiling of a liquid as a result of pressure reduction (cavitation), and also uses natural oils with antimicrobial properties. This technology can eliminate harmful bacteria, including antimicrobial-resistant bacteria. “Disinfection of water is essential for removing pathogenic microorganisms that are responsible for causing a number of water-borne diseases. However, the common drawbacks of chemical methods such as chlorination include formation of harmful and carcinogenic disinfection by-products. Therefore, it is pertinent to develop technology that provides safe and healthy drinking water at a low cost with substantial ease of operation, scalability, and without harmful by-products,” said Dr Bhandari.“The technique used hydrodynamic cavitation, combining chemistry, biology, and chemical engineering, along with natural resources in the form of natural oils and plant extracts. The process has resulted in increased efficiency and reduced cost of water treatment. It was observed that increased rates of disinfection using oil can drastically reduce the time of operation and consequently reduce cost as compared to other advanced treatment processes,” he added.SWASTIIK can have significant benefits in terms of providing safe water and also possible health benefits that can also boost immunity, an important aspect as underlined in the current pandemic times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncl-scientists-develop-novel-hybrid-technology-to-disinfect-water-101629389693479.html
19-08-2021||Other||Official under probe for scam suspended after Bihar CM steps in||Two days the matter reached chief minister Nitish Kumar, a former executive officer of Bhabua Nagar Parishad was suspended Wednesday in connection with the alleged embezzlement of ₹39 crore of government fund. A notification issued by the state’s urban development department (UDD) on Wednesday said Anubhuti Shrivastava, currently posted as executive officer at Hajipur Nagar Parishad, has been suspended with immediate effect.The case dates back to June 18 last year, when Bajarang Bahadur Singh, former chief administrator (chairman) of Bhabua Nagar Parishad, filed a complaint with the district magistrate of Kaimur, seeking a probe into the alleged embezzlement by Shrivastava, contractual junior engineer Rahul Singh and other officials.In his complaint, Singh also enclosed documents related to the alleged embezzlement and assets acquired by Shrivastava disproportionate to his known sources of income, copies of which he also sent to the UDD. The DM formed a probe team which, in its report dated September 23, 2021, found that 504 schemes at an estimated cost of ₹39.71 crore were completed in financial years 2017-2018, 2018-2019 and 2019-20 during the three-year tenure of Shrivastava but tenders were issued only for 51 schemes. The probe report also highlighted gross irregularities in maintaining books and GST vouchers. The appointment of contractual junior engineer Rahul Singh was also found to have been made against rules.District magistrate Navdeep Shukla said the report was sent to the UDD last year for necessary action. HT has reviewed the copies of complaint and the probe report.After almost a year of no action, complainant Singh met CM Nitish Kumar in his Janata Darbar on Monday (August 16) and mentioned the matter. He also briefed the CM about alleged embezzlement of crores of rupees in Nagar Parishads of Jagadishpur and Dumaraon by Shrivastava during his earlier postings and for which the recommendations for probe and action were also pending with the UDD for long.The CM directed the director general of police (DGP) and the Vigilance department for an immediate probe, Singh said, thanking Kumar. Shrivastava could not be contacted for his comment despite repeated efforts as his mobile phone was always found switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/official-under-probe-for-scam-suspended-after-bihar-cm-steps-in-101629389634675.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Pandemic has deepened inequality in education: Nobel laureate||Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Thursday said the biggest worry due to a Covid-19 pandemic is the widening gap of inequality in education, as online learning exposure as well as Internet penetration continue to be extremely low, more so in a state like Bihar.He was delivering the inaugural Manoj Srivastava memorial lecture. Manoj Srivastava, a senior IAS officer and a widely acclaimed academic, passed away last year. “Even during normal times, attendance in government schools remains a concern, hovering around 50% mark in most states, which results in poor learning outcome of students, as reflected through Annual Status of Education Report (ASER). Around 50% students in Class 5 cannot even do class 2 mathematics. This should frighten us. The pandemic has dealt another blow. The challenge for the country is to undo the widening gap of inequality in education, which has grown wider during pandemic,” he said. Recalling his association with the late IAS officer, Banerjee said the notion that private schools are better off was also misplaced. “We are a victim of tyranny of curriculum. Instead of teaching what the curriculum dictates, we should teach what the students need, as one class has students of different levels of understanding. It needs patience. The system is structured in such a way that it does not give opportunity to all. We must get out of the system of education developed for the colonial regime. It cannot be for the elite only,” he said.Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha dwelt on his old association with Srivastava and how the officer, due to his easy accessibility, nature to challenge hierarchy and desire to work for the masses and basic issues, had an impact on him. “With a whole spectrum of people here, one can easily get a feel of the imprint the officer has left,” he said.CPI-ML general secretary Deepankar Bhattacharya recalled how his party leadership, inspired by the work and approach of young Srivastava as Bhojpur district magistrate, sent him to the officer’s house with a request if he would like to contest election. Former union minister Akhilesh Prasad Singh of the Congress said he was always in touch with Srivastava for valuable advice on complex issues. Others who spoke on the occasion included Asian Development Bank vice-opresident and former Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa, Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, Srivastava’s son Sagar Srivastava, who is an Indian Revenue Service officer, and several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pandemic-has-deepened-inequality-in-education-nobel-laureate-101629389514124.html
19-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress MLA’s son alleges threats by father’s core team||The son of Congress MLA and former minister Vishvendra Singh has accused his father’s core team of threatening him. Singh, who was holding the tourism department, was removed last year due to rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Singh’s son Anirudh submitted a complaint to the Superintendent of Police, Bharatpur, on Thursday alleging that the ‘core team’ of his father and Deeg–Kumher (Bharatpur) MLA Vishvendra Singh was continuously threatening him. “The threats are of extremely serious nature, threatening to cause all kinds of physical injuries to me and people who accompany me,” he alleged in the complaint. He further stated, “If any harm is done to me, the responsibility of the same would rest with Vishvendra Singh.” Superintendent of Police, Bharatpur Devendra Kumar said, “He has submitted a complaint in which he is mentioning some core team (of Vishvendra Singh), which allegedly is threatening him. The circle officer, Bharatpur city has been asked to probe the issue.” “The allegations made in the complaint are being probed. Based on the facts which come in the probe, the decision about registering the case will be taken accordingly,” he said. The MLA Vishvendra Singh could not be reached for comments as he did not respond to the calls. This is not the first case when Anirudh has come face to face with his father. Earlier, Anirudh Singh had tweeted against his father. The former minister was among the 19 MLAs who rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot in July last year, which had led to a political crisis. He, along with then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and then food and civil supply minister Ramesh Meena, was terminated from the cabinet, following the rebelion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-congress-mla-s-son-alleges-threats-by-father-s-core-team-101629389341241.html
19-08-2021||Other||BJP Maha chief suggests temporary measures to ease traffic at Chandani chowk||PUNE: To provide temporary relief from the traffic congestion at Chandani chowk, it has been decided to increase the number of traffic wardens by 25, clear potholes, push barricades behind, and generally create more space for vehicles.BJP Maharashtra unit president and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil on Friday visited Chandani chowk and reviewed the ongoing multilevel flyover work and consequent traffic snarls in the area.“As the work is in progress, there are some problems but once it is completed, the flow of traffic will be very smooth. Going by the contractor’s estimate, the work will take another six months for completion,” Patil said.“It is one of the important projects in the city. With highway traffic and city traffic merging here, it creates more chaos. There are many accidents too. Union minister Nitin Gadkari has funded the project thus decreasing the financial burden of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The project has been delayed mainly due to the land acquisition issue,” he said.After inspecting the site, Patil instructed that the potholes be cleared during night hours by keeping one lane closed. Accordingly, these craters are expected to be cleared within the next week. PMC officials and traffic police were among the authorities present during the site visit.According to PMC officials, some landowners moved court making it difficult to acquire land for the project. Still, the project hasn’t ground to a halt and nearly 90% of the land is in possession with the remaining 10% to be acquired soon. Some officials who did not wish to be named said that traffic speeds have dropped considerably owing to the rainy season, which is causing problems with potholes and even mud appearing in places along the route.Suggestions for improving the traffic situation at Chandani chowk:Increasing the number of traffic wardens to streamline trafficChannelising properly the vehicles coming from BavdhanClearing potholes during night hoursPushing the barricades behind to make more space for vehiclesSpeaking with landowners who went to court and helping get the land sooner for the flyover project||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-maha-chief-suggests-temporary-measures-to-ease-traffic-at-chandani-chowk-101629389336144.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur man stuck in Kabul, family appeals to PM for help||A resident of Muzaffarpur town working in Afghanistan’s Kabul is stuck after Taliban took over the capital city last week. Following this, his family has sought the Indian government’s help to bring him home.Dr Syed Abid Hussain, 50, reached Afghanistan on July 25 and is now unable to fly back to India as commercial flight operations have been suspended from Kabul. He is an assistant professor at Bakhtar University since 2019. His wife and two children live in Muzaffarpur.Dr Abid’s brother Syed Majid Hussain, a former Mayor of Muzaffarpur said, “My brother is stuck. He told us the Afghanistan government has changed while the Taliban is in control there. He is alright but one does not know what the Taliban will do.” The teacher, along with four other Indians staying at the university campus, is seeking help over video calls with his family and has urged the Indian government to evacuate them as soon as possible.According to his brother, the ministry of external affairs was in touch with Dr Abid and other Indians for their evacuation. However, they are still stranded due to the chaos that unfolded at the Kabul airport.“I appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get him evacuated as soon as possible,” his wife Shakra Tabbasum said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muzaffarpur-man-stuck-in-kabul-family-appeals-to-pm-for-help-101629389333591.html
19-08-2021||Other||PMC orders ₹50 lakh of ammonium bicarbonate for Ganesh immersion||PUNE: With the Ganesh festival inching closer, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has ordered 200 metric tonne of ammonium bicarbonate from National Chemicals and Fertilisers to keep up the environmentally-friendly practice of immersing Ganesh idols in water mixed with the chemical.The standing committee of the PMC has given its nod to the administration to procure ₹50 lakh worth of ammonium bicarbonate from the government-owned National Chemicals and Fertilisers. The PMC usually distributes the chemical free-of-cost to citizens to carry out immersion of Ganesh idols within their homes. The Ganesh idols are immersed in water mixed with the chemical which helps dissolve the Plaster of Paris (PoP) idols without causing any water- or environmental pollution.Earlier, municipal corporations would face pollution of rivers and other water bodies as thousands of Ganesh idols made of PoP were immersed on different days of the festival. Faced with similar problems, the PMC, with the help of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), found that if the idols were immersed in water mixed with Ammonium Bicarbonate, they dissolved and the resultant solution could be used to plant trees. Ever since, the PMC has been ordering the chemical ahead of the Ganesh festival and is getting good support from citizens with demand for it increasing year-on-year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-orders-50-lakh-of-ammonium-bicarbonate-for-ganesh-immersion-101629389274510.html
19-08-2021||Other||Amenity spaces on rent: Congress threatens legal route to oppose decision||PUNE The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Wednesday, cleared the proposal to lease amenity spaces for 90-year periods.NCP leader and MP Vandana Chavan opposed the decision and appealed to citizens to raise their voices against it.The Congress party, on Thursday, threatened to take the matter to court if the ruling party in the PMC, the BJP, did not rethink its decision to lease amenity spaces in the city. Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “In the name of revenue, the ruling party is selling PMC properties. Amenity spaces are plots or constructed areas reserved for gardens, hospitals, playgrounds, school or other civic amenities.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “This decision will help increase revenue. By leasing out 270 amenity spaces, the civic body will earn  ₹1,753 crore.”Rasane said, “Due to Covid, the municipal corporation earned less. There is a need to search for new sources of income. PMC has a total of 732 amenity spaces in the city spread over 148.37 hectares. PMC already developed 585 amenity spaces. Now 147 amenity spaces remain on 19.31 hectares.”Rasane added, “As per the PMC policy, we can lease the properties for 30 years, but we will seek the general body’s permission to lease for 90 years.”Chavan said, “Amenity spaces are important. If these are leased out, there would be no open places and trees in the city. Citizens must come forward and oppose this decision.”Inquiry into outstanding duesStanding committee chairman Hemant Rasane has instructed the administration to conduct an inquiry into previously allotted amenity places and pending dues with said operators.Rasane said, “PMC had given various properties on lease. Till March 2021, total dues from 1,625 leased properties was  ₹34 crore. Political members are using rented properties at nominal rates and then not paying rent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amenity-spaces-on-rent-congress-threatens-legal-route-to-oppose-decision-101629389092436.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Union minister begins BJP yatra with praise for Nitish||BJP leader and union minister for power R K Singh Thursday praised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, saying he takes all castes together in ushering development in the state.Singh, who started his Janata Ka Ashirvad Yatra as part of his party’s outreach programme from Gaya on Thursday, was interacting with media persons. “Nitish Kumar is with us. And I don’t think he indulges in caste politics. He takes all castes together in his development march,” he said.Explaining the motive behind the outreach, Singh reminded people of the Lalu-Rabri raj. “What were the conditions of roads at that time? Now power has reached every village. It will reach every field as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/union-minister-begins-bjp-yatra-with-praise-for-nitish-101629389034299.html
19-08-2021||Patna||RJD’s Jagdanand, Tej Pratap clash in public||The simmering tension between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav and the party’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh spilled out in the open on Thursday when the two publically clashed for the first time.Matters came to a head on Wednesday evening, when Singh visited the RJD office after a gap of several days and appointed Gagan Kumar as the party’s youth wing president, replacing Akash Yadav, a nominee of Tej Pratap. Venting his ire, Tej Pratap tweeted, “The president forgot that the party runs by the constitution and the constitution of RJD says that without giving notice, you cannot remove any office-bearer of the party. What happened today was against the constitution of RJD.” “He owes an explanation for this,” he told a news channel on Thursday. Singh, a close aide of Lalu Prasad, shot back saying he is answerable only to the RJD chief. “Lalu Prasad is the president of RJD and no one else can ask him for clarification except him. Who is Tej Pratap?,” he said, adding that it was his responsibility to appoint RJD’s student wing president. “When I did not appoint anybody, where does the question of removal arise? I have appointed Gagan Kumar to this post,” he told reporters at RJD office in Patna on Thursday.Hours later, Tej Pratap threatened to lodge a court case against Singh for “violating” the party’s constitution and demanded that the party take action against him. “There is a concerted effort to demoralize youths in the party,” he said while talking to media persons on Thursday evening. He said he will discuss the matter with Tejashwi.“I will continue to fight unilateral decisions,” a visibly angry Tej Pratap said.The tension between Jagdanand Singh and Tej Pratap Yadav has been building up for some time. During a meeting of RJD’s student wing recently, Tej Pratap had used words like Hitler from the stage while referring to Singh.“There can be no Hitler in RJD. Words like Hitler have no place in the party. That’s why whatever someone says, I don’t pay attention to it,” Singh later said in response. “There are three people on constitutional posts in RJD, president Lalu Prasad, leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and the state unit president (himself),” he said.Singh had stopped coming to the party office after Tej Pratap’s diatribe against him and even skipped the I-Day function at the party office. On Wednesday, he came to party office after having a closed-door meeting with Tejashwi Yadav and announced his decision to appoint a new youth wing president. On his part, Tejashwi, Lalu Prasad’s younger son and RJD’s heir apparent, sought to play down the war of words between his brother and the state president. “Everyone has their own opinion. When I am the leader of opposition and national president is Lalu ji, there is no problem. Everything will be fine soon,” he said. Meanwhile, the ruling Janata Dal (United) seized the opportunity to take a swipe at the rival party. “Tej Pratap is hurt because nobody in his party gives importance to him. It is a fight for the chair between the two brothers,” said JD(U) vice-president Sanjay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjds-jagdanand-tej-pratap-clash-in-public-101629388851810.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Caste census: PM agrees to meet CM-led Bihar delegation on Aug 23||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will lead an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to discuss the issue of caste-based census, a demand all parties in the state have endorsed in the past through resolutions in the state legislature.“I had sought time from the PM to meet him with a delegation. The PM has given time on August 23. Many thanks to him,” Kumar tweeted on Thursday.Earlier in the day, leader of Opposition, RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, told reporters that the PM had given time to the CM and a representative of the Opposition alliance to meet him on August 23 at 11 am.“The Opposition has consistently raised the issue of caste-based census in the Bihar Legislative Assembly and two proposals were also unanimously passed by the House in the past,” said Tejashwi, who had also written to the PM on the need for caste-based census, after Kumar’s letter last month, seeking time for a meeting with all-party delegation on the issue.Earlier this week, Kumar had praised the Prime Minister for removing the confusion on state’s right to decide on other backward castes (OBCs) and said he was hopeful of getting him to discuss the matter related to caste-based census. His reference was to the 127th Constitution Amendment passed by Parliament in the monsoon session that concluded last week, which restores the rights of states to identify and maintain a list of backward classes.In 2011, socio-economic and caste census was done, though caste data could never be made public due to several discrepancies. The last caste census in the country was held in 1931. As per its projections for specific Hindu castes and the 1961 Census for all others, backward castes consisted of 51.3% population in the state.However, there is a widespread view among political parties that the numbers might have changed, and a fresh caste-based census is the need of the hour. In this regard, both the Houses of the Bihar Legislature had passed a resolution in 2020 also, while the Legislative Assembly passed a second resolution also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/caste-census-pm-agrees-to-meet-cm-led-bihar-delegation-on-aug-23-101629388612883.html
19-08-2021||Other||Heritage Street planned around historic Baba Farid gurdwara in Faridkot||Faridkot The municipal council plans to build a Heritage Street on the routes leading to the historic Tila Baba Farid Gurdwara in the town, on the lines of the street that leads to the Golden Temple in Amritsar. The project only takes inspiration from Amritsar, but will have its own unique identity. Under the preliminary plan, three streets leading to the gurdwara from the Qila Mubarak (royal fort), the Garg Chowk and the Jain School will be given a retro look. This will decongest the area around the gurdwara, as these roads will be pedestrian only, with no traffic allowed to ply. The front street of the Qila Mubarak will also be part of the project. The council, which is funding the project, has asked its engineers from the buildings and roads branches to conduct a survey and prepare a blueprint of the appearance of the streets, and an estimate of the expenditure required. All shops will also be renovated in a similar pattern to create an atmosphere of spirituality. Wires around the street will also be taken underground to give a clear view of the gurdwara and other historic buildings.History shows that Sufi saint Baba Farid stopped by the city known as Mokhalhar (now Faridkot) in early 13th century and sat in isolation for 40 days near the fort of the King Mokhalhar. The king was impressed by his divinity and named the city after him. The place where Baba Farid sat is known as Tila Baba Farid.  Faridkot municipal council president Narinder Singh said, “Our engineers have started working on the plan and a proposal will be sent to local bodies department director for approval soon. We have sufficient funds to complete this project. After the approval, we will float tenders. We hope the project to be completed by the first quarter of 2022. It will be completely different from the Heritage Street,” he said. Deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia said, “This is our ambitious project to protect and conserve ancient history linked to Baba Farid and Faridkot. The Heritage Street is only a start, later we plan to restore the three historical gates of Faridkot and the Clock Tower, that the Faridkot Maharaja had built over a century ago.” Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon said, “Building a Heritage Street is my dream project now. Baba Farid has blessed this city and people.The project is our tribute to him.” Maheepinder Singh, caretaker, Baba Farid Trust, which manages the historic gurdwara said the project was a welcome development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heritage-street-planned-around-historic-baba-farid-gurdwara-in-faridkot-101629387653456.html
19-08-2021||Other||BJYM protests against PPCC chief Sidhu over adviser’s comment on J&K||Amritsar Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leaders protested against Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu over his adviser Malwinder Singh Mali’s controversial remark on Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Mali had made references to J&K on Facebook on August 17; protesters claimed that this amounted to sedition. Led by state BJYM in-charge Rajesh Honey and state president Bhanu Partap, the activists planned to gherao Sidhu’s residence in Holy City, a private township. Police, however, stopped them at the entrance to the complex by installing barricades and locking the main gate. The youth workers tried to break the barricading, but police took some of them into preventive custody to defuse the situation. “Mali must be tried under sedition for his anti-national view on J&K,” claimed BJYM district president Gautam Arora. “Every Indian will be enraged to see the post of Mali, as he doesn’t consider J&K to be an integral part of the country. It also shows that Sidhu in inclined towards Pakistan. Sidhu supports Pakistani extremists and separatists of Kashmir. He must tender an apology to the country,” claimed Arora.In the confrontation between the police and BJYM, the youth wing of the BJP, the protesters raised slogans against the Congress and Sidhu. Partap added that they would hold state-wide protests against Sidhu and Mali. In his interactions with the media, Mali has maintained that nothing was wrong in his social media post on J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjymprotests-against-ppcc-chief-sidhu-over-adviser-s-comment-on-jk-101629386812230.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||Meerut’s sports univ to be named after Major Dhyan Chand, says UP CM||LUCKNOW Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award will now be known as Major Dhyan Chand Award, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday named the sports university of Meerut after hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. The CM made this announcement while distributing ₹42.03 crore cash awards to all Tokyo-returned medal winners of India and others at a felicitation ceremony at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium here on Thursday. It was another honour for Dhyan Chand, who was regarded as one of the greatest in the history of hockey, after winning three gold medals for India at the Olympics. “To give sports a fillip, the state government has decided to name UP’s proposed sports university at Meerut after Major Dhyan Chand, whose contribution to Indian sports is immense,” said the CM. The government had also decided to adopt two sporting disciplines, including wrestling for the next 10 years. The government would take care of everything in these two disciplines and its athletes, he said. Laying emphasis on Prime Minister Modi’s vision of ‘Khelo India Khelo’, the CM said as per the request of the Wrestling Federation of India, the state government had decided to open an international standard academy of wrestling in the state capital. Yogi, who met each medalist during the ceremony, also announced a hike in UP sportspersons’ diet money from ₹250 to ₹375 per day, bringing it at par with the diet money plan of the Sports Authority of India. He also announced a hike in the cash awards to medal winning athletes of Uttar Pradesh in future international events like the Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and World Championships. “We also have plans to appoint medal-winning athletes at the top level (Olympics, Commonwealth Games and Asian Games) on gazzetted posts, including that of deputy SPs, in various government departments,” the CM added. However, he did not make any direct promise of any specific jobs to any of UP awardees on the dais, but said that the government had decided to create new job opportunities in the UP Sports Directorate against the vacant posts of regional sports officers, sports officers and deputy sports officers. The CM also mentioned about schemes like creating a playground in every village and open gym at every gram panchayat level. “It’s a Kumbh of sports and sportspersons here today and we all should celebrate this occasion. The UP government will continue its support to sports and sportspersons,” he added. Governor Anandiben Patel too lauded the congregation of medal-winning sportspersons at the ceremony. “Success of our athletes at the Tokyo Olympics will surely motivate parents in the country to push their wards to follow the footsteps of Neeraj Chopra, who is India’s torch-bearer in sports.” All the dignitaries on the dais, including governor Anandiben Patel and CM Yogi Adityanath, were presented with special hockey sticks and other mementoes by the officials of the Indian Olympic Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/meeruts-sports-univ-to-be-named-after-major-dhyan-chand-says-up-cm-101629386698147.html
19-08-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,084 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 1,084 fresh Covid positive cases and 25 virus related deaths in the last 24 hours. Of these, 14 deaths were reported from Pune rural, four from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and seven deaths from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). PMC has so far reported 508,369 Covid cases and 8,940 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 260,441 cases so far and 3,450 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 338,855 total cases and 6,414 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,107,665 Covid cases. Of this, 1,075,596 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,152 deaths in the district. At present, there are 12,917 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 5,557 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,214,921 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.93%. Across Maharashtra, 5,225 new cases of Covid were diagnosed and 154 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.11%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-084-new-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-101629386151607.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Will appear before ED, but…’: Former Maharashtra home minister on PMLA case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday said he would appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which had summoned him in connection with its probe into a money laundering case, "after the legal process is completed".The NCP leader skipped a summon issued by the ED. Deshmukh claimed that the Supreme Court accepted his plea on the ED and said that it would be heard soon. The top court had on Monday refused to grant interim relief to Deshmukh, even as he was seeking protection from any ‘coercive action’ in connection with the money laundering case.A three-judge bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar said Desmukh is at liberty to access remedies available to him under the law, after he filed a batch of petitions against a few charges of ED.Deshmukh said the apex court allowed him to move a lower court to seek legal remedy. "The legal process has begun and I will appear before the ED after they are completed. I will cooperate with the ED. I have always followed high standards in my entire social-political life," he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.ALSO READ | Maharashtra: The travails of former home minister Anil DeshmukhThe ED had earlier issued summons to Deshmukh in connection with a criminal case registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) related to an alleged ₹100 crore bribery and extortion racket, which forced the 71-year-old to step as Maharashtra’s home minister in April.Deshmukh skipped appearing before the ED for the fifth time on Wednesday and had stated that he was taking recourse to "lawful remedies" for the protection of his liberty. According to PTI, he had a three-page reply to the investigating officer of the case. He said the Supreme Court made it available for him to take recourse to remedies available under the CrPC, including filing of a quashing petition.The NCP leader requested the agency to record his statement through an electronic medium, till the time any court passes “appropriate orders.”The ED lodged the case against Deshmukh and others following the Central Bureau of Investigation filing a corruption case over the alleged bribery charges, made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.After he was ousted as the police chief, Singh had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Deshmukh had asked suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to “extort over ₹100 crore a month from bars and restaurants” in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-enforcement-directorate-pmla-case-maharashtra-supreme-court-101629385000928.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||‘SC accepted my petition against ED; will appear once legal recourse is completed’: Anil Deshmukh||After skipping multiple summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate in the alleged money laundering case, former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday issued a statement saying that the Supreme Court has accepted his petition against ED action which is expected to be heard very soon. The apex court has also given him the liberty to appeal in the lower court and he will appear before the ED after completing legal recourse.“The Supreme Court has accepted my petition against the Enforcement Directorate’s action and is expected to hear the same very soon. The apex court also allowed me to appeal in the lower court. Once the process of legal recourse is completed, I will appear before the Enforcement Directorate and extend full cooperation. In my entire political and social life, I have always followed high standards,” said Deshmukh in a statement released on Thursday.On Wednesday, the senior NCP leader skipped the summons issued by the ED in connection with the allegations of corruption and extortion against him. It was the fifth summons issued by the central investigation agency on Tuesday. The ED had issued fresh summons a day after the top court refused to grant any interim relief to Deshmukh.The ED has registered a money laundering case against Deshmukh after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. So far, Deshmukh has maintained that the allegations against him are false.The central agency has alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-accepted-my-petition-against-ed-will-appear-once-legal-recourse-is-completed-anil-deshmukh-101629384652523.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana sees first swine flu death in over two years||Ludhiana Even as the third wave of Covid-19 remains a threat, the city has reported its first death due to swine flu since January 2019. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said a 59-year-old woman from the Old City area died due to swine flu at a private hospital on Wednesday.Swine flu is a contagious respiratory infection caused by an influenza virus strain that starts from pigs. Its major symptoms are fever, cough, sore throat, chills, weakness and body ache. Children, pregnant women and the elderly are at higher risk of contracting the disease.“The woman, of a colony near the Laxmi Cinema area, was brought to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital a week ago, following symptoms of swine flu. She was cremated on Wednesday following protocols related to swine flu,” said the civil surgeon, adding that a high alert had been sounded and area around her house has been cordoned off. The health department has started prophylactic (preventive) treatment of the woman’s daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren. The department has also advised people to stay away from densely populated areas if they are suffering from flu-like symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sees-first-swine-flu-death-in-over-two-years-101629383209338.html
19-08-2021||Other||Nashik’s ‘9 commitments’ to attain carbon neutral status by 2040||Maharashtra’s environment and climate change department on Thursday announced the entry of Nashik into the global Race to Zero campaign, which was founded last December under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Nashik is the first non-metro city in India to join the global campaign to promote carbon neutrality, with Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad set to follow suit in the next couple of months, said officials privy to the development.The development follows an announcement made in April this year by state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, in a virtual meeting held with Climate Voices - a consortium of three independent environment groups operating in India. “Cities joining ‘Race to Zero’ will seek to prevent future climate threats, create jobs, and unlock equitable, sustainable growth. These cities must publicly acknowledge and recognise the global climate emergency, keeping climate resilience in line with urban decision making, pledging to reach net zero (carbon emissions) in the 2040s or sooner,” Climate Voices said in a statement.The environment department in a statement on Thursday also said that Nashik has taken up nine “commitments” which will help it to attain ‘net zero’ status by the year 2040. These include developing ‘complete neighbourhoods’ across the city, where residents will be able to meet most of their needs within a short walk or bicycle ride from their homes, instead of having to travel longer distances using motor vehicles.Nashik also plans to enact regulations that make it mandatory for all new buildings and development projects to operate with net zero carbon emissions by 2030. Under the Race to Zero initiative, the city will “develop financial support programs to incentivise the deployment of building-scale renewables and mandate the use of renewables through building codes,” the environment department said in a statement.Other commitments include establishing baseline levels of air pollutants to set reduction targets to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. A plan to tackle emissions from the city’s largest contributors is expected to be in place by 2025. The next four years will also see the city attempt to adopt cleaner public transport, with a pilot program for zero-emission buses on the cards during the same period.The city plans to utilise grants to the tune of ₹20.5 crore, received from the 15th Finance Commission, to reduce air pollution by constructing electric crematoriums and introducing sanitary waste management technologies for the Nashik Municipal Corporation, as unsanitary landfills contribute directly to climate change-associated emissions. “All waste generated in the city will be collected and residual waste will be disposed of adequately in an engineered sanitary landfill,” the environment department said.Commenting on these commitments, Nashik Municipal Corporation commissioner Kailas Jadhav said, “Reducing air pollution is a major step towards tackling climate change and adopting carbon neutrality. Under the Race to Zero initiative, NMC will have a much-needed platform that will support our best practices in that regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nashiks-9-commitments-to-attain-carbon-neutral-status-by-2040-101629378285880.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||‘Best-ever support to Indian athletes by any state govt’||LUCKNOW The event organized by the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government to felicitate Tokyo-returned sporting icons of India was big and grand in every way. All medalists looked mesmerized by the hospitality extended to them at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium here on Thursday. Two giant screens showed the footage of India’s golden boy Neeraj Chopra, who created history by bagging India’s first-ever gold medal in athletics. This wasn’t all. Clips of PV Sindhu’s stellar performance in the badminton court, fine display of skills by wrestlers Ravi Kumar Dahiya, Bajrang Punia and others like Mirabai Chanu and Lovlina Borgohain entertained the 10,000-odd young athletes who came here from all parts of UP to witness the felicitation ceremony. Colourful dance performances by troupes of various cultural and traditional organizations in and outside the stadium and well-decorated carts to ferry the medalists from the entrance to the main stage were among the highlights of the event. Fans were seen chasing Chopra and Sindhu most for their autographs and selfies with them. Besides chief minister Yogi Adityanath Singh, governor Anandiben Patel, deputy chief ministers Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya gave away the awards to the medalists. UP information department’s special video titled ‘Sashakt Yuva, Sashakt Pradesh’ drew applause from the athletes and young fans. Neeraj Chopra was given the biggest purse of ₹2 crore, followed by silver medalists – wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya and weightlifter Mirabai Chanu ( ₹1.5 crore each) while bronze medalists – wrestler Bajrang Punia and boxer Lovlina Borgohain got ₹1 crore each. Wrestler Deepak Punia and golfer Aditi Ashok were given ₹50 lakh each.The 32 members of both the men’s and women’s hockey teams were given ₹50 lakh each. The men’s hockey team won bronze while their women counterparts finished fourth at the Tokyo Games.In a special gesture, Vijay Sharma, the coach of Mirabai Chanu, was given ₹10 lakh, whereas the hockey teams’ staff members too were given ₹10 lakh each. Varanasi’s Lalit Kumar Upadhyay, who was part of India’s men’s hockey team, was given ₹1.25 crore, whereas women’s team player and Meerut’s Vandana Katariya was given ₹75 lakh. As promised by the state government, eight athletes from Uttar Pradesh, who participated at the Tokyo Games, but couldn’t make a podium finish, were also given ₹25 lakh each as a token of appreciation. They included walk-racer Priyanka Goswami, javelin thrower Shivpal Singh, shooter Saurabh Chaudhary, Mairaj Ahmed Khan, boxer Satish Kumar, sailor Arvind Singh, discus thrower Seema Punia and javelin thrower Annu Rani. Shooter Chaudhary, Mirabai Chanu and her coach Vijay Sharma skipped the event for personal reasons. Neeraj Chopra, in his brief but impressive address, was amazed to see such a huge gathering for Indian athletes on Thursday. “I was running around the stadium all alone after winning the gold medal at Tokyo. But today, I felt the real crowd support. It looks like a ceremony of India, not only of UP.” “I can see many more Neerajs sitting in the spectators’ gallery and I wish that one day some of them would surely be winning medals for UP,” Chopra said after he was cheered by young athletes from the spectators’ gallery. Ace shuttler PV Sindhu, who won her second Olympic medal at Tokyo after a silver at the Rio Olympics in 2016, admired the UP government for holding such a grand felicitation ceremony for Olympic medalists. “This is the best-ever support given by the any state government to the athletes of India. I wish that such things would continue to inspire Indian athletes to win more medals in the future Olympics,” she said. Other athletes like women’s hockey captain Rani Rampal, hockey player Lalit Kumar Upadhyay, Lovlina Borgohain, Ravi Dahiya, Bajrang Punia, men’s hockey captain Manpreet Singh also shared their experiences at the Tokyo Games. Manpreet said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s words a day before the bronze-medal game were very inspirational. “We were disappointed after losing the semi-finals, but the PM’s words made a big difference and we could create history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bestever-support-by-any-state-govt-to-athletes-of-india-101629377329354.html
19-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Loco pilot booked for death of two elephants in train hit incident||Uttarakhand forest officials have booked a loco pilot for the death of two elephants in a train hit incident on Wednesday, officials said.“We have booked loco pilot of the train for the death of two elephants on Wednesday. We will ensure such incidents don’t happen in the future,” said Dhurb Singh Martolia, sub-divisional officer, Terai-central forest division in Kumaon.A female elephant and a calf were killed on Wednesday after being hit by a train on Lalkuan-Kashipur route. Railway traffic was disrupted for 5 hours after the incident due to furious elephants.The forest department has booked Vijay Chand, loco pilot of the train under Wildlife Protection Act, Martolia said.He said joint patrol will be conducted by forest and railway officials at night to avoid such incidents in the future. “Besides this, the forest department has received a letter from divisional railway manager (DRM), Bareilly about the fixation of the speed limit of the train plying in the region,” he said.Martolia said, “Joint patrolling of forest and railway officials will be conducted at night to avoid such incidents. Besides this, trains will ply at the speed of 30-km/hour at night and 50 km/hour during the day.”In August 2018, while expressing serious concern over the death of elephants in train hit incidents, Uttarakhand high court had directed the union railway ministry to construct underpasses in the identified elephant corridors in the state and ensured that the speed of the trains should be the lowest possible while they are passing through elephant corridors in the state.The court had given these directions while hearing public interest litigation regarding encroachments around Corbett Tiger Reserve. The HC had also directed the forest department to coordinate with the railway department through wireless and having an animal tracking system in place to ensure wild animals are not killed in rail hits. The division bench also remarked that officials should have compassion while dealing with matters related to the wildlife in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-loco-pilot-booked-for-death-of-two-elephants-in-train-hit-incident-101629376248295.html
19-08-2021||Other||NTCA seeks reports on ‘illegal constructions’ in Corbett||National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has sought a status report from chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand and director, Corbett Tiger Reserve on the allegations of illegal construction of bridges and wall in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), officials said.The development follows a legal notice sent by Gaurav Kumar Bansal, wildlife activist and advocate in Supreme Court, to the NTCA member secretary. Bansal has alleged flagrant violations of the Wildlife Protection Act and Forest Conservation Act in CTR. Bansal in his legal notice has alleged that illegal construction of bridges and wall is happening in Corbett near Kalagarh Forest Rest House. Gaurav Bansal said he sent a legal notice to member secretary NTCA to draw his attention to two issues-illegal construction of bridges and wall and illegal felling of trees and shrubs within CTR. “Within Kalagarh and Pakhro area of the Corbett Tiger Reserve, forest officials are illegally constructing bridges. Near Kalagarh Forest Rest House, Uttarakhand Forest Department is not only illegally allowing construction of around four bridges but it is also constructing a high wall at the boundary of Corbett Tiger Reserve,” he said. Bansal said he has also come to know that all the materials needed for these constructions except cement are being sourced from CTR itself resulting in illegal mining of the natural resources and the same is causing an irreparable and irreversible loss and damage to the rich biological diversity of the Corbett landscape. “Illegal construction of bridges and wall has been done by the Uttarakhand forest department at the cost of trees and shrubs which constitute an essential part of the ecology, flora and fauna of Corbett Landscape,” he said. Bansal said according to Supreme Court order in “Navin M Raheja Vs. Union of India and Others (1998)”, the apex court has not only stayed the construction of any kind of road within the CTR but also expressly observed that no tree whatsoever should be felled in CTR by the state or anyone else. “These illegal constructions of bridges and wall by way of felling the trees and shrubs within the Corbett Tiger Reserve by the forest department is nothing but unsustainable use of Corbett landscape which is not only capable of damaging the ecology of the Tiger Reserve but shall also cause harm to the pristine biological diversity of the Corbett National Park,” he said. Bansal said through his legal notice, he has urged the NTCA to use its power under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and as such disallow the ecologically unsustainable use of Corbett Landscape by way of evaluating and assessing the harm caused by these illegal construction activities. Director CTR Rahul (who goes by his first name) also wrote a letter to DFO Kalagarh forest division last month, seeking details of constructions/renovations going between Kalagarh to Pakhro, why was he not informed about such constructions, whether permissions had been sought for the constructions and who was funding the constructions. When contacted, Rahul, director CTR said they are looking into the matter and will soon send a status report to the NTCA. Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is spread across 1,288 square kilometres, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the state. The gates of Corbett open on November 15 every year for six months till mid-June. Corbett witnesses a footfall of around 300,000 tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 using the reserve according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers across 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ntca-seeks-reports-on-illegal-constructions-in-corbett-101629375468006.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Remembering Rajiv, a man of vision and values||He would have turned 77 today. The accidental, reluctant and young Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, piloted the destiny of India during the tumultuous ’80s. The beginning of his political innings was traumatic and the end tragic. But he showed exemplary equanimity and dignity and infused new confidence in the life of the nation. I’m fortunate to have worked with him closely. In essence, he was charismatic as former US President John F Kennedy and an idealist like his grandfather and former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. He was keen to be perceived as a break from the past. He symbolised a change in the arena of politics, economy and morality in public life, through consent and conciliation, participation and persuasion. He was a determined peacemaker and worked hard to put an end to agitations and violations in Punjab, Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland and Kashmir to restore peace and democracy. Ironically, he fell victim to the violence that he fought throughout his life. Countering mayhem at Meham He described India as an old country but a young nation. He did everything to save and strengthen democratic systems as a passionate patriot and democrat. I vividly recollect that early in 1990 during the Meham byelection, democracy was being trampled upon through rigging and intimidation by then chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was seeking election to the Vidhan Sabha to retain his chief ministership. Rajiv, along with a young Rahul, visited the house of Anand Singh Dangi, an independent candidate, where three people were killed in police firing. He stood with the people. Consequent to his visit, Chautala had to resign on May 22, 1990. This is an irony of history that Rajiv visited Meham on May 20, 1990, to fight violence exactly a year before his assassination on May 21, 1991. Rajiv chose me as a candidate in the 10th Lok Sabha elections from Rohtak of which Meham is one of the nine segments, to oppose Devi Lal, the then deputy prime minister, who was trounced not once but thrice in three consecutive elections. But alas! Rajiv was no more to see the election result after which the Congress formed the governments in Haryana and at the Centre. Curbing corruption, opportunism To check corruption and political opportunism, he got the 52nd Constitution Amendment Act, 1955, commonly known as the anti-defection Act, passed within months of taking over. It provided for disqualification of an elected member of legislature on the grounds of defection to another political party. It was amended subsequently through the 91st Constitution Amendment Act, 2003. Though attempts are being made to circumvent the provision of this law, yet the measure has succeeded to a large extent. To make democracy broad-based and to harness the emerging advantage of India’s demographic dividend, Rajiv reduced the voting age from 21 to 18 years. Undoubtedly, the idealism and energy of youngsters have changed the political dynamics of the country forever. Decentralisation of democracy Moved by poverty in the rural areas of Kalahandi, Rajiv famously said that of every rupee spent by the government, only 15 paise reaches the beneficiary. He realised that the decentralisation of democracy at the grassroot level was imperative. He decided to revitalise the framework of panchayati raj institutions. He included the setting up of panchayati raj institutions in the Congress manifesto in the 1991 Lok Sabha elections. The Congress government fulfilled its dream by enacting the 73rd and 74th constitutional amendment Acts that enjoin the states to establish three-tier panchayats and municipalities in the rural and urban areas, respectively. Expanding higher education Education is the most critical weapon in building a nation. Rajiv established the ministry of human resource development in 1985 to modernise and expand higher education. He conceived the concept of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, the free, residential schools for providing quality education to talented children of the rural areas. The first Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya was opened in Jhajjar district, a part of my constituency. At present, there are 660 JNVs. Architect of digital India Rajiv is rightly acclaimed as the architect of digital India. The seeds of information technology and telecom revolutions were planted by him. Several institutions such as MTNL, BSNL and C-DOT were established to spread the communication network. He launched institutions to liberate the mind, the economy and culture by infusing the dynamism of youngsters and changed India forever. His memory is eternally etched in the hearts and minds of the people of India. The writer is a former chief minister of Haryana and the leader of the opposition in the assembly||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/remembering-rajiv-a-man-of-vision-and-values-101629374325336.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Soul food: A humble bowl of rajma chawal||The words of Irish author George Bernard Shaw would resonate with any food connoisseur, “There is no love sincerer than the love of food.” Shaw isn’t the first to have made this observation, nor will he be the last, for the annals of history bear testimony to the undisputable actuality that man’s intellect has been dominated by his digestive organs. As a Punjabi, I could not agree more, for having lived a considerable part of my life in a state where the words of a Punjabi song resonate, “Khao, piyo, aish karo mitron…”, the essence of my Punjabiyat lies in my plenary indulgence for gluttony. My epicurean escapades with the rajma chawal, a North Indian household staple, during my college days bring back the good times spent in hostels and cooperative messes. At a time when Zomato and Swiggy were unheard of, the mobile phone device a reality whose existence we were only familiar with through electronic journals, this simple meal was an emotion, our go-to source for gastronomic delight. Due respect was accorded to this dish by our hostel mess chef, for we would be greeted by its aroma thrice a week, every morsel laden with his Himachali expertise. Leaders of the free world can perhaps take inspiration from how this humble dish played an instrumental role in promoting peace, for the heavy meal would bring out the best in our characters, eliciting in us the feeling of contentedness, forgiveness and generosity. A common post-rajma chawal complication was the laborious effort in trying not to doze off during after lunch lectures. Notoriously labelled as ‘suicidal sessions’, these lectures of engineering and mechanical drawing were subjects that mandated rapt attention. As one struggled to stay up, the monotonous drone of our professors serving as lullabies, one finally understood the essence of the lines, “We are but the verist, sorriest slaves of our stomach.” Fast-forward to days of portion control and healthy dieting, and a look back at the Herculean quantities of rajma chawal we consumed back then astound me. The memories of those good times linger however to this day, especially when I attend gatherings or meetings where I’m forced to restrict my consumption of this wholesome meal. So, while boiled vegetables and low-calorie foods may keep the weighing machine in check, in times of homesickness, a low phase or in the unforeseen event of being left by your beloved, there comes to mind only one soul food to make things better again, a humble bowl of rajma chawal. rarabhandari@gmail.com The writer is a Punjab-cadre IAS officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soul-food-a-humble-bowl-of-rajma-chawal-101629373665438.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Passenger returning from New York held with bullet at Delhi airport||A passenger who landed at the Delhi airport Thursday from New York was apprehended by the CISF for allegedly carrying a live bullet in his luggage, officials said.They said the man arrived from the US on an Air India flight that reached the Indira Gandhi International Airport around midnight. He was later supposed to take another Air India flight to Nagpur scheduled at 5:20 am, they said.However, Central Industrial Security Force personnel stopped him around 4 am after they detected the ammunition during his security check for the connecting domestic flight, they said.As carrying arms and ammunition is banned inside an aircraft without government authorisation, the passenger was off-loaded and handed over to the local police that booked him under sections of the Arms Act, they said.The CISF is tasked to secure and provide a counterterrorist cover to the IGI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/passenger-returning-from-new-york-held-with-bullet-at-delhi-airport-101629372797438.html
19-08-2021||Other||Assam authorities worried at lukewarm response to second Covid vaccine dose||Health authorities in Assam are worried at the lukewarm response by a section of the public towards the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. On Tuesday, health minister Keshab Mahanta appealed to those persons who are due to get their second dose of either Covishield of Covaxin to come forward and get vaccinated. “We have tried a lot to bring those people to vaccination centres. We have telephoned them, set up call centres in each district. But still a lot of people whose second doses are due are not turning up. I don’t know why,” he said. “Some of them may have got their second doses elsewhere and we might not be aware of it. I would appeal to media outlets to urge people to come and get their doses,” added Mahanta. Also Read | Security beefed up in Darashing Hill near Assam-Mizoram border after fresh firingThe minister said that while 51% of all eligible persons above 18 years had got their first doses, only 11% of beneficiaries had taken their second doses. Both numbers, however, are higher than the national figures of 32% of total eligible beneficiaries administered with the first dose and 9% with second dose. Till Thursday morning, 14.98 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine had been administered in the state. Of them, 12.36 million people had taken their first doses, while 2.61 million people were fully vaccinated or had their second doses. Mahanta informed that nearly 250,000 to 300,000 doses of vaccines are being administered daily in the state at present and there is adequate supply to vaccinate all eligible persons. According to director, health services (family welfare) Munindra Nath Ngatey, over 270,000 persons who had got their first dose are scheduled to get their second dose in the next few days. As per existing guidelines, those given Covishield have to take their second dose between 84 and 112 days after taking the first dose. On the other hand, the gap between first and second dose of Covaxin is 28 days. “If the gap exceeds 112 days, it is considered overdue. It is possible that sometimes people might forget when the date of their second dose is due,” said S Lakshmanan, director, National Health Mission (NHM), Assam. According to union health ministry guidelines, persons who get infected with Covid-19 after taking their first dose can take the second dose three months after recovering from symptoms of the disease. “There could be some persons infected with Covid-19 after their first doses, but the number of such beneficiaries is very less and not a cause of concern,” said Lakshmanan. In order to encourage more people to get both their first and second doses, the health department is conducting awareness drives in all districts. Officials are using electoral rolls to find out if all beneficiaries above 18 years have turned up for their vaccine doses. Door to door campaigns to vaccinate all eligible persons have also started in some parts of Kamrup (metropolitan) district, which includes Guwahati. At present there are nearly 2,000 vaccination centres across the state. As per health officials, Assam has an eligible population of 23.7 million who are above 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-authorities-worried-at-lukewarm-response-to-second-covid-vaccine-dose-101629372465393.html
19-08-2021||Jaipur||Vasundhara Raje back on BJP posters in Rajasthan||After long bickering in state BJP, former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje has returned on party posters. Cabinet minister Bhupendra Yadav’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra has included Raje on the posters, putting an end to the poster row which was going on for the last several months. Not only has she returned but has also been given prominence as she has been placed centrally in the poster released by the BJP for the Yatra, along with party state president Satish Poonia and Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria on her flanks. Other than PM Narendra Modi, national party chief JP Nadda, state incharge Arun Singh, Raje Poonia, and Kataria, the Yatra posters also bear photos of three Union ministers from Rajasthan – Gajendra Singh, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Kailash Choudhary. Over the development, a party MLA on anonymity commented that this must have been done on directions of Bhupendra Yadav as he always has balanced things. But her inclusion in the poster is not alone, three more faces have been added. A party office-bearer said the Yatra is a central program and accordingly all senior leaders’ photos, including that of Raje, and other ministers in GoI, are there on the posters. A controversy and war of words had erupted between state BJP workers and Raje’s supporters after photos of Raje were removed from the state’s party posters in state capital Jaipur around two months ago. Even during the last assembly by-polls on three seats, her photo was missing from hoarding and posters. At Rajsamand, the posters did have her photo but not at all places. A BJP leader had then stated that they are following the protocol and photos of only the CM, the leader of the opposition, and the state party chief can be used. Raje, who never commented on the development, recently broke her silence for the first time, saying, “I don’t believe in politics of posters, but want to dwell in people’s hearts and intend to carry out such works that remain their memory.” Meanwhile, Union labour minister Bhupendra Yadav on Thursday began his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Congress-ruled Rajasthan from Alwar district where he addressed a public gathering and highlighted the achievements of the central government. The yatra began from Alwar bypass in Bhiwadi. He was received by the party leaders and workers, thereafter the yatra moved to the party office in Bhiwadi. He addressed the gathering there and said that the government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is transforming India into ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. He also targeted the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan saying there is a fight between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot over the chair (chief ministership). He also exuded confidence that the party will form the next government in the state. After the address, he resumed the onward journey in a specially designed vehicle. Yadav, along with Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Shekhawat, state president Satish Poonia, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore and other leaders, was mounted on the vehicle painted in saffron colour. The yatra was escorted by party workers on a motorcycle by a large number of cars and other vehicles were also part of the yatra which is scheduled to reach Jaipur by evening. He will cover Jaipur district on Friday and Ajmer on Saturday. Senior Congress leader Archana Sharma said BJP is daydreaming that they will come into power in Rajasthan. She said what ashirwad (blessing) are they seeking? “People died due to a shortage of oxygen and inflation is uncontrollable,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/vasundhara-raje-back-on-bjp-posters-in-rajasthan-101629372167386.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal tightens entry rules, registration on Covid portal must||Amid rising cases, the Himachal Pradesh government has tightened entry rules, making it mandatory for visitors to register themselves on the Covid e-portal. In his order, chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh said all inter-state movement to the state will be monitored through registration on the Covid e- portal for contact tracing. Also read: Schoolteacher, woman end life in hotel near DharamshalaDaily or weekend commuters such as industrialists, traders, suppliers, factory workers, project proponents, service providers, government officials and people intending to commute for medical purposes for entering and exiting the state or vice-versa are exempted from the restrictions subject to their registration on the portal. Children below 18 years if accompanied by parents or guardians with vaccination certificate (double doses) or RTPCR/RAT negative reports are exempted. All goods carriers and movement of goods, cargo for inland and exports are exempted from the restrictions. Restrictions re-imposed since August 14 The state government re-imposed curbs to regulate the entry of people, including tourists, on August 14 after the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. It is compulsory for people travelling to Himachal Pradesh to either carry a Covid-negative report or vaccination certificate (two doses). The RT-PCR test report should not be older than 72 hours and RAT report not older than 24 hours. Schools remain closed, buses at 50% capacity Schools are closed for students and the public transport is allowed at 50% of the total capacity. The latest surge in Covid-19 cases started in the last week of July. Since July 25, the state has recorded around 6,000 cases and more than 40 deaths. As on August 18, the total case count was 2.11 lakh and toll mounted to 3,542. The positivity rate has jumped to 2.3% from 0.9%. As many as 2,04,681 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-tightens-entry-rules-registration-on-covid-portal-must-101629371385261.html
19-08-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad standing committee chairman, 4 others detained in bribery case||The Pune unit of Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) has detained Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) standing committee chairman Advocate Nitin Dnyaneshwar Landge and his personal assistant Dnyaneshwar Pingale, clerk Arvind Kamble, and Rajendra Shinde and Vijay Chawria in a bribery case of ₹10 lakh.The officials raided the office of Landge on Wednesday afternoon and an investigation was carried out for two hours. It was found that to come up with the hoardings in PCMC premises, 28 tenders were sanctioned, however, a work order of the same was not issued.To sign the work order, Landge had asked for three per cent of the total amount which was ₹10 lakh. For singing on six files on Wednesday ₹1,18,000 were asked to be given to clerks.Around the same time, the ACB officials caught Pingale red-handed while accepting the bribe on the ground floor. He was taken to the office of the standing committee chairman and questioned along with other suspects. Later, Landge was also questioned. They were detained at around 7 pm by the ACB team.Landge is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from ward 7 in Bhosari.On Wednesday, meanwhile, an online meeting of the standing committee was held wherein approval was given for work worth ₹31.66 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-standing-committee-chairman-4-others-detained-in-bribery-case-101629370605390.html
19-08-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 recovered patients in Karnataka afflicted with tuberculosis; state to step up screening measures||Patients who have made a full recovery from Covid-19 are contracting tuberculosis (TB) in Karnataka. The state has recorded 23-25 such cases so far, and as an added precaution the government has started screening all Covid-19 recovered patients for TB, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar told news agency ANI on Thursday.“As a precautionary measure, we have thought of conducting TB screening for all Covid-19 recovered persons,” he added.Sudhakar informed the Vidhana Soudha on Wednesday that over 28 lakh recoveries have been reported in the state so far and since both coronavirus and TB affect the lungs a special drive has been launched to help detect TB early.“There are more than 28 lakh people in the state who have recovered from the Covid-19 infection. Since both Covid-19 and TB infect the lungs, we have launched a special drive to ensure early detection of TB in people who have recovered from the virus," he said.“People who have recovered from Covid-19 should voluntarily get themselves evaluated for TB. If it is detected at an early stage the treatment will become easier", Sudhakar added.India has seen a fall of 25% in the number of TB cases reported in 2020 as compared to the previous year, the Union health ministry said in the Lok Sabha during the monsoon session. According to the official figures presented by the ministry in the lower house, India reported 1.8 million TB cases between January and December 2020 as compared to 2.4 million the year before.Fear of contracting the virus and closure of out-patient clinics due to the pandemic impacted screening and testing measures, a fact which Sudhakar himself reiterated in the assembly on Wednesday. It remains to be seen what impact this will have on the Prime Minister’s vision of ushering in a TB-free India by 2025.The ministry of science and technology announced on Wednesday that researchers from Brazil, Russia, India and South Africa — all of whom belong to the group of 24 countries recognised by the World Health Organisation as the countries with the highest caseload of TB —will be studying the impact of Covid-19 on epidemiological characteristics of TB infection and search for mechanisms responsible for the interaction of these two processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-recovered-patients-in-karnataka-afflicted-with-tuberculosis-state-to-step-up-screening-measures-101629369880649.html
19-08-2021||Other||Taste of Life: When (and why) the misal was Pune’s steak... served very rare||VN Natu, the chronicler of Pune and the author of the delightful book “Aadhich Pune Gulzar”, was 14 when one of his uncles took him to a restaurant serving misal. The year was 1942 and the month, March. The Second World War had extended to the China– Burma– India theatre. The Air Raid Precautions law had been implemented and several citizens, like one Mr Thakur who sold bhel in Sadashiv Peth, were arrested for not obeying the orders. Pune had been experiencing frequent “brown-outs”, and mock drills to train the population in an event of a bombing were a routine. There was a talk of an impending “black-out”. Natu and his uncle went to a restaurant in Shukrawar peth. They did not enter through the main door facing the road. Most of the restaurants those days had back doors to facilitate patrons who did not wish to be seen entering the premises. Once seated, the uncle ordered misal for both of them.This was Natu’s first visit to a restaurant. His uncle too had never been inside one. They had never tasted misal. The purpose of this visit was not limited to eating misal. They were not there to enjoy the taste and appreciate the texture of the dish. They were there because the uncle believed that eating misal would equip them in fighting the British. They wanted to eat misal because they wanted to be strong and “masculine”.The notion that some dishes were “masculine”, while others were “feminine” was brought to India in the late 19th century. While several ancient Indian manuals and treatises on medicine prescribed foods for vigour and strength, they never classified them as “masculine” and “feminine”. The myth that certain foods and dishes were “masculine”, and one needed to devour those for strength was traceable to the intersection of colonialism, white supremacy, domesticity, and masculinity.The idea that some foods were more appropriate for women started to emerge in 19th-century Europe and the US after more and more women started joining the workforce. The corporate advertising machinery demarcated male and female taste preferences. Over a period of time, a notion that certain foods were more preferred among women started to emerge. Man is the hunter, the breadwinner, the meat – and - misal – eater. A woman is the gatherer of vegetables, the cupcake–maker, and salad-eater. This classification is based on how society constructs its understanding of gender. The separation in cooking familiarity and skill is more to do with society’s control over gender than the genetic makeup or sex of people - partly to do with the gendered division of labour, partly to do with the construction of the gendered body. The food choices and acquired tastes are part of the learning which is gendered. Gender is not “natural”. And Pune definitely was not a place for fluid gender roles and feminised masculinities in the 19th and 20th centuries. Misal, tea, kanda-bhaji (onion fritters) were masculine; sabudana khichadi, ghavane (thin pancakes made of rice flour) were feminine. Meat has closely been associated with masculinity, virility, power, and privilege. Energy-dense, spicy, oily, and strongly flavoured foods were perceived as masculine foods, while soft and sweet foods were perceived as feminine.Several columns in “Bombay Chronicle” and “Bombay Gazette” between 1910 and 1940 labelled fish, pasta, salads, cakes, and ice-cream as “female foods”. These foods were sweet or bland. A lady was not supposed to devour a steak. Various restaurants serving Europeans in India designed menus keeping this in mind. The dishes meant for women were described as “decorated”, “colourful” and “joyful”.Those who ate “masculine foods” were perceived as more masculine than those who ate “feminine foods”.The portions mattered too. Eating like a bird was feminine. Eating large portions was manly. Larger portions and spicy/oily food were perceived as more masculine, while smaller portions were considered more feminine. Boys were, and are, encouraged to eat big portions from a very young age. Men eat more in the presence of other men. This was based on the motivation for competition. Pune was known for its feasts where men competed to eat jalebis and laddoos. The newspaper “Jnanaprakash”, between 1850 and 1880, reported several stories where men ate hundreds of jalebis or passed out due to the exhaustion caused by over-eating. These men were treated with respect. Another means of reinforcing masculinity was by restricting women’s dining in public to certain occasions and to the company of men of their families. A restaurant was a public space where only a man ate and hence, this act of consumption was “masculine”. Because misal or meat could only be eaten in restaurants, their status as a forbidden pleasure appealed to men.Culture affects gender roles and hence, food choices. Caste matters too. When fractures in the social fabric became too apparent in 20th century Pune, men belonging to castes which traditionally avoided meat or did not eat out due to reasons related to caste and religion were mocked in public. They were perceived as “weak”, “traitors” and songs were composed to ridicule their dietary choices. Men who gave up tea and meat (mostly followers of Gandhi) were described as “less masculine”, “physically weaker”.Natu and his uncle ate misal several times after their first visit that day. Their families never knew. Both of them participated in the Quit India Movement. Natu threw stones at the police near SP College on August 10, 1942. His uncle participated in a few demonstrations against the British and went underground to avoid arrest. He helped a few freedom fighters in acquiring equipment to run a radio station. Did you eat meat, I had asked Natu seven years ago when I met him for the first time. He smiled and started talking about the various misals he enjoyed over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-when-and-why-the-misal-was-pune-s-steak-served-very-rare-101629370245695.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Schoolteacher, woman end life in hotel near Dharamshala||A 38-year-old schoolteacher and the woman with whom he was having an extra-marital affair committed suicide by consuming poison at a hotel near Dharamshala, police said on Thursday. The man is a father of two children, while the woman is also married and has children. They lived in the same neighbourhood in a village of Amb sub division in Una district, the police said. Also read: Taliban takeover: Ex-chief of Indian spy agency decodes Afghanistan situation“Their bodies were found on Wednesday night in a hotel on Cantt Road near Kotwali Bazaar,” said Kangra superintendent of police Khushal Chand Sharma. He said the couple checked into the hotel on August 17 and were last seen on Wednesday afternoon. The hotel staff informed the police after they did not respond to repeated knocking on the door, which was bolted from inside. The police broke open the door to find the two dead. Pesticide tablets, a bottle of liquor and a suicide note were recovered. He said the mother of the teacher had lodged a complaint that the woman’s family harassed him after they found out about their affair and that drove the two to suicide. A case was registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schoolteacher-woman-end-life-in-hotel-near-dharamshala-101629370005314.html
19-08-2021||Kolkata||'Deserves to be rejected': Calcutta HC on Bengal govt's argument blaming ECI for post-poll violence||The Calcutta high court on Thursday observed that the West Bengal government cannot blame the Election Commission of India (ECI) for the alleged post-poll violence in the state, according to news agency ANI. A five-judge bench of the high court made this observation while ordering a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into allegations of rape and murder and a separate Special Investigation Team (SIT) inquiry into those of arson and loot.Also Read | Bengal post-poll violence: CBI, SIT to probe cases, says Calcutta high court"The state government's argument that the ECI is responsible for the violence as the police were under it due to the enforcement of the election code till May 3, 2021, deserves to be rejected outrightly," ANI quoted the bench as saying.Calcutta High Court says that the West Bengal Govt's argument that EC was responsible for the violence as police were under it due to enforcement of election code till May 3, 2021 "deserves to be rejected outrightly" https://t.co/7qJ9GZ2yoTThis argument by the Mamata Banerjee-led government was based on the fact that during the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) in a state where elections are to be held, it is the ECI which controls the police and administration. The MCC comes into force immediately after the election schedule is announced, and is lifted on the day when election results are declared. In the case of West Bengal, it came into effect on February 26 this year, and concluded on May 2.The Calcutta high court also observed that "constitutional obligations of the state do not get vested in the Election Commission during the process of elections." It further said, "Civil or police administration is under ECI's control during the election process to ensure free and fair elections. This doesn't mean that the police stop discharging their normal duties to maintain law and order."Constitutional obligations of the State do not get vested in the Election Commission during the process of elections: Calcutta High Court in its order on the alleged post-poll violence in West BengalThe eight-phase assembly elections in the eastern state were held from March 27 to April 29. Violence reportedly broke out following the announcement of results on May 2, which saw the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) return to power for a third consecutive term, ahead of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The high court had tasked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe the allegations. The NHRC submitted its report to the court on July 13. The bench reserved its order on August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/deserves-to-be-rejected-calcutta-hc-on-bengal-govt-blaming-eci-for-post-poll-violence-101629365519421.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Marathi manoos tired of MVA, will wrest civic body from it: Narayan Rane||Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises Narayan Rane, who started his week-long Jan Ashirwad Yatra from Mumbai, targeted chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray saying he has devoided Maharashtra of growth since the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power. Rane paid respects to Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray at Smruti Sthal — a makeshift memorial where the Sena supremo was cremated, in Shivaji Park, Dadar. Later, the Sena workers “purified” the memorial with gaumutra and milk.The Sena is observing Rane’s tour of Mumbai, Palghar and Konkan region closely since he is the party’s bête noire after being removed from the party for questioning Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership in 2005. Rane started his tour from Mumbai and is going through some of the strongholds and bastions of Shiv Sena, including the Mahim-Dadar area.Ahead of next year’s Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls, Rane also invoked “Marathi manoos” and said that they are tired of the Sena’s functioning in the civic body and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will snatch the reins of BMC from the Sena. Without naming Uddhav Thackeray, Rane said that his party will “save” the state from “the ones who are out to destroy Maharashtra.”Speaking at Teacher’s Colony in Kherwadi, which is very close to Kala Nagar in Bandra (East), where Thackeray’s residence Matoshree is situated, Rane said, “I am in Kherwadi, which is next to Kala Nagar, so some of the words I say here must fall on their ears. In the last two years, you have devoided Maharashtra of growth and led it towards destruction. The people of Mumbai are tired of your work and way of functioning, and therefore, they will take away the reins of the corporation.”Also Read | Covid-19: Fewer than 10 active cases in 6 districts of MaharashtraRane later visited Shivaji Park in Dadar and paid his respects to Sena founder. Speaking to reporters opposite Shivaji Park, Rane invoked the memory of Bal Thackeray and said, “I paid respects to Balasaheb and I wished that he should have been alive today. Saheb has made me into whatever I am today. If he were alive today, he would have blessed me to gain more success. Even though his hand is not over me, his blessing is always there.”The day-long political drama also saw a controversy. Hours after the Union minister and other BJP ministers left, Shiv Sainiks gathered there and “purified” the memorial by sprinkling cow urine (gaumutra) and milk. Sena workers, including Appasaheb Patil, wiped the photo of Sena supremo and carried out the rituals.Sena Member of Parliament Vinayak Raut on Wednesday said that Rane does not have the “moral right” to visit Thackeray’s memorial and Shiv Sainiks (party workers) will not allow it, but the party leadership asked its cadre not to resort to any protest. On Thursday Sena workers did not stop Rane from visiting the memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathi-manoos-tired-of-mva-will-wrest-civic-body-from-it-narayan-rane-101629367544874.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||CBI to probe Delhi govt’s bus purchase||The Union government has recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the 2020 purchase of 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses by the Delhi government, and a maintenance contract for them, both of which have been another issue of contention between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the state unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The ministry of home affairs (MHA) informed Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev about this in a note dated August 16.The note, a copy of which has been seen by HT, said that the ministry of home affairs (MHA), after examining the report submitted by a three-member panel appointed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal asked CBI to look into the matter.People familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified confirmed this as well.A PE is the precursor to a First Information Report (FIR), during which agency carries out investigations to ascertain whether a cognisable offence is made out.The Delhi government termed the move “harassment” by the Centre.“There is absolutely no truth to these allegations. A committee was already set up to investigate the matter thoroughly, which gave a clean chit. It is a politically motivated conspiracy against AAP. The BJP wants to prevent the people of Delhi from getting new buses,” the Delhi government said in a statement.“In the past as well, the Centre has tried to harass the Delhi government using CBI, but not even once has their attempt been successful because there has never been any truth to any of their allegations. The Delhi government does not believe in the politics of slander, it only believes in good governance and is committed to delivering upon its promise of good governance,” it added.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the government “scam” will be “exposed” by the inquiry. “It is a matter of satisfaction that the Ministry of Home Affairs has decided to refer the Delhi BJP complaint regarding the scam in purchase of 1,000 buses for a CBI inquiry. Now very soon, the Delhi government scam and those who planned it will get exposed,” he said.HT reported on July 11 that the L-G-appointed panel gave a clean chit to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) in the tendering and procurement of the buses, although it found some “procedural lapses” arising out of “a bona fide decision making”.“The tendering process of purchase of buses warrants no interference and suffers from no major infirmity... The committee, prima facie, did not come across any material to impute criminal misconduct attributable to any public official,” the report said.“There were only procedural lapses apparently arising out of a bona fide decision-making process. However, a greater effort for understanding the market and a higher degree of due diligence in assessing reasonableness of bids was required compared to what seems to have been demonstrated,” it added.DTC, which comes under the Delhi government, floated last March, a tender for procurement of 1,000 CNG low-floor buses and issued another tender for allotting the annual maintenance contract (AMC) for these buses four months later.It was spending ₹875 crore in the procurement of the 1,000, buses and the AMC, as per the second tender, was costing the DTC ₹3,500 crore. To be sure, the purchase is a one-time expense, and the maintenance contract is valid for 12 years.However, the BJP levelled allegations of corruption in the tender. On the directions of the Delhi L-G, the state vigilance department constituted a three-member committee headed by former bureaucrat OP Aggarwal, and comprising principal secretary (vigilance) KR Meena, and transport commissioner Ashish Kundra to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-asks-cbi-to-probe-delhi-govt-s-purchase-of-1-000-low-floor-buses-101629367065025.html
19-08-2021||Other||Goa Coast Guard evacuates ailing sailor from Brazil-bound bulk carrier||The Goa unit of the Indian Coast Guard successfully evacuated a member of the Bulk carrier MV Christina J that was sailing off the coast of Goa after the crew member required medical assistance. Thirty-two-year-old Ervie Ferraren Dagpin, with a history of hepatitis, complained of occasional abdominal and upper back pain and the ship relayed the distress message to the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre on August 16, the Coast Guard said in a statement. Also Read | Goa tourism seeks restart of foreign arrivals from ‘safe’ countries“The operations team assisted the patient on call using available medical expertise and directed the vessel to start closing towards Goa. Meanwhile, the local agent and port control were informed and liaised for coordinating the medical evacuation of the ailing seaman,” the Coast Guard said. “The ship arrived at Mormugao anchorage at about 1800 hrs on 17 Aug 21 and further shifted by boat to MPT jetty. The medical team of Indian Coast Guard, Goa, assessed the medical status , provided first aid and with the help of agents shifted the patient to a civil hospital,” the statement said. The bulk carrier bearing the flag of the Marshall Islands, was headed from Dahej port in Gujarat to Tubarao in Brazil and was passing by Goa when the incident occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-coast-guard-evacuates-ailing-sailor-from-brazil-bound-bulk-carrier-101629363044706.html
19-08-2021||Jaipur||Angry with wife, Rajasthan man throws daughter on ground; child dies||A three-year-old girl was killed after her father allegedly threw her away in a fit of rage over his wife’s refusal to veil her face in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Tuesday, police said. The accused and his family later secretly performed the girl’s last rites, they added.Prem Prakash, a local police officer, cited the complaint of the girl’s mother and added she alleged her husband was fighting with her for not covering her face when he started beating their daughter. The mother said when she rushed to save her daughter, her father threw her out of their room. She told police that her husband always insisted that she veiled her face.Also Read | 3kg heroin seized from Rajasthan man in PatialaPrakash said the accused is absconding and efforts were being made to arrest him and others who cremated the girl. The mother has also lodged a complaint of dowry harassment. She said her family even gifted her in-laws a car on the birth of their daughter. She earlier twice lodged complaints related to dowry harassment but later withdrew them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/angry-with-wife-rajasthan-man-throws-daughter-on-ground-child-dies-101629362384591.html
19-08-2021||Patna||15 passengers injured as Delhi-bound bus overturns in Bihar’s East Champaran||At least 15 passengers were injured when their Delhi-bound bus skidded off the road and overturned in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Wednesday evening. According to police, the accident occurred near Belwa Madho village when the bus carrying about 76 passengers was on its way to Delhi from Saharsa at around 9.15pm on Wednesday. “At least 15 people sustained injuries in the accident,” said Arun Kumar Gupta, sub divisional police officer (SDPO), Motihari. Prima facie, it appears that the driver of the bus drove rashly, causing the vehicle to skid on the road which was slippery because of the rains, Gupta said. Also Read | Woman, daughter found dead inside their house in Bihar’s NalandaPassengers said the bus was being driven very fast. “The bus was running at a high speed. We had to ask the driver to slow down but were mocked at by the conductor,” said Niranjan Sharma, who boarded the bus at Dharbhanga. Rampukar Pandit, another passenger, said, “By the time we could understand what had happened, the water from roadside ditch had entered the bus.”Locals helped the occupants get off from the bus. The injured were rushed to a local hospital where they were given first aid before being discharged.Police were yet to register a case at the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/15-passengers-injured-as-delhi-bound-bus-overturns-in-bihar-s-east-champaran-101629361484927.html
19-08-2021||Other||Assam University to completely digitise admission, examination procedures||In line with the Digital India mission of the Central government and considering the Covid-19 situation, Assam University, Silchar, has announced the complete digitisation of its admission and examination procedures.Two applications, created to facilitate the procedures, were inaugurated by Assam education minister Dr Ranoj Pegu on Wednesday evening. The apps, named Online Admission Management System (OAMS) and Online Examination Management System (OEMS), have been developed jointly by the university and a private company. Assam University claims to be the first university in the state to digitise its admission and examination through apps. The vice-chancellor of the university, Prof Dilip Chandra Nath said that they are improving infrastructure in all the colleges affiliated to the university to digitise the classrooms. Also Read | Security beefed up in Darashing Hill near Assam-Mizoram border after fresh firing“Inspired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Digital India initiative, we started planning to completely digitise the teaching and learning process few years back. The Covid-19 pandemic also taught us the value of digitisation of education system. Now with OAMS and OEMS programmes, students and faculty of colleges affiliated to Assam University along with the on-campus departments in Silchar and Diphu will be benefited. With this process we are looking forward to digitise the classrooms completely in future.”The process will also take care of the convocation and migration issues of students.Both the applications were inaugurated through a virtual meeting on Wednesday where Minister of Forest & Environment, Fisheries and Excise Parimal Suklabaidya, Minister of Urban Development and Guardian Minister of Cachar district, Ashok Singhal, Silchar MLA Dipayan Chakraborty were also present. The controller of Examination Dr Suprabir Dutta Roy while cancelling the examination in May hinted that the university is coming up with the new digital setup for future. On Wednesday he said, “A system has been developed by the DCG Data Core System India Private Limited which is the first of its kind in the academic arena of the state. Already 34 affiliated colleges under our university have started using the OAMS facility and other colleges are improving their infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-university-to-completely-digitise-admission-examination-procedures-101629361244400.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Bihar CM-led delegation to meet PM on Aug 23 to discuss caste-based census||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will head an all-party delegation from the state to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to discuss the demand for a caste-based census.“I had sought time from the PM to meet him with a delegation. The PM has given time of August 23. Many thanks to him “ Kumar tweeted on Thursday.The CM, who called on governor Phagu Chauhan in the afternoon, said the names of delegation members would soon be finalised and sent to the PM. “Tejashwi Prasad Yadav (of the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal) will also go. He along with other members of the Opposition met me on this issue during the monsoon session. It is an issue on which all the parties are one. The BJP is also finalising the name (of its representative in the delegation),” he added.Yadav, leader of Oposition in the state, confirmed his presence at the meeting. The Bihar assembly has passed two resolutions seeking a caste-based census, something the Union government has sought to avoid, given the sensitivity of the matter. The demand for a caste-based census comes from a belief that the current reservation (or quota) regime is skewed and not representative of the current composition of the population. Earlier this week, Kumar praised the PM for removing the confusion on a state’s right to decide on other backward classes (OBCs) and said he was hopeful of getting him to discuss the matter related to caste-based census as well. His reference is to the 127th Constitution Amendment passed by Parliament in the monsoon session that concluded last week, and which restores the rights of states to identify and maintain a list of backward classes. “In Bihar, then chief minister Karpoori Thakur created a separate category for extremely backward classes (EBCs). Different states have done it differently, as they were empowered to do so. There was, however, some confusion for the last few years. After the court order, the Centre decide to clear it that states continue to have the right,” he said.He said that any decision on a caste-based census would be taken only after discussing the matter with PM. “Doing it at the state level will not be census. It will be counting only, as some states did in the past,” he said.The Union government did conduct a socio-economic and caste census in 2011, but caste data was not made public. India’s last full caste census was done in 1931.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-led-delegation-to-meet-pm-on-aug-23-to-discuss-caste-based-census-101629358124285.html
19-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI, SIT to probe cases, says Calcutta high court||The Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered separate probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal this year.A five-judge bench, headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal, said the CBI will probe into the serious allegations of rape and murder while SIT that of arson and loot under the court’s supervision. It ordered the CBI and SIT to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. The matter would be heard again on October 24.In June, the court directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to constitute a committee to examine all cases of alleged violence after the March-April assembly elections. The seven-member committee submitted its final report on July 13 slamming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government while recommending a CBI probe. The report also recommended that the trials in the cases of violence should be held outside the state.Also Read | Union minister draws flak for comments on Tagore’s ‘dark complexion’The NHRC said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged in the state between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson. Out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% were in jail, the panel said.“The situation in the state of West Bengal is a manifestation of Law of Ruler, instead of Rule of Law,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/hc-orders-monitored-cbi-probe-into-allegations-of-post-poll-violence-in-bengal-101629357464336.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||35-year-old woman raped in moving car in Delhi’s Shastri Nagar; 2 men arrested||A 35-year-old woman was allegedly raped in a moving car by two men in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park area on Monday evening. The accused, police said, were arrested within hours of the incident.According to a senior police official, soon after the complaint was received, the woman was counselled and her statement was recorded. She was medically examined, and a case was registered under sections 376 (D) (punishment for gang rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.The woman told the police that the car was registered in the name of one of the accused, who was later identified as Rohit. On the basis of this information, the cops traced Rohit and his associate, Nitin.Also Read | HC refuses to accept compromise between accused and rape survivorPolice said the survivor and the accused were all from Noida. “Rohit and Nitin have been friends for quite some time and on Monday, Rohit had brought the survivor to Delhi on the pretext of offering her a job. Nitin too was accompanying them on that day,” said a police official. Rohit and Nitin were both caught on Monday. Meanwhile, the car has also been recovered and seized. The accused were both sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/35yearold-woman-raped-in-moving-car-in-delhi-s-shastri-nagar-2-men-arrested-101629356505332.html
19-08-2021||Bangalore||Man returns to India after 600 days in Saudi jail for FB post he didn’t make||An investigation by the Karnataka Police helped a man lodged in Saudi Arabia prison for over 600 days return home. Thirty-four-year-old Harish Bangera, an air-conditioning technician, was arrested on charges of blasphemy, on December 22, 2019, for making contemptuous remarks about Mecca and the king of Saudi Arabia on Facebook. A subsequent investigation by Karnataka Police revealed that the derogatory messages were posted by a fake account created by two men - Abdul Huyez and Abdul Thuyez - in Udupi district. Police arrested the two men in October 2020, who revealed that they impersonated Bangera on Facebook. Using the details of the investigation, Bangera’s family managed to get him released. Also Read | Fearing complications, Covid infected couple dies by suicide in KarnatakaBangera arrived at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Talking to HT, he said that he was lodged in an “inquiry jail” and the efforts of people back home ensured that he was not sentenced. “I can’t thank enough those who helped secure my release. The Udupi Police’s report proved my innocence. They worked hard after releasing that I had been framed. If it wasn’t for Covid-19, I would have been released much earlier. All the documents were submitted, but the courts were closed due to Covid-19,” said Bangera. He added that even though he was offered to continue working in Saudi Arabia, he wanted to return to his hometown. “The company was following the law. So, they asked me to surrender before the court. Once I was released, they said I could continue working since I was proven innocent, but I wanted to be with my family,” he added. An investigation into the case began soon after Bangera was arrested in Saudi Arabia and his wife filed a police complaint claiming the Facebook account was fake, said Udupi Police. “Bangera wrote some posts on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which led to some issues. He later deleted the post and apologised. This fake post was retaliation for that incident. Once Facebook confirmed we were on the right track, we found the actual perpetrators. The case is under trial now,” said a senior official of the Dakshina Kannada Police. The Udupi Police, through Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood and the Indian embassy in Saudi Arabia, informed the Saudi Arabian government about the arrest and this resulted in his release, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/man-released-after-600-days-in-saudi-jail-returns-to-india-101629355424055.html
19-08-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violence||In what comes as a major setback for the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, the Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the allegations of post-poll violence in the state. A seven-member committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had earlier looked into the incidents of violence following the West Bengal assembly elections and recommended a court-monitored CBI probe.Also Read | Govt failed to properly probe post-poll violence complaints: Calcutta HCCBI will probe the allegations of murder and rape, raised shortly after the overwhelming victory of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) against rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in these elections. According to people familiar with the development, the Calcutta high court also directed that a separate Special Investigation Team (SIT), with senior officers from the West Bengal cadre, be set up to probe the other allegations cited by the NHRC committee.This SIT will comprise three IPS officers -- Soumet Mitra, Suman Bala Sahoo, and Ranbir Kumar. The proceedings shall be monitored by a retired judge of the Supreme Court; a detailed order regarding this will be issued later, the Calcutta high court said.Also Read | Central agency ready to probe Bengal post-poll violence: Govt to HCThe West Bengal government should hand over all records of cases to the CBI for the investigation, the Calcutta high court said, adding that it will be a "court-monitored investigation" and that any obstruction during the course of the probe by anyone shall be "viewed seriously".Post-poll violence reportedly broke out in West Bengal following the announcement of the assembly election results on May 2. It was alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which won with an overwhelming majority in the poll results, turned a blind eye when its supporters clashed with the opposing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at various places in the state.After several BJP leaders raised alarm over a "complete breakdown" of law and order, the Union ministry of home affairs deputed a four-member team to visit the areas reported to have witnessed post-poll violence. The Calcutta high court eventually took cognizance of the matter and asked the NHRC to examine all the cases of alleged violence.The seven-member committee submitted its final report on July 13, slamming the Trinamool Congress-led state government, while recommending a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe. The state government later filed an affidavit, refuting the charges while alleging that the report was politically motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-high-court-orders-cbi-probe-into-west-bengal-post-poll-violence-101629352612684.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Woman, daughter found dead inside their house in Bihar’s Nalanda||A woman and her minor daughter were allegedly killed inside their house at Pendapur village in Bihar’s Nalanda district. The deceased have been identified as 28-year-old Seema Kumari, and her 12-year-old daughter. Sadar SDPO Dr Shibli Nomani said the incident came to light when Seema’s mother-in-law Sumitra Devi returned home from Gwaspur late on Wednesday and found the main door bolted from outside. Police were called and the officials found decomposed bodies of the duo. The SDPO said the two had been dead for days because their bodies had begun to decompose. Also Read | Ludhiana man bludgeoned to death over monetary disputeWhile Seema’s body was found on the bed with her hands tied and mouth stuffed with a cloth, the minor’s body was found on the floor with a deep injury mark on her throat and head, said an eyewitness. The house was ransacked, and jewellery and money were missing. The bodies have been sent for postmortem examination. Police said they are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area. Sumitra told the police that Seema and her daughter had been living with her ever since the death of her son, Santosh Singh. She left for Gwaspur village to meet her mother four days ago. “The culprit’s entry to the house was friendly. This makes us suspect that the murders were committed by someone the family knew. The case is being investigated from all angles, including personal enmity, property dispute, and burglary,” said Nomani, adding that police are waiting for a complaint to be registered in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-daughter-found-dead-inside-their-house-in-bihar-s-nalanda-101629353024001.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||Covid took its toll, now Lucknow theatre artistes seek reopening of auditoriums||With cultural activities having come to a standstill for almost two years due to Covid-19, theatre artistes of the state capital as well as fringe workers are facing a financial crisis. The artistes have appealed for opening of auditoriums, saying that not only them but dress suppliers, make-up artists, backstage workers, helping boys, hairdressers and costume designers have been out of business for almost two years. Noted theatre artiste Anil Rastogi said, “There are more than 20 theatre groups in Lucknow alone and none has staged any play for the past two years. When the state government has allowed the opening of malls, schools, cinemas and restaurants, we are pleading for opening of theatres. We think keeping the benefit of theatre artistes in mind, the government will permit the opening of auditoriums.” Also Read | UP schools to reopen for classes 1 to 5 from September 1. Details herePresident of UP Kalakar Association Sangam Bahuguna said, “During Covid times, we have helped more than 200 artistes. You know that artistes have an inflated ego. They will never turn up with a begging bowl in their hands, so we decided to approach them personally and convince them to take help if they were facing financial problems. We have kept their names secret.” He said, “The majority of artistes have lost all of their income. And there is no clear path back to pre-pandemic levels of employment.” Shatrughan Sharma, a theatre artiste said, “Earlier, a lot of film shoots used to take place in the city and theatre artistes used to get work. Now shooting of serials and, web series is also limited. Unavailability of auditoriums for plays is also denting the income of artistes. The state government must think about the pathetic condition of artistes in the city and come out with a package for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-took-its-toll-now-lucknow-theatre-artistes-seek-reopening-of-auditoriums-101629348643960.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi revises Muharram holiday date, to be observed on Friday||Muharram is the first month of the Islamic calendar and the second holiest month after Ramadan, which is the ninth month on the same calendar. The Delhi government on Wednesday modified the date of the public holiday associated with Muharram and declared it to be August 20 (Friday), instead of the previously designated August 19 (Thursday), in accordance with a decision taken by the central government.Also Read | Muharram 2021: Date of Ashura in India, Saudi Arabia and other countriesThe 10th day of Muharram is known as 'Ashura', during which Shia Muslims mourn the tragedy that befell the family of Husayn ibn Ali, a grandson of the Prophet Muhammad; while Sunni Muslims practice fasting on Ashura. Although the month of Muharram began from August 11 in India, it is August 20 that will mark the day of Ashura. According to reports, this is the reason why the public holiday date for Muharram was revised from Thursday to Friday.Delhi government's General Administration Department (GAD) had earlier declared the Muharram holiday on August 19 (Thursday) but changed it to Friday following a Union government's decision in this connection.The Delhi government said in its official order that the date for the public holiday on account of Muharram was changed by the Union ministry of personnel under the central government. Accordingly, the holiday which was earlier declared on Thursday (August 19) was revised to Friday (August 20) for all government offices under the national capital territory (NCT) of Delhi.Also Read | Muharram 2021: Best wishes, messages, quotes, images to share with your loved ones"Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension, has revised the holiday on account of Muharram from Thursday to Friday," an order issued by the city government read. "Accordingly, holiday on account of Muharram is declared on Friday (August 20, 2021) for all government offices under Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi."Muharram is ten or twelve days shorter than the Gregorian calendar followed by the West. The word Muharram means ‘not permitted’ or ‘forbidden’ hence, Muslims are prohibited from taking part in activities like warfare and use it as a period of prayer and reflection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-revises-muharram-holiday-date-to-be-observed-on-friday-101629343714151.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Patna high court arranges special sittings of Juvenile Justice Boards||As many as 1,416 cases were disposed of as the Patna high court on Tuesday arranged special sittings of Bihar’s all 38 Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs). Additional registrar (juvenile justice secretariat) Subhash Chandra Sharma said the sittings were held between 10.30am to 4.30pm and over 50 children in observation homes were released.The Juvenile Justice Monitoring Committee of the Patna high court held the sittings in collaboration with the Bihar State Legal Services Authority. This was done to minimise the pendency of cases pending before the JJBs across the state. More than 18,000 cases are pending in JJBs, including 15,500 related to heinous crimes. The disposal of cases by the JJBs across the state was affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic and resulted in an increase in the pendency.The special drive was conducted with the approval of the chief justice of the Patna high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-high-court-arranges-special-sittings-of-juvenile-justice-boards-101629344503485.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Super specialty block for Darbhanga medical college may be ready by Sept 30||The construction of Super Specialty Block (SSB), attached to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) is likely to be finished by September 30, as per the revised timeline posted on Prime Minister Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) dashboard. The project is being executed with the Centre and state governments allocating ₹120 crore and ₹30 crore respectively. The 210-bed specialised treatment facilities on DMCH campus started in December 2016, with an 18-month deadline for its completion. Many deadlines have been missed and reset since. According to available information, 81.16% civil work has been completed so far.Also Read | Woman suffers 60% burns in acid attack“The construction had hit too many roadblocks...As of now, we have reached final stage of completion as far as civil work is concerned,” said Prabhash Vaish, chief project manager of HLL Infratech Services Ltd, engaged in construction work. He said the remaining civil work requires specialised manpower. Covid-19 pandemic has also put a spanner in the works, he said. Of the total budget, ₹100 crore was to be spent on construction of the building while ₹50 crore was earmarked for installation of equipment. The SSB will include eight specialised departments: nephrology, cardiology, cardio thoracic and vascular surgery (CTVS), neurology, neurosurgery, gastroenterology and hepatology, neonatology, burn, plastic and reconstruction surgery with 20 beds each and 40 ICU besides 10 dialysis beds and 16 OTs. The ground floor plus five storey building will cover total over 34,000 sq mt.DMCH principal Dr K N Mishra candidly said a lot of work remains to be done to start hospital’s functioning. “We want everything in place to ensure functioning of hospital as soon as possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/super-specialty-block-for-darbhanga-medical-college-may-be-ready-by-sept-30-101629343363554.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Bengal man sentenced to 7 years’ imprisonment for circulating fake currency||A Special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court on Wednesday convicted a resident of Malda district in West Bengal for circulating fake Indian currency notes (FICN) and sentenced him to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment.The convict is identified as Abdul Kadir. NIA arrested him in October 2018 along with five others following a tip-off. The others included Rehan Abbas Shaikh, Shafahad Mukhtar Ansari, Anees Iklak Shaikh, Kishor Namdeo Fular and Rohit Nagendra Singh, all residents of Bandra (E), Mumbai. The arrests were made from Bhiwandi and they were found in possession of with ₹4.5 lakh of fake Indian currency notes.After interrogating the men, the agency arrested more suspects--Samir Mandal, Sabir Ali, Abdul Kadir and Mohammad Shadab Khan.Also Read | Covid-19: Fewer than 10 active cases in 6 districts of MaharashtraThe agency filed three charge sheets in the case - first in January, 2019, and two supplementary charge sheets in September 2019 and April 2021.The NIA investigation revealed that Abdul Kadir and his brother Sabir Ali procured the notes from Bangladesh from one Karim Shaikh, still wanted in the case.The two brothers had given the notes to Samir Mandal to circulate in the market.As the role of Kadir was significant, NIA had pressed charges against him under various sections 489-B (Using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes), 489-C (Possession of forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes) and 34 (common intention).The trial against other chargesheeted accused is still going on before the special NIA court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bengal-man-sentenced-to-7-years-imprisonment-for-circulating-fake-currency-101629342223268.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Monsoon expected to revive from tomorrow night||After a 10-day long break, monsoon is expected to revive in the national Capital from Friday night, according to the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Delhi has had a long dry spell without a trace of rain since August 9, when the monsoon entered the “break” phase. A revised forecast on Thursday morning said that light rain or thundershowers may occur on August 20 evening/night while a moderate spell is likely on August 21, for which an orange alert has been issued this morning. Earlier this week, the IMD had predicted thundershowers on Thursday evening itself with more rain activity on Friday, marking the end of the break phase. Also Read | Monsoon mingling: Sun romances Delhi skySenior weather officials had said that Delhi will receive south-easterly winds, which will increase the moisture content in the atmosphere by early Thursday morning as well as patchy rain in some parts of the city by evening.The weather officials attributed the high temperatures so far to the hot and dry winds from Pakistan, which is rare for this time of the year.However, they said, that the temperature is expected to drop from Friday onwards, as rain and thunder activity is likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-monsoon-expected-to-revive-from-tomorrow-night-101629341503236.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh schools to reopen for classes 1 to 5 from September 1. Details here||The Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh has issued a slew of orders regarding the reopening of schools in the state, in view of the existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) conditions. According to the new orders, students in standards 6 to 8 will be able to physically attend classes from August 23, while schools for classes 1 to 5 will reopen from September 1.Notably, classes for 9 to 12 had already begun in Uttar Pradesh from August 16, a day after the country celebrated the 75th Independence Day. However, the physical classes in schools are being held in two shifts with the 50 per cent attendance requirement, in line with the Covid-19 protocols. According to reports, the school administrations have also been directed to ensure adherence to all pandemic-related norms, including the maintaining of social distancing, use of hand sanitisers, masks, and the like. The government officials are also monitoring the situation closely for any potential violation of the Covid-19 protocols, according to reports.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier this week asked officials to consider the reopening of schools for classes 1 to 5 from September 1 and for classes 6 to 8 from August 23. The administration took the decision to reopen the schools in line with the chief minister's orders, according to a senior official cited by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan.With the latest orders, schools in Uttar Pradesh will be reopening after nearly one and a half years. Schools had been shut in the state since earlier last year when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown and related restrictions were first imposed. Several states, including Bihar, Chhattisgarh, and Punjab, have already resumed physical classes for students while other states, such as Tamil Nadu, are set to resume primary school classes from the beginning of the next month, in strict adherence with Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-1-to-5-from-september-1-details-here-101629339198404.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Fewer than 10 active cases in 6 districts of Maharashtra||There are fewer than 10 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Dhule, Washim, Yavatmal, Bhandara, Wardha and Gondia districts of Maharashtra while only seven districts, including Pune and Ahmednagar, account for most of the infections in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his cabinet were informed on Wednesday. Maharashtra, which continues to be the worst-hit state from the pandemic across India, has 36 districts in total.An official told news agency PTI on Wednesday that there are no active cases in the Nandurbar district at present, while Parbhani, Hingoli, Nanded, Amravati, Akola, Buldana, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli have fewer than 100 infected patients under treatment. The official also said Maharashtra’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate stood at 2.44 per cent, adding Ratnagiri and Kolhapur districts were initially showing a worrying trend, but their Covid-19 growth rate came down below the state’s weekly positivity rate.Also Read| Maharashtra task force lists ways to keep schoolkids safeMaharashtra has so far reported 6,406,345 cases, 135,413 deaths and 6,209,364 recoveries due to the coronavirus disease. On Wednesday, the state saw a slight increase in its daily Covid-19 tally as 5,132 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, while 158 more patients died and 8,196 recovered from the viral disease in the said period, according to the health department’s bulletin. The active cases across Maharashtra stand at 58,069.The authorities have administered 50,752,443 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries till now of which 37,444,743 have received the first dose and the remaining 13,307,700 are fully vaccinated, i.e received both doses. The above-mentioned official also told PTI on Wednesday that the vaccination percentage for beneficiaries between 18-44 years stood at 25 per cent while over 50 per cent of the state’s population above 45 years has been administered at least one dose of the vaccine.Also Read| Second Covid-19 wave is under control: Maharashtra governmentThe Maharashtra government, meanwhile, said on Wednesday the second wave of the pandemic is under control in the state and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged all citizens to follow Covid-19 protocols in order to prevent the third wave. “In view of the upcoming festive season, citizens should ensure that they follow all the Covid-19 rules and take all precautions to ensure that the third wave is prevented,” Thackeray said. Expressing concerns over political gatherings in the state, he urged all parties to avoid such gatherings.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-fewer-than-10-active-cases-in-6-districts-of-maharashtra-101629335129683.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Remarkable progress in health care: Minister||Delhi health and urban development minister Satyendar Jain highlighted the work done by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the health and education sectors in the Capital, while inaugurating a community centre in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Wednesday.“The Kejriwal government has been the first in the nation to take up the issue of quality amenities as a prime responsibility and we are making remarkable progress in health care and education with each passing day. The UK and US are developed countries only because of free quality education and health care. The Kejriwal government is bringing the same kind of development to Delhi,” sai Jain at the launch of the community centre.“A people oriented and corruption-free governance model in Delhi has made people realise that there is someone working towards securing their rights,” said the health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/remarkable-progress-in-health-care-minister-101629329950434.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Man without a mobile number||Mobile phone has become as necessary as oxygen. Everybody seems to need it. Not Ramesh Kumar. Even though, he says, he earns enough money as a rickshaw puller to afford one.“I spend my nights on the patri,” he explains, referring to the footpath. And if you sleep on the patri, he says, you get to know all the bad things that happen at night in this city. For instance, “there’s no guarantee you will wake up in the morning with your samaan (things) still by your side.” Indeed, Mr Kumar had “3-4” mobiles stolen in the past while asleep. “And now I don’t keep it at all.”This morning, the rickshaw puller has parked his rickshaw on a street-side in central Delhi, close to where he sleeps. Wearing pants and a baniyan, he is leisurely perched on the passenger’s seat, smoking a beedi. In his mid-20s, Mr Kumar declares his indifference to the city. “I’m from Ayodhya, the land of Bhagwan Ram. I don’t belong to Dilli.” He doesn’t really need a phone “because a mobile helps you stay connected to your family and I’m anyway mostly with my family.” He tends to be more often in Ayodhya than Delhi. “I spend a few weeks in Delhi, and then a few months in my village.” There Mr Kumar helps his father cultivate the small agricultural land the family owns “which doesn’t yield enough, and that’s why I have to be (regularly) in Dilli to earn.” The arrangement has been in place for 11 years.Very many folks in the city pass their spare time, and even survive the loneliness, by watching videos on mobile. Mr Kumar doesn’t get any spare time, he says, shaking his head. “Riding a rickshaw is painful. Your arms and legs hurt by the day’s end.” At night, after dinner, he parks the rickshaw beside a paan shop and lies down on the pavement. “I’m so exhausted by then that I have no taakat (energy) for anything.” He pauses, and adds: “Sometimes a begana kutta (stray dog) sleeps by my side, sometimes a charsi (addict) opens the bag I use as a pillow… but I sleep deep, and I have nothing precious worth stealing—except my life.” Here he smiles, “And my life is precious only to my family.”Turning to look at his smouldering beedi, he says—“my mobile is my beedi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-man-without-a-mobile-number-101629329289733.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt gets more than 6,000 applications for Covid ex gratia||The Delhi government has so far received 4,165 applications for the ₹50,000 one-time financial assistance for Covid-19 deaths recorded in the city, and 2,753 applications for ₹2,500 monthly assistance from families which lost their sole breadwinner to the disease, according to documents that HT has seen.The government, however, is yet to start disbursing the ex-gratia amount, said a senior official in the government’s social welfare department who asked not to be named, adding: “The process will begin very soon.”Delhi has so far recorded more than 25,000 deaths due to Covid-19 – more than half of which were recorded in the last and worst wave of the pandemic during April-May.The government is conducting a separate survey for children orphaned by Covid-19 and data for that is yet to be summarised.On June 23, the government notified a scheme of one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 for each Covid-19 victim’s kin, and monthly assistance of ₹2,500 for families which lost their sole breadwinner and children left orphaned by Covid-19.In July, the government formed teams to visit residences of people who died of Covid-19 and help them with the application process which, senior officials said, helped immensely in terms of the number of applications received so far .“Government officials visited our residence recently. We were facing difficulties with the application. We have been assured that we will receive the money soon,” said Jagat Kumar, one of the applicants, whose mother Tara Devi died of Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-gets-more-than-6-000-applications-for-covid-ex-gratia-101629326649038.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||AAP protests against Novelty cinema deal, alleges corruption||cores of supporters of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday staged a demonstration outside the head office of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in central Delhi, alleging corruption in the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) and sale of assets at undervalued rates.“Aam Aadmi Party gheraoed BJP headquarters after MCD sold the Novelty Cinema land worth ₹200 crore for only ₹34 crore. The BJP knows it is going to be defeated in MCD elections, so it wants to fill its pocket by selling off public properties through MCD. People of Delhi want that an honest government, like the Kejriwal government, be brought into the MCD,” said the AAP’s national secretary Pankaj Gupta.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the lease sale of Novelty Cinema plot has been done by North MCD by an open transparent tender. “Going by commercial circle rate, the plot is worth ₹19.50 crore while the plot has been lease sold at almost double the circle rate for ₹35 crore,” he said.Kapoor said that if the AAP government feels that plot is being sold at below market value then it should come forward and help the cash starved north Delhi civic body by buying the plot at their self-claimed market value.The BJP has also said that the plot has a much larger floor area ratio (FAR) than the nearby plots.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations in the Capital.Polls to the three municipal corporations in Delhi are due next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-protests-against-novelty-cinema-deal-alleges-corruption-101629326187382.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Elevated ramps, flyovers to clear traffic chaos around station||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has prepared a comprehensive traffic circulation and road improvement plan to cater to the footfall and vehicular traffic that is likely to increase once the redevelopment work on the New Delhi Railway Station kicks in next year.The plan was submitted to the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) in July.Vice-chairman of RLDA, Ved Parkash Dudeja said, “We have prepared a detailed plan to cater to the increase in traffic and footfall and ensure smooth traffic movement in and around the station complex. This will also help in reducing congestion in Connaught Place.”In the ₹1000-crore traffic plan that is included in the first phase of the project, RLDA has proposed constructing 23 lane kilometres of elevated corridors (approx 11km) and widening arterial roads around the station complex.Lane kilometre is a method employed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) that involves measuring the length of each new lane that is built instead of counting the overall length of the highway. For instance, one km of a four lane highway is counted as four kilometres under the method.Currently, 450,000 passengers visit the station daily (160-170 million annually). RLDA officials said the projected increase in peak hour passenger volume (number of passengers at the station per hour) is likely to range from 45,000 to 55,000 in the next two decades.The built-up area is going to increase from approximately 1.1million sq.ft to over 5.5 million sq ft during the first phase of the development. Currently, the entry points at both Ajmeri Gate and Paharganj are congested and the redevelopment work is going to further increase vehicular traffic and footfall in the area.As per the plan, widening of Panchkuian road, Basant Road, Chelmsford Road, Bhavbhuti Road and Minto Road have been proposed. There will be separate entry and exit routes to the station.To provide connectivity to the station’s entry, flyovers have been proposed on Basant Road (which can be accessed from Panchkuian road) and Chelmsford Road.“We plan to construct elevated sections on Basant Road and Chelmsford Road up till the concourse of the station. These roads are underutilised right now. Basant Road is very narrow. An elevated corridor will increase the capacity of the road,” said Dudeja. There is also a flyover proposed at DDU marg for entry to the station.For vehicles leaving the station, ramps will be provided on Asaf Ali Road, Bhavbhuti Road and Chelmsford Road (a little ahead of the entry point).The State Entry Road is proposed to be developed as a pedestrian street connecting the station complex to Connaught Place. “It is proposed to be developed as a high street and will be completely pedestrian-friendly,” said an RLDA official.Dudeja said the traffic plan incorporates measures to facilitate pedestrian movement and non-motorised transport.A senior UTTIPEC official said, “RLDA has submitted the plan. We have asked them to provide some more information.”Sabyasachi Das, former in-charge of UTTIPEC, said, “There is a need for a comprehensive plan to decongest the area around the station. Earlier, when RLDA planned the redevelopment, it was focused on just development of their land. It is good that they have planned improvement of roads around the station. But construction of 40-storey towers and other developments will increase traffic, even if it is a transit-oriented development. There is a need to have a comprehensive plan for an influence area of 5-6 kms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elevated-ramps-flyovers-to-clear-traffic-chaos-around-station-101629325921512.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||New Delhi station facelift likely in 2022||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) plans to invite request for proposal (RFP) from nine firms for the redevelopment of New Delhi Railway Station (NDRS), India’s largest and second busiest railway facility, officials privy to the development said.They said work on the first phase of the project is expected to start next year.RLDA has also prepared a traffic circulation and improvement plan for the station and its surrounding areas. The plan was submitted to the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC), the apex body for approval of traffic plans in Delhi, in July.A senior UTTIPEC official said, “RLDA has submitted the plan. We have asked them to provide some more information.”RLDA vice-chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja said they aim to make New Delhi station an iconic structure with large-scale infrastructure development in and around it. “While the development at the station will provide state-of-the-art facilities to passengers, we have also made a detailed plan to decongest the area. We will invite the RFP for the first phase of works, which involves station development, commercial centres, that will begin by September-end or early October, and we plan to start the construction work by next year.”The redevelopment plan, estimated to cost around ₹14,000 crore, will be implemented in two phases and will be based on the Centre’s Transit Oriented Development (TOD) policy. Of the 160 acres of land where new developments have been proposed, work on around 85 acres will be taken up in the first phase at a cost of ₹6,500.In the first phase, the railway development body plans to construct a 70 metres high dome-shaped building (infinity tower), 40-storey twin towers and business district, providing office and commercial space, multilevel car-parking on either side of the station (Paharganj and Ajmeri Gate) for 5,000 vehicles, retail hub, pedestrian boulevard, etc. It will also upgrade the road network around the station.The revamp of the New Delhi station, which handles approximately 450,000 passengers daily (160-170 million passengers annually), has been going on since 2007. Dudeja said the initial plan was not implemented as it required shutting down half of the station for three years and the other half for another three years.“The initial plan was a bit complicated as it involved aligning all the railway tracks, for which it was mandatory to close half of the station in a phased manner over a period of six years. It is not possible to suspend train operations at the station, which is the second busiest in India. In the new plan, we will not have to close the tracks for such a long duration,” said Dudeja.In the new plan, RLDA has proposed a 70m-high dome-shaped building above the tracks. A large concourse of the building will be connected to all the 16 platforms, and facilities such as retail, lounge, restrooms will be there above the tracks; multilevel parking lots, office complexes will be part of the larger station complex.At the concourse, there will be two arrival and departure points each. The concourse will be connected to multilevel car parking-cum-office spaces on either side of the station through skywalks. “Currently, all the buses are parked on the main road. The new facility will have a bus bay on the ground floor with a capacity of up to 100 buses. The parking lots will be connected to the station building at the concourse level. The entire area will be accessible to all,” said an RLDA official.Earlier this year, RLDA finalised nine national and international firms based on the request for quotation it received for the project.As the project requires coordination with multiple agencies, RLDA officials said they have been holding regular meetings with various departments.RLDA officials said they also plan to run battery operated cars or carts to connect all the buildings.In the second phase, RLDA plans to develop the remaining 75 acres with focus on developing green spaces as ground coverage will be less than 25%.Redevelopment of railway residential colonies, and other residential units will also be taken up in the second phase.The commercial district, which includes 40-storey twin towers for commercial purposes, retail facilities, etc, are proposed to be located near Bhavabhuti Marg, near the Civic Centre (municipal headquarters).RLDA officials said the works planned in the first phase will be completed within four years.A K Jain, former planning commissioner at DDA, said, “While redevelopment of the area is the need of the hour, concentrating commercial developments in a few pockets is not a good idea. It will only result in more congestion, especially in the heart of the city. Commercial development should be planned along the railway track from Old Delhi station to Nizammudin railway station. This will help in distributing traffic. The railways have a lot of property in Delhi. Instead of constructing large commercial spaces around New Delhi station, it should develop spaces around Dwarka, Anand Vihar, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-station-facelift-likely-in-2022-101629325164343.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Centre defends top cop’s appointment||he Centre on Wednesday opposed a plea challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner even as the Delhi high court refused to issue notice and asked if similar pleas are pending before any other court.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh posted the plea by one Sadre Alam, challenging Asthana’s appointment and subsequent extension of term by one year, for further hearing on August 24. “Is any such matter pending before any other court? Just take instructions,” the bench said.When the counsel for the petitioner, advocate BS Bagga, urged the court to issue notice, it responded, “No, no. We are still going to read everything. We will see.”Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, told the court that no such challenge was pending in any court according to his knowledge. He said the government would seek instructions, following which the court adjourned the matter.Sharma also questioned the locus standi of the petitioner and the maintainability of the petition, claiming that service matters cannot be challenged in a public interest litigation.“It has become a business for so-called integrity-keepers to challenge any appointment made by the authorities,” Sharma argued.Advocate Bagga contended that the July 27 order appointing Asthana was in violation of the existing service law. He said Asthana was appointed to the post just four days before retirement when the service conditions mandate a minimum residual tenure of six months.The plea seeks initiation of steps for appointing a Delhi Police commissioner strictly in accordance with the directions issued by the Supreme Court earlier.Similar petitions have also been filed before the Supreme Court, including one by an NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation, urging directions to the central government to produce its July 27 order that approved the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre.A contempt plea has also been filed in the apex court by advocate M L Sharma against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for appointing Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner in an alleged violation of the judgment in the Prakash Singh case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-defends-top-cop-s-appointment-101629324645420.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Safina Baig says Anand Sharma was rude to her; MP denies charge||Baramulla District Development Council chairperson Safina Baig on Wednesday accused Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Anand Sharma of threatening her and passing derogatory remarks during a review meeting in Srinagar. The Congress leader was part of a parliamentary standing committee, which is currently in Kashmir. Baig, who is the wife of former MP and former J&K deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig, said Sharma threatened her and passed the derogatory remarks because she had unintentionally misnamed Sharma, for which she apologised. “I apologised, but Sharma behaved very rudely and had a threatening tone. He did not treat me as if I was a democratically elected representative of Kashmir,” she said, adding that she highlighted several issues pertaining to Kashmir, especially Baramulla district. However, she left the meeting after the incident. “I felt threatened and sad because of the way the Congress leader treated me,’ she said. People’s Conference also took strong exception to Sharma’s alleged behaviour and called it rude and misogynistic. “An innocuous mistake of getting his royal highness Anand Sharma’s name wrong invited wrath of the delusional prince who broke all parliamentary etiquette and protocol by making misogynistic and derogatory remarks against Baig,” PC spokesman Adnan Ashraf said in a statement. “The behaviour of the honourable parliamentarian reeks of a colonial mindset. The leaders of same party, which is trying to advocate and articulate the suffering of the people, are lording over elected representatives of Jammu and Kashmir due to the new found powers of “parliamentary delegations” in the Union Territory status of J&K. Lording over elected representatives of J&K is an age old aberration of INC leaders” Ashraf said, while urging the Rajya Sabha chairperson to take notice of this highly condemnable incident. Congress leader Anand Sharma termed the allegations baseless and false. “This is untrue. There were other members, officials of the administration and around 150 people in the meeting. Anybody will tell you that the allegations are baseless. I was not rude to her. In fact, other members of our parliamentary standing committee, including women, had been upset by her attitude and I had to pacify other members of the committee. Being the chairperson of the committee, I do not want to react to this issue and give credence to her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/safina-baig-says-anand-sharma-was-rude-to-her-mp-denies-charge-101629322361024.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba’s mother appears before ED in money laundering case||Gulshan Nazir, the mother of People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, on Wednesday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here and answered questions in a case related to money laundering even as the PDP alleged that the Centre had “talibanised” and “subverted” all institutions.Mufti accompanied her mother Nazir, who is in her 70s, to the ED’s zonal office in Srinagar. After the questioning, she tweeted, “In New India, being summoned by agencies like NIA and ED has become a ritual for whoever disagrees with GOI’s divisive agenda and policies. In my mother’s case, the chronology is quite clear.” “The last time she received a summon was when the PDP boycotted the Delimitation Commission followed by another summon when I staged a peaceful protest on 5th August criticising the illegal abrogation of Article 370,” Mehbooba said.She took a dig at a certain section of the media and said “Unfortunately agencies like NIA and ED that should be working on serious cases are weaponised to harass and punish political opponents. GOI has Talibanised and subverted all institutions inc Godi media (sic) to the extent where instead of upholding the truth they peddle their lies”.The ED had been issuing summons to Nazir, wife of the former J&K chief minister late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, since April but she had so far avoided visiting the ED. The summons had come after the ED questioned Mufti in March under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.The criminal case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED after raids on an alleged associate of Mehbooba.The diaries contain the details of some purported payments made from the chief minister’s discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules, the officials said.These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) rule in the erstwhile state.A few lakh rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the accounts of Nazir and some others, and the ED wants to question her about it, the officials said.Veteran politican and CPM leader M Y Tarigami also tweeted saying “Summoning aged wife of former union home minister by ED is glimpse of coercive tactics employed by central government to kill dissent”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehboobas-mother-appears-before-ed-in-money-laundering-case-101629321641795.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 301 fresh infections||Himachal’s Covid-19 case tally rose to 2,11,020 with 301 more people testing positive for the virus on Wednesday. The death toll mounted to 3,542 after one more patient succumbed to the infection.Mandi district, the hotspot of the latest surge, recorded 68 new infections followed by 51 in Hamirpur and 47 in Kangra. Chamba and Shimla reported 34 cases each, Bilaspur 26, Kullu 14 and Solan 10. Eight new cases were reported in Sirmaur, four in Kinnaur, three in Una and two in Lahul-Spiti.The active cases mounted to 2,733 while recoveries reached 2,04,681 after 230 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 46,185, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,133 and 26,291 cases respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,494 cases, Sirmaur 15,414, Hamirpur 14,997, Una 13,508, Bilaspur 13,256, Chamba 13,155, Kullu 9,380, Kinnaur 3,357 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,850.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday urged the people of the state to take the coronavirus vaccine to prevent the onset of the third wave. Thakur was listening to public grievances at the Kangra Rest House.Thakur said the state government had launched the vaccination drive at a large scale and Himachal is among the top states as per the vaccination rate.He said the Mukhyamantri Sewa Sankalp helpline (1100 ) was helping speedy redressal of the public’s grievances. “So far, around 2.48 lakh complaints have been received through the helpline, most of which have been redressed. Hes aid the Jan Manch, which was another platform to take up grievances, will be resumed as soon as the situation normalises,” he said.Sit-in protest Residents of Lalehar village of Kangra assembly segment staged a sit-in protest outside the Kangra rest house where the chief minister was listening to public grievances. They were objecting the land acquisition for the Mataur-Shimla four-lane project. The villagers said they will not give up their land and houses and did not want any compensation.A delegation of the villagers also met the chief minister and presented a memorandum of their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-301-fresh-infections-101629320981044.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Fewer Tibetans escaping due to surveillance: Penpa Tsering||Tibetan government-in-exile sikyong (president) Penpa Tsering on Wednesday said that the information flow from Tibet had drastically reduced over the years due to intense repression and surveillance, which had made it hard to assess the situation within Tibet.He was speaking during the inauguration of the seventh Young Tibetan Research Scholar’s Conference organised by the Tibet Policy Institute (TPI). The two-day annual conference is being held online due to Covid-19 pandemic and 33 scholars including Tibetan PhD scholars and PhD candidates from across the world are participating in it.“The number of Tibetans escaping to exile has also decreased due to increased surveillance at the borders,” said Tsering, adding that only five Tibetans had escaped in 2020 and seven had left in 2021. “This means that people who can testify about the situation within Tibet through lived experience is also decreasing,” Sikyong said.The 54-year-old exile leader said, due to geopolitical reasons, the few lines of communication between the people inside and outside Tibet had been banned by India and other countries for security reasons.Sikyong also urged Tibetans to be cautious of Chinese manipulation to foment conflicts within the Tibetan community-in-exile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fewer-tibetans-escaping-due-to-surveillance-penpa-tsering-101629318940776.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tourist entry restricted in HP but political rallies go on unabated||With the spectre of the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic looming large on Himachal Pardesh, the state has imposed restrictions on tourist entry in the state. However, it is yet to put a lid on political gatherings despite the continuous upsurge in Covid infections over the last three weeks. The hill-state has added 5,600 fresh Covid infections to its tally since the last week of July, while 43 people have lost their lives. Significantly, the positivity rate has jumped from 0.9% to 2.3%.Large crowds are turning up at public meets called by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and his cabinet colleagues in the run up to bypolls in the state. Little attention is paid to social distancing and just a few people mask-up. Often political leaders themselves flout Covid protocols with abandon. For instance, the CM and BJP state chief Suresh Kashyap removed their masks while complying to selfie requests on the sidelines of a public meeting and two former MPs Rajan Sushant and Kripal Parmar sparred at a public event at Fatehpur assembly segment.Not to be left behind, the Congress has also been holding large political events at poll-bound constituencies as well. History repeating itselfA similar trend was seen during the second wave of the pandemic. Himachal’s daily case numbers, which had been steadily declining since November 2020 began rising in February-end. Virus transmission picked pace in March and peaked in April, outpacing the positivity rate during the first wave.It is no coincidence that at that time too political parties had been campaigning for local council elections. However, the state government had attributed the spike in cases to people’s negligence during social events. Notwithstanding that Covid norms had been brazenly flouted during election rallies. On August 13, restrictions were placed on the entry of tourists to Himachal Pradesh. Now, people going to Himachal will have to either show a RT-PCR negative report (not older than 72 hours) or a RAT negative report (not older than 24 hours). Those who are fully vaccinated do not need to furnish a Covid negative report.The state government also closed down schools and public transport is running with 50% occupancy. However, the government did not ban political or social events.Onus on the public BJP’s chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma said, “The first and second waves were caused due to an influx of visitors from outside the state. We always appeal to people to follow Covid protocols at rallies. Even Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, who is visiting the state on a week-long tour, has appealed everybody to follow Covid norms.” Echoing his BJP counterpart, Congress spokesperson Naresh Chauhan said, “The Congress is strictly following Covid norms and our party is not holding big events,” adding, “However, the same cannot be said for the ruling dispensation.” Bypolls for the Mandi parliamentary constituency and three assembly segments — Fatehpur, Arki, and Jubbal-Kotkhai — are likely to be held in September. Both, the BJP and Congress, are holding a series of political events in these constituencies. Once the elections are announced, there will be poll campaigns by the parties and the candidates, which usually draw large crowds and may trigger a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tourist-entry-restricted-in-hp-but-political-rallies-go-on-unabated-101629318462409.html
19-08-2021||Patna||Woman suffers 60% burns in acid attack||A 19-year-old woman suffered critical burn injuries after an unidentified man attacked her with acid in Bihar’s Nalanda district on Wednesday, police said.The police said the incident took place when victim was going to a shopping complex with her cousin. When they reached between a park and the Nalanda circuit house, two men came from opposite direction and one of them poured acid on her face and fled the spot, police added.“The victim’s cousin told the police that one of the two accused suddenly came towards them and hurled acid on her sister and fled the spot,” said Sadar deputy superintendent of police, Shibli Nomani, adding that two passersby were also injured in the incident.Police said locals in the area shifted the woman to the nearby Sadar hospital for treatment and informed them. The injured were discharged from the hospital. The woman was later shifted to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), the police added.The victim has sustained around 60% burns on her head, face and back, said the DSP.Nalanda Superintendent of Police Hariprasath S said, “While scanning the CCTV footage in and around the spot, we found two suspects moving near the park and one of them threw a liquid on the victim and fled from the spot.”Police are waiting to record the woman’s statement to establish the identity of the suspects. “We are working on leads and soon the accused will be nabbed,” the SP said.A case has been registered under sections 320, 322, 325 and 326 of the Indian Penal Code, police said. Section 320 deals with grievous hurt. Police teams are on the lookout for the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-suffers-60-burns-in-acid-attack-101629318241898.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||BJP reaches out to disgruntled Punjab leaders amid talk of Joshi, others joining SAD||With former Punjab cabinet minister Anil Joshi likely to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) along with some senior BJP functionaries on August 20, the saffron party’s state unit on Wednesday tried to reach out to its disgruntled leaders in an attempt to placate them. Party’s state affairs in-charge Dushyant Gautam said, “I personally spoke to some leaders who had certain issues at the local level. We have assured them that the senior leadership will listen to their grievances and they should not think of leaving the organisation. Some of them seem to be satisfied.” The Joshi group claimed that those expected to join the SAD have categorically asked the party leadership to make efforts to establish contact with the ex-minister first. “We are joining the SAD unconditionally. We all are with Joshi. Many of us received calls about not taking the step of leaving the party but we told our senior leaders that the party is not taking Punjab seriously. If we have to live in Punjab we have to speak for its people,” said a member of Joshi group. Joshi is likely to join the Akali Dal along with senior party leaders such as former Dasuya MLA Sukhjeet Kaur Sahi, former state Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) chief Mohit Gupta, Kamal Chetli, the party’s Ludhiana West candidate in the 2017 assembly polls and former Ludhiana deputy mayor RD Sharma. While Joshi was expelled from the party for six years after his outbursts against the state and the central leadership last month, other leaders are still members of the saffron party. Also, the party on Tuesday went into a huddle in Delhi with its national affairs incharge calling a meeting with Punjab president Ashwani Sharma along with general secretaries. These leaders are expected to meet party national president JP Nadda on Thursday on the issue. A senior party leader termed the likelihood of some leaders joining the SAD as unfortunate. “The party should not have allowed it to happen. All these leaders expected to join the SAD have raised the party flag for years despite all odds,” said a former minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-reaches-out-to-disgruntled-punjab-leaders-amid-talk-of-joshi-others-joining-sad-101629318406116.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-PPCC secretary Kulwant Sidhu joins AAP, says Capt govt didn’t fulfil poll promises||Former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) secretary Kulwant Singh Sidhu on Wednesday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Ludhiana, a day after resigning from the state’s ruling party he was associated with for more than three decades. Sidhu, who was inducted into the AAP fold in the presence of party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Jarnail Singh, said he took the decision to leave the Congress due to anti-people policies of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government and its failure to fulfil the pre-poll promises. Jarnail Singh and deputy leader of opposition in Vidhan Sabha and MLA Sarabjit Kaur Manuke also slammed the state government for not fulfilling the poll promises. They said even the newly appointed PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu has been pointing out the failure of the government. It is learnt that Sidhu was eyeing Congress ticket from the Atam Nagar assembly constituency but quit the party anticipating that he won’t get one. He unsuccessfully sought the party ticket from the segment in 2017 also. Sidhu said, “I did not leave the party due to ticket. The party failed to fulfil the promises such as putting an end to the drug menace and punishing those involved in the sacrilege incidents. Even I am not able to face the public. People are not getting proper drinking water supply. On the other hand, the AAP government in Delhi has been working for the betterment of the public.”In July, former PPCC general secretary Daljit Singh Grewal had also joined the AAP, accusing the Congress of not delivering on the poll promises. Flouting the Covid norms, Sidhu’s supporters and AAP workers gathered at Circuit House in large numbers, without following social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exppcc-secretary-kulwant-sidhu-joins-aap-says-capt-govt-didn-t-fulfil-poll-promises-101629318405010.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC refuses to accept compromise between accused and rape victim||The Punjab and Haryana high court has refused to accept a compromise between a married woman and a person whom she had accused of raping her. The bench of Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj observed that the petitioner is alleged to have committed a heinous offence and he established physical relations with the woman forcefully by blackmailing her. “The allegations levelled in the FIR amount to cognisable offence and truth can be unravelled only after leading the evidence in a trial court. Interference by the high court on the basis of alleged compromise is not called for,” the bench said. The FIR in the case was registered in July 2019 in Faridabad. The petitioner had approached the high court in July with a compromise deed between him and the woman that was effected the same month. It was alleged that the woman (28) became familiar with the accused and thereafter in due course of time taking benefit of the relations, he developed physical relations with her forcefully. He started forcing the woman and established physical relations repeatedly. On resistance she was threatened that he would upload her photos on Facebook and kill her husband, she had alleged adding that having no other alternative, at one point of time, she disclosed the same to her husband, who got the FIR registered. The accused had claimed that both the parties have amicably settled the dispute and they have arrived at a compromise and in view of this, carrying on with his prosecution would be an abuse of the process of the court and thus, the same deserves to be quashed. The police had opposed the plea stating that the offence involved is heinous and on completion of investigation the challan already stands submitted before the trial court and further the compromise alleged has no legal sanctity. The court took note of SC observations that in case of heinous offences, the compromise arrived would be meaningless. It also took note of the fact that allegations against him were of forcefully establishing physical relations repeatedly by blackmailing her of posting her photos on Facebook and killing her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-refuses-to-accept-compromise-between-accused-and-rape-victim-101629318401669.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||1,440-kg lahan, illicit liquor seized in Amritsar village, raiding team attacked||Police recovered 1,440 kg lahan (raw material used for producing liquor) and 100 bottles of illicit liquor during a raid at a house in Amritsar district’s Khiala Kalan village on Tuesday night. The police team came under attack in which Lopoke station house officer (SHO) Rajwinder Kaur sustained injured and the uniform of a head constable was torn, it was alleged. The raiding team arrested one of the accused, Harjit Singh, while his father Jagir Singh managed to flee from the spot. The raid was conducted after the police got a tip-off that Jagir Singh and his son were involved in bootlegging, officials said. A spokesperson of the Amritsar (rural) police said, “On Tuesday evening, a police team was patrolling near Khiala Kalan when they got information about the accused. When the team raided the house, the father-son duo attacked them with sticks. SHO Rajwinder Kaur had her hand injured while head constable Sharabir Singh’s uniform was torn in the melee.” A case was registered against the accused under sections 61 and 1-14 of the Excise Act, sections 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 332 (causing hurt), and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Lopoke police station.In March, an illicit liquor manufacturing unit was busted at Khiala Kalan with the recovery of 100-tonne lahan, 1,780 litre illicit liquor, 6 stills, 62 drums among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1440kg-lahan-illicit-liquor-seized-in-amritsar-village-raiding-team-attacked-101629318400694.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vigilance bureau arrests ex-Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini in land fraud case||Punjab vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on Wednesday arrested former state police chief Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with a September 2020 case pertaining to a fraudulent sale of a land in Kurali in Mohali district. According to a top vigilance official, Saini reached the bureau office at 8.10 pm, on his own, saying he wanted to join investigation in the corruption case against him. The official said the former DGP parked his car outside the compound gate in order to project that he had come to join investigation in a case in which he had got interim anticipatory bail and was to join investigation under orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court by August 18, 2021.On getting this information, the investigating officer apprehended Saini while he continued sitting in his car and refused to get out. He was formally arrested in another case for having committed offence of forgery in order to stall the process of attachment of a house in Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, by the court of special judge Mohali. Saini has been claiming to be a tenant in the house after his retirement.On Tuesday, Saini had moved the HC pleading that the VB was likely to arrest him in another case. However, the petition was withdrawn by the ex-DGP. On August 3, high drama prevailed outside Saini’s Sector-20 house when a VB team came to arrest him following a registration of the FIR in an assets case. However, the bureau could not find Saini at his house despite having credible information about his presence The case files According to information, Saini has been arrested in connection with an FIR registered on September 17, 2020, under sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468 (forgery), 408 (breach of trust) and 120 (B) ( criminal conspiracy) at vigilance bureau police station in Phase -1, Mohali.The case, pertaining to the sale of land in Kurali, was registered against Devinder Singh Sandhu, director, WWICS Estate Private Ltd , Naginder Rao, general manager of WWICS, Ashok Kumar Sikka (PCS Officer), for forgery of documents with regard to change of land use by WWICS in connivance with employees of the local bodies department. The VB further nominated PWD XEN Nimratdeep Singh and his father Jaspal Singh in the case. The VB claimed that the amount at which Jaspal had sold the land was utilised to buy the Sector- 20 house where Saini was staying. “Saini and Jaspal showed a forged rent agreement between them. Later, Saini bought the house and paid some amount to Jaspal also,” the VB probe had claimed. Though VB had attached Saini’s house, he was not nominated in the case till now even as Jaspal and his son had got bail from the high court. This is the fourth case registered against Saini during the current Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the state. In all other cases, Saini has managed to secure blanket bails. Saini had repeatedly claimed that the Congress government has been vindictive against him because as vigilance chief during the previous SAD-BJP regime, he had registered cases against Amarinder Singh and his aide BS Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vigilance-bureau-arrests-ex-punjab-dgp-sumedh-saini-in-land-fraud-case-101629318340746.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara Global Health Institute director awarded Harvard Lead fellowship||Chitkara Global Health Institute director Dr Preethi John was awarded the Harvard Lead Fellowship for promoting women in global health on Wednesday. In an effort to support the development of a diverse pool of women leaders in global health, the Harvard Global Health Institute (HGHI) and the women and health initiative (W&HI) within the global health and population department at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health offers the Harvard Lead Fellowship for promoting women in global health, a year-long programme designed to advance the leadership skills of talented global health leaders from low and middle income countries, who are committed to the mentorship of future women leaders in medicine and public health.John has been chosen for the 2021 cohort of the Harvard Lead Fellowship for promoting women in global health. She is a health and development management professional with 25 years of experience in public and private sector organizations. Her expertise and experience have groomed her as a leader and institution builder. Her career began at the Institute of Health Management Pachod, Pune, where she was able to contribute to the spectrum of rural and urban healthcare management and action research programmes. A long stint at Aravind Eye Care System (a WHO collaborating centre) enabled her to gain expertise in capacity building of healthcare human resources from developing countries across South Asia, Africa, and Latin America. At Chitkara University, Punjab, she got the opportunity to pilot a model for the development of allied health professionals and establish the Chitkara School of Health Sciences as its founder dean.“It is a privilege and honour to be a Harvard Lead Fellow and I expect it will offer a life-changing transformative experience. I hope to utilise this period to expand my leadership skills to not only build sustainable institutes but also further enhance my capability in mentoring and capacity building. It would be my dream if this could inspire and motivate several others to join the women in global health movement and strengthen the resilience of the health system. The learning I will get from world class resources at Harvard will not only develop my calibre to be a better teacher, trainer, and researcher but also equip me to give back to my organisation, healthcare professionals, women, and to India” said Preethi.She also serves as advisory board member to health and development NGOs and is the co-founder of the Indian chapter of the Women in Global Health. She holds a PhD from IIT Madras and a postgraduate degree from TISS, Mumbai, India.She said, “I am grateful to Chitkara University for the relentless support and the freedom to explore one’s potential, to Madhu Chitkara for being a great role model for all women and Ashok Chitkara for the vision he provides to improve higher education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-global-health-institute-director-awarded-harvard-lead-fellowship-101629318100766.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Birthday bash turns fatal as 2 friends shot dead in scuffle over cake-smearing in Amritsar||A birthday party turned fatal when two friends were shot dead by a guest during a scuffle over cake-smearing at a hotel here on Wednesday.The deceased have been identified as Munish Sharma and Vikram Singh of Amritsar while the accused, Money Dhillon, belongs to the Sultanwind area, police said. He is on the run.The incident took around 6.45 pm when at least two dozen young men, all in their 20s, were celebrating the birthday of one Tarunpreet Singh at a hotel on the Majitha road, said police. “According to the hotel staff, a scuffle ensued among the guests over smearing of the cake. Minutes later, Money Dhillon opened fire from his pistol. Around 5 rounds were fired and the bullets hit Munish and Vikram. While Munish died on the spot, Vikram was declared dead at a private hospital,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (city-2) Sandeep Malik. He said they have confiscated two cars and rounded up five persons who were present at the party. A case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code will be registered against the accused, he added. Police have also collected the footage of the closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in and outside the hotel. Preliminary probe has suggested no rivalry between the victims and the accused, said Malik, adding that search teams have been formed to nab the accused. “We are also checking his background and criminal record, if any,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/birthday-bash-turns-fatal-as-2-friends-shot-dead-in-scuffle-over-cake-smearing-in-amritsar-101629317620762.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ranit Singh murder case: Court to pronounce verdict on August 26||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court will pronounce the judgment in Ranjit Singh murder case, in which Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh is one of the accused, on August 26. The court has issued notice to the respective jail superintendents to present the accused — Ram Rahim who is behind bars at Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail and Krishan Lal who is lodged in Ambala central jail — via video-conferencing on the above-mentioned date. Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Gurmeet Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra after he ‘raised his voice’ against the dera head. Earlier, special CBI judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg had fixed August 23 as the date for the final order and also sought the physical presence of the accused. However, the district attorney cited the January 11, 2019 verdict against the dera chief when the accused was produced through video-conferencing (VC). “In the present case, too, it is requested that the presence of the accused be allowed through VC in view of the possible threat to law and order situation,” he said. The district attorney also said since the Haryana Vidhan Sabha session was also scheduled from August 20-25, the police would remain occupied, while requesting the court to fix any other date after August 25 for pronouncing the order. The court then fixed August 26 for the final order and directed the superintendents of Sunaria and Ambala jails to ensure the presence of accused Ram Rahim and Krishan Lal through video-conferencing. Public prosecutors can address their arguments in rebuttal on August 23. The dera head has already been convicted twice in separate cases. Ram Rahim was convicted of rape by a CBI court on August 25, 2017, and was sentenced to a 20-year jail term two days later. His conviction led to widespread violence in Panchkula in which alteast 36 lives were lost and hundreds were injured. In January 2019, Ram Rahim and three others were sentenced to life imprisonment in the journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranit-singh-murder-case-court-to-pronounce-verdict-on-august-26-101629316303116.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Agent issues fake international driving NOC, booked||People travelling abroad clinging onto agents to get their international driving no-objection certificate (NOC) documents made should beware.In the latest incident, the city police have registered a case against an unidentified agent for issuing a fake driving licence NOC to a city resident, who is presently visiting abroad.The case came to light while the police were investigating a complaint filed by NRI Nirmal Kumar Sharma, who is presently residing in British Columbia, Canada.In his complaint, Nirmal Sharma had requested the police to find out whether the NOC for driving issued to him was authentic.During the probe, it was found that Nirmal’s cousin had got in touch with an agent in mini secretariat who assured him to get the NOC for international driving. However, during checking it was found that the NOC given to Nirmal Sharma was fake.Police in the meantime has registered a case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 of the IPC against an unidentified agent.The investigating officer, Gurcharanjit Singh, said the case was registered on the complaint of the office of the joint commissioner of police (headquarter).In another case, the city police arrested a person, who submitted fake documents in the court for a bail bond. The accused was identified as Rajveer Singh of Humayunpur village of Ludhiana.The case was registered on the complaint of one Yadwinder Singh, a reader in the court of JMIC Davinder Singh. The case was registered under Sections 420, 419 and 200 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-agent-issues-fake-international-driving-noc-booked-101629316180512.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vandalisation of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue anguish Pak Sikhs||The Sikh community in Pakistan’s Peshawar has said that it would bring the statue of first Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, installed at the Lahore Fort, to the city if the authorities in Punjab province cannot protect it after it was vandalised by a religious activist. A nine-foot-tall cold bronze statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh was on Tuesday vandalised by an activist of the banned Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP). In a viral video, the accused, who has been arrested, could be seen chanting slogans, breaking the arm of the statue and dismantling Singh’s bust from the horse and throwing it on the ground before being pulled by another man. Gorpal Singh, the leader of the Sikh community in Peshawar, on Tuesday said they would bring the statue to the city if the Punjab government cannot protect it from miscreants. Singh said that a delegation of Sikhs would go to Lahore, which is the capital of Punjab, to bring the statue to Peshawar. The Punjab government should avoid displaying the statue of Ranjit Singh time and again if it could not protect it, he said. He said that a picture of Ranjit Singh was put on display at Historic Balahisar Fort in Peshawar around six years back and till date no damage had been done to it, while the Punjab government could not protect a single statue. Singh said that the frequent attacks on the statue hurt the community’s feelings and sentiments. This is not the first time that the statue has been targeted. The arm of the statue was broken in Lahore last year. It was also damaged in August 2019 by two young men. Maharaja Ranjit Singh was the founder of the Sikh Empire, which ruled the northwest Indian subcontinent in the early half of the 19th century. The statue shows the regal Sikh emperor sitting on a horse, sword in hand, complete in Sikh attire. Sculpted by local artists, under the aegis of the Fakir Khana Museum, the statue is meant to invoke the feeling of the emperor being present, with its real-life proportions, and was unveiled on his 180th death anniversary. Ranjit Singh passed away in 1839.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vandalisation-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh-s-statue-anguish-pak-sikhs-101629316006617.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana admn to hold seventh state mega job fair from Sept 9||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said that the district administration will hold the seventh state-level job fair from September 9 to 17 under the Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar Mission of the Punjab government.Presiding over a meeting at the District Administrative Complex, Sharma said that the district administration is organising the job fair to offer 17,000 jobs to the unemployed youth of Ludhiana.He said that four job fairs would be held virtually and physically in separate locations of the district.According to the officials, the first fair will be organised on September 9 at Government ITI Gill Road, the second on September 13 at Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna, third on September 15 at SRS Government Polytechnic College of Girls, and last on September 17 at CICU Focal Point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admn-to-hold-seventh-state-mega-job-fair-from-sept-9-101629315947719.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cadres upbeat but farmers angry, Sukhbir faces ground reality on Day 1||Shiromani Akali Dal activists were upbeat in Zira assembly segment at the launch of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s 100-day yatra programme, which turned out to be a well-attended event on Wednesday. Even on a sultry day, impressive gatherings were spotted at the election meetings in the predominantly rural segment. The former deputy chief minister visited about 12 places in Zira, a part of Khadoor Sahib Lok Sabha seat. Badal’s day began at around 9.30am as he left Ferozepur city to meet near Zira a group of motorbike-riding youths, who escorted him to Gurdwara Singh Sabha in Zira. The venue of most of the meetings addressed by Sukhbir was gurdwaras even as no political sloganeering was noticed at the shrines. Covid-19 guidelines of maintaining social distancing and wearing face covers were grossly violated at the events. Sukhdev Singh Sheera, the state secretary of the SAD’s new ally — Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) — was also present at the launch of the Akalis’ electoral activity. On the way to Zira, a group of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) raised slogans against the Akali leadership for the party’s alleged initial support to the contentious central farm laws. The SKM activists had also removed party’s publicity hoardings put on the Amritsar-Bathinda highway. Badal’s speeches focused on promises already announced by the SAD-BSP alliance, underlining thrust to the education and medical care. He was accompanied by veteran Akali leader and the party nominee from Zira segment Janmeja Singh Sekhon. Badal, who represents Ferozepur Lok Sabha segment, also assured development of the area if SAD-BSP is voted to power in the 2022 elections. “Sekhon sa’ab has a deep understanding of the rural issues and for the last 20 years, he had been urging the SAD to field him from Zira. If voted to power, he will be given charge of the irrigation ministry. Sekhon got a ministerial berth in every Akali government in the last over three decades,” said Badal, while trying to strike a chord with the Akali sympathisers. Trying to undermine Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Badal said Punjab has only three main parties: SAD, its new electoral ally the BSP, and the Congress. “Like the Congress, the AAP is driven by its Delhi-based leadership whereas SAD represents the spirit of Panth and Punjab. Punjab does not need a high command in Delhi,” he added. He gave a call to teach a lesson to the Congress’s Zira legislator Kulbir Singh Zira. “Besides supporting mafia, the MLA (Kulbir Zira) was instrumental in implicating his political opponents in criminal cases. On assuming power, our government will initiate action against him,” he said amid loud applause at the gurdwara in adjoining Makhu village. The gatherings inside the gurdwaras comprised elderly and middle-aged men and women while the youths stayed outside the shrines. A large number of police personnel in uniform and civvies were also deployed. Police didn’t allow any black piece of cloth inside the gurdwaras. Most streets leading to the political meetings were barricaded and entry of the vehicles was barred. On Thursday, Sukhbir will tour the Guru Harsahai segment in Ferozepur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cadres-upbeat-but-farmers-angry-sukhbir-faces-ground-reality-on-day-1-101629315762045.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana Cong councillor sits on dharna outside police station against||In a major embarrassment for the ruling Congress regime, a sitting party councillor, Umesh Sharma of Ward No 16, staged a protest against his own party, at the Division Number 7 police station near Chandigarh Road on Wednesday.Sharma said his son, Chetan, and nephew were picked up by police and detained at Division No 7 police station at the behest of the aides of Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar.He further claimed that when he reached the police station after getting news of his son and nephew’s detention, the station house officer, Satbir Singh asked him to stay out of the police station.Meanwhile, a group of residents, led Monu Chaudhary, also reached the police station to raise slogans against Umesh Sharma and his supporters. They accused him of sheltering his son and relatives “who were indulging in anti-social activities”.ACP Davinder Choudhary arrived at the scene and managed to pacify both groups.Later it was found out that it was a matter of road rage.Chetan, who was riding a bike, had allegedly rammed into a woman pedestrian. The woman suffered injuries and was rushed to the hospital. The incident triggered a heated argument between him and the area resident. Soon, both groups began exchanging blows. In the meantime, one of the residents informed the police. The cops swung into action and detained Chetan and his cousin and took them to the police station.Later in the evening, both the groups reached a compromise and withdrew the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cong-councillor-sits-on-dharna-outside-police-station-against-101629315640355.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||19-yr-old gangraped in Amritsar village, one of two accused held||A 19-year-old village girl in the district was gangraped by two men on the pretext of dropping her at school, police said on Wednesday. One of the accused has been arrested, police said. The incident took place on August 13, but the victim approached the police on Tuesday. Police said, according to the victim, she was threatened by the accused not to tell anybody about the incident. The identity of the accused is being withheld as they belong to the victim’s village. The accused have been booked under Sections 376-D (gang rape), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Kambo police station. The case was registered on the complaint of the victim. “On August 13, I, along with my mother, was present in the village. One of the two accused approached us and offered a lift. He dropped my mother on the way and offered to drop me at my school. However, the accused took me to a house in a nearby village where the other accused was present. Both raped me and threatened to kill me if I narrated the incident to anyone,” the victim said in her complaint. Kambo station house officer (SHO) Prabhjit Singh said, “We have arrested one of the accused and raids are on to nab his accomplice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19yrold-gangraped-in-amritsar-village-one-of-two-accused-held-101629315580539.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly’s Monsoon session: Opposition raises inflation issue, stages walkout||The Opposition members, mainly those from the Samajwadi Party and the Congress, staged a walkout in the Uttar Pradesh assembly on the second day of the Monsoon session here on Wednesday, accusing the state government of not giving a satisfactory reply on the issue of rising inflation in the state.Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ said the state government had not been able to give a convincing reply about checking inflation.Earlier, minister for agriculture Surya Pratap Shahi countered the points raised by the Opposition and read out a list of medicines that were available at listed prices. He said the prices of only two medicines had increased. Jan Aushadhi Kendras had been set up across the state to provide cheaper medicines, he added. Shahi also said the state government made arrangements for free of cost treatment of Covid-19 patients. He also read out a list to make the point that the rate of VAT was higher in Congress-ruled Rajasthan and other states where the BJP was not in power.Chaudhary had read out a list of medicines that he said were being sold at high prices.“We have to go to people get votes. The state government should not say there is no inflation,” said Chaudhary. “Prices of petrol have crossed ₹100 per litre due to the high rate of VAT in Uttar Pradesh. The prices of essential commodities have gone up. The state government has failed to check black marketing. The people had to buy wood at high prices at the cremation ground to conduct last rites during Covid-19,” Mishra said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-opposition-raises-inflation-issue-stages-walkout-101629315460482.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Congress, BJP lock horns over credit for road construction project||A high drama was witnessed in Gurmail Nagar of Ward Number 31 on Wednesday after Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress leaders locked horns over taking credit of a road construction project in the locality.As per information, BJP councillor Sonia Sharma, along with her supporters, inaugurated the work on Wednesday morning, but a few Congress leaders led by Sarabjit Singh Dhillon allegedly halted the work stating that he had got the project approved from municipal corporation (MC) and the BJP councillor was trying to take credit for the same.Following this, Sharma,along with her supporters, sat there in protest against the MC for stopping the work on the direction of the Congress leader. As the situation escalated, a police team led by ACP Randhir Singh reached the spot to pacify the protesters. The tussle between the leaders continued for around four hours, but the work could not be commenced.Sharma alleged,”The road was not constructed in the area for the last few years and I got the work approved from MC under councillor quota. However, Sarabjit Dhillon, whose wife lost the last MC elections against me, brought the work to a halt, stating that it can’t be carried out on my directions.”“We also contacted the MC officials but to no avail. Even the police tried to threaten us with an FIR. I will take up the matter with MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Thursday and seek action against the MC officials who stopped the work on the directions of the Congress leader. It is disrespectful for a councillor. I will stage a protest if no action is taken against the officials.” Meanwhile, Dhillon refuted the allegations and stated that he got the work approved from MC under general quota and the BJP councillor was trying to take credit for it.“The contractor had to take back the concrete mixer vehicle as time to utilise the material had lapsed due to the drama staged by the BJP councillor. No one threatened her and even the MC officials had confirmed that the work was approved under general quota. The road construction will soon begin in the area,” he added.Despite attempts made to reach MC zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain, he was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-congress-bjp-lock-horns-over-credit-for-road-construction-project-101629315402368.html
19-08-2021||Other||High drama as rival groups spar during cycle body’s annual meet in Ludhiana||High drama was witnessed during the annual general meeting of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) on Wednesday as two rival groups got into a heated argument over the restriction on entry of members into office premises. In the scuffle that ensued, the turban of the UCPMA president, DS Chawla, was allegedly tossed. Heavy police force, led by assistant commissioner of police Randhir Singh, was deployed at the spot after the incident. The meeting had been called to approve the balance sheet and change the auditor of the association, ahead of the elections scheduled for September 3.The current executive body is divided into two groups. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimerjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of six executive members, including general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva, senior vice-president Gurcharan Singh Gemco, vice-president Satnam Singh Makkar, joint secretary Walaity Ram Durga; press secretary Rajinder Singh Sarhali and finance secretary Achhru Ram Gupta. Former presidents of the association, including Charanjit Vishwakarma, Inderjit Navyug, and senior members, including Gurmeet Kular, have also formed a United Alliance group in support of Sachdeva group. Soon after the meeting commenced at 6:30pm, president DS Chawla and the group led by general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva got into a heated argument over the restriction imposed on the entry of more than 150 members during the meeting, citing Covid guidelines. There are over 2,000 members in the association.With over 100 members forced to stand outside the office, the Sachdeva group alleged that Chawla had approached the administration to restrict the entry. After Sachdeva group approached the police to allow entry of members, heated scenes were witnessed between the two groups, which resulted in a scuffle, during which Chawla’s turban was allegedly tossed. Videos also went viral on social media wherein members can be seen raising slogans, pushing and manhandling Chawla. Chawla then moved out of the meeting and the proceedings were initiated in his absence. Chawla alleged that he was manhandled and his turban was tossed by the members led by Kular, Vishwakarma and others. The Sachdeva group, however, said his turban fell off after Chawla fell on the floor during the hustle. Sachdeva said that the balance sheet of the association has been approved and the agenda to change the auditor has been approved. ACP Randhir Singh said that police is lodging FIR in the matter. Video recording of the meeting has also been taken into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-drama-as-rival-groups-spar-during-cycle-body-s-annual-meet-in-ludhiana-101629315400575.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Architect, wife booked for cheating man of ₹1.65 cr||The city police have booked an architect and his wife for cheating a city resident of ₹1.65 crore on the pretext of drawing the floor plans of his house.The accused have been identified as Manoj Jaggi and wife Poonam Jaggi, residents of Ishwar Nagar on Pakhowal Road.The couple has been booked under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Rajiv Sood, a resident of Industrial Area- A.The complainant said he had given the amount to Jaggi, who is as an architect, for drawing plans for a house he was constructing in Janpath Estate of Jhamat village. Sood said that neither did the accused make the maps nor did he return the money.He said that for six years, Jaggi kept dilly-dallying over the issue. Sarabha Nagar station house officer, Amritpal Singh said that following preliminary investigation, a case has been registered against the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-architect-wife-booked-for-cheating-man-of-1-65-cr-101629315164530.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 109 placed in first-of-its-kind job fair for youth who overcame drug addiction||In a first, the district bureau of employment and enterprises (DBEE), Ludhiana, organised a job fair for youths who successfully overcame their drug addiction, on Wednesday.Around 500 former drug addicts were shortlisted from various OOAT (out-patient opioid assisted treatment) clinics in Ludhiana to appear for the job interviews of nine companies. Of the 500, 142 turned up and as many as 109 secured job offers from these companies.Meenakshi Sharma, deputy director, employment generation and training, Ludhiana, said this was a first-of-its-kind job fair for drug victims and it was held on a trial basis.Punjab backward classes land development and finance corporation (Backfinco) vice-chairman Mohammad Gulab inaugurated the job fair. A new lease of lifeFor those who participated in the job fair, it was an opportunity for a fresh start.Varinder Singh, who claimed to have overcome his drug addiction problem six months ago, said, “I am happy to be here. I am ready to do any job even if it is that of a security guard. I would like to urge the youth of Punjab to not consume drugs as it would ruin their families.”Another job aspirant, Jasbir Singh of Ludhiana, said, “It was not easy to get rid of the drug habit. I was treated for a long time. My family had to make a lot of sacrifices for me. I was ill-treated by the society. Finally, I am ready to lead a healthy life. I want to make my family proud as they have suffered a lot because of my drug problem. I am thankful to the health team and authorities here for helping me get a job.”‘Hard to convince companies’On the other hand, a placement officer at DBEE said it was not easy to convince companies to recruit these candidates even though they have now given up drugs.“A few companies were initially reluctant to hire them as they were worried about their conduct at work, but eventually they agreed to give them a chance,” said Ghansham, the placement officer.Interestingly, while authorities at DBEE claimed that fair was only for former drug addicts, a candidate Mohammad Rizwan, while talking to HT, said he was not a drug addict but a B-Pharmacy student. When asked, placement officer Ghansham said a few candidates turn up at every job fair to try their luck.‘Cover-up mission’Former Ludhiana MLA Maheshinder Singh Grewal, who owes allegiance to Shiromani Akali Dal, called the job fair a cover up mission. He blamed the Congress for the drug menace in Punjab and said the party was making false job promises ahead of elections.“The Congress betrayed the people and turned a blind eye towards the drug menace in the state. Now that elections are round the corner, they have launched a cover-up mission to fool voters,” said Grewal.Meanwhile, Ludhiana Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu complimented the government’s efforts. “Our government was always committed to the people of the state and now this special initiative to give a new chance to former drug addicts is a good initiative,” said Ashu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-109-placed-in-first-of-its-kind-job-fair-for-youth-who-overcame-drug-addiction-101629315160418.html
19-08-2021||Other||BSNL employees in Ludhiana continue to protest as GM refuses to budge||The protest by the BSNL employees, including its retired staff, over the alleged biased and untimely transfer of staffers continued on Wednesday as the BSNL general manager refused to reconsider his orders.The protest, led by the BSNL Employees’ Union, was staged outside the BSNL building.On Tuesday, around 20 employees sat on the floor of the BSNL general manager’s office to express their dissent.The dispute according to Avtar Singh, district secretary of the union, erupted after a female employee working at the cash counter was transferred to the customer care centre and vice versa.Singh had accused the BSNL general manager of biased transfers and favouring his loyal employees.“These orders were issued in the interest of the service and we are not going to reverse them. These transfers were made according to the guidelines of BSNL and these were necessary to bring efficiency to the work here. Three transfer orders were released out of which two orders have been successfully executed after mutual consent with the protesting employees. Only a female employee is unhappy about her being transferred when she was transferred to another desk in the same hall where she used to sit,” claimed Phunchok Dorjey, general manager, BSNL, Ludhiana.The GM further said that departmental action would be taken against the female employees protesting against the department. Meanwhile, Shweta Malhotra, who works in the clerical department of the BSNL and was protesting against her transfer, said she was deliberately being targeted as she is an active member of the union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsnl-employees-in-ludhiana-continue-to-protest-as-gm-refuses-to-budge-101629314985142.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Mosquito-borne diseases on rise in Mumbai in August||After heavy downpour in July, mosquito-borne diseases have increased drastically in August compared to the first two weeks of July. Most civic-run and private hospitals are witnessing a surge in dengue and malaria cases. Every year, on an average, around 5,500 dengue and malaria cases are recorded in the city. The highest number of cases is registered during monsoon between June and August. Last year, due to the national lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, cases were limited. But with relaxation in Covid-related lockdown restrictions, movement of people has increased along with construction work which led to a surge in mosquito-borne ailments in the city, said experts. Although the city recorded less rainfall in August compared to June, the number of monsoon-related cases is on a rise. As per data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in the first weeks of July, the city had recorded 230 malaria and eight dengue cases. Till August 15, the number surged to 395 and 61 cases, respectively. “Monsoon-related illnesses declined sharply last year due to the lockdown and minimal human activity. We are witnessing a 30%-40% increase in dengue, malaria and leptospirosis this year,” said Dr Harshad Limaye, senior consultant, internal medicine and infectious diseases, Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital. Dr Manjusha Agarwal, senior consultant-internal medicine at Global Hospital, Parel who has treated around 100 malaria cases this monsoon, said, “Compared to malaria cases, we are witnessing more dengue cases this monsoon.”As per medical experts, mosquito-borne diseases increase after heavy rainfall. In the rain, mosquito eggs get washed away, but when the rain subsides, water logged areas become breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Cases of other monsoon-related diseases like gastroenteritis, hepatitis and leptospirosis have also increased compared to the last month. Data from BMC shows that till July 15, the city had registered 106, 12 and 15 cases of gastroenteritis, hepatitis and leptospirosis cases, respectively. However, in the same time period in August, cases of gastroenteritis, hepatitis and leptospirosis increased to 159, 20 and 27.“There has been more than 25% increase in tropical illnesses. We are treating patients with dengue, malaria, chikungunya, seasonal flu and other viral respiratory illnesses. These tropical diseases, parasitic diseases and monsoon-related illnesses look very similar to Covid-19,” said Dr Sanjith Saseedharan, consultant and head of critical care, SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim.Although the monsoon disease trend is not worrisome, overlapping symptoms such as fever, cough and breathlessness create hurdles for accurate diagnosis of dengue, malaria, leptospirosis with that of Covid-19, said Dr Limaye. Hence, all patients have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR or rapid antigen test to avoid any misdiagnosis. All the 27 leptospirosis cases this month have been recorded from E (Byculla), F-North (Matunga) and K-East (Andheri East) wards. To control the cases, 4,419 rat holes have been treated. “It is expected that the monsoon-related ailments would increase due to the rainfall. Thankfully, as the number of cases of Covid-19 is less, we can focus fully on other non-Covid patients. All hospitals have preserved beds for the monsoon patients,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mosquitoborne-diseases-on-rise-in-mumbai-in-august-101629314982115.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Congress workers join AAP||Several supporters of former mayor Pradeep Chhabra and Congress workers on Wednesday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of party’s Chandigarh affairs in-charge and MLA Jarnail Singh, president Prem Garg, Punjab MLA Kulwant Singh Pandori and general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat. Welcoming the new members, MLA Jarnail said, “After Delhi, the Congress has been reduced to zero in Chandigarh.” AAP’s Chandigarh leader Pradeep Chhabra said, “In the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, the Congress and the BJP will be completely wiped out.” Slamming the Congress, he said the party’s Chandigarh unit was full of corrupt people. “Hardworking workers and leaders are not valued in the Congress. There is just a private company of a family, which is why Chandigarh leaders are quitting the Congress,” he added. Among the newly inducted AAP members are former Chandigarh Congress general secretary Sandeep Bhardwaj, secretaries Mushak Ali and Praveen Dugal Vishu, joint secretary Kuldeep Kumar, vice-president Rakesh Soni, SC wing vice-president Kanwaljit Singh Sidhu, DCC general secretary Jagdeep Mahajan, vice-president Dinesh Sharma, chairperson (RTI cell) Gagandeep Singh Ahluwalia, DCC vice-presidents Beant Singh and Surinder Singh, secretary Harwinder Goldy, and block presidents Harjinder Bawa and Mohinder Rajbhar. At odds with the incumbent Congress leadership, Chhabra, after resigning from the party, had recently joined AAP. Most of those who joined the AAP on Wednesday are considered Chhabra loyalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-workers-join-aap-101629314865698.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra task force lists ways to keep schoolkids safe||Distanced seating, a hybrid model of online and offline sessions to limit the number of students in class, allowing outdoor sports with limited or no contact, sensitisation of teachers and parents are some of the guidelines drafted by the nine-member paediatric task force for safe schooling amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The draft was submitted to the Maharashtra government last week. The state had planned to re-open physical classes for students from Class 5 to 8 in rural areas and Class 8 to 12 in urban areas. However, the decision was deferred on Monday. A state official said that schools have to prep for re-opening by ensuring that all teachers and staff were vaccinated and they had Covid-specific protocols in place. “The schools have to first comply with the guidelines made by the task force before they are allowed to re-open,” said the official. The pandemic has disrupted education for nearly 17 months now. Most schools have remained closed since March 2020, leaving students dabbling with online education and the lack of social contacts. The task force guidelines have taken a holistic approach by recommending protocols for distancing, sanitising, assessing the psychosocial impact on children and positioning the teachers and parents as key players to ensure that any possible Covid-19 outbreaks are quickly contained. “Earlier, if children had a minor cough or cold, parents would still send them to school, but that cannot happen anymore,” said Dr Vijay Yewale, member of the paediatric task force. “The schools will have to reduce the number of students per batch, stagger sessions, and more importantly hold meetings with parents to sensitise them. Temperature checks will have to be done at entry points and any activities that require close contact will have to be avoided,” he said. But how does one get children to stay at a distance from their friends in school? “It will be tricky, but a crucial part of safe schooling will also involve sensitising children,” said Dr Samir Dalwai, a developmental and behavioural paediatrician and member of the task force. “Students will have to be made aware about things to do when they get home from school. For example, having a bath before mingling with family members, keeping the used uniform aside for washing etc,” he said. Schools are recommended to have a 50/50 online-offline model. Experts said that the teacher-student relationship has to be more evolved in every school and teachers will have to act as Covid-19 warriors. “Teachers will have to establish individualised contact with each student. Schools on the other hand will need robust systems in place. For instance, if someone in class tests positive or is suspected for Covid-19, the school should immediately shift the child and his classmates to online classes, and get the other half of the class to attend physically,” said Dalwai. Experts say it will be hard for children to suddenly start schooling after such a long gap, and teachers should constantly counsel, and watch out for signs like irritability, anger, lack of interest, among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-task-force-lists-ways-to-keep-schoolkids-safe-101629314863271.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC teams confiscate 35kg of banned plastic bags||A day after mayor Balkar Sandhu allowed the use of plastic bags of width 50 microns and above, municipal corporation (MC) teams raided different parts of the city on Wednesday and confiscated 35kgs of plastic bags that were below the permitted width. Challans were also issued to 11 shopkeepers for using the banned bags.As per information, raids were conducted at shops located in Lakkar Bazar, Subhani building Chowk, CMCH road, Baba Than Singh Chowk, Shingar cinema road etc. Challans ranging from ₹2,000 to ₹10,000 were issued to violators depending on the quantity of bags confiscated from the shops.The teams confiscated only plastic bags that had a width of less than 50 microns. Leading the drive, MC nodal officer for health branch, Ashwani Sahota said the raids were conducted against retailers to discourage them from using plastic carry bags. He added the drive will continue in the coming days.On Tuesday, mayor Sandhu had given a breather on the plastic bag ban after plastic traders and manufacturers met with him and said that their industry would crumble if a complete ban was imposed. The mayor had allowed plastic bags of 50 microns and above till the end of the year following the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-teams-confiscate-35kg-of-banned-plastic-bags-101629314800495.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Jhingan first Indian footballer to play in Croatia top-tier league||Mohali-based defender Sandesh Jhingan will become the first Indian international footballer to play in the Croatian top-tier league, Prva HNL, as he makes a move from ATK Mohun Bagan to professional football club HNK Sibenik.The 28-year-old will be the flag-bearer of India’s top division league, Indian Super League (ISL), to have made the transition to a European top division league. “We are very happy to have Sandesh with us. We expect good things from him as we have followed him on different platforms where we were able to see his past performances,” said Francisco Cardona, CEO of HNK Sibenik.Named India’s Footballer of the year last month, Jhingan is already in Croatia and watched Sunday’s home win against Hrvatski Dragovoljac.Jhingan was excited to have the opportunity to move to HNK Sibenik in the Prva HNL in Croatia. “I think I am at a stage of my career where I really want to test myself in the highest-level possible and I think this is the perfect platform for me. As I have said, it has been my desire to play in Europe and I have taken up this challenge upon myself. I cannot wait to get going and look forward to giving 100 percent at every given opportunity,” said Jhingan, who started his youth career at St Stephen’s Football Academy in Chandigarh and got a break in the top division with United Sikkim in 2011.As a young 21-year-old footballer, Jhingan first broke into prominence during the inaugural edition of ISL when he was adjudged the Emerging Player of the League in 2014, a feat that helped him earn a place in the senior India national team making his debut in 2015 against Nepal at the FIFA World Cup 2018 qualifiers. The defender has two ISL runners-up medals with Kerala Blasters FC where he spent six years and moved to ATK Mohun Bagan in 2020 after missing the previous season due to injury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jhingan-first-indian-footballer-to-play-in-croatia-top-tier-league-101629314740328.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: All allegations baseless, says Yashwant Jadhav on alleged discrepancies in wife’s election affidavit||A day after the Income Tax (I-T) Department reportedly found discrepancies in the election affidavit filed by Shiv Sena legislator Yamini Jadhav for 2019 Assembly polls, her husband and Sena leader Yashwant Jadhav said the allegations were politically motivated ahead of BMC election. He added they have not received any communication from any central agency so far. The Shiv Sena has maintained silence on the issue. The I-T department may submit its findings to the Election Commission and seek her disqualification, which can become a major embarrassment for the ruling Shiv Sena. The I-T Department has found that a Kolkata-based shell company was used to launder ₹15 crore by Jadhavs. The findings showed that as per the affidavit filed by the candidate, she availed an unsecured loan including one from Pradhan Dealers Pvt Ltd of ₹1 crore. The department said Pradhan Dealers was found to be a shell company run and controlled from Kolkata by entry operators.Yashwant Jadhav, who is the standing committee chairman in Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said it was a political conspiracy to defame Jadhav and him ahead of BMC elections. He added that they would speak to authorities if contacted.“So far, we have not got any notice from any agency, nor have they contacted us. If the agencies get in touch, we will speak to them. This is a political conspiracy against my wife and me. All allegations against us are baseless. We are not connected to any shell companies as claimed. All our transactions are clean,” he said.This issue is expected to become another point of clash between Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of BMC polls in February 2022.Jadhav is another Sena legislator who is in the cross hairs of central agencies after Pratap Sarnaik, who faced inquiry by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Earlier, the BJP had attempted to target minister Anil Parab, who is considered close to Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. When asked about the allegations against Jadhav, Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said he was unaware of the issue. Meanwhile, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya launched an attack on the Jadhavs and Sena saying they laundered money through companies located in United Arab Emirates (UAE).“I want to directly ask Yamini and Yashwant Jadhav if they will speak on their financial dealings with Pradhan Dealers Pvt Ltd. The Jadhav family has transferred money to two companies in UAE. But this money was deposited in their accounts by Pradhan Dealers, a Kolkata-based company,” Somaiya said in a press conference in Mumbai.Reacting to the allegations, Yashwant said, “This is politically motivated as BMC elections are approaching soon. Byculla seat was won for the first time by Yamini and this is a conspiracy to defame both of us.” When asked if the party has sought any explanation from them over the allegations, he said, “There is no question of being questioned by the party as the leadership knows that we will not indulge in anything illegal.” Despite repeated attempts, Jadhav could not be contacted. Yashwant said, “She is attending to her ailing mother, who is in a critical condition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-all-allegations-baseless-says-yashwant-jadhav-on-alleged-discrepancies-in-wife-s-election-affidavit-101629314680355.html
19-08-2021||Other||Jan Ashirwad Yatra: Apna Dal (S), BJP together will win 2022 UP polls, says Anupriya Patel||National president of Apna Dal (Sonelal) and union minister of state for commerce and industry Anupriya Patel on Wednesday said Apna Dal (S) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would together achieve success in assembly elections 2022 in Uttar Pradesh.She said that the two political parties were old allies and had together contested past elections of 2014, 2017 and 2019 and that this alliance would continue in 2022 as well. Patel was in Prayagraj as part of a two-day Jan Ashirwad Yatra, which is being seen as a formal start of campaign for the forthcoming UP elections during which the achievements and policies of the central government would be highlighted.Addressing supporters during the yatra, Anupriya Patel called upon all her party workers to establish good coordination with their BJP counterparts and work together to ensure success of both parties in the UP Elections-2022.The yatra formally started from Rae Bareli on Wednesday morning and was welcomed with cheers and slogans as it entered Prayagraj district.At Mauaima, Patel addressed a gathering and enthused supporters and party workers to begin work for the next assembly elections with confidence.Talking to media persons, she said, “We are definitely with the government but our party also has its own agenda and we still stand by that. A detailed discussion has been held with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard and he too supports our demands,” she said Patel said her party’s agenda include issues like setting up a ministry of backward classes, census on the basis of caste, constitution of judicial service at all-India basis, among others. These issues are of social justice. No one’s interests would get harmed by these steps. Everyone would get equal rights and opportunities, she added.At Harisenganj, Patel was welcomed by BJP’s Phulpur MP Keshri Devi Patel. The Yatra passed through various regions of Prayagraj including Soraon, Phulpur, Handia, Saidabad, Hanumanganj, Sahson and Phaphamau before reaching the heart of Sangam city at Shivkuti and then at Bharadwaj Park at Balson crossing where she paid floral tributes to sage Bharadwaj at his huge statue. She later visited Sardar Patel Sansthan and offered floral tributes to freedom fighter and statesman Vallabhbhai Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jan-ashirwad-yatra-apna-dal-s-bjp-together-will-win-2022-up-polls-says-anupriya-patel-101629314681315.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate elections: Another round of polling held||For the election of 16 members to Panjab University (PU) senate, the polling for two constituencies of affiliated arts colleges was held on Wednesday in Chandigarh and Punjab.While 96.61% polling was recorded in the constituency of heads of arts colleges, 91.08% polling was recorded in the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges. As many as 62 polling booths were set up in Chandigarh and Punjab. The counting of votes for both the constituencies will be held on August 20.In the constituency of heads, 100% polling was held at Fazilka, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Moga, Sri Muktsar Sahib and Nawanshahr; 80% polling was recorded in Chandigarh as well as in Abohar.Meanwhile, in the constituency of teachers of arts colleges, 100% polling was recorded in Nawanshahr and 92.71% polling was recorded in Chandigarh; 92% polling was recorded in Sri Muktsar Sahib as well as in Ludhiana, while Moga, Hoshiarpur, Fazilka and Abohar recorded 86.02%, 88.78%, 90.59% and 85.71% polling, respectively.While 11 candidates are in fray from the constituency of heads of arts colleges, 15 candidates are contesting from the constituency of teachers. Different groups have fielded their candidates and from both the constituencies and some are contesting independently.“The voting at all the 62 polling booths was held in a free and fair manner,” said PU in an official communiqué. Now, polling will be held on August 23 for the election of six members to PU senate from the constituency of faculties.Graduate constituency: Students, ex-senators hold protestStudents, former senators and candidates held a protest march on Wednesday on PU campus demanding immediate conduct of polling for the registered graduate constituency.The protest march was organised by student bodies including Ambedkar Students’ Association (ASA), National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Students Organisation of India (SOI), Students For Society (SFS) and others. However, many former senate members and candidates of the graduate constituency participated in the protest rally, which started from the office of vice chancellor Raj Kumar to his campus residence.Protesters demanded immediate conduct of polls for the graduate constituency, which were deferred by the varsity last week. They also raised slogans against the V-C.Former senator, Rabindernath Sharma, who is contesting from the graduate constituency, said, “University authorities should fix the polling date without losing time. The delay and uncertainty have already eroded the credibility and image of this great democratic institution.”President of PUTA, Mritunjay Kumar, addressed the gathering and said, “This is a good sign that all stakeholders have come together. We should work for the immediate formation of the senate. The University has been functioning without a senate since November last year and its formation is vital for the smooth functioning of the University.”The students associated with SFS, SOI, SOPU and ASA on Wednesday decided to join an indefinite strike on campus to press for their demands. Two student bodies have already started indefinite protests at PU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-elections-another-round-of-polling-held-101629314621416.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Amid BJP’s yatra, CM Thackeray expresses concern over political events||As ministers from the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government are holding ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ in various parts of Maharashtra, the state cabinet on Wednesday expressed concern over the spike in Covid-19 owing to political meetings and gatherings. Meanwhile, no decision was taken on reopening of schools or allowing partially vaccinated staff to work in shopping malls. State health minister Rajesh Tope said they are not considering giving any further relaxations as of now. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a statement after the cabinet meeting, said he is concerned over the irresponsible behaviour of a few people who are organising political, social or religious programs and putting the lives of the common people in danger. The statement assumes significance as Narayan Rane, union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, is holding the 650-km yatra in Mumbai and Konkan. “We need to be careful while allowing political meetings and gatherings that are leading to crowding,” a senior minister reportedly said in the cabinet meeting. “The citizens should not forget that the state has relaxed some of the restrictions just to keep the economy afloat. However, the behaviour of some people is a matter of concern as they are organizing political, social, religious and other events by violating the rules and endangering lives of the common man,” Thackeray said in a statement. “We are endangering not only our own health but also of others by not following Covid rules, crowding and not wearing facial masks.” Over complaints of shortage of vaccine doses, the health minister has urged the mall associations to take the private route to get their staff vaccinated in less time. Ahead of the forthcoming local body elections, the state BJP unit is looking at an opportunity to take the central schemes to the people and expose the alleged failure of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on various fronts. For this, four new ministers — Rajya Sabha MPs Narayan Rane and Dr Bhagwat Karad, and MPs Kapil Patil and Dr Bharti Pawar — who were inducted in the Modi government as part of cabinet reshuffle on July 7 have been asked to hold ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’. They have already begun their yatra from August 16, while Rane is set to start the yatra from August 19. State BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye alleged that the BJP is being dragged for no reason whereas such political gatherings are being organized by all the three ruling parties in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-bjp-s-yatra-cm-thackeray-expresses-concern-over-political-events-101629314620417.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula MC turns forest land into garbage dump||Violating all norms, over 12 acres of forest land has been converted into a dumping ground by the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC), posing a severe threat to wildlife and people living in the vicinity.A strong stench greets you as you cross National Highway 73, just next to the site of the city’s upcoming dumping ground. As you walk on the kuchha road, heaps of garbage and swarms of flies indicate the beginning of the land filled with the city’s waste. Cows from nearby villages, even peacocks and other wildlife animals can be seen feeding on the garbage.Notices have been issued by the wildlife and forest department, residents have moved high court, but the MC is unfazed, set upon converting the forest land into a dumping ground.“Daily, a large number of MC vehicles come to the site and dump waste, which is not segregated,” says a ragpicker, and points to syringes in the dump: “There is medical waste as well.”Close by, a seasonal drain can be seen filled with waste as well. “This merges with the big nullah and then the river,” he says.Sanctioned for waste plantPanchkula city has one other dumping ground, over 12 acres of open space, in Sector 23. This site, too, doesn’t have an “environment clearance” and is in close proximity to the Khol-Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary, forest area, residential areas and a religious site.Only after several protests, the MC had sought permission to set up a solid waste management plant in the forest area of Jurriwala village, which was granted in 2011 by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change, Northern Zone (Chandigarh).“The sanction was for a solid waste management plant, but the authorities are using the land as a dumping ground with no appropriate measures to manage waste,” says a senior officer of the forest department.The principal chief conservator of forests-cum-chief wildlife warden, Vir Bhan Singh Tanwar, says: “The MC had demanded diversion of forest land for non-forestry purposes. In reply, we had sought equivalent vacant land (13.5 acres) for forest as per the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.”‘MC not paying heed to notices’“The MC has yet to deliver us the land, but has started dumping waste already. We have issued several notices, but they are not listening,” says Tanwar.“We have been protesting for more than a decade against using this site, which is just 300 metres away from the residential area of Sector 25,” says BR Gupta, president of Sector-25 RWA, adding that the Sector-23 dump had already made groundwater totally unfit for human consumption.MC commissioner Dharamvir Singh said: “For now, we are dumping waste there as the tender for solid waste management plant is yet to be floated. It will not take time.”About medical waste being thrown and animals feeding on plastic there, he said: “People should behave responsibly. They should not throw waste packed in polythene.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-mc-turns-forest-land-into-garbage-dump-101629314562570.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave is under control: Maharashtra government||The second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra is under control for now, claimed the state government on Wednesday, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to citizens to adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour to prevent a third wave, especially during the upcoming festive season. Thackeray cautioned that the second wave is not yet over.The state on Wednesday witnessed 5,132 fresh cases and 158 deaths. In a release post the meeting of the state cabinet, the government said the average weekly positivity rate has now dropped to 2.4 %. In addition, it reported that of its 36 districts, zero patients were reported in Nandurbar district, less than 10 patients in six districts and less than 100 in eight districts. The state government also said that about 50% citizens above 45 have been given at least one dose of vaccine, while in the 18-45 age group, it is 25%. Overall, over 50 million citizens have been given one dose, while 13,307,000 were fully vaccinated, as of Wednesday. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the figures indicated the declining trend. “When positivity rate dips below 5%, it indicates that the virus has been controlled,” said Dr Awate. “The authorities apart from their standard practices of testing, contact tracing and medication also took into account the local factors to combat the virus,” he added. Thackeray, meanwhile, issued a statement, saying that he was worried about political, religious as well as social gatherings taking place in the state. “The second wave is not yet over and we have eased the lockdown, just to ensure that the economic cycle is not disrupted,” said Thackeray. “In view of the upcoming festive season, citizens should ensure that they follow all the Covid-19 rules and take all precautions to ensure that the third wave is prevented,” he added. He said not observing Covid-19 rules is harmful for both the individual as well other citizens.Mumbai saw 285 new cases and added five deaths to its toll, reaching 15,930. The total deaths in Maharashtra since the outbreak last year has reached 135,413. The number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,406,345. There were 197,697 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 8,196.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 58,069, while the deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 135,413.There are currently 58,069 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 12,904 patients, followed by Thane with 7,017 active patients and Satara with 6,852. The toll has now reached 135,413 with Pune leading with 18,779 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,930 and Thane with 11,213.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-19-wave-is-under-control-maharashtra-government-101629314561514.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana man bludgeoned to death over monetary dispute||The Khanna police on Wednesday booked a man for murder, a day after the body of a 33-year-old man was found lying near a plot in Karam Colony of Khanna. The accused who was identified as Shankar Sharma of Nirgun Das gurudwara, Chotta Khanna, was booked on the basis of the complaint lodged by Renu Devi, wife of deceased Mithilesh Rai of Basant Nagar of Khanna.She stated that her husband was a vegetable vendor and used to sell vegetables in front of City Homes colony.“Shankar had borrowed ₹2.5 lakh from my husband for purchasing a plot. Mithilesh had been asking him to return the money but he had refused to comply. On August 16, Shankar came to our stall at around 10 pm, said that he had arranged the money and took my husband along on a scooter,” she said.“I, along with my 11-year-old boy, followed them to Karam Colony. As it was pitch dark there, I got scared and returned home. I waited for my husband the entire night but he didn’t come back. The next morning, I went to Karam Colony to check and was shocked to find him lying dead there,” she said.The post-mortem report confirmed that the victim was bludgeoned to death.Sub-inspector Akash Dutt said the accused was arrested and was booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-bludgeoned-to-death-over-monetary-dispute-101629314560444.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ahead of Rakhi, encroachments galore in Ludhiana markets||With Raksha Bandhan round the corner, encroachments by shopkeepers and stall owners have once again started mushrooming on roadsides and outside shops in city markets, leading to traffic bottlenecks and parking woes.With the municipal corporation failing to take action against these encroachers, a large number of violations can be seen in different markets of the city, including Jawahar Nagar camp market, Gol market in Model Town, Field Ganj, Chaura Bazar and other areas.Gurminder Singh, a resident of New Model Town, said, “There is already a lack of parking space in city markets and with encroachments, the situation only worsens. There is barely any space to walk or park one’s car. The worst-hit are the Jawahar Nagar market, Model Town, Gol market etc which see a huge footfall during the festival season.”Nitish, a resident of Nehru Nagar in Model Town area, said, “Some shopkeepers even encroach around 10-ft of the area outside their shops. It becomes even more difficult to cross the area on a four-wheeler. Traffic cops should be deployed in such markets during the festival season to streamline the movement of vehicle and issue challans for wrong parking.”Shopkeepers cite pandemic losses, say MC should take a lenient viewMeanwhile, shopkeepers demanded that the civic body should allow them to install vends during the festival season so as to give them a chance to recover the losses suffered during the pandemic-induced lockdown.Model Town market association president Amarjit Singh said, “We have all suffered major losses since the lockdown imposed in the country last year. The civic body should take a lenient view so that we can recover some of our losses.”He added, “I also appeal to the shopkeepers to not obstruct traffic flow as customers themselves would avoid visiting markets that have huge traffic jams.”An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the civic body has been denying permission for installing vends/stalls outside the shops for the last three years, but no action is taken against the violators due to political interference. The MC has not yet taken any decision on allowing stalls this festival season.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “We might allow the shopkeepers to install stalls outside their shops this time, but in a limited area so that they don’t prove to be a hindrance to smooth flow of traffic. I will direct the officials to act against the violators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-rakhi-encroachments-galore-in-ludhiana-markets-101629314501750.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Apply for EWS admissions in Class 11 by Aug 22||The Chandigarh education department has announced the schedule to be followed for EWS admissions to private unaided and recognised schools according to which, students will have to apply online till August 22.As per a circular issued by the UT district education officer, entries for EWS admissions will remain open till August 22. Parents can fill details on the website of Chandigarh education department — www.chdeducation.gov.inIn the form, distance of the school from the place of residence has to be mentioned as well. Forms will be accepted for nearby schools only and those applying for multiple schools will have to fill the form multiple times.After August 22, the link will stop working and the forms will be sent to respective schools. Parents can then approach the school concerned between August 26 and August 28 till 1pm to check the status of admission.As per the department, there are total 76 vacant seats in 18 private unaided recognised schools of the city. The highest number of vacant seats (21) is at Manav Mangal High School in Sector 21 followed by Police Public School (10) in Sector 48. Twenty-five percent of the seats in private unaided and recognised schools are reserved for EWS students under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. For EWS admission, the annual income of the family needs to be less than ₹1.5 lakh. Online admission process for Class 11 in govt schools closes todayThe online portal for students to apply for Class 11 admissions in 42 government schools will close on Thursday at 5pm. For 15,355 seats, around 17,847 students have applied online and paid the registration fees. The provisional common merit list will be displayed on August 25 now and after submitting objections, the final list will be out on August 31. The new session is set to start from September 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-apply-for-ews-admissions-in-class-11-by-aug-22-101629314500457.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University enhances dearness allowance||Panjab University (PU) has decided to enhance the dearness allowance (DA) of its employees from existing 164% to 189%.The enhancement in DA will come in effect July onwards. A communication in this regard was issued by PU’s finance and development officer (FDO) to all heads of department and branches on Wednesday. “In reference to Centre’s notification dated August 13, 2021, and in pursuance of the authorisation given by the board of finance in 2014, duly approved by syndicate and senate, the competent authority has approved to enhance the dearness allowance from existing rate of 164% to 189% of the pay with effect from July 1, 2021 for the university employees,” reads the communication.This will also include pensioners of PU as well as the employees working on temporary, contractual and daily-wage basis, to whom the payment of DA was earlier sanctioned by the university.The communication also stated that the enhanced DA will be added to the pay bills of August 2021 payable September 2021 onwards and the payment of arrears for July 2021 will be made in due course of time. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “Release of DA is a welcome step by the university. We hope that PU would soon release the pending arrears (for July) for teachers and other employees of the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-enhances-dearness-allowance-101629314447627.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Gang of vehicle thieves busted; luxury cars among 52 recovered||The crime investigation agency of Mohali police on Wednesday claimed to have busted an interstate gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of its nine members and recovery of 52 cars, many of them luxury ones. Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “The gang members were arrested in separate raids conducted at various hideouts. The gang used highly technical support system to decode the engine control module to start the high-end burglary-proof cars.” The accused are Ranjit Singh, 27, and Channpreet Singh, 33, both from Delhi; Girish Bambie, 27, and Maninder Singh, 29, both from Punjab’s Tarn Taran; Harjot Singh, 28, of Amritsar; Rajay Kumar, 45, of Moga; and Pargat Singh, Satwant Singh and Karamjit Singh, all from Patiala. They were produced in a court, which sent them to police remand. With their arrest, Mohali police also claimed to have solved multiple cases of thefts registered at Sohana, Balongi and Lalru police stations. SSP Singh said the preliminary interrogation of the accused revealed that the gang has stolen more than 100 vehicles and its 13 more members are still out of police net. DSP (investigation) Gurcharan Singh, said that they have recovered 11 Toyota Fortuner, eight Maruti Swift, five Toyota Innova, Hyundai Creta and Maruti Brezza each, four Toyota Etios and Hyundai Verna each, two Mahindra Scorpio and Maruti Ciaz each and a Pajero, a Tata Safari, a Hyundai i20, a Mahindra XUV 500, a Volkswagen Polo, and a Maruti Ritz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-luxury-cars-among-52-recovered-101629314320257.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants interim protection from arrest to Raj Kundra in 2020 case||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday granted interim protection from arrest for one week to businessman Raj Kundra in a cybercrime case from last year, which pertained to obscene content shown on OTT platforms. Kundra had approached the HC after a sessions court rejected his anticipatory bail application earlier this month.The businessman is currently in lodged in Arthur Road jail for his alleged involvement in a pornographic film racket which came to light in February, after the HC rejected his plea challenging his remand on July 19 in that case. Kundra’s application stated that two other accused in the case had been granted protection and he sought the same on grounds of parity. The HC granted the state’s request for a week to respond. Kundra’s lawyer Shishir Gupte informed the single bench of justice S K Shinde during the anticipatory bail application that the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the cyber cell of Mumbai police in October 2020 did not mention Kundra’s name, and he was falsely implicated by the police. The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code section dealing with sale of obscene material, sections of the Information Technology Act which deal with transmission of sexually explicit material and provisions of the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. Gupte submitted that the Cyber police was trying to establish his connection with a mobile application, Hotshots. The app is one of the many that is currently under the scanner of the Crime Branch, investigating the February pornography racket. The CB has arrested at least 11 persons – including Kundra and associate Ryan Thorpe -- in connection with the racket, in which allegedly pornographic films and videos were produced and disseminated over subscription-driven websites and apps. The investigation has revealed so far that a company founded by Kundra in 2019 created Hotshots, which it later sold to a UK-based firm that is owned by Kundra’s relative, Pradeep Bakshi. Gupte told the court that Kundra had invested in the venture for a brief period and discontinued his association in December 2019. He further stated that during this association Kundra was not involved in the contracts or content created by the company. Gupte said that since the HC had already granted interim protection to other co-accused, Sherlyn Chopra and Poonam Pandey, and the police had already seized electronic devices belonging to Kundra in another case, his custodial interrogation was not required and hence his application for pre-arrest bail should be allowed. Additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde opposed the application on the grounds that Kundra’s role in both cases was different from the co-accused and hence he could not seek similar relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-raj-kundra-in-2020-case-101629314260361.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Private schools want physical classes for younger students too||With classroom teaching now allowed for students in Class 7 and above, private schools in Chandigarh want physical classes to resume for the younger students as well. The Independent School Association (ISA), which represents around 75 private schools of the city, has taken up the matter with the Chandigarh administration. However, the education department maintained that there is no immediate plan to call primary class students back to school.“Globally, we have seen schools were reopened for the younger students first, as it an important age for learning. Their education is getting affected, and we want physical classes to be allowed at primary stage, though on voluntary basis,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA. Atul Khanna, director, Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, said: “With new cases on a low, now is the right time to try reopening classes for younger students as well. Schools can be asked to ensure that both teaching and non-teaching staff are vaccinated, and in case there is a spike in cases, schools can be asked to shut down again.”However, parents are divided on the issue. Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association, said: “There are many parents who are still paranoid about sending their children to school. However, over the months, the number of parents who want schools to reopen has gone up.” Goyal said even if primary classes are reopened, attendance should remain voluntary and online teaching should continue, as being done for Classes 7-12.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, Chandigarh, said the education department is right now focusing on classroom teaching for students in Classes 7-12. “There is no immediate plan to call primary class students back to school,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-private-schools-want-physical-classes-for-younger-students-too-101629314140300.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees influx of migrants for vaccination||Even as the Chandigarh health department announced the achievement of 100% first dose target on August 14, as many as 18,000 people have got jabbed against Covid-19 for the first time at vaccination centres in the city in the past four days.The health department attributes it to the influx of migrant population from Himachal Pradesh after the Punjab government made complete vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for entry into the state. Alleged rumours about free vaccination drive being discontinued in government hospitals in Himachal Pradesh is also making these people make a beeline for Chandigarh. For the past four days, private buses crowded with people, especially from the hill state, can be seen thronging Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and Civil Hospital, Mani Majra. Nearly 2,000 people are getting vaccinated at these two hospitals daily, according to the Chandigarh health department.“Migrant population, especially those living in Baddi and Solan in Himachal Pradesh, have to make regular visits to Punjab to work in industries. After the Punjab government’s announcement, they are visiting the two government hospitals in Chandigarh in huge numbers, as they feel that vaccine may not be easily available at their local centres,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh, while dispelling rumours about free vaccination being discontinued in thehill state.According to the latest electoral list, around 7,29,822 people in Chandigarh are above the age of 18 and are eligible to get vaccinated. As on Wednesday, 7,50,062 (104%), including migrants, had taken their first shot while 2,59,816 (36%) were fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sees-influx-of-migrants-for-vaccination-101629314021430.html
19-08-2021||Other||4 new Covid infections, no deaths in Ludhiana||Four patients tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in Ludhiana, taking the district’s tally since the pandemic outbreak to 87,435. No deaths were reported on the day.There are currently 86 active patients in the district.District gets 60,000 more doses of Covid vaccineThe district administration on Wednesday received 60,000 doses of Covid vaccine on Wednesday morning. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma said all doses would be utilised within 24 hours to cover the maximum population in the district.Addressing residents during his weekly Facebook Live session, on the official page of DPRO Ludhiana, Sharma said around 17.58 lakh people have been vaccinated in the district and directions have been issued to all officials to plan out a strategy for holding inoculation camps.The DC also asked people to continue to observe Covid-19 appropriate-behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and following hand hygiene, to avoid the third wave.Dedicated vaccination camps launched for teachers To inoculate all government teachers in the district, Ludhiana administration is holding dedicated vaccination camps for teachers. Inaugurating the first such camp, ADC-cum nodal officer, vaccination, Dr Nayan Jassal said the entire strength of 3,512 teachers and 1,065 non-teaching staff in primary schools will be inoculated soon as per the directions of the state government. She said no one will be allowed to attend the class unless they have been fully vaccinated. DEO primary Jaswinder Kaur, deputy DEO Kuldeep, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-new-covid-infections-no-deaths-in-ludhiana-101629314020374.html
19-08-2021||Other||Days after being feted, Ludhiana traffic cop in controversy over scuffle with violator||Just two days after being honoured for his dedication to service, during Independence Day celebrations, a traffic cop landed in a controversy after a video, purportedly showing a traffic violator roughing him up and the cop retaliating, surfaced on social media.The incident took place on Tuesday evening when the cop, identified as Jasveer Singh, who was posted at Fountain Chowk, stopped a biker for alleged violation of traffic signal.But the biker, later identified as Tarun Kumar, tried to escape and in the process, hit the cop with the bike.Soon, however, other cops arrived at the scene and apprehended the youth.In the video, which is now being widely circulated on social media, the cop is seen pointing to injuries on face and claiming that the youth had slapped him and also tossed his turban.The youth was booked under Section 186 (voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.Kumar, however, claimed that it was the police personnel who abused him in full public view. He said that he was in a hurry as he had to reach the hospital to attend to an ailing relative.It is the second such incident where a traffic cop was injured while catching a traffic violator.A similar incident had taken place in Patiala on August 14 when an assistant sub-inspector identified as Suba Singh suffered a fracture in his leg while trying to stop a traffic violator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/days-after-being-feted-ludhiana-traffic-cop-in-controversy-over-scuffle-with-violator-101629313900764.html
19-08-2021||Other||Novel training session in East UP district to help cops ‘behave well’ with public||A training session titled ‘behave well with public’ was organised by the police department for its personnel in Sonbhadra on Tuesday. “In this training session, the cadres were advised to behave decently with public, stay cool, listen patiently to the people coming to the police stations and make all efforts to solve their problems quickly,” superintendent of police, Sonbhadra, Amarendra Prasad Singh told police personnel posted in the district.At the training, experts from Sant Keenaram Mahavidyalaya, Arvind Kumar Pathak and Ravi Shankar Yadav gave tips to police personnel to maintain cool and behave well with the commoners.Training was held in two sessions with station officers (SOs), inspectors, sub inspectors receiving training in first session, while police outpost incharges, head constables and constables receiving their training in the second session.“The police force is disciplined one and its functioning is different from other departments. If the police do not treat the public with dignity, then the public will form a wrong perception about the police. That is why it is necessary that police have acceptance among the public and the public should consider the police as their friend,” said Singh. “It is must for the police that they should behave decently with the people, listen patiently to every needy person coming to them or at police stations and make every effort to solve their problems quickly,” he added.Additional superintendent of police headquarters Vinod Kumar, additional superintendent of police (operations) Rajiv Kumar Singh and other police officers and personnel attended the training session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/novel-training-session-in-east-up-district-to-help-cops-behave-well-with-public-101629313841359.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC refuses to accept compromise between accused and rape victim, says allegations are of heinous crime||The Punjab and Haryana high court has refused to accept a compromise between a woman and a person whom she had accused of rape.The court of justice Rajesh Bhardwaj observed that the petitioner is alleged to have committed a “heinous offence” and had established physical relations with the woman forcefully by blackmailing her. “The allegations levelled in the FIR make out cognisable offence and truth can be unravelled only after leading the evidences before the trial court,” the bench said, adding that in court’s opinion, interference by the HC on the basis of alleged compromise is not called for. The FIR was registered in July 2019 on allegations of rape in Faridabad. The petitioner had approached the HC in July with a compromise deed between the woman and the accused effected the same month. As per the case, allegations were that the woman, 28, is married and became familiar with the accused. Thereafter, in due course of time, taking benefit of the relations, he started forcing her and established physical relations repeatedly. On resistance, the woman was threatened that he would upload her photos on Facebook and kill her husband, she had alleged, adding that having no other alternative, at one point of time, she had disclosed the same to her husband, who got the FIR registered. The accused had claimed that both the parties have amicably settled the dispute and have arrived at a compromise. And in view of this, carrying on with his prosecution would be an abuse of the process of the law and thus the same deserves to be quashed. The police had opposed the plea stating that the offence involved is heinous and on completion of investigation the challan already stands submitted before the trial court and further the compromise alleged has no legal sanctity. The court took note of SC observations that in case of heinous offences, the compromise arrived would be meaningless. It also took note of the fact that allegations against him were of forcefully establishing physical relations repeatedly by blackmailing her of posting her photos on Facebook and killing her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-refuses-to-accept-compromise-between-accused-and-rape-victim-says-allegations-are-of-heinous-crime-101629313840255.html
19-08-2021||Other||Ravi Dahiya gets rousing welcome at his native village in Sonepat||Olympics silver medallist wrestler Ravi Dahiya received a rousing welcome at his native Nahri village in Sonepat on his arrival for the first time after coming back from Tokyo.Hundreds of people welcomed him by showering petals and dancing to the beats of dhol.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also attended the function at Nahri village and congratulated Dahiya for clinching the silver.Addressing the gathering, Khattar said the Haryana players have proved their talent at the international level.“Of six single event medals, three were won by Haryana players and it’s a big achievement for the state. Our government is making all efforts to improve sports facilities at grassroots level. The Nahri village has a history of sending soldiers and MBBS students, besides preparing wrestlers,” Khattar said.“We have decided to build an indoor stadium at Nahri village. The villagers are facing power-cut issues. Now, we have decided to provide 24-hours uninterrupted power supply to the village and waive-off ₹20 lakh fine imposed on locals for not depositing electricity bill on time,” the CM added.Khattar announced plans to setup a Sanskriti model school and upgrade the dispensary to a public health centre. Besides providing clean drinking water, constructing all damaged streets and solving waterlogging issues in the fields.Dahiya said he never expected such love and excitement from people.“Now, the country has more expectations from us. We will start practice soon. My family has prepared churma and sweets for me. I urge the youth to work hard and fix their goals. In sports, success always goes through the villages. The PM also encouraged us and held a one-on-one meeting with all players which was moral boosting for all of us,” he added.Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik has adopted Ravi Dahiya’s village under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana.The CM also visited Indian hockey players Sumit Valmiki’s Kurad village in district. He applauded Sumit’s efforts from working as a dhaba cleaner to representing the Indian hockey team in the Olympics.The CM has announced to set up a hockey nursery, 6-A side hockey ground, appointing a permanent hockey coach and linking Kurad village to Murthal PHC.Khattar has accepted all demands put by Kurad villagers and directed the officials to start functioning on the demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ravi-dahiya-gets-rousing-welcome-at-his-native-village-in-sonepat-101629313780864.html
19-08-2021||Other||Haryana’s waste-to-energy plants may be key to resolve stubble burning issue||Waste-to-energy plants being set up across Haryana may prove a game-changer to deal with the stubble burning menace by not only generating energy and employment but also providing additional income from the crop waste.Setting up of these plants is near completion and the plants will purchase paddy straw from farmers from this Kharif season.As per officials of the Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency (HAREDA), total four paddy straw-based biomass power projects are being set up in state one each in Kurukshetra (15MW), Kaithal (15MW), Jind (9.9MW) and Fatehabad (9.9MW). The fifth plant is being set up at the IOCL’s Panipat refinery and will generate ethanol from paddy waste.As per the project details, work on these plants was to complete by August this year but was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdowns. But officials working on the projects said all four biomass plants will be completed by end of the year and trials are likely in November, whereas IOCL’s 2G ethanol plant will be completed by March next year.After being made operational, the biomass plants will generate a total of 49.8 MW electricity or 26 crore units by consuming 5.87 lakh MT of paddy waste generated from around 2.90 lakh acre.Similarly, the ethanol plant will directly produce 100 kilo litre ethanol per day from 425.5 MT dried rice straw and provide relief from the emission by consuming the paddy waste of around 80,000 acre every year.The expected cost of the project is around ₹766 crore and the plant is spread in 34 acre on premises of the Panipat refinery.The IOCL officials said the project is based on indigenously developed technology and will not leave any waste behind.Besides 150 technical experts, this plant will provide employment to about 1,200 people including village-level entrepreneurs and supply chain management.Haryana new and renewable energy department additional chief secretary PK Das said, “These plants will prove to be game-changer by converting crop waste into energy and fuel. We are facing stubble burning issue but using technology, this will provide double benefit apart from providing extra income to farmers.”As per ground-level officers, private companies have made arrangements of land, employees, machines and paddy waste. “In return, the government will purchase electricity from these companies as per government policy,” said Balwan Singh Golan, HAREDA project officer, Kurukshetra.He said these private companies have been allowed to purchase crop waste directly from farmers and will pay around ₹1,000-1,500 per acre to farmers.THE BURNING ISSUEAs per officials of the state pollution control board, stubble burning contributes to about 48% of total emission in Haryana and Punjab. These waste-to-energy plants will provide a huge relief by consuming millions of tonnes of crop waste.Haryana is the second biggest producer of paddy waste in country after Punjab and faces criticism for failure to put a check on the incidents of stubble burning, which affect the air quality of NCR.As per figures, of 13 lakh hectare under paddy in Haryana, about 7 lakh hectare is harvested by combine harvesters leaving 50 quintal crop waste per hectare behind.And despite government providing subsidised implements for straw management, keeping a check on stubble burning remains a challenge.Haryana reported 5,678 active fire locations in 2020 kharif season as compare to 9,225 and 6,364 in 2018 and 2019, respectively.S Narayanan, member secretary to HSPCB, said, “A number of biogas plants are planned in Haryana with a capacity of around 422 tonnes per day which can utilise around 5 lakh MT paddy straw. These projects can help the state combat crop residue burning,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryanas-waste-to-energy-plants-may-be-key-to-resolve-stubble-burning-issue-101629313663254.html
19-08-2021||Other||Order in Ranjit Singh murder case on Aug 26||A special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will pronounce order in Ranjit Singh murder case on August 26. The court has issued notice to jail superintendents to present Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim and another accused Krishan Lal via video conferencing on the next date of hearing.Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002 at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra after he “raised his voice” against the Dera head.Four years ago, on August 25, 2017, Ram Rahim was convicted of rape by a special CBI court and on August 27, he was sentenced to 20 years in prison.Following the verdict, Panchkula witnessed the biggest riots of the state that left 36 dead and 423 injured as mobs of followers of Ram Rahim went on a rampage after the CBI special court found him guilty of raping two women disciples.Police record shows that 29 buildings, government and private, were damaged. The dera followers burnt 74 vehicles including two fire tenders, three outstation broadcasting (OB) vans of news channels, one school bus and damaged 57 vehicles, including one ambulance.The Panchkula police also seized five pistols/revolvers, four rifles including an AK 47, two guns, one Mauser, and 58 vehicles.In January 2019, Ram Rahim and three others were convicted of murder and criminal conspiracy of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati and sentenced to life imprisonment.With Ram Rahim already being convicted in two cases and serving life imprisonment in Sunaria jail, thousands of people are now eyeing the third judgment.Earlier the date of order was fixed for August 23, however, special public prosecutor HPS Verma filed an application seeking two weeks time for filling rebuttal as he requires assistance of the investigating officer, who has retired.Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg denied two weeks time but granted five days till August 23 and order on August 24. He also directed that both accused be present in person.However, district attorney requested that even at the time of pronouncement of verdict against the Dera chief on January 11, 2019, Sunaria jail superintendent was directed to produce Ram Rahim through VC.“So, in the present case too, it is requested that presence of the accused be allowed through VC on account of law and order situation at the time of pronouncement of the order,” he requested.The attorney informed the court that Vidhan Sabha session is also scheduled from August 20 to August 25 and that law and machinery will remain busy during this period.He said as the case is highly sensitive, it is requested that the date fixed be adjourned to any other date after August 25. Following which, the date was adjourned to August 26, and the superintendent of district jail, Sunaria (Rohtak), and central jail, Ambala, were directed to ensure presence of accused Ram Rahim and Krishan Lal through VC.The public prosecutors can address their arguments in rebuttal on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/order-in-ranjit-singh-murder-case-on-aug-26-101629313600265.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ATS arrests notorious trafficker wanted in MD seizure case||The anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Tuesday arrested Niranjan Shah, a suspected prime member of an international drug cartel, from Delhi. Shah was wanted in a March 2021 case in which 5.065 kgs of mephedrone worth ₹2.53 crore was seized in Mumbai.ATS claimed Shah is a known drug trafficker and has several cases registered against him in various police stations in Mumbai as well as Delhi and also with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), New Delhi and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI).A police officer said Shah was an associate of late Harshad Mehta, mastermind of the securities scam. Shah was also an accused in a case registered by the economics offences wing, Mumbai, stated a press release issued by ATS. Following specific information received by police inspector Daya Nayak, Juhu ATS unit laid a trap and arrested Sohel Yusuf Memon with 5.065 kilograms of Mephedrone worth ₹2.53 crore near Lallubhai Park, Andheri (West) on March 17. During interrogation, Memon said the contraband was given by Shah to deliver to a person in Mumbai, following which Shah was added as a wanted accused in the case. Soon after the case was registered against him in March he fled from the city and constantly changed his location across various states like in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. Juhu ATS officers started tracing Shah and after a month-long operation located him in Munirika village in Delhi. He was also constantly changing his looks to avoid arrest, said an officer.He was produced in the court on Wednesday and remanded in ATS custody till August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ats-arrests-notorious-trafficker-wanted-in-md-seizure-case-101629313480168.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||42 doctors booked for submitting fake certificates to MMC, one arrested||Agripada police registered a case against 42 doctors for submitting fake post-graduation certificates to obtain licenses from the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) to practise as specialists. “We have registered a case against 42 two doctors and have arrested a Nashik-based doctor identified as Dr Nikhil Saundane,” said a police officer.The officer said the case was registered after MMC approached them with a specific complaint about fake documents. In its scrutiny of documents, the medical council learnt about the scam. During inquiry, MMC found that the doctors had failed the examination conducted by a college at Parel for various post-graduate diploma and degrees courses, but had managed to get passing certificates and were even practising as specialists.The certificates and mark sheets were cross-checked with database of the college but names of several doctors were missing. MMC then suspended licenses issued to some of the doctors and prohibited many of them from practising for certain time period.Majority of the certificates were related to courses conducted by a Parel-based college and included diploma in gynaecology and obstetrics, diploma in ophthalmology, diploma in general surgery, diploma in cardiology, and fellowship in surgery and medicine.“As and when we saw anything wrong, we have reported it to the police and other agencies,” said Dr Shivkumar Uttare, president of MMC.MMC said it had to register a case as forgery was a criminal offence and it becomes more serious when medical professionals are involved in such practices as human lives are at stake.The 42 doctors have been booked for cheating, forgery, forgery of valuable security, forgery for purpose of cheating, using as genuine a forged document or electronic record, common intention.During interrogation, the doctors said paediatrician Dr Snehal Nyati helped them procure the fake certificates for an amount between ₹3 lakh ad ₹5 lakh. Nyati was arrested earlier in a similar case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/42-doctors-booked-for-submitting-fake-certificates-to-mmc-one-arrested-101629313360231.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Security lapse: Dera head gets to see visitors during out-of-prison medical check-ups||The security detail of incarcerated head of the Dera Sacha Sauda sect, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is serving a 20-year sentence, seems to have gone out of line by allowing unauthorised access of visitors including two women to the Dera head during his travels for medical examination.The deviation not only amounted to compromising the security of a high-risk prisoner but also has raised questions on the conduct of security officials in providing favours to the controversial sect head citing directions from “someone in Chandigarh”.The matter has been conveyed to the higher police authorities by Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma and additional director general of police (ADGP), Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar in separate communications last month.The two officials have recommended initiation of departmental action against Meham deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Shamsher Dahiya for deliberately allowing lapses. Dahiya was the officer in-charge of the security detail during some of the recent out-of-prison visits of Dera head.WOMEN BOARDED DERA HEAD’S VEHICLE ENROUTE ROHTAKA few other cops who were part of the Dera chief’s security detail have also flagged the intentional security lapses.DSP Sajjan Kumar, in a communication to the Rohtak SP, wrote that during a July 13 visit to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, four persons including two women were given unauthorised access to meet the Dera chief on the hospital premises.Kumar said when he objected to the presence of these persons citing security risks and protocol, he was told by Dahiya that he got a phone call from Chandigarh to facilitate the meeting of the Dera head with these persons.DSP Kumar said after completion of medical examination and tests at AIIMS, the Dera chief boarded Dahiya’s vehicle on the way back to Rohtak prison. As per Kumar’s communication, the vehicle with Dera chief on board made multiple unscheduled stops enroute where two women were also allowed to board the vehicle.Kumar wrote that while Dahiya claimed of getting telephonic directions from Chandigarh to facilitate the access, he felt that it was a mere ploy to mislead his fellow cops.Director general of police (DGP) PK Agarwal said such incidents amount to serious misconduct and breach of professional ethics. “We are moving the case to state government for placing the errant DSP under suspension and initiation of disciplinary proceedings,” he said.THREAT PERCEPTION, LAW AND ORDER PROBLEMConsidering the threat he faced from Sikh radicals, the Dera head was given the apex Z plus security cover during the Congress rule. In fact, till 2017, when the BJP was in power, he was the only individual in state besides the governor and the chief minister to have the highest protection.His cover was withdrawn in 2017 after he was convicted and sentenced for 20 years for raping women followers.“Such deliberate acts of compromising the security of a high-risk prisoner can have serious repercussions. If something goes wrong, such misadventures can snowball into a law-and-order crisis considering the kind of following the Dera head has in Haryana and Punjab. The government is ill-equipped to handle such situations,” said a former CID official, who had handled the Dera chief’s security paraphernalia.GOVT PLAYING VOTE-BANK POLITICS: CHATTRAPATIAnshul Chattrapati, son of slain journalist Ram Chander Chattarapati for whose murder the Dera head has also been sentenced for life, said the Dera head being allowed such liberties is a serious matter.“The state government has a lot to answer. I had written to the chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court that the Dera head was misusing his political links to obtain paroles one after another thereby nullifying the process of law and mocking the process of natural justice,” he said.“In May, he was allowed to stay at a farmhouse in Manesar. When he was admitted to a Gurugram hospital, he insisted that his devotee Honeypreet Kaur be allowed to take care of him. How many prisoners in state get such VVIP treatment? The state is lending him a helping hand purely for vote-bank politics,” he added.Principal media advisor to the Haryana chief minister, Vinod Mehta, however, said the state government has not favoured the Dera head in any way.“Since he has medical problems which cannot be ignored, the Dera head was taken to Delhi as those tests could only be conducted at AIIMS. The paroles have been granted as per rules, keeping in mind his medical condition,” Mehta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-lapse-dera-head-gets-to-see-visitors-during-out-of-prison-medical-checkups-101629313184856.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive suspended at public centres in Mumbai on Thursday, Friday||Vaccination drive at 315 public vaccination centres will remain suspended for two days on Thursday and Friday owing to shortage of doses. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said they would receive fresh stock late on Thursday which will be distributed to vaccination centres on Friday, following which vaccination drive would resume of Saturday.Vaccination drive has been suspended for several times in the past few months owing to shortage of vaccine doses. According to BMC officials, the civic body can start the drive in the second half on Friday, but in the past during such times, a lot of crowding was reported since morning at the centres for those coming on walk-in basis.In a statement issued on Wednesday BMC said, “Vaccination will be closed on Thursday (August 19, 2021) and on Friday, August 20, 2021, at government and municipal vaccination centres in the BMC area due to insufficient vaccine available under the Covid-19 prevention vaccination campaign. The administration will receive the vaccine late night on August 19, 2021. It will be distributed to vaccination centres throughout the day on August 20, 2021. Vaccination will resume on Saturday (August 21, 2021).”Meanwhile, vaccination drive at all private hospitals will be conducted as per schedule. On Wednesday, 85,418 citizens were vaccinated in the city, taking the total number of beneficiaries to 8,243,789 since January 16, 2021, when the vaccination drive kicked off in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-suspended-at-public-centres-in-mumbai-on-thursday-friday-101629313182633.html
19-08-2021||Other||Airlifted by US army from Afghanistan, Pratapgarh’s IT engineer returns home||Ashok Kumar Singh, 35, an IT engineer from Pratapgarh who was working at the American army base camp in Kabul when Taliban took control of Afghanistan, managed to reach home at Kunwar Ka Purva in Babuganj Bazaar of Lalganj tehsil on Wednesday. He returned home via Qatar and Kuwait with the support of US Air Force. “Our base camp was located about 8-10 km from Pul-e-Charkhi, the biggest prison in Kabul and employed 60 people. Among them were five Indians, 35 Americans and 20 British nationals. Two hours before the Taliban reached Kabul on August 14 night, US embassy ordered that we vacate the camp,” he recalled while talking to HT on phone from Pratapgarh.“Before leaving the camp, we took back-up of the entire data on our computers and destroyed around 200 laptops. Forty vehicles of the US army were burnt to prevent them from falling in the hands of the Taliban. After this, six Chinook helicopters of the US Army got us airlifted to the airport,” he shared.“We were then flown to Doha (Qatar) by a US Air Force plane on the night of August 15. After staying there for the next day, we reached Kuwait and finally managed to land at New Delhi on Tuesday night,” he said. “It is not that Taliban is not being welcomed by the locals but at the same time there is substantial population which wants to escape for better opportunity as they feel their future is bleak in Afghanistan,” he said. He said Indian government is evacuating Indians from different locations in Afghanistan.“There are many Indians still in Afghanistan and they need to be taken to safety as soon as possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/airlifted-by-us-army-from-afghanistan-pratapgarh-s-it-engineer-returns-home-101629313063169.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Kasturba hospital to start genome sequencing from this week||Two weeks after installation of genome sequencing machines in their laboratory, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital in Byculla is likely to start conducting tests to identify variants of Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — by this weekend. The hospital will be the first civic-run facility to conduct genome sequencing in Mumbai.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant.The genome sequencing machines were inaugurated on August 4 by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. At present, molecular diagnostic reference laboratory of the hospital is completing the process of installing the machines. Dr Jayanti Shastri, in-charge of the laboratory, said, “We are just completing validation of the machines. These will start testing this week.”With 11 Delta Plus variants identified in Mumbai, genome sequencing will help boost identification of Delta and Delta Plus variants in the city. Currently, it takes more than two-three months to get test results of genome sequencing which delays the epidemiological study of the mutated virus in infected patients. With this laboratory, results will be available within three-four days.“The samples will be collected through the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from international passengers, Covid-19 hotspots, places with high transmission rate, among others,” said Dr Shastri.HT had earlier reported that due to Covid-19 restrictions on international cargo ferrying, the hospital had to wait for months to get the machines from Chicago. The machines have been procured through donations that cumulatively cost around ₹10.5 crore. A US-based biotech company has donated ₹6.4 crore, while Mumbai-based ATE Chandra Foundation donated ₹4 crore for the machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-kasturba-hospital-to-start-genome-sequencing-from-this-week-101629312941635.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||2 lakh monthly seasonal tickets for Mumbai suburban local trains issued in a week||More than 200,000 passengers got their monthly season tickets issued in a week after railways and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started the process of registration. The BMC, Central and Western Railway started the process of registration for universal pass and issuing of monthly season passes on August 11.209,390 monthly season passes were issued in a week. On Central Railway (CR) till August 17, 143,461 passes were issued while on Western Railway (WR) the number stood at 65,929. On Wednesday, 15,824 monthly passes were issued by CR and 5,091 by WR till 7pm. The highest number of monthly season tickets was issued at Dombivli on CR and at Borivli on WR. Railway authorities said passengers travelling by suburban local trains have increased as compared to last week, but there has been no significant rise. “Passengers travelling by trains have increased as compared to last week but there has been no significant jump. The number of passes issued has also been constant throughout the week,” said a senior CR official. Local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers, who have spent at least 14 days since receiving the second jab, on August 15. A universal pass embedded with quick response (QR) code is made available to commuters through offline and online systems. Passengers can either register on http://epassmsdma.mahait.org/ and get passes issued at railway booking offices or visit the helpdesks set up by BMC outside railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-lakh-monthly-seasonal-tickets-for-mumbai-suburban-local-trains-issued-in-a-week-101629312760164.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case against Param Bir Singh transferred to Maharashtra CID||The extortion case registered by Marine Drive police against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and eight others including six police officers has been transferred for further investigation to Maharashtra criminal investigation department (CID). The case was being investigated by a special investigation team (SIT). A senior officer, who was part of the SIT, confirmed the development and said, “The official order has come from the government but papers related to the case are yet to be handed over to state CID”. The SIT was formed in the last week of July to probe two first information reports (FIR), one of which was registered at Marine Drive police station in July against Singh, crime branch deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Akbar Pathan and five other cops based on a complaint by Bhayander-based builder Shyamsunder Agrawal who alleged ₹15-crore extortion by Singh and his subordinates. The other is a Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) case registered by Juhu police against Agrawal in February for his alleged links with underworld gangster Chhota Shakeel. Agrawal has alleged that based on this false case, Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of his former business partner Sanjay Punamiya.Only the Marine Drive case has been transferred to CID while the MCOCA case is still with SIT for investigation, said a police officer.The SIT is headed by a DCP-rank officer while an assistant commissioner of police (ACP)-rank officer would be the chief investigation officer. The SIT will directly report to Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale and joint commissioner of police, law and order, Vishwas Nangre Patil.Singh is currently facing four FIRs — one with Marine Drive police, while three other FIRs are being investigated by the Thane Police.According to the FIR at Marine Drive police station, the complainant Agrawal, 57, claimed he had done several real estate projects in Borivli, Bhayander and Gorai between 2016 and 2011 in partnership with Punamiya, but due to complications, conflicts and profit-sharing disputes, the two ended their partnership in 2011. He alleged that Punamiya has been registering false cases against him since then and has filed 18 such cases in Mumbai and Thane. Agrawal has cleared his name in 14 of these cases.In the MCOCA case, Punamiya alleged that Agrawal threatened him for extortion at the behest of gangster Chhota Shakeel between November 2016 and December 2020. MCOCA sections were invoked in the case in March 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-transferred-to-maharashtra-cid-101629312341013.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Soon, pay fine for dumping malba at undesignated sites||Dumping of the construction and demolition (C&D) waste at public places will soon invite heavy penalty in Chandigarh. User chargers will also have to be paid for mandatory transfer of the C&D waste (known locally as malba) from the construction site to the designated processing site.The UT administration on Wednesday finalised the draft Chandigarh Construction and Demolition Waste Management Policy, 2021. After it gets nod from the UT administrator, the administration will invite public comments and suggestions before notifying the policy.Under the policy, it will be mandatory for all generators of C&D waste — public or private, from a dwelling unit or a shop to an industrial unit or government department — to shift the malba to the processing plant at the Industrial Area, Phase 1.The policy covers all dredging material produced in the process of construction, reconstruction, modelling, repair or demolition of buildings.ChargesPeople who are going to reconstruct their houses will be levied C&D waste processing charges of ₹176 per square metre per storey, while ₹22 per square metre has to paid for new constructions, at the time of approval of the building plan.Collection and transportation to the processing unit should be done by the waste generator at their own cost or by using the municipal corporation (MC)’s machinery for ₹1,000 per trip (for 10-12 cubic metre waste) along with the goods and services tax (GST).The MC will charge a processing fee of ₹220 per tonne or ₹396 per cubic metre along with GST as applicable.PenaltyIn case of any violation, the transporters and generators will be fined ₹5,500 per vehicle that is dumping unprocessed C&D waste in low-lying site, landfills or public place.Moreover, transporter will be provided facility to take 50% processed material in lieu of the unclaimed quantity of C&D waste after dumping at the processing site. The draft policy recommends that penalty should be increased by 10% annually, on April 1 every year. The authority to issue challan will rest with the subdivisional engineer/junior engineer of the road wing or enforcement inspectors of the MC.If any question relating to the interpretation of the policy arises, it will be referred to the MC commissioner, whose decision will be final and binding upon. No appeal thereto in any court of law is maintainable, states the draft.DutiesEvery waste generator shall be responsible for collection and segregation of the waste.No waste generator will dump C&D waste at undesignated sites.Bulk generators (more than 20 tonnes daily or 300 tonne per project in a month) shall segregate the waste into four streams: concrete; steel; wood and plastics; bricks and mortar.It is made mandatory to cover the construction area to avoid air pollution by particulate matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-soon-pay-fine-for-dumping-malba-at-undesignated-sites-101629312220285.html
19-08-2021||Mumbai||BMC approves ₹700-cr project for 11 oxygen plants, underground tunnels in Mithi||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Wednesday approved two projects worth around ₹700 crore including setting up of 11 oxygen plants in the city and construction of two tunnels below Mithi river to ensure it does not get clogged.As per the proposal passed by the standing committee, oxygen plants will come up at 10 locations at a cost of ₹204 crore. This includes locations like Dahisar jumbo centre, BKC jumbo centre. BMC had earlier awarded the contract for installing oxygen plants at nine locations in the city where 16 plants were installed. During the peak of second wave, city’s oxygen demand was of 235 metric tonnes a day, and considering this figure, BMC has been making arrangements to prepare for a possible third wave.Further, the ₹500-crore project for constructing two tunnels will help prevent pollution in Mithi river which has been facing sewage discharge and wastewater from industries and slums along its bank.According to the proposal, construction of a 6.7-km tunnel, from Bapat nullah and Safed Pool nullah up to proposed sewage treatment plant at Dharavi, is expected to be completed in 48 months. While the tunnel from Bapat Nullah will have capacity of 78-million litres of sewage collection, at Safed Pool nullah it can handle 90-million litres of sewage daily. The tunnel will pass from 20 to 25 metres below the ground. Some portions of the tunnel will also pass through mangrove areas for which the project will require environmental clearance.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has slammed BMC for awarding the oxygen plants contract without making any calculations. Vinod Mishra, standing committee member from BJP, said, “BMC is completely non-transparent on what basis they are coming up with so many oxygen plants. We do need plants, but there are several questions which they need to answer. Such as how many plants are needed and how much oxygen is needed? What is the pressure of oxygen produced by the plant? And will this pressure be useful for ICU patients? We have pointed out mal practices previously in appointing contractor for oxygen plants. BMC should come out clear on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-approves-700-cr-project-for-11-oxygen-plants-underground-tunnels-in-mithi-101629312160258.html
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Kansal man let off in rape case||Stating that failure to fulfil a promise cannot be construed to mean the promise itself was false, a fast-track special court in Chandigarh has acquitted a man from the charge of rape on the pretext of marriage.The court also observed that the physical relationship between the couple was “not isolated or sporadic in nature but regular over the years”, while giving relief to the man, identified as Varun Kumar of Kansal village.The woman had alleged that she met Varun at a coaching centre in May 2013, and he made forcible physical relations with her for at least four years, and she had to undergo abortion in 2017.After he got engaged to someone else the following month, she filed a complaint alleging that he had raped her on the pretext of marriage. On January 24, 2018, Varun was charged under Section 376 (2) (n) of the Indian Penal Code. It pertains to repeated rape of a woman and can lead to rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than 10 years and can extend up to the convict’s natural death.Man’s parents were against marriageDuring the trial, Varun said that his parents were against their inter-caste marriage, and even she was aware about it. He had to end the relationship after his parents threatened to disown him and even commit suicide, he told court.Stating that the rape allegations were just to pressure him into marriage, Varun said the physical relations between them were neither on the pretext of marriage nor forcible but “on account of their friendship and liking for each other”. Court questions veracity of allegationsJudge Swati Sehgal observed that the woman had alleged of being raped at a public park in Sector 22, Chandigarh, which was “highly improbable” as the park is very crowded in evenings and the complainant could not produce any documentary evidence.The court also observed that the physical relationship that followed was not isolated, and lodging a case after four years of the alleged first incident of rape and a month after the man’s engagement raised serious doubts about the truth and veracity of the woman’s allegations.“Failure of the accused to fulfil his promise cannot be construed to mean the promise itself was false. Woman was aware of obstacles in their relationship but still engaged in sexual relations,” the judge further said.Acquitting the man, she observed: “The nature and manner of allegations coupled with the messages exchanged between them, marked as exhibit during the trial, make it apparent that their love for each other grew and matured over a sufficient period of time and the passion of youth ruled over their mind and emotions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-kansal-man-let-off-in-rape-case-101629311981370.html
19-08-2021||Other||Conduct dope tests of all SHOs in Tarn Taran: Khemkaran MLA||TARN TARAN Opening a front against Punjab Police, Congress MLA from Khemkaran Sukhpal Singh Bhullar on Wednesday sought dope tests of in-charges of all police stations in the district. He alleged that the police were not doing their duty. “On Sunday, a firing incident was reported in Bhai Ladhu village. A complaint was lodged at the Gharyala police post. It’s been three days and police have failed to even establish he cause of the firing. I even spoke to Sadar Patti SHO Jaswinder Singh Brar to expedite investigation; at the time, he seemed inebriated. I demand that a dope test be conducted of all SHOs,” Bhullar claimed. Lashing out at Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, Bhullar claimed, “The SSP has been working to harass citizens. He is not passing files of arm licences and has issued a diktat that people wanting an arms licence should install CCTVs in their houses, when there is no such provision in law.” The SSP refused to comment on Bhullar’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/conduct-dope-tests-of-all-shos-in-tarn-taran-khemkaran-mla-101629311560275.html
19-08-2021||Pune||Pune’s MES Garware College of Commerce gets autonomous status||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has conferred the ‘autonomous’ status to Maharashtra Education Society’s (MES) Garware College of Commerce recently. Being one of the oldest and prominent colleges in Pune, the academic autonomy to MES Garware College of Commerce would be useful for students to have a robust learning process for their academic and overall development.“After being granted the autonomous status we are committed to train, transform and empower the young minds with relevant knowledge and skills. The college will be playing a constructive role in the social change in the country. Under autonomous education system, it will prepare the learners to organise and plan their schedule to cope up with the practical oriented curriculum,” said Professor Geeta V Acharya, college principal.While it is not the only college that has got the autonomous status in Pune, in the last few years several prominent colleges from the city had got this status. These include Fergusson College, College of Engineering Pune (COEP), Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, Cummins College of Engineering for Women, Pune, Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, Pune and others.Meanwhile, there are several other prominent colleges and institutions which are working to get the autonomous status including--Marathwada Mitra Mandal’s College of Commerce (BMCC), S P College, Pune, Marathwada Mitra Mandal’s College of Commerce (MMCC). These colleges are affiliated with Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) currently and working towards getting the autonomous status in the coming years.Arun Adsul, former vice-chancellor, SPPU, said, “Every year lakhs of students come to the city from across the country and globe for studies. As this number is increasing every year, there are several prominent colleges which are upgrading in academic and other terms. So they are able to go for the autonomous status and already we have few other private universities other than SPPU which are also having excellent academic courses attracting the students from across the globe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-mes-garware-college-of-commerce-gets-autonomous-status-101629311499983.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||Migrants trapped in Kabul fear Taliban threats, as families worry for them||Several families in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal on Wednesday expressed worry and appealed for immediate evacuation of their loved ones from Afghanistan where the re-emergence of the Taliban triggered fear and panic across the country.In Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district, Sujit Maurya expressed concerns over the safety of his 40-year-old brother Ranjit Maurya who is stuck in a steel factory near Kabul.“I spoke to Ranjit on his mobile on Tuesday evening. He told me that around 28 people from various districts of Uttar Pradesh were trapped in the factory. The owner of the factory, a resident of Afghanistan, assured them safety, food and lodging,” he said.“My brother panicked after a Taliban commander visited the factory along with fighters on Tuesday. The commander told my brother and other people from Uttar Pradesh that Afghanistan was now under the control of the Taliban and that Islamic law had been enforced in the country. Everyone has to follow the new law, else they should be ready to face the consequences,” Maurya said, adding that the passports of all the stranded workers were in the custody of the factory owner who assured to return them once the work in the unit was completed.Maurya said he will also approach Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure the safe return of his brother and others.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said the state government is in constant touch with over 300 of its residents who have been issuing fervent pleas to be evacuated from the land-locked country.In videos sent to their family members in Uttarakhand, a group of ex-servicemen who used to work with private security agencies to assist the now-collapsed Ashraf Ghani-led administration are seen pleading with the central government for their safe return.The men claimed that they were stranded in major cities such as Kabul, Kandahar and Herat.On Wednesday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee claimed that more 200 people from north Bengal were stranded in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrants-trapped-in-kabul-fear-taliban-threats-as-families-worry-for-them-101629311321204.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Sunanda Pushkar death case: Probe centered on autopsy report by AIIMS docs panel||he post-mortem exam report of Sunanda Pushkar initially raised more questions than it answered with the preliminary assessment saying it was a ‘sudden unnatural death’, but it was never made clear what it meant. It remained inconclusive on the explanation even after two days of extension that the doctors had sought.Pushkar, then 51, was found dead inside a luxury suite of Hotel Leela Palace in south Delhi on January 17, 2014.As it was an SDM inquest, the then director AIIMS, Dr MC Misra, constituted a three-member panel of forensic medicine experts that was headed by Dr Sudhir Gupta to perform the post-mortem. The entire autopsy procedure was videographed, as is the protocol in medico-legal cases.Two days after Pushkar’s autopsy was conducted at AIIMS, the hospital submitted the preliminary report to the then sub-divisional magistrate, Alok Sharma, investigating her death, in a sealed envelope.The report submitted appeared to say that Pushkar’s death was not due to natural causes but due to poisoning. Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava relied on the post-mortem exam report to argue that it was not an accidental death but poisoning which could be administered orally or injected.Asked about the attention that his report garnered at that time, Dr Gupta on Wednesday said, “After we submit a post-mortem report to the police, our job is done. Unless the court has some specific questions, there is no legal provision for forensics to give their opinion to the court.”However, the doctors later also clarified that the autopsy report never mentioned it was a “homicide, and it was for the investigating agencies to ascertain what the manner of poisoning was and the substance used”.“Whether the death is a murder or a suicide or an accident, it is always for the investigation agency to determine; forensic medicine experts are there to give out the possible causes that may help the investigators,” Dr Gupta said then.Pushkar’s viscera samples (internal organs) were sent to the US Federal Bureau of Investigation laboratory for further analysis to determine the kind of poison, as the AIIMS report did not mention any specific substance.The 11-page FBI report found traces of an anti-anxiety drug, corroborating AIIMS findings. Besides traces of Alprax, the FBI lab also found an anesthetic drug ‘Lidocaine Gel’, used to relieve itching, burning and pain due to skin inflammation.The conclusions of the post-mortem report came into limelight after Dr Gupta alleged that he was pressured to change the report to say that it was a natural death. He reportedly wrote to the then union health minister JP Nadda stating, “Dr Misra (AIIMS director) asked me to declare Sunanda Pushkar’s death as natural in the post-mortem report, which is contrary to the findings…”When asked for a comment on his letter, Dr Gupta on Wednesday said, “These are all matters of the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sunanda-pushkar-death-case-how-the-autopsy-report-thickened-plot-around-death-101629310659420.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Sunanda death case: Several twists and turns in years of investigation||Between the evening of February 17, 2014 when Sunanda Pushkar was found dead inside Hotel Leela Palace in south Delhi, and the afternoon of May 14, 2018, when the police charged her husband Shashi Tharoor in the case, three police commissioners supervised the investigation. What was initially suspected to be a case of poisoning, according to the police, became a murder case and then suicide by an overdose of anti-depressants. During the tenure of the three police chiefs --- BS Bassi, Alok Verma and Amulya Patnaik -- the cause of Pushkar’s death and the motive for her alleged murder, changed each time the three men were heading the force.On Wednesday, a city court discharged Congress member of Parliament Tharoor in the case of domestic violence and abetting his wife’s suicide -- charges that Delhi police filed against him in their charge sheet after four years on May 1, 2018. Usually, police have to file their charge sheet within three months.HT takes a look at all the controversies over the police’s investigation over the years.Case transferLess than a week after Pushkar was found dead, the Delhi police transferred the case to the crime branch on the morning of June 23. Until then, the case was being investigated by the south district police.The decision was reversed even before the crime branch officials could get the case files. Police then said that the case will be continued to be probed by the south district staff. The then joint commissioner of police, Vivek Gogia, who was the head of the southeastern range supervised the investigation. Gogia is currently the joint director at the National Crime Records Bureau(NCRB). A special investigation team of the local south district police filed the charge sheet in the case.Crime scene visited again after yearsThe hotel suite where Pushkar was found dead was sealed for over three years. On July 17, 2017, a city court ordered the police to complete the investigation and de-seal the room. The room was finally de-sealed in October 2017. Interestingly, while there were no major developments in the case, the police team visited the room many times in all those years. The last was on September 1, 2017, when they collected “ more evidence”. One such piece of evidence was a half-filled glass of water, which was never collected by the investigating officers. The glass was then sent to the forensic science laboratory. Police also collected broken glass pieces from Pushkar’s room, months after the incident.Murder or suicideFor almost a year, Delhi police did not register a First Information Report(FIR) in the case. On January 6, the then Delhi police commissioner BS Bassi announced registration of an FIR as the death “seemed unnatural and could be due to poisoning”. Bassi did not specify how the poison was administered. The FIR also did not name Tharoor or any other person. To be sure, Tharoor was never arrested in the case or charged with Pushkar’s murder.Bassi did not wish to comment on the case or Wednesday’s court order.Charge sheet on abetment of suicide While police continued to probe Pushkar’s death as that of ‘murder’ for almost three years, the charge sheet they filed on May 14, 2018, invoked abetting suicide and domestic violence against Tharoor. Police then mentioned an overdose of Alprax tablets as the cause of her death. While denying the charges, Tharoor then said that he will “vigorously” contest the police’s charge sheet. Tharoor had termed the police’s charge sheet preposterous. When the charge sheet was filed, Amulya Patnaik was the Delhi police commissioner.IPL and Mehr Trar probed Besides contradictory investigation and charge sheet, Delhi police widened their gaze and probed Pushkar’s death from the angle of the Indian Premier League controversy. As part of the investigation, the then police commissioner Bassi had asked the Economic Offences Wing to prober financial irregularities related to the Kochi-IPL franchise. Tharoor had resigned as union minister during the 2010 IPL controversy after allegations of corruption linking him to the Kochi-IPL franchise. Pushkar was alleged to have received stakes for free when Tharoor was the minister in the United Progressive Alliance II government. To be sure, the Delhi police never charged Tharoor or Pushkar in the case, even as the then commissioner was quoted in print and television media about police quizzing Tharoor on the IPL controversy.As part of their investigation, two years after Pushkar’s death, Delhi police also questioned Pakistan-based journalist Mehr Tarar because Pushkar had a public spat with her on twitter just days before her death. To be sure, Tarar said that her name was dragged into the case, only because she had chatted with Pushkar on twitter. At this time, former CBI director Alok Verma was the Delhi police commissioner.Crime scene tampered withA vigilance report to probe the conduct of the investigating officers pointed out lapses in the investigation and noted that the crime scene was tampered with. Used plates in her room were not collected by the investigating officers on the day of the incident. Pushkar’s body was also moved from one room to the other. The vigilance enquiry was ordered in the backdrop of such findings. Delhi police have officially not revealed the findings of the report till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sunanda-death-case-several-twists-and-turns-in-years-of-investigation-101629310540937.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt gives nod to action plan to phase out single-use plastic||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday approved a comprehensive action plan detailing steps to be taken by various agencies by December 2022 to phase out single-use plastic from the Capital.Senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) officials said that the “Comprehensive Action Plan for Elimination of Identified Single-Use Plastic” includes strict deadlines for the stakeholders to adhere to, adding that the progress will be closely monitored by the pollution control board.“The draft action plan was prepared last week, and we were awaiting its approval. We have been having detailed meetings with all stakeholders on the effective implementation of the ban,” said an environment department official.The Union environment ministry notified the Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules (2021) that prohibits the manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of identified single-use plastic items on August 12. The rules said the permitted thickness of plastic bags, currently 50 microns, will be increased to 75 microns from September 30 this year and to 120 microns from December 31, 2022.It also banned several single-use plastic items like earbuds with plastic sticks; plastic sticks for balloons; plastic flags; candy and ice-cream sticks; polystyrene (thermocol) for decoration; glasses; cutlery; wrapping or packing films around sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets; and plastic or PVC banners of less than 100-micron thickness. The ban on these will come into force from July 1 next year.In May this year, Delhi constituted a special task force, under the chief secretary, to take measures to eliminate single-use plastics. Later in June and August, the principal secretary (environment) convened consultation meetings with stakeholders to identify and adopt alternatives to single-use plastic.Earlier in August,an information, education and communication (IEC) plan for different stakeholders, including manufacturers, resident welfare associations, market associations, was also prepared by DPCC to discourage the use of items that use single-use plastic.The comprehensive action plan approved on Wednesday details various steps to be taken to phase out single-use plastic, the time frames -- divided short, medium, long term or continuous action -- for each action, deadlines and the agencies responsible for the task.For instance, under the “management of littered single-use plastic items” in the action plan, one of the tasks --“identification of ingress points of littered single-use plastic items in surface water bodies and drains and strategy for prevention” -- has to be completed by October 31, 2021, by the urban local bodies, Delhi Jal Board and the Irrigation and Flood Control Departments.Other deadlines include the assessment of district-wise plastic waste generation in Delhi by March 31, 2022; identification and closure of units manufacturing single-use plastic products by June 30, 2022; development of a database of plastic recyclers by December 31, 2021; and a ‘continuous’ task of implementation of a plan to manage location-wise legacy waste.An assessment by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) this year showed that 66% of the plastic waste generated in the country is coming from seven states alone. It further said Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and West Bengal, “followed a highly consumerist lifestyle” and generated 48% of the total plastic waste.Atin Biswas, programme director (solid waste management) at CSE, said, “The test will be how the states implement this ban. These items are so widely in use that we will need a comprehensive and effective plan to phase out single-use plastic. Enforcement will have to be backed by awareness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-gives-nod-to-action-plan-to-phase-out-single-use-plastic-101629310240302.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Traders worry as Afghan crisis likely to hit dry fruit supplies to Delhi market||The current crisis in Afghanistan has thrown traders of Old Delhi’s Khari Baoli market into a state of uncertainty, with most of them speculating unstable supplies and rise in prices of dry fruits that arrive from the strife-torn country – which has been taken over by the Taliban militia -- in the days to come.The Mughal-era market -- popular for wholesale trade of spices, dry fruits and food grains -- gets around 35,000 tonnes of dry fruits from Afghanistan in a year on average. The most popular among them are fig (anjeer), raisins, apricots, manukka and varieties of nuts and pistachio, said traders in Khari Baoli.“Currently, prices are up by around 8% - 10% but that is due to a wide variety of reasons, such as the festive season ahead, starting with Raksha Bandhan, rainfall in several parts of the country, and increased transportation and storage cost because of the Covid-19 pandemic. There is too much uncertainty because of the situation in Afghanistan. Prices may shoot up with the disruption in the supply chain,” said Ravindra Mehta, a consultant for import of dry fruits.On Wednesday, Afghan fig in the market was priced at ₹ 250 – 300 per kg, raisins around ₹1,000 per kg, apricot around ₹600-800 per kg, and munakka around ₹500 per kg.Taliban forces have reportedly sealed Afghanistan’s Torkham and Chaman borders with Pakistan, the only two land routes used for trade activities from India to Afghanistan and vice-versa, worrying traders across India. Traders here mostly import dry fruits, onions and apples from Afghanistan.Kanwarjit Bajaj, a Delhi-based trader and president of the Indo-Afghan Chamber of Commerce, said: “Khari Baoli market, on average, records arrival of around 35,000 tonnes of dry fruit from Afghanistan in a year. While the border in Torkham has completely been taken over and has witnessed no trade in the last one week, the one in Chaman has been operating on and off. Things have to become more stable in the days to come otherwise such supply disruptions will surely lead to price rise. India is a big market for Afghan dry fruit farmers. The Indian government should take all possible efforts to preserve the good trade relations in the country.”In a report (from Amritsar) published earlier this week, HT said the integrated check post (ICP), Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, has been receiving goods only from Afghanistan since the Indian government abrogated Article 370 in August 2019. In 2019-20, the ICP recorded a business of ₹2,767 crore, which dipped to ₹2,500 crore in 2020-21. Prior to this, the ICP had been netting business between ₹4,000 crore and ₹5,000 crore a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traders-worry-as-afghan-crisis-likely-to-hit-dry-fruit-supplies-to-delhi-market-101629309879366.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Probe into e-commerce fraud leads to 60 websites powered by SEO tools; 5 held||A day after five people were arrested from Mayapuri and Nilothi for allegedly running multiple fake e-commerce websites to dupe over 10,000 unsuspecting buyers from across the country, police said on Wednesday that the suspects used search engine optimisation (SEO) techniques -- a process to increase the traffic to their website from search engines -- to lure their victims.Police said the suspects -- mastermind Vijay Arora (37) and his aides Manmeet Singh (29), Avtar Singh (32), Raj Kumar (30) and Pradeep Kumar (32) -- were allegedly behind over 60 such fake e-commerce websites that were used to dupe victims of around ₹25 crore over the last three years.According to police, Arora, who has done a hotel management course, previously worked in a five-star hotel in Lucknow in 2014 and even launched a courier company a year later.In 2019,he began creating fake e-commerce websites offering items like clothes and electronics at throwaway prices but rarely delivered the products. He initially in Manmeet, Avtar and Rajkumar to help run the operation. He later roped in Pradeep, a recently graduated engineer from Karnataka, to help him with SEO techniques to push more traffic to his websites.Explaining the modus operandi, deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said, “If something costs ₹4,000 in the market and a website is offering the same item at discounts up to 60%, people will buy the item without checking the credibility of the website. Since there was no option to pay on delivery, customers paid for them online.”The DCP said less than 10% of the consumers complained on consumer forums. “Some reached out to us, after which we constituted teams to investigate. All of these complaints led to the same set of people, who were later nabbed after we received a tip-off,” said Anyesh Roy, DCP (Cyber Cell).Police said that in the last three years, they had cheated more than 10,000 customers.“When we were going through the complaints, we found many stating that they were wrongly delivered cheap goods instead of the fancy product they ordered,” said a senior police officer.Police said they also took advantage of the pandemic to dupe many people trying to buy digital devices. The official said there were several complaints of victims being promised a hig-end tab for around ₹4,000 but never getting it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-probe-into-e-commerce-fraud-leads-to-60-websites-powered-by-seo-tools-5-held-101629309879917.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Preserve CCTV footage, order HC in murder of gangster in Tihar jail||The Delhi high court on Wednesday ordered preservation of CCTV footage while also seeking a status report from the city police and jail authorities on a plea seeking CBI probe in the alleged murder of an inmate, Ankit Gujjar, in Tihar Jail earlier this month.Gujjar (29), dubbed as one of the most wanted criminals in Uttar Pradesh with multiple counts of homicide and robbery, was found dead inside his cell in Tihar Jail on August 4.Justice Mukta Gupta issued a notice to the Delhi Police, the jail authority, the Centre and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the petition by Gujjar’s family members and ordered preserving the CCTV footage before, after, and of the incident.The petition, filed through advocate Mehmood Pracha, has alleged that Gujjar was being harassed by the jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”.It is said that Gujjar “faced much more brutality” at the hands of a jail official who “directed his subordinates to use all their might to finish him and make an example out of him for other inmates”.“The brutality meted out to the deceased as evidenced from the photographs of his corpse, coupled with the fact that he was left to die in a solitary cell without any medical attention whatsoever, renders to the present case a colour of the rarest of rare category,” said the petition.The petition further says that the jail authorities in Tihar are operating an “organised extortion syndicate” and the police was trying to manipulate the investigation in order to save and shield the culprits.The petition states that although an FIR for commission of offences of murder was registered pursuant to the directions of a magisterial court, “a free and fair investigation by a neutral investigation agency would inevitably lead to invocation of not just further provisions under the Penal Code but also under special laws such as the MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act), Prevention of Corruption Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act”.The plea has also sought round the clock security for the family members. The matter will be next heard on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/preserve-cctv-footage-order-hc-in-murder-of-gangster-in-tihar-jail-101629309821902.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||On a break, Monsoon may return to Delhi on Thursday||Moisture-laden winds from the east will reach the Capital by late Wednesday night, ending the break monsoon phase which has seen Delhi on the boil for the last 10 days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said.Senior weather officials said that Delhi will receive south-easterly winds, which will increase the moisture content in the atmosphere, by early Thursday morning and also predicted patchy rain in certain parts by evening. The IMD has forecast “increased rainfall activity” from Friday.Delhi has been experiencing a break monsoon phase since August 8, with weather officials attributing the high temperatures to the hot and dry winds from Pakistan, which is rare for this time of the year.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which provides official data for the city, was 38°C, four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 27.4°C.Met officials said that Thursday will mark the end of the break monsoon phase which, according to IMD data, is one of the longest break monsoon spells that the city has witnessed. According to weather experts, in Delhi, the break monsoon spell usually lasts for five-seven days.Unlike the excess rainfall (507.1mm) in July, August saw a slow start and recorded only 63.2mm rain till Wednesday. August is usually the rainiest month of the season in Delhi.“This is also the second break monsoon spell that Delhi is experiencing. Usually, when the break period lasts for three to four days, we do not really realise it because the period without rains is too short to see a noticeable difference in temperature,” said a senior IMD official.The IMD forecast on Wednesday said, “A low-pressure area over Odisha and adjoining areas of Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal has become less marked. However, the cyclonic circulation now lies over Jharkhand...and neighbouring areas... This will cause increased rainfall activity over Delhi on August 20 and 21.”Private weather forecasters also said residents will start experiencing some respite from the high temperature from Thursday. The condition will improve further on Friday. “The temperature on Thursday will be around 1-2 degrees less than Wednesday, but temperatures will start dropping significantly from Friday. On Thursday, even though there will be a slight drop in the daytime temperature, the humidity will increase discomfort,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-a-break-monsoon-may-return-to-delhi-on-thursday-101629309821205.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||DPCC to issue closure notices to 70 units in Patparganj Industrial Area||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will issue closure notices to 90 industrial units and show-cause notices to at least 70 other units operating in east Delhi’s Patparganj industrial area, based on a recently concluded survey to assess the pollution norms being flouted in the area.“An order was issued on August 14, based on which seven teams were constituted to carry out the survey. It was found that there are 819 industrial units operational in the area. Based on the findings of the teams, action will be taken in the coming weeks,” said a senior DPCC official requesting anonymity.Officials said 404 units that functioned as godowns, offices and construction units were found in the “white category” and will not attract any action. However, showcause may be issued to nearly 70 units as they were found violating the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act.The DPCC survey found that under the green category, where pollution is “mild” , 19 units were found to be operating without valid approvals, four had permission but were found to be flouting pollution control norms and two did not allow inspections in their premises.Under the more severe orange category, out of a total of 73 units, officials suggested issuing showcause notices to 18 units that were flouting air and water pollution norms, and closure notices to five industries found operating without valid permissions.Teams also suggested levying environment penalty charges on around 49 industries that were found to be contributing to air and water pollution in the area.“Regular surveys are conducted to ensure that industries follow the prescribed norms and keep a check on illegal units. Regular reports of such inspections are also shared with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to ensure strictest action,” said another official from the DPCC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dpccto-issue-closure-notices-to-70-units-in-patparganj-industrial-area-101629309819338.html
19-08-2021||Lucknow||UP supplementary budget: Yogi Adityanath govt woos youths, farmers and workers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday presented a supplementary budget of ₹7301.52 crore for 2021-22, providing large or even token sums to fund schemes, including ones to make youths digitally proficient, pay increased honorarium to different categories of workers such as shiksha mitras, anganwadi workers and village chowkidars, clear dues of farmers and provide for the welfare of cows ahead of the 2022 assembly election in the state. The election is due early next year.Additional sums have been provided for some of the ongoing projects, too, in the first supplementary demands for grants for 2021-2022 that minister for finance Suresh Khanna presented in the state assembly in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.After presentation of the supplementary budget, Khanna called Yogi Adityanath “Ram of politics who is in the House to defeat the asuri shaktis or demons” when leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary objected to the minister’s speech on the supplementary budget. Chaudhary, however, continued to make his point about rising inflation and other issues.Khanna also said, “The supplementary demands for ₹ 7301.52 crore are only 1.33% of the annual budget of ₹ 5.50 lakh crore. Our focus has been on providing funds for important public welfare schemes, certain ongoing projects along with other demands especially the one for ₹3,000 crore to create job opportunities for the youth (scheme to make you youth digitally proficient). Funds have been demanded for social security of advocates and construction of a memorial and cultural centre in the name of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar.” “Four-and-a-half years of this government have changed the perception of the people who feel the Yogi government has made some new records and also broken certain records,” said Khanna. He said funds have been provided for payment of sugarcane dues, social security for advocates, maintenance of cows and bringing about an improvement in the infrastructure in Ayodhya.While ₹ 300 crore has been provided for maintenance of animals of the cow family, ₹40 crore has been earmarked for payment of increased honorarium to rozgar sevaks.Other allocations include a sum of ₹ 2 crore for honouring Tokyo Olympics medal winners. A sum of ₹100 crore has been earmarked for the Bundelkhand Expressway and ₹ 50 crore for the Ballia Link Expressway project. A sum of ₹ 30.86 crore has been provided for payment of interest on loan taken from the rural electrification corporation under the Rajiv Gandhi Rural Electrification Scheme. A sum of ₹1500 crore has been demanded to fund the losses of power distribution companies under the UDAY scheme. An additional sum of ₹ 200 crore has been earmarked under the Swachh Bharat Mission and ₹ 200 crore for payment of sugarcane dues of sugar mills of the Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Sugar Mills Federation.Under provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, the state government has declared that the supplementary budget includes a sum of ₹ 124 crore to be received from the Centre for centrally sponsored schemes. It said the demands would be funded by achieving the tax and non-tax revenue realisation targets and cutting down the unproductive expenditure.“It’s good that the state government has kept the size of the supplementary budget at a modest level. It has refrained from announcing freebies to impress the electorate, though steps have been taken to give relief to workers at the grassroots level like the Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers and village chowkidars that have a direct connect with the people,” said professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics, Lucknow University.Funds earmarked for Ayodhya, Kashi projects, Ambedkar centreThe Uttar Pradesh government’s supplementary budget for 2021-provides ₹209.69 crore to set up public amenities and parking facilities at six places in Ayodhya, ₹ 40 crore for strengthening/broadening of the road from the Ganga river to the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi, ₹ 50 crore for memorial and cultural centre in the name of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar and ₹90 crore for social security fund scheme for payment of ₹ 5 lakh each to advocates who have completed the 30-year membership. It also has a provision of ₹ 500 crore for expenditure, establishment and publicity.A sum of ₹ 5.01 crore has been earmarked for setting up of Uttar Pradesh National Law University, Prayagraj.There is a provision of ₹ 265 crore for payment of increased honorarium to “anganwadi”, “mini anganwadi” workers and “anganwadi” assistants, ₹ 47.88 crore for increasing the honorarium to village chowkidars and ₹129.78 crore to pay increased honorarium to Asha (urban and rural) workers.Plus, ₹ 123.55 crore is meant for an increase in honorarium of shiksha mitras, ₹ 1.63 crore for increasing honorarium of head cook/assistant cook and ₹ 28.91 crore for increase in honorarium paid to part time instructors, in addition to ₹ 28 lakh for expenditure on the establishment of Lok Ayukta Sangathan. Besides, a sum of ₹ 1.83 crore has been earmarked for payment of expenditure under outsourcing head in the office of advocate general of Uttar Pradesh. A sum of ₹ 61.07 crore is for increasing honorarium paid to PRD (Prantiya Raksha Dal) jawans and a token sum of ₹1 lakh for the payment of salary of employees of the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Yuva Kalyan Parishad. A sum of ₹ 9.70 crore has been earmarked for construction of multi-purpose building of Uttar Pradesh Sanskrit Sansthan while ₹ 30 lakh has been provided for subsidy to Uttar Pradesh Sanskrit Sansthan to honour Sanskrit pandits.A sum of ₹ 297 crore has been earmarked for expenditure on establishment of Nirvachan Sangthan while a sum of 3 crore has been earmarked for construction of a godown for storing EVM/VVPAT.A sum of ₹ 2.08 crore has been earmarked for holding examination to fill up vacancies in the Vidhan Parishad and ₹ 8.68 crore to implement the e-office system in the Vidhan Parishad secretariat.A token sum of ₹ 1 lakh has been earmarked under the medical device park promotion scheme, ₹ 66.50 lakh for payment of interest on VAT (Value Added Tax) paid for selling NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium) fertiliser from January 1, 2008 to April 24, 2008.A sum of ₹ 1.28 crore has been earmarked for payment of salary of the training period to IAS officers under probation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-supplementary-budget-yogi-govt-woos-youths-farmers-101629305439693.html
19-08-2021||Pune||If situation normalises, I would like to go back again, says Pune-based Parag Rabade after his arrival from Afghanistan||Parag Rabade, who returned to Pune from Afghanistan on Wednesday, said he would like to go back to the foreign country if situation normalises in the near future. The professor, who teaches Computer Science, International Relations and Management in seven private universities in Kabul, returned to Pune in the morning a day after he arrived in India in C-17 aircraft as a part of evacuation exercise undertaken by the Indian government on Tuesday. Rabade had earlier booked a ticket to return home through an Air India flight scheduled on Monday. “My mother started crying after seeing me. My family and friends were sure that I would return home safely, but when and how it would happen was a cause of concern,” he said. Recounting the panic situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban seized control of the country, and his efforts to return home, Rabade said, “After Sunday afternoon the situation changed in Kabul. As the information got circulated that Kabul fell, there was panic among people. I had booked a ticket on the Air India flight for Monday. I reached the airport in the early hours. There was chaos at the airport and the situation was completely out of control. I went to the Indian embassy and found out that the air space had been closed. I was informed that the aircraft C-17 would be evacuating people waiting at the Indian embassy. The Taliban authorities had imposed curfew on the roads and no one could travel, but they assured to not harm the embassy.” Having left the home the day before he boarded the evacuation flight, Rabade had to wait at the airport empty stomach. He had shared the situation in a video recorded from the Indian embassy on Twitter. “My friends and family were worried about my safe return. I was in constant touch with my family and friends. There were 143 passengers in the aircraft that I boarded, including diplomats, military officials and ambassador,” said Rabade. With two doctorates, in Computer Science and Management, Rabade started teaching in universities in Kabul when he moved to the foreign country in 2014. “I am well versed in their native language so communication was not a problem. Over the years, I have developed rapport with the students. The education of my students hasn’t been completed yet. My family is worried about me, so they are saying that I shouldn’t return. Everyone is hoping for a better situation. If it improves and the embassy reopens then I would like to go back,” said Rabade. He said over the years the number of female students has increased in universities at Afghanistan and more women are getting permission to learn and take up jobs. “In 2014, the count of female students in classes was around 28%-29%. By 2020, it increased to 49%. They got permission to learn and seek employment opportunities. What will happen now is left to be seen. This period is different from the earlier times when the Taliban was in power. Now we are living in the era of the internet and smartphones. I hope there won’t be any disruptions in education. But people will have fear in their minds till situation changes for better,” said Rabade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/if-situation-normalises-i-would-like-to-go-back-again-says-pune-based-parag-rabade-after-his-arrival-from-afghanistan-101629304718877.html
19-08-2021||Pune||PMC to conduct surprise raids to contain Covid inappropriate behaviour||PUNE: With most establishments reopened, the markets are teeming with customers largely seen defying covid norms which has forced the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and district administration to carry out surprise raids in all such areas. Besides, traders who had earlier promised to follow Covid norms when urging the administration to extend operational timings are now seen flouting them in many places as markets remain open for a longer time. While regular drives on a ward-to-ward basis are already underway, the same will be intensified in the coming days in view of the crowding at marketplaces.Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said, “There is a need to increase surprise raids in markets and I will be informing the same to all my ward officers. Things cannot be taken lightly by traders and customers who are visiting the markets. We have been warned by the district magistrate and if the number of cases increases, we will have to again impose a set of restrictions.”There were huge crowds at Raviwar peth on Wednesday as people were seen purchasing rakhis ahead of Raksha Bandhan which falls on August 22. Ganesh Chaturthi preparations have also started with several retailers buying decorations and other accessories.On his part, Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of Trade Association of Pune, said, “We are going to distribute 40,000 “no mask, no entry” stickers among traders. They all need to take special precautions otherwise the lockdown will be back. We have also noticed a surge in the number of customers and are alerting all about following covid regulations. Regular customers should be called on an appointment basis to avoid rush while maintaining social distance.”Despite Pitaliya’s claim, only one shop out of the many at Raviwar peth was seen with the “no mask, no entry” sticker at its entrance.The owner of Babulal Gokuldas and Sons said, “All shop owners want to run their business like normal. Many a time, social distancing rules are flouted but we are trying to control such behaviour. The rush has increased in markets due to the upcoming festive season.”Meanwhile, the PMC is also keeping a close watch on pop-ups coming up on footpaths for selling wares. “We will not be allowing more structures to come up on footpaths as it makes the streets more congested,” Dr Khemnar said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-conduct-surprise-raids-to-contain-covid-inappropriate-behaviour-101629304538769.html
19-08-2021||Ranchi||Marandi’s aide booked for rape, BJP, JMM trade fire||The opposition BJP and ruling JMM in Jharkhand on Wednesday traded allegations Ranchi police booked a close aide of BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi for allegedly raping his domestic help at his home last year. Marandi, a former chief minister, defended his aide Sunil Tiwari, who is his political advisor, saying the case against him was political vendetta, and demanded a CBI probe.In response, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said Marandi should stop himself from delivering verdicts even before the police complete their probe. Marandi said Tiwari has been framed as he became an intervener in a writ petition against chief minister Hemant Soren. The case is likely to come up for hearing next week.“The case against Soren started in December 2020 when a girl filed a petition in the Bombay High Court regarding her previous complaint of rape against the CM. Later, she posted a video on social media claiming she is facing life threat from me, Sunil Tiwari, Nishikant Dubey (BJP MP) and one other person from Mumbai whom I don’t know. That is when I had asked him (Sunil Tiwari) to become an intervener in that case and later also to file a writ petition in the Supreme Court, demanding a CBI probe in that case,” Marandi told reporters at a press conference here.The BJP legislator said he had also written to the Maharashtra police chief and Mumbai police commissioner to conduct a probe and provide security to the girl. “I demand an independent probe in this case, be it by CBI or by a High Court judge. We will also take up this issue with the Governor once he returns from New Delhi,” Marandi said. A case has been filed with the Argora police station in state capital Ranchi agaisnt Tiwari on a complaint of the 20-year-old girl from Khunti district, police said. The girl has accused Tiwari of rape, physical assault and life threat. He has been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act, officials said. According to the first information report (FIR), the incident took place between March and September 2020 and the complaint was filed on August 16, 2021. The police, however, did not elaborate. JMM’s Bhattacharya said while rape allegations against the CM was fabricated and a defamation case has been filed with a lower court in Ranchi, Marandi was passing verdicts when police were still probing the case. “He (Marandi) is a former chief minister and has considerable influence. He should not put unnecessary pressure on police when probe is still on, especially in cases related to tribal girls who are often exploited due to their vulnerability,” said Bhattacharya. Tiwari, meanwhile, said he was being framed. “I have filed a writ petition in Supreme Court regarding the rape allegation against chief minister Hemant Soren by a Mumbai girl, seeking a CBI investigation. The case is to come up for hearing on August 23. The case against me is a result of that. I had written to the chief secretary, home secretary, Ranchi police as well as government of India on June 19 itself seeking protection. I had clearly mentioned in the letter that I was getting threats from different quarters threatening not to pursue the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/marandis-aide-booked-for-rape-bjp-jmm-trade-fire-101629304359349.html
19-08-2021||Delhi||Sunanda Pushkar case: Shashi Tharoor cleared of charges by Delhi court||A Delhi court on Wednesday dropped all charges against Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor in the case of his wife Sunanda Pushkar’s alleged suicide, seven years after she was found dead in a luxury hotel room in the Capital.Special judge Geetanjali Goel exonerated Tharoor of all charges and gave him a clean chit in the matter. A detailed order is awaited.“The accused is discharged,” the judge said in a virtual hearing.During the hearing, Tharoor thanked the judge: “Grateful Your Honour. It has been seven and a half years of absolute torture. I really appreciate it”.Later, in a statement, he said that justice has been done and it will allow everyone in the family to mourn Pushkar in peace.Also Read | ‘No issues with Sonia, Rahul; joined TMC unconditionally’“In our justice system, the process is all too often the punishment. Nevertheless, the fact that justice has been done, at last, will allow all of us in the family to mourn Sunanda in peace,” Tharoor said.He said that the order brought a significant conclusion to the “long nightmare which had enveloped me after the tragic passing of my late wife Sunanda”.“I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated,” the former Union minister said.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, appearing for the police, said that they were yet to get a copy of the court’s order. “We have not got the order copy and only after analysing the issues we will think of filing an appeal with the approval of the concerned department,” he told HT.Pushkar was found dead in the suite of a luxury hotel on the night of January 17, 2014, following which the police sealed the room and registered an FIR. The couple was staying at the hotel because Tharoor’s official bungalow was being renovated.The case quickly grabbed national headlines and sparked a political tussle between the then ruling Congress party and its primary challenger, the Bharatiya Janata Party, months before general elections.Delhi Police registered the first FIR on January 1, 2015 against unidentified persons. It questioned Tharoor and others, and conducted a polygraph test on six people, including the minister’s help and staff.On May 15, 2018, Delhi Police filed a 3,000-page charge sheet against Tharoor under sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. The maximum punishment for the offence is 10 years of imprisonment.He denied all charges, calling them “preposterous and motivated”. “I have taken note of the filing of this preposterous charge sheet & intend to contest it vigorously. No one who knew Sunanda believes she would ever have committed suicide, let alone abetment on my part... If this is conclusion arrived at after 4+ yrs of investigation it does not speak well of the methods or motivations of the Delhi Police,” he had tweeted at the time.Tharoor was granted anticipatory bail in July that year. He was never arrested in the case.During the trial, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, argued that no case of abetment to suicide was made out against his client. Pahwa told the court that doctors were not able to ascertain the cause of death or establish whether Pushkar had indeed died by suicide and, hence, the prosecution case was nothing but “a figment of imagination of the police”.Pahwa had earlier said the post-mortem examination and other medical reports allegedly established that it was neither a suicide nor homicide. He also said during the course of the investigation, there were a plethora of reports by experts before the investigating officer (IO) but there was “no definite opinion on the cause of death”.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava had stressed that Pushkar has undergone mental cruelty which led to poor health. Shrivastava also argued that it was not an accidental death and relied on the post mortem report that suggested the cause of death was poisoning.He also said due to the alleged mental cruelty caused to Pushkar, her health worsened. The prosecutor further added that Pushkar was earlier not facing any health issue but problems began due to “stress and betrayal”.After the judgment on Wednesday, Pahwa said that the charges levelled by the police were absurd and preposterous, and that even the most essential ingredients of the offences were not present. “All the reports of various medical boards including psychological autopsy reports exonerated Dr Shashi Tharoor from the charges of homicide or suicide. The charge sheet filed was without any basis,” he said.“There was no complaint by anyone for harassment or abetment to suicide by any of the family members or friends of late Sunanda Pushkar Tharoor. I am happy that at last after seven years, justice has prevailed and he has been honourably discharged from all the charges made by Delhi Police against him,” he said.In the last seven years, three city police commissioners supervised the investigation -- BS Bassi, Alok Verma and Amulya Patnaik.The Congress welcomed the judgment.“The truth always wins. The constant abuse, innuendos and slander of our colleague Shashi Tharoor by BJP and its crony TV anchors comes to naught,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.Tharoor’s party colleague Jairam Ramesh also spoke out in his support. “For seven years my friend and colleague Shashi Tharoor was harassed and subjected to vilification, abuse and mental torture. Today, he stands vindicated…,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sunanda-pushkar-case-shashi-tharoor-cleared-of-charges-by-delhi-court-101629267036125.html
19-08-2021||World||India highlights role of Pak terror groups in Afghanistan at UNSC||Groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Haqqani Network continue to operate with impunity and encouragement, India said at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on Thursday, urging countries to not “take a selective, tactical or complacent view” of terrorism and calling out countries that undermine the global fight against terrorism.Members were gathered to discuss threats to international peace and security by terrorism and the meeting was held under India’s current presidency of the UNSC. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who chaired the meeting, did not name any country but targeted those that provided sanctuaries and extended hospitality to such groups.“It is, therefore, vital that this Council does not take a selective, tactical or complacent view of the problems we face. We must never countenance sanctuaries for terrorists or overlook their raising of resources. And when we see state hospitality being extended to those with innocents blood on their hands, we should never lack the courage to call out their double-speak,” he said.“Let us always remember that what is true of Covid is even more true of terrorism: none of us are safe until all of us are safe,” he added.This was the third signature event organised by India while holding the rotating presidency of the UN’s top body for August.Other Security Council members joined India’s call for a zero tolerance approach towards all forms of terrorism, and most of the countries, including the US, the UK and China, called for holding the Taliban accountable to its commitment to not allow Afghan soil to be used any terrorist groups.At a media stakeout following the briefing, Jaishankar said both India and Afghanistan have been affected by cross-border terrorism. “I specifically mentioned some of the groups...Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba. And I think this is a continuing issue, and we made the point very strongly that it’s important therefore that there are no double standards, there are no distinctions. Terrorism is terrorism,” he said.On Afghanistan, the minister reiterated what he said on Wednesday that India, like other countries, was focused on getting back its citizens safely and that the country’s ties with the future dispensation in Kabul will be guided by its historic ties with the people. “We are working with international partners in this regard, principally the US because they control the airport,” he said.After the briefing, the UNSC issued a statement specifically condemning specific terrorist incidents around the world and the spread of the Islamic State group. It urged member countries “to ensure that all measures undertaken to counter the financing of terrorism comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, international human rights law and international refugee law”.At the briefing, Jaishankar reiterated an eight-point plan that he had first laid out for the Security Council in January, which opposed justifying or glorifying terrorism -- as has been done by Pakistan – and distinguishing between “good” or “bad” terrorists -- which too has also been done by Islamabad. In a thinly veiled reference to China, the action plan also opposed attempts to block and hold up designation of terrorists and entities without any reason.The minister recalled India’s long involvement in countering terrorism as a country that has suffered deeply to express “solidarity with victims and their families all over the world who have suffered, and continue to suffer, from the scourge of terrorism”.He added: “We must never compromise with this evil.”In spite of the progress made to tighten the legal, security, financing and other frameworks to combat terrorism, terrorists are constantly finding newer ways of motivating, resourcing and executing acts of terror, the minister said, citing even the use of Bitcoin in some instances.“Unfortunately, there are also some countries who seek to undermine or subvert our collective resolve to fight terrorism. This cannot be allowed to pass,” he said.Jaishankar was pointing to Pakistan’s continued support for terrorism, which came under fresh scrutiny as the Taliban recaptured Afghanistan after operating from sanctuaries across the border.The situation in Afghanistan, the minister said, has “naturally enhanced global concerns about their implications for both regional and international security”, especially with heightened activities of the Haqqani Network, the armed wing of the Taliban, which has operated from safe havens in Pakistan.In conclusion, the minister called for adopting the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism that India has championed for so long.The UNSC briefing considered the 13th report of the Secretary General on the threat posed by ISIL (Daesh) to international peace and security. The August 3 report states that Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan has expanded its presence in several provinces of Afghanistan and strengthened positions in and around Kabul.The report said that one of the main risks identified by member states is that “militants in Afghanistan, from the Taliban or other groups, may join the Daesh affiliate if they feel alienated or threatened by developments in the Afghan peace process”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-highlights-role-of-pak-terror-groups-in-afghanistan-at-unsc-101629396453386.html
19-08-2021||World||G7 foreign ministers call for ‘shared mission’ to prevent crisis from escalating in Afghanistan||The G7 group of countries on Thursday called for a “united response” from the international community in response to the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover. “The G7 Ministers call on the international community to come together with a shared mission to prevent the crisis in Afghanistan escalating,” a statement by the British foreign minister Dominic Raab, after a meeting of the foreign ministers of the G7 nations, noted.The meeting was chaired by Raab, in which the foreign ministers of member nations the US, France, Italy, Germany, Japan and Canada, took part. Notably, most member nations of the G7 are involved in the evacuation of their embassy staff, diplomats and civilians in Afghanistan.In the statement, the G7 foreign ministers further said “The crisis in Afghanistan requires an international response including intensive engagement on the critical questions facing Afghanistan and the region: with the Afghans most affected, parties to the conflict, the UN Security Council, the G20, international donors, and with Afghanistan’s regional neighbours.”Also read | Foreign expats say ‘terrified locals’ hindering access to Kabul airport: ReportThe group also said that the ministers would work towards an “inclusive political settlement, enable life-saving humanitarian assistance and support in Afghanistan and the region, and prevent any further loss of life in Afghanistan and to the international community from terrorism.”Further, the leaders also urged the Taliban to hold true to their commitments on protecting the civilians in the country and expressed concerns about reports of violence in parts of the country. They also called for the militants to guarantee safe passage to Afghan nationals and foreigners who want to leave the country.“G7 Ministers discussed the importance of the international community providing safe and legal resettlement routes. They concurred that the Taliban must ensure that Afghanistan does not become host to a terrorist threat to international security,” the statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/g7-foreign-ministers-call-for-shared-mission-to-prevent-crisis-from-escalating-in-afghanistan-101629394992101.html
19-08-2021||World||Former Afghan leaders warn Taliban non-inclusive government won’t be successful||A delegation of erstwhile Afghan leaders and officials have warned the Taliban that if they fail to form a non-inclusive government, they won’t be able to govern successfully and the country will return to the post-1996 situation once again. “The new government will only succeed if all stakeholders are made part of it,” speaker Wolesi Jirga Mir Rehman Rehmani told reporters on Thursday.The delegation of Afghan leaders, including Mir Rehman Rehmani, Salahud din Rabbani and former Afghan vice-president Mohammad Yunus Qanooni, among others, met top civil and military leadership including Prime Minister Imran Khan, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, and chief of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Lt. General Faiz Hameed, they visited Pakistan on Thursday and later interacted with the press.Also Read: Afghan women throw babies over wired fence at Kabul airport compound in desperate attempt to flee Afghanistan: ReportFormer Afghan vice-president, Mohammad Younis Qanooni, reiterated Rehmani’s words, insisting that the future government in Afghanistan should be inclusive, with the participation of all ethnic groups. “We oppose a rule by one party or group,” he said. Another Afghan politician, Khalid Noor, cautioned the militant group that if they do not respect the rights of people their rule will not survive for long.The Taliban have been holding talks with former Afghan President Hamid Karzai and chief peace envoy Abdullah Abdullah since Wednesday, after taking control of Kabul on August 15. So far, the senior Taliban leaders have assured the international community and the stakeholders of the erstwhile government that the new regime will be much more inclusive than the older one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-afghan-leaders-warn-taliban-non-inclusive-government-won-t-be-successful-101629394304004.html
19-08-2021||World||Afghan women throw babies over wired fence at Kabul airport compound in desperate attempt to flee Afghanistan: Report||Kabul airport has become a picture of chaos and desperation after the fall of Afghanistan into the hands of the Taliban.As per the reports of Sky News, in a heartbreaking incident, desperate Afghan women were seen throwing their babies over the razor wire of the Kabul airport compound.A senior British officer told Stuart Ramsay from Sky News that they can hear the sound of shouting, the noise of desperation as thousands of people are flooding towards Kabul airport that will, for some, be the gateway to freedom - and for many others, the end of a dream of escaping the Taliban."It was terrible, women were throwing their babies over the razor wire, asking British soldiers to take them, some got caught in the wire," he told Ramsay."I'm worried for my men, I'm counselling some, everyone cried last night," added the officer.The report of Sky News narrated that day and night families - often with children - have risked their lives, ducking past gunfire at the gates of the civilian side of the airport; passing aggressive Taliban, who occasionally beat and harass them.On either side of a narrow road, inside the walls of the compound at Kabul airport, exhausted British soldiers lie in the shade waiting for their turn to head back outside into the chaos once again.As every day passes, the relief operation gets more and more urgent and desperate, as the British military tries to move thousands of people out of Afghanistan in just days.It's a humanitarian mission in what feels like a war zone, the Taliban are just one metre away from the British soldiers, reported Sky News.Up the road, the Taliban are controlling the crowds of people trying to reach the British position near Kabul airport.Sometimes they fire into the air, making people stop. They are a menacing presence, reported Ramsay.The Taliban took control over Afghanistan on Sunday after entering the presidential palace in Kabul.The Taliban leaders are discussing future government plans in Doha and are in touch with the international community and intra-Afghan parties to make government in Afghanistan.The world is closely watching the unfolding situation in Afghanistan as the countries have scrambled to evacuate its citizen from Afghanistan in an attempt to secure their people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-women-throw-babies-over-wired-fence-at-kabul-airport-compound-in-desperate-attempt-to-flee-afghanistan-report-101629390626082.html
19-08-2021||World||Taliban 'intensifying' search for Afghans who helped US forces: UN document||The Taliban is intensifying a search for people who worked with US and NATO forces, a confidential United Nations document says, despite the militants vowing no revenge against opponents.The report -- provided by the UN's threat-assessment consultants and seen by AFP -- says the group has "priority lists" of individuals it wants to arrest.Most at risk are people who had central roles in the Afghan military, police and intelligence units, according to document.The Taliban have been conducting "targeted door-to-door visits" of individuals they want to apprehend and their family members, the report says.It adds that militants are also screening individuals on the way to Kabul airport and have set up checkpoints in major cities, including the capital and Jalalabad.The document, dated Wednesday, was written by the Norwegian Center for Global Analyses, an organization that provides intelligence to UN agencies."They are targeting the families of those who refuse to give themselves up, and prosecuting and punishing their families 'according to Sharia law,'" Christian Nellemann, the group's executive director, told AFP."We expect both individuals previously working with NATO/US forces and their allies, alongside with their family members to be exposed to torture and executions."This will further jeopardize western intelligence services, their networks, methods and ability to counter both the Taliban, ISIS and other terrorist threats ahead," he added.The report says the militants are "rapidly recruiting" new informers to collaborate with the Taliban regime and are expanding their lists of targets by contacting mosques and money brokers.The Taliban have launched a public relations blitz since sweeping back into power on Sunday, including promising a full amnesty for all who worked with the elected Afghan government.But Afghans and observers have not forgotten the Taliban's ultra-conservative Islamic regime of 1996-2001 when brutal punishments, such as stoning to death for adultery, were imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-intensifying-search-for-afghans-who-helped-us-forces-un-document-101629388780439.html
19-08-2021||World||UNSC shouldn’t have selective approach to tackle terrorism: India||India on Thursday called upon the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) not to “take a selective, tactical or complacent view” of terrorism saying groups such as Lashkar-e-Toiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad and the Haqqani Network still operate with impunity. It said some countries continue to “undermine or subvert our collective resolve”, and the unfolding events in Afghanistan remain a cause of global concern.“Let us always remember that what is true of Covid is even more true of terrorism: none of us are safe until all of us are safe,” Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar said in an impassioned plea comparing the scourge of terrorism to Covid-19, the pandemic that has killed millions around the world. The minister was participating in a UNSC briefing on threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts, specially the Islamic State. This was the second UNSC meeting he chaired since Wednesday, when he had presided over an open debate of the council on peacekeeping. “We are happy to note that a very strong substantive, clear press statement has been adopted by the council today that outlines, many of the key concerns, especially the need to ensure a strict check on terror financing and bringing the perpetrators of terror attacks to justice,” the minister said to reporters after the UNSC meeting, adding, “During our deliberations today all Security Council members with one voice, endorsed a zero tolerance approach to terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We are clear that there cannot be double standards and distinctions are really made at our collective peril.”On Afghanistan, the minister reiterated what he said on Wednesday that India, like other countries, was focused on getting back its citizens safely and that India’s ties with the future dispensation in Kabul will be guided by its historic ties with the people.The press statement specifically condemning specific terrorist incidents around the world and the spread of IS. Making a larger point, it also urged member countries “to ensure that all measures undertaken to counter the financing of terrorism comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, international human rights law and international refugee law”.During his remarks at the UNSC briefing, the minister did not name any country, as he went on to reiterate an eight-point plan that he had first laid out for the Security Council in January, that had called for not to justify or glorify terrorism as has been done by Pakistan, not to distinguish between good or bad terrorists, which has also been done by Islamabad, and, in a thinly veiled reference to China, not to block and hold up designation of terrorists and entities without any reason.The minister recalled India’s long involvement in countering terrorism as a country that has suffered more than its fair share of terrorist incidents to express “solidarity with victims and their families all over the world who have suffered, and continue to suffer, from the scourge of terrorism”. He added: “We must never compromise with this evil.”In spite of the progress made to tighten the legal, security, financing and other frameworks to combat terrorism, terrorists are constantly finding newer ways of motivating, resourcing and executing acts of terror, the minister said, adding, “Unfortunately, there are also some countries who seek to undermine or subvert our collective resolve to fight terrorism. This cannot be allowed to pass.”Jaishankar was pointing to Pakistan’s continued support for terrorism, which came under fresh scrutiny as the Taliban recaptured Afghanistan operating from sanctuaries across the border.The situation in Afghanistan, the minister said, has “naturally enhanced global concerns about their implications for both regional and international security”, specially with heightened activities of the Haqqani Network, the armed wing of the Taliban, which has operated from safe havens in Pakistan.“Whether it is in Afghanistan or against India, groups like Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad continue to operate with both impunity and encouragement,” the minister said, raising concerns about the threat of terrorism faced by India from these proscribed groups that operate from bases in Pakistan. “It is, therefore, vital that this council does not take a selective, tactical or complacent view of the problems we face.”“We must never countenance sanctuaries for terrorists or overlook their raising of resources. When we see state hospitality being extended to those with innocents’ blood on their hands, we should never lack the courage to call out their double-speak,” the minister said further.He went on to reiterate an eight-point plan he had unveiled in January before the council: don’t justify terrorism, don’t glorify terrorists; display no double standards, terrorists are terrorists, distinctions are made only at our own peril; don’t place blocks and holds on listing requests without any reason; discourage exclusivist thinking and be on guard against new terminologies and false priorities; list and delist objectively, not on political or religious considerations; recognise the linkage to organised crime; support and strengthen the FATF (Financial Action Task Force) ; and provide greater funding to UN Office of Counter Terrorism.The minister had clearly pointed to China when he urged countries against placing blocks and holds on designation of terrorists. Citing frivolous reasons, Beijing held up the designation of Masood Azhar of the Jaish-e-Mohammad for years by the UN Security Council before being forced to relent by the US, France and United Kingdom.And he was pointing to Pakistan when he asked countries not to seek the enlisting or delisting of terrorist and entities for political and religious reasons.In conclusion, the minister called for adopting the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism that India has championed for so long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unsc-shouldn-t-have-selective-approach-to-tackle-terrorism-india-101629390594462.html
19-08-2021||World||Joe Biden defends Covid-19 booster vaccines in US, would get the shots along with First Lady||US President Joe Biden and the First Lady Jill Biden will get their Covid-19 booster vaccine, the President had said on Wednesday in an interview to ABC News that was aired on Thursday. The President said that he would receive the booster shot even as the World Health Organization (WHO) experts expressed concerns over equitable vaccine distribution after the US said that it would provide boosters to all its citizens.“We are going to get the booster shots. We got our shots all the way back in, I think, December. So, it's past time,” Biden replied when asked if he and the First Lady had got their booster shots.The US health officials had said that the effectiveness of the vaccines against the disease diminished over time, based on findings from recent studies. Booster shots would be offered in the country from September 20, the officials also said.Also read | Taliban project moderate face. Biden thinks it's an ‘existential crisis’However, several experts from the World Health Organisation had expressed their concerns about equitable distribution of the vaccines following the US announcement. The UN health agency said that the data “clearly” showed that top-up for vaccines were not needed. Further, the WHO also cautioned the possibilities of new variants of the disease emerging from the unvaccinated regions. In reply, White House press secretary Jen Psaki and US surgeon general Vivek Murthy said that the US is also contributing globally in the fight against the pandemic.During the interview, Biden, too, made a similar case supporting the US decision to provide boosters. When asked if he was comfortable with US citizens getting a third shot when millions around the world are yet to receive their first, Biden replied, “Absolutely because we're providing more to the rest of the world than all the rest of the world combined. We got enough for everybody (and) Americans, plus before we get to the middle of next year, we are going to provide a half a billion shots to the rest of the world. We are keeping our part of the bargain. We are doing more than anybody.”The US authorities said that people who had received the Pfizer and the Moderna shots would need a booster after eight months of the second dose. Biden was inoculated with the Pfizer vaccine, with a first dose in December 2020 and a second dose in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-defends-covid-19-booster-vaccines-in-us-would-get-the-shots-along-with-first-lady-101629390159460.html
19-08-2021||World||Taliban project moderate face. Biden thinks it's an ‘existential crisis’||Amid the Taliban’s attempt to project themselves as moderates, US President Joe Biden said he doesn’t think the Islamist fundamentalists have changed at all and appeared more committed to their beliefs. In an interview with ABC aired on Thursday, Biden raised apprehensions about the Taliban wanting to be recognised as a legitimate government by the international community."I think they're going through a sort of existential crisis about: Do they want to be recognized by the international community as being a legitimate government? I'm not sure they do," said Biden, who has been facing flak for rushing the troops out of Afghanistan.The US president was asked whether he thought the Taliban had changed since his administration followed through the withdrawal process. "No," he replied.Kabul fell to the Taliban weeks after the insurgents intensified offensive against Afghanistan's national security forces as US-led foreign troops finalised their withdrawal.Also Read | Moderate Taliban is an oxymoronThe ouster of Afghanistan’s democratically elected government has also triggered all forms of crisis - social, political, economic, and humanitarian. Biden said the Taliban have to grapple with the needs of Afghans, suggesting that the group won’t be able to fulfil its promises."They also care about whether they have food to eat, whether they have an income that ... can run an economy, they care about whether or not they can hold together the society that they in fact say they care so much about," Biden told ABC. "I'm not counting on any of that."Meanwhile, analysts fear that the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan risks emboldening jihadists worldwide. They argue that the ouster of Ashraf Ghani’s government in a lightning push despite years of war involving US-led foreign troops could serve as an example to jihadists on how “patience and careful strategy can pay off even after the defeat of IS in Syria and Iraq,” reported news agency AFP."The Taliban's victory will give jihadist groups worldwide a major boost. It makes them believe that they can expel foreign powers, even major military powers like the United States," AFP quoted Colin Clarke, director of research at the New York-based Soufan Centre think tank, as saying.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-project-moderate-face-biden-thinks-it-s-an-existential-crisis-101629387317970.html
19-08-2021||World||'Over 5200 US troops on ground at Kabul airport, nearly 7000 people evacuated': Army general William Taylor||The United States said on Thursday its troop strength on the ground at the Kabul airport stands at more than 5200, adding that the city’s Hamid Karzai International Airport remains “secure and open for flight operations.” The remarks were made by US Army Major General William “Hank” Taylor, the deputy director of the Joints Chiefs of Staff, in a press conference at the Pentagon.Also Read | Can’t be complacent about terror groups in Afghanistan, says India at UNSC meet“The US footprint at the Kabul airport is now over 5200 troops on the ground. Kabul Airport remains secure and open for flight operations. Since the start of evacuation operations on August 14, we have evacuated approximately 7000 total evacuees,” Major General Taylor said at the press briefing, according to news agency ANI.Also Read | Taliban clear-headed, rational than two decades ago: China“However, if we go back to when the Department of Defense began to support the State Department with the movement of the Special Immigrant Visas at the end of July, the cumulative number of people moved out of Afghanistan is 12,000,” he added.If we go back to when the Department of Defense began supporting the State Department with movement of Special Immigrant Visas at the end of July, the cumulative number of people moved out of Afghanistan is 12,000: US Army Major General William “Hank” TaylorWhen questioned on the number of evacuation flights from all countries out of the Kabul Airport, the officer said that while he does not have the numbers, flight operations are being coordinated by the US Central Command (Centcom).John Kirby, the press secretary for the United States Department of Defense, too, spoke at the briefing. In response to a question Kirby said that the 7000 evacuees mentioned by Major General Taylor also included citizens from the US’ allies.Also Read | Foreign expats say ‘terrified locals’ hindering access to Kabul airport: ReportUS president Joe Biden had earlier authorised 6000 troops to secure the airstrip at the Kabul airport, which, since the capture of the city by the Taliban on August 15, has been swamped by Afghans desperate to leave their country to a safer location. Among visuals that have emerged from the airport are those of Afghan men clinging to a departing aircraft of the US Air Force, as well as of Afghan women pleading with the US troops to be allowed to enter the airport premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-5200-american-troops-on-ground-in-kabul-nearly-7000-people-evacuated-us-army-general-william-taylor-101629386657229.html
19-08-2021||World||Can Taliban survive without Heroin as they vow to ban drug trade, smuggling?||Heroin production has boomed in Afghanistan in recent years, helping fund the Taliban, and experts say they will struggle to wean themselves off the profitable trade despite their promise to do so.Speaking Tuesday at a first press conference since taking power, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid promised that the new government would not turn the world's leading producer of opium into a fully-fledged narco-state."We are assuring our countrymen and women and the international community, we will not have any narcotics produced," Mujahid told reporters in Kabul."From now on, nobody's going to get involved (in the heroin trade), nobody can be involved in drug smuggling."But the anti-heroin rhetoric -- like similar pledges to respect human rights and media freedom -- are seen by analysts as part of efforts by the new Taliban leaders to show a more moderate face in order to secure international backing.The vast majority of the world's opium and heroin comes from Afghanistan, with production and exports centred in areas controlled by the Taliban, which has taxed the drugs heavily during their 20-year insurgency.It has become a key resource for the group and they could struggle to ban it, said Jonathan Goodhand, an expert in the international drugs trade at SOAS University of London."Drugs will bring out a set of tensions in the movement," he predicted.On one hand, "they want to create this image of themselves as more moderate and more open to engagement with the West and they realise drugs is one of way of doing this," he said.But on the other, any repression would hit farmers in the Taliban political heartlands of Helmand and Kandahar provinces in particular."It's going to struggle to take a very aggressive approach to drugs," he added.- Near-monopoly -In his premier press conference, Mujahid pleaded for "international assistance" to provide farmers with alternative crops to poppies, the source of sap that is refined into morphine and heroin.The appeal for international aid might prompt hollow laughs from people who worked in the coalition of NATO forces, NGOs and UN workers over the last 10 years that tried in vain to break Afghanistan's reliance on poppy farming.The United States spent around $8.6 billion (7.4 billion euros) from 2002 to 2017 in its doomed effort to combat the drugs trade, according to a 2018 report from the US Special Inspector General for Afghanistan (SIGAR).Those efforts included paying farmers to grow wheat or saffron, investing in transport links, as well as spraying defoliants on crops and bombing refining facilities.At each step, they found themselves thwarted by Taliban fighters who controlled the main poppy-growing regions and derived hundreds of millions of dollars from the industry, according to US and Afghan government estimates.Farmers in Taliban-controlled areas would often come under pressure to plant poppies from local warlords and fighters, investigations have found.As a result, the country has a near-monopoly on opium and heroin, accounting for 80 to 90 percent of global output, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).The amount of land planted with poppies hit a record high in 2017 and has averaged around 250,000 hectares in the last four years, roughly four times the level of the mid-1990s, UN figures show.- 'Too tied up' -The narcotics policy of the new government will affect global heroin prices, with repercussions for Western countries and their addicts, as well as Russia, Iran, Pakistan and China -- all major smuggling routes but also huge markets for Afghan drugs.In recent years, traffickers have also discovered that a plant commonly found in Afghanistan called ephedra can be used to create a key component of methamphetamine, better known as "crystal meth".Still, spokesman Mujahid vowed Afghanistan would be a "narcotics-free country" moving forward.It's not the first time the fundamentalist group has vowed to outlaw the trade. Production was banned in 2000, just before the group was overthrown by US-led forces.Gretchen Peters, the American author of the book "Seeds of Terror: How Heroin Is Bankrolling the Taliban and Al-Qaeda", said the Taliban's previous ban on poppy cultivation was tactical."They were under immense international pressure," she said. "It was a ploy because they had so much stored up. They made a huge amount of money once the price shot up by 10 times.""They are not going to get rid of the drug trade because they are too tied up with it.""Afghanistan cannot survive without opium. It is simultaneously killing Afghanistan while also keeping a huge number of people alive," she said, referring to the income the industry provides to poor farmers.Being in control of the country will offer the Taliban access to airlines, the state bureaucracy and banks which could be used to facilitate drug smuggling and money laundering, she explained."I have no doubt they will exploit it."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-taliban-survive-without-heroin-as-they-vow-to-ban-drug-trade-smuggling-101629370764396.html
19-08-2021||World||US Capitol Police probing 'active bomb threat' near Library of Congress, area evacuated||The US Capitol Police are probing a bomb threat after they found a suspicious vehicle near the Library of Congress, a research library that officially serves the United States Congress. The US Capitol Police issued an alert on social media platforms, saying it is “an active bomb threat investigation”. The police said they were “responding to a suspicious vehicle near the Library of Congress.”“The staging area for journalists covering this situation is at Constitution and First Street, NW for your safety. Please continue to avoid the area around the Library of Congress,” the law enforcement agency added.The threat has been reported days after the US department of homeland security issued a new terrorism threat advisory due to the “heightened threat environment” ahead of the 20th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks. The National Terrorism Advisory System (NTAS) said last Friday in its bulletin that the US continues to face a “diverse and challenging” threat environment.“Today’s NTAS Bulletin advises the public about the heightened threat landscape we face and how DHS is working with our partners, at every level of government and in the community, to combat domestic terrorism and targeted violence in all its forms," secretary of homeland security Alejandro N. Mayorkas said in a statement.The homeland security department warned that the extremists and terror groups are increasingly exploiting online forums to spread violent extremist narratives and promote violent activity.“Such threats are also exacerbated by impacts of the ongoing global pandemic, including grievances over public health safety measures and perceived government restrictions,” the advisory added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-police-probing-bomb-threat-near-congress-library-101629383858966.html
19-08-2021||World||Taliban clear-headed, rational than two decades ago: China||The Taliban appear to be more clear-headed and rational than two decades ago, China said on Thursday, adding that Beijing was in talks with the group and called international powers to be more objective in dealing with the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan.Reacting to the latest developments in Afghanistan, the Chinese foreign ministry said Beijing was aware of the suspicions towards the Taliban but added that “nothing in the world is set in stone”.“When dealing with a problem, we should not only depend on what has happened in the past, but also on what is happening now. This is done not only by listening to what is said, but also by watching what is done,” foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said.She added that the rapidly changing situation in Afghanistan shows that the past judgement on the nation by the outside world lacked objectiveness and an accurate grasp of public opinion in Afghanistan.Quoting what the Taliban leadership has so far said, Hua said, they have given the assurance that the militant group will work to resolve the problems faced by the people, meet their aspirations, and strive to build an open, inclusive Islamic government. “We have also noticed that some political figures of Russia and other countries and many international media have recognised Afghan Taliban’s behaviour after it entered Kabul, believing their good, positive and pragmatic actions.”“Although the Afghan situation is not fully clear yet, they believe the Afghan Taliban will not repeat history, and the Afghan Taliban today is more clear-headed and rational than it was in power last time,” Hua added.The Taliban have also stated that it is committed to equality for all and will protect women’s freedom of speech, employment and educational rights, Hua said, responding to a question whether Beijing will demand the protection of rights of women unlike when the group was in power 20 years ago.On Wednesday, China said it will decide on extending diplomatic recognition to the Taliban in Afghanistan only after the formation of the government, which it hoped would be “open, inclusive and broadly representative”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-clear-headed-rational-than-two-decades-ago-china-101629380267330.html
19-08-2021||World||Foreign expats say crowds of ‘terrified locals’ hindering access to Kabul airport in Afghanistan: Report||As chaos continued in Afghanistan on Thursday following the Taliban’s takeover, some expats have said that they were unable to reach the airport, as several countries scramble to proceed with the evacuation process.On Thursday, some expats said that they could not reach the Kabul airport due to the crowds of “terrified locals” who blocked their way, British news website Daily Mail reported. Paul ‘Pen’ Farthing, a former Marine who currently lives in Kabul with his wife, told the Daily Mail that two expats were forced to return as they could not get through the crowds.“Two expats - one British and one Norwegian - have already been forced to turn back this morning because they can't get through,” the Daily Mail quoted Farthing as saying on Thursday.He also said that on Wednesday, a UN convoy was also forced to return due to the number of people on the streets. “And last night a UN convoy carrying various foreign nationals, who had been working in Afghanistan for NGOs, had to turn around because of the sheer volume of people on the street,” he further said.The report also noted that earlier in the day, UK defence secretary Ben Wallace had said that the Taliban militants were allowing people with travel documents through checkpoints and no British flights were flying empty, saying that “not a single seat is wasted.” Wallace also said that as many as 120 people were evacuated from Afghanistan on Thursday morning with another 138 people scheduled to be evacuated later in the day, the Daily Mail also reported.Meanwhile, the US has demanded safe passage for the tens of thousands of people trying to flee the hardline regime in the country. Earlier, several news reports said that the Taliban militants have manned checkpoints around the Kabul airport, which raised concerns about the safety of the people trying to reach the airport. “We have seen reports that the Taliban, contrary to their public statements and their commitments to our government, are blocking Afghans who wish to leave the country from reaching the airport,” news agency AFP quoted deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman as saying.The official further said that the US expects the militants to allow “all American citizens, all third-country nationals and all Afghans” who wanted to leave the country to do so without any harassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/foreign-expats-say-crowds-of-terrified-locals-hindering-access-to-kabul-airport-in-afghanistan-report-101629379423432.html
19-08-2021||World||'Significant majority' of Americans doubt Afghan war was worthwhile, survey finds||At a time when the Taliban regime has firmly established itself in Kabul, a survey conducted the Associated Press (AP) in partnership with the NORC Center for Public Affairs Research has found that a "significant majority" of Americans are doubtful if the Afghan war was "worthwhile." The AP-NORC poll commenced on August 12, three days before the Taliban captured Kabul, and concluded on August 16, a day after Afghanistan's capital city was conquered.Also Read | Family of Afghan boy who fell off US plane speaks out, says searching for younger sonThough the survey does not specify its sample size, it claims that roughly two-thirds or around 66 per cent respondents think that the war, which, at nearly 20 years, is America's longest, was "worth fighting." On president Joe Biden, who, in April, issued directions to withdraw the US troops, 47 per cent respondents voiced approval for his management of international affairs, while 52 per cent expressed satisfaction with his national security policies.Also Read | Taliban's Afghanistan takeover biggest event since Crimea: EU's Josep BorrellBiden, who has come under severe criticism both at home and abroad for the chaos in Afghanistan, has twice defended his decision to recall US troops. He broke his silence on the issue on Monday, delivering his second defence on Wednesday.The joint survey also found that the scenes emanating from Afghanistan, in particular from the Kabul airport of Afghans desperately trying to leave their country, have left people "conflicted" even if they are opposed to the war. "I don't believe we should have there in the first place. But now, I do feel we probably should stay, after seeing the trouble we've caused," a 23-year-old respondent, who voted for Biden last year, was quoted as saying.Also Read | 'Haven't said no': Taliban dismiss reports of not wanting trade relations with certain countriesAdditionally, about half of the respondents said they are "extremely or very concerned" about threats to the US posed by extremist groups based away from the country. Another one-third say they are "moderately" concerned, while roughly 1 in 10 said they are not concerned.The Taliban initially ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001, when they were defeated by the US-led troops who arrived here following the 9/11 attacks. The group's recent advance towards Kabul, and its subsequent victory, came amid American troops withdrawing from Afghanistan.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/significant-majority-of-americans-doubt-afghan-war-was-worthwhile-survey-finds-101629375239961.html
19-08-2021||World||Family of Afghan boy who fell off US plane speaks out, says searching for younger son||The rush to leave Afghanistan has claimed lives of many innocent citizens who dread the Taliban rule. Since the fall of capital Kabul on Sunday, there has been a huge rush at Hamid Karzai International (HKI) airport.Also Read: Taliban's Afghanistan takeover biggest event since Crimea, says EU's Josep BorrellThe horrific scenes, as reported by local and global media, have emerged from the airport where thousands of people have been seen running along the US aircraft on the tarmac. One such scene showed a man falling from a transport plane which was in air after taking off.US publication Vice News spoke to the family of the person - a 17-year-old - who it said left home with his 16-year-old brother on Monday, a day after Taliban capture Kabul.The family members told Vice News that they were very upset after finding the body of the teenager, but are worried about the whereabouts of his brother. “His legs and arms were gone. I brought him back myself,” a family member said.The video showing 17-year-old's body falling from the plane like a tiny speck sent shockwaves across the world. Many rights group and other organisations called for intervention to control the situation in Afghanistan.Painful to see. In a desperate attempt to leave Afghanistan, 3 Afghans held onto the wheels of a departing U.S. Air Force C-17. Needless to say, they fell to their deaths when the plane took off. @akhbar pic.twitter.com/TfnVGiGXkTThe family members Vice spoke to said they hope to find their younger son "dead or alive"; they have searched all the hospitals in Kabul but have so far not received any information about the 16-year-old.The boys left the home after hearing a rumour that 20,000 people from Afghanistan will be relocated to the United States and Canada, which prompted the boys to try their luck at the airport, Vice reported, quoting one of the members of the family.The situation is bad in Afghanistan, the family members further told Vice, and everyone is trying to run away fearing the rule of Taliban as they are killing people.Two other people have died after falling from the C-17 planes used by the United States to ferry its citizens and other people out of Afghanistan. Their bodies were tracked down by the locals who were present at the airport and carried put of the airport. The family members of the 17-year-old identified his mangled body from among those brought back from the airport.The family members are now appealing to the media to help them find their younger son. The brothers were the eldest of eight siblings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/everyones-trying-to-run-away-family-of-afghan-boy-who-fell-off-a-us-plane-101629376572757.html
19-08-2021||World||2 killed, 25 injured in explosion during Muharram procession in Pakistan||A powerful explosion ripped through a Muharram procession in central Pakistan's Punjab province on Thursday, killing at least two, including a seven-year-old girl, and wounding 25 people, senior police officials said.The incident took place in Bahawalnagar, some 260 kilometres from Lahore when a Shia procession was heading to an Imambargah as part of the annual Ashura commemoration.Videos circulating on social media showed people running around in panic after the blast and ambulances rushing injured persons to the hospital.The senior police officer told PTI that apparently a man threw grenades at the procession despite high security."Two persons including a seven-year-old girl Maheen and 20-year-old Salman lost their lives while over 25 were injured," he said.He said the suspect threw grenades when the procession passed by the Jamaia Masjid Mohajir Colony at 10 am this morning."Police have arrested the suspect on the spot," he said.A senior police official from Multan also said the police had arrested the man who threw the grenade on the Ashura procession."He is in police custody and investigations will be carried out to find out his links and contacts as well," he said.Rescuers have shifted the injured to district headquarters hospital Bahawalnagar where the condition of five of them is said to be critical.Another senior officer of the Punjab government confirmed the death of two persons and scores of injures in the attack and said it was a sensitive matter that is why the police and the government were not issuing any statements."Ashura processions are underway in the country and we don't want to create panic through this tragic news," he said.Opposition Senator Sehar Kamran condemned the attack on the Shia procession and termed it a "cracker attack" and prayed for the recovery of those who were injured.Bahawalnagar was trending on Twitter on Thursday with people posting videos of the incident, even as mobile services remained suspended in Pakistan's major cities, including Karachi, Hyderabad, Quetta, and Sukkur to avoid any untoward incident during the Ashura processions.Shiite Muslims took out processions across Pakistan amid tight security arrangements on Thursday, commemorating the martyrdom of Imam Hussain on Muharram 10.The annual commemoration mourns the death of Prophet Muhammad's grandson Hussein, one of the most revered figures of Shiite Muslims.Prime Minister Imran Khan and President Arif Alvi urged citizens in their separate messages to ensure compliance with coronavirus standard operating procedures."Imam Hussain became a symbol of force against falsehood and strength for all movements fighting against tyranny in the times to come," Radio Pakistan quoted Khan as saying.The president urged the nation to rise above hatred, malice, and sectarianism in line with the teachings of Imam Hussain, the state broadcaster reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-killed-25-injured-in-explosion-during-muharram-procession-in-pakistan-101629374366750.html
19-08-2021||World||'Haven't said no': Taliban dismiss reports of not wanting trade relations with certain countries||The Taliban on Thursday rejected the reports of them not wanting trade relations with any nation, claiming the “rumours” about their trade preferences are not true. Taking to Twitter, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said that the group wants “better diplomatic and trade relations” with all countries.“The Islamic Emirate wants better diplomatic and trade relations with all countries. We have not said no about not trading with any country. The rumours that have been spread about this are not true and we reject it,” tweeted Mujahid, who made his first public appearance this week after Kabul fell to the Ismalist fundamentalists.The Taliban’s statement comes a day after news agency ANI reported the rebels have stopped all imports and exports from India through transit routes of Pakistan. The director-general of the Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO), Ajay Sahai, told ANI that the Taliban has stopped the movement of cargo to Pakistan, which has virtually halted the imports to India."We keep a close watch on developments in Afghanistan. Imports from there come through transit route of Pakistan. As of now, Taliban has stopped movement of cargo to Pakistan, so virtually imports have been stopped," ANI quoted Sahai as saying.India has been one of the largest trade partners of Afghanistan in recent times and has invested heavily in infrastructure and reconstruction projects in the war-torn country. But the Taliban takeover has raised apprehensions about the future of trade relations and infrastructure projects in Afghanistan.“We imported goods worth around $510 million. But besides the trade, we have a sizeable investment in Afghanistan. We have invested around $3 billion in Afghanistan and there are 400-odd projects in Afghanistan some of which are currently going on," said Sahai.While exports range from sugar, pharmaceuticals, apparel, tea, coffee, spices and transmission towers, imports are largely limited to dry fruits. Sahai expressed concern that prices of dry fruits may go up in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/havent-said-no-taliban-dismiss-reports-of-not-wanting-trade-relations-with-certain-countries-101629369409014.html
19-08-2021||World||Taliban's Afghanistan takeover biggest event since Crimea: EU's Josep Borrell||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan is the most important geopolitical event since Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea in 2014, the EU's foreign policy chief said on Thursday.Josep Borrell told the European Parliament major worries included a possible surge in refugees and increasing complexity in Central Asia -- with Turkey, China and Russia all vying to increase their influence in the region.Borrell reiterated that the EU was being forced to "establish channels of communication" with the Taliban to ensure the evacuation of its nationals and Afghan staff and their families."Yes, we have to talk with the Taliban but that doesn't mean recognition," he said.Borrell said the collapse of the Western-backed regime in Afghanistan was "the most important geopolitical event since the Crimea annexation by Russia" in 2014.The 27-nation EU will now have to extend a "diplomatic reach-out" to Iran, Pakistan and India to manage the fallout, Borrell said."Current developments are going to have a wide-ranging impact on regional international security," he said, adding that Brussels planned to work with the US and other allies to develop "a common approach".Borrell's comments to the European Parliament's foreign affairs and development committees were made a day before an emergency videolink meeting of NATO foreign ministers to discuss Afghanistan and the consequences.Most of NATO's 30 member states are EU countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/talibans-afghanistan-takeover-biggest-event-since-crimea-eu-s-josep-borrell-101629370735392.html
19-08-2021||World||Ahmad Massoud, son of assassinated anti-Taliban fighter, requests US for weapons||The son of Afghanistan's most famed anti-Taliban fighter says he has the forces to mount an effective resistance, but called on the United States to supply arms and ammunition to his militia.In an op-ed published Wednesday in The Washington Post, Ahmad Massoud said "America can still be a great arsenal of democracy" by supporting his fighters."I write from the Panjshir Valley today, ready to follow in my father's footsteps, with mujahideen fighters who are prepared to once again take on the Taliban," he said.His father Ahmad Shah Massoud, known as the Lion of Panjshir, led the strongest resistance against the Taliban from his stronghold in the valley northeast of Kabul until his assassination in 2001.Famed for its natural defences, the redoubt tucked into the Hindu Kush mountains never fell to the Taliban during the civil war of the 1990s, nor was it conquered by the Soviets a decade earlier, and is now Afghanistan's last remaining holdout.Hoping to follow in his "father's footsteps", Massoud said he has been joined by former members of the country's special forces and soldiers from the Afghan army "disgusted by the surrender of their commanders".Social media images show Afghanistan's defiant vice president Amrullah Saleh meeting with Massoud, and the duo appear to be assembling the first pieces of a guerrilla movement to take on the Taliban."But we need more weapons, more ammunition and more supplies," Massoud said.'Ground zero'Tens of thousands of people have tried to flee Afghanistan since the hardline Islamist terrorist swept into the capital on Sunday, completing a stunning rout of government forces and ending two decades of war.Nearly 6,000 people -- including US citizens and Afghans -- have been evacuated by the US military, with the government urging the Taliban to allow safe passage for people to flee.Massoud said the Taliban poses a threat beyond Afghanistan's borders."Under Taliban control, Afghanistan will without a doubt become ground zero of radical Islamist terrorism; plots against democracies will be hatched here once again."Massoud said his fighters are ready for the coming conflict, but need American assistance.Since their takeover, the Taliban have been showing off the huge stash of weapons, equipment and munitions they have seized from Afghan forces -- most of it supplied by the United States.Social media images showed Taliban fighters carrying M4 and M18 assault rifles, M24 sniper weapons, and driving around in the iconic US Humvees.The seizures have heightened criticism of President Joe Biden's hasty withdrawal.Massoud said that, after 20 years, the US and Afghanistan have shared "ideals and struggles" and he asked Washington to continue supporting the "cause of freedom" rather than abandon Afghans to the Taliban."You are our only remaining hope," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahmad-massoud-son-of-assassinated-anti-taliban-fighter-requests-us-for-weapons-101629367056733.html
19-08-2021||World||Fallout in Afghanistan means West is now perceived as 'weak', says UK defence secretary||British defence secretary Ben Wallace on Thursday said that the fallout in Afghanistan after two decades of war led by the United States means that the resolve of the West is now perceived as weak by major adversaries such as Russia."What I’m uncomfortable with is that we have a world order now, where resolve is perceived by our adversaries as weak, the West’s resolve,” Wallace told the BBC.Wallace also said that the fallout is something "all of us should worry about.""If the West is seen not to have the resolve and it fractures, then our adversaries like Russia find that encouraging,” he added.Afghanistan is in a state of disarray as the US troops started pulling out, creating a vacuum for the Taliban to gain control of the government. Britain expressed concerns the Taliban's return to power creates a haven for terrorist groups including Al-Qaeda."Around the world, Islamists will see what they will view as a victory and that will inspire other terrorists," Wallace said in the interview.Earlier in the day, the Taliban celebrated Afghanistan's Independence Day by declaring they beat the United States. It is not clear how the group will rule the south Asian country this time as challenges to their rule, ranging from running a country severely short on cash and bureaucrats to potentially facing armed opposition, are starting to emerge.A humanitarian crisis is also starting to unfold in Afghanistan due to the mass exodus of people fearing the radical policies of the Taliban.On Wednesday, the head of the UN food agency in Afghanistan said that a humanitarian crisis is unfolding with 14 million people facing severe hunger following the Taliban takeover of the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fallout-in-afghanistan-means-west-is-now-perceived-as-weak-uk-minister-101629366704315.html
19-08-2021||World||Convalescent plasma did not stop Covid-19 progression, show NIH trial results||Convalescent plasma did not show any significant benefit for high-risk group of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outpatients when given as early symptoms emerged, the results of a key clinical trial showed. The trial was funded by National Institutes of Health (NIH), US Department of Health and Human Services.The trial was stopped in February as it did not prevent the progression of the infection as expected, a statement from NIH said. Principal investigator Clifton Callaway said that the reduction they observed was less than two per cent.“That was surprising to us. As physicians, we wanted this to make a big difference in reducing severe illness and it did not,” he was quoted as saying in the trial paper published in The New England Journal of Medicine.The NIH is funding more such studies to get conclusigve evidence to see if the treatment can help Covid-19 partients recover faster. The patients include those in hospitals as well as recovering at home.India had dropped the plasma therapy from the list of treatment for Covid-19 patients in May this year after evidence showed it wasn't benefiting the patients in any way.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma rich in virus-fighting antibodies from recovered Covid-19 patients to aid the immune system in fighting off the infection.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted a similar trial in September last year and the data showed that the therapy did not prevent progression to severe disease or reduce the number of deaths at 28-days of enrolment of the patient.Many health experts across India had urged the central government to exercise caution against the "irrational and non-scientific use" of convalescent plasma in treating Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/convalescent-plasma-did-not-stop-covid-19-progression-show-nih-trial-results-101629365727630.html
19-08-2021||World||Several killed after Taliban fire on protesters in Afghan city: Report||Despite the promise of peace in Afghanistan, the Taliban on Thursday fired on protesters waving the national flag in the city of Asadabad which led to a stampede, killing many, reported news agency Reuters. In the first signs of popular opposition to the insurgents, the protesters in Asadabad were reportedly waving the national flag after tearing down the white flags of the Taliban. It isn’t clear whether the casualties resulted directly from the firing or the subsequent stampede."Hundreds of people came out on the streets," Reuters quoted a witness named Mohammed Salim as saying. "At first I was scared and didn't want to go but when I saw one of my neighbours joined in I took out the flag I have at home.""Several people were killed and injured in the stampede and firing by the Taliban," the witness from the eastern city, the capital of Kunar province, added.The Taliban has not commented on the incident yet.Also Read | Afghan crisis: Propaganda against Taliban false, says Pakistani ministerThe local media has reported about similar protests in the eastern city of Jalalabad and a district of Paktia province with no reports of serious violence.Afghanistan celebrates independence from British control on August 19 every year, and many took the opportunity to protest against the Islamist fundamentalist group. On Wednesday, similar scenes were reported in Asadabad and another eastern city, Khost, with protesters tearing down the white banner of the Taliban in some areas.Afghanistan's first vice president Amrullah Saleh, who recently declared himself the "caretaker" president following Ashraf Ghani's escape, voiced support for those carrying the national flag. "Salute those who carry the national flag & thus stand for dignity of the nation & the country," he tweeted.The latest firing will again raise questions about the Taliban’s assurances of them being a moderate group as against their extremist version when they ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001, before they were ousted by the US-led foreign forces.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/several-killed-after-taliban-fire-on-protesters-in-afghan-city-report-101629364375318.html
19-08-2021||World||Afghan crisis: Propaganda against Taliban false, says Pakistani minister||Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said the propaganda by former Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani’s government against the Taliban has proven to be false as they declared a general amnesty across the war-torn country and also said there will be no ban on the education of girls, according to a report by the Dawn on Thursday.Two days back, the Taliban announced amnesty across the country and urged women to join their government. “The Islamic Emirate doesn’t want women to be victims,” Taliban’s cultural commission member Enamullah Samangani told the Associated Press on Tuesday, adding the Islamic Emirate didn’t want women to be victims and they should be in government structure as per the Shariah law.Underlining the fact that peace and stability in Afghanistan was crucial for Pakistan, Qureshi told reporters that that entire world was privy to the fact that earlier there was a “corrupt setup and system in Afghanistan”, the Dawn report said.“In the given situation, it was extremely important to ensure safety and security as well as protection of rights of the Afghan people,” Qureshi had said on Wednesday.The Pakistani minister spoke to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday over the developments taking place in Afghanistan. Qureshi informed the Chinese foreign minister of Pakistan’s efforts to evacuate personnel and staff of diplomatic missions, international organisations, media and others from the war-ravaged country.Also Read| 'Warnings ignored': Ex-CIA official says Afghan decision a policy failureHis remarks come at a time when videos on social media and reports from Afghanistan say that Taliban fighters are patrolling the streets with armed weapons, looking for ex-government staff. A video accessed by Fox News shows women being beaten up for not wearing a burqa in a public place. CNN carried an account of one of the girls in a remote village in Faryab province, in which she described how Taliban fighters forcibly entered their house and beat her mother to death over refusal to cook food for the fighters.The Taliban, who occupied the whole of Afghanistan at lightning speed, announced Afghanistan’s independence day on Thursday. The insurgents took control of the capital city of Kabul on Sunday, after the previous government backed by the United States fell and Ashraf Ghani fled the country, bringing a complete stop to a nearly 20-year-old campaign where the United States tried to transform Afghanistan.(With AP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-crisis-propaganda-against-taliban-false-says-pakistani-minister-101629359087514.html
19-08-2021||World||Taliban urge Afghans to leave Kabul airport after days of deadly chaos||The Taliban on Thursday urged crowds of Afghans waiting outside Kabul airport in the hope of fleeing the country to go home, saying they did not want to hurt anyone, a day after Taliban fighters fired at protesters, killing three, witnesses said.The United States and other Western powers pressed on with the evacuation of their nationals and some of their Afghan staff from the airport on Afghanistan's Independence Day, which could trigger more protests against the Islamists.While Kabul has been generally calm since Taliban forces entered on Sunday after a week of stunning advances across the country, the airport has been in chaos as people rushed for a way out of Afghan capital.Twelve people have been killed in and around the airport since Sunday, a NATO and a Taliban official said. The deaths were caused either by gun shots or by stampedes, the Taliban official said.He urged people who do not have the legal right to travel to go home. "We don't want to hurt anyone at the airport," said the Taliban official, who declined to be identified.About 8,000 people have been flown out since Sunday, a Western security official said. The U.S. military is in charge of the airport while Taliban fighters patrol outside its walled and fenced perimeter.On Wednesday, witnesses said Taliban gunmen prevented people from getting into the airport compound."It's a complete disaster. The Taliban were firing into the air, pushing people, beating them with AK-47s," said one person trying to get out on Wednesday.A Taliban official said commanders and soldiers had fired into the air to disperse the crowd. The situation was more calm on Thursday, witnesses said.Under a pact negotiated last year by former President Donald Trump's administration, the United States agreed to withdraw its forces in exchange for a Taliban guarantee they would not let Afghanistan be used to launch terrorist attacks.The Taliban also agreed not to attack foreign forces as they left.President Joe Biden said U.S. forces would remain until the evacuation of Americans was finished, even if that meant staying past a Aug. 31 U.S. deadline for withdrawal.The Taliban have been putting on a moderate face, saying they have changed since their 1996-2001 rule when they severely restricted women, staged public executions and blew up ancient Buddhist statues.They now say they want peace within the framework of Islamic law.But there are serious doubts about their assurances.'My flag'Demonstrations in the eastern city of Jalalabad on Wednesday marked the first major display of collective defiance of the Taliban takeover.In normal times, the country would celebrate Afghanistan's 1919 independence from British control on Aug. 19, but scenes in Jalalabad raised the prospect that people could use the patriotic occasion to protest.Two witnesses and a former police official told Reuters Taliban fighters opened fire when protesters in Jalalabad tried to raise the national flag, killing three and wounding more than a dozen.Video footage posted online and aired by media showed hundreds of people in Jalalabad with the black, red and green tricolour flying from rooftops and carried by some protesters. Media reported they had torn down the white Taliban flag."I will sacrifice my life for this flag. This is my flag. My government will soon be back, God willing," said one protester wrapped in the tricolour in a report from Sky News.The centre of opposition to the Taliban is the Panjshir Valley, an ethnic-Tajik stronghold to the northeast of Kabul.In an op-ed for the Washington Post, Amad Massoud, the Panjshiri leader of the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan called for Western support to fight the Taliban."I write from the Panjshir Valley today, ready to follow in my father’s footsteps, with mujahideen fighters who are prepared to once again take on the Taliban," wrote Massoud, the son of Amhad Shah Massoud, a veteran guerrilla leader assassinated by suspected al Qaeda terrorist on behalf of the Taliban in 2001.Other former Afghan leaders including ex-president Hamid Karzai, have been holding talks with the Taliban as they put together a new government.The Taliban government may take the form of a ruling council with supreme leader Haibatullah Akhundzada in overall charge, said Waheedullah Hashimi, a senior member of the group.Afghanistan would not be a democracy. "It is sharia law and that is it," he told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-urge-afghans-to-leave-kabul-airport-after-days-of-deadly-chaos-101629361030009.html
19-08-2021||World||Afghanistan too big for Pakistan to swallow, for Talibs to govern: Amrullah Saleh||The self-proclaimed caretaker president of Afghanistan Amrullah Saleh on Thursday tweeted that Afghanistan is too big for Pakistan to swallow and too big for Talibs to govern. "Don't let your histories have a chapter on humiliation and bowing to terror groups," he wrote as he was reacting to the tweet of a former White House official.As the Taliban took control over Afghanistan on August 15 and Ashraf Ghani left the country, Amrullah Saleh announced that under no circumstances, he will bow to the Taliban. On August 17, he declared himself as the caretaker President and said that as per the constitution of Afghanistan, in absence, escape, resignation or death of the President, the first vice president becomes the caretaker President. "I am currently inside my country & am the legitimate caretaker President. Am reaching out to all leaders to secure their support and consensus," he said.What is Panjshir Resistance? 10 things to know about alliance against TalibanThough Saleh's whereabouts are unknown, he is believed to be in the Panjshir Valley of the Panjshir province of Afghanistan, firming up the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan."It is futile to argue with POTUS on Afghanistan now. Let him digest it. We the Afghans must prove that "Afghanistan is not Vietnam and the Talibs are not even remotely like Vietcong. Unlike US/NATO, we have not lost spirit and see enormous opportunities ahead. Unless caveats are finished. Join the resistance," Amrullah recently tweeted.A follower of Ahmad Shah Massoud, Amrullah Saleh, a native of Panjshir Valley, was a member of the Northern Alliance, which was formed when the Taliban came to power in 1996. He received his military training in Pakistan and in 1997 was appointed by Massoud as the liaison officer of the Northern Alliance in the Afghan Embassy in Tajikistan.As part of the Nothern Alliance, Amrullah Saleh became a point-person of the CIA in Afghanistan.After the Taliban regime was toppled, Amrullah Saleh became the head of the National Directorate of Security in 2004, when Hamid Karzai was the president. Then he served as the interior minister of Ashraf Ghani presidency and later became the first vice president. The Afghan embassy in Tajikistan has put up his photo as the caretaker head of state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-too-big-for-pak-to-swallow-for-talibs-to-govern-amrullah-saleh-101629360788988.html
19-08-2021||World||'Afghan decision a result of political consideration, not an intelligence failure': Ex-CIA official||United States President Joe Biden has been at the receiving end for not stopping the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan, which is now under the control of the Taliban. Biden has acknowledged that the Taliban takeover happened "much sooner than expected", but a damning account by a former US intelligence official of how warnings were ignored can spell further trouble for the Biden administration.Douglas London, who worked as Central Intelligence Agency's (CIA) counterterrorism chief for South and Southwest Asia before retiring in 2019, has said that the agency warned about the outcome of early withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan to former president Donald Trump years ago. Despite the warnings, Trump made the decision, which was ratified by his successor Joe Biden, London said in an article published in Just Security, a website on law, rights, and US national security.London rubbished the narrative that it was an intelligence failure, and said that the Afghanistan decision was taken due to "political and ideological considerations"."It was a path to which Trump and Biden allowed themselves to be held captive owing to the “ending Forever Wars” slogan they both embraced," he said in the article.Also Read: Haqqani network cadres control Kabul, Mullah Yaqoob in KandaharThe ex-CIA official said that the US intelligence agencies had assesses the situation in Afghanistan according to various scenarios and conditions depending on multiple policy alternatives.He further said that the federal government was warned by the intelligence community that Afghan politicians, warlords and miltary leaders who benefitted from America's sustained presence and money may lose confidence if US forces withdraw. "Switching sides for a better deal or to fight another day is a hallmark of Afghan history," London added.Among the different scenarios presented to the US federal government were retaining 5,000 troops and most of the existing forward military and intelligence operating bases, to at least maintaining a number 2,500 troops and larger bases in greater Kabul, Bagram, Jalalabad and Khost, he said. That would have prevented Afghanistan's collapse for 1-2 years and still provide for a degree of continued US counterterrorism pressure, London added.A "Kabul only" option was also presented with the retention of the sprawling US Bagram air base and other intelligence facilities, said London, adding that none of these scenarios were adopted which led to dissolution of government within days.Afghanistan fell into turmoil after the Taliban seized power in the country by capturing province after province since launching their offensive in May. It ended with the fall of Kabul on Sunday.The Taliban celebrated Afghanistan's Independence Day on Thursday by declaring it had beaten the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/warnings-ignored-ex-cia-official-says-afghan-decision-a-policy-failure-101629358994703.html
19-08-2021||World||What is Panjshir Resistance? 10 things to know about alliance against Taliban||The Panjshir Valley remains the last area of Afghanistan standing strong against the Taliban. Afghan ambassador to Tajikistan Zahir Aghbar has said that this province will serve as a stronghold for resistance against the Taliban by Amrullah Saleh, the first vice president of the erstwhile Afghan government who has claimed himself as the acting president of Afghanistan. The Afghan embassy in Dushanbe in Tajikistan put up the portrait of Amrullah Saleh as the caretaker head of state.While resistance is being fomented from the valley, here are 10 things you must know about the Panjshir valley.1. The valley is located north of Kabul in the Hindu Kush. This was a resistance stronghold against the Soviets in the 1980s and then against the Taliban in the 1990s.2. Amrullah Saleh was born in Panjshir province and was trained there.3. Since it always remained the resistance zone, it was never conquered by any forces -- neither by foreign forces nor by the Taliban.4. Panjshir valley means the valley of the five lions. The name acknowledges a legend that says back in the 10th century, five brothers managed to contain the floodwaters. They built a dam for Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni, it is said.5. The valley is home to over one lakh people and many of them are Tajiks. The valley has the country's largest concentration of ethnic Tajiks.6. The valley is the epicentre of what is being called the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan or the Second Resistance. Ahmad Massoud, Amrullah Saleh, Bismillah Khan Mohammadi are the leaders of the Panjshir Resistance.7. This is also being called a renewed Northern Alliance. Northern Alliance was the coalition of rebel groups that opposed the Taliban rule between 1996 and 2001. Apart from Ahmad Shah Massoud, Amrullah Saleh, the alliance included Karim Khalili, Abdul Rashid Dostum, Abdullah Abdullah, Mohammad Mohaqiq, Abdul Qadir, Asif Mohseni etc.8. The Taliban have not attacked Panjshir and many believe that it is because of the location of the valley, which makes it a natural fortress.9. The whereabouts of Amrullah Saleh is not known but he is believed to be in Panjshir. On Thursday, he took to Twitter and wrote, "Nations must respect the rule of law, not violence. Afghanistan is too big for Pakistan to swallow and too big for Talibs to govern. Don't let your histories have a chapter on humiliation and bowing to terror groups."10. Ahmad Massoud, son of Ahmad Shah Massaoud, has sought help from the West. In an opinion piece published in the Washington Post, he wrote, "I write from the Panjshir Valley today, ready to follow in my father’s footsteps, with mujahideen fighters who are prepared to once again take on the Taliban. We have stores of ammunition and arms that we have patiently collected since my father’s time, because we knew this day might come...The Taliban is not a problem for the Afghan people alone. Under Taliban control, Afghanistan will without doubt become ground zero of radical Islamist terrorism; plots against democracies will be hatched here once again."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-panjshir-resistance-10-things-to-know-about-alliance-against-taliban-101629356324482.html
19-08-2021||World||New Zealand says it solved Covid-19 'puzzle' that forced nation into lockdown||New Zealand reported a breakthrough Thursday in tracing the source of a Covid-19 outbreak that plunged the nation into lockdown, with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern saying it should help "stamp out" the virus.Health officials have been trying to determine how an Auckland man contracted the coronavirus this week, ending a six-month run of no community cases in New Zealand.Tests showed the man had a version of the Delta strain found in Australia, and Ardern said investigations narrowed down the origin to a person who arrived from Sydney on August 7.She said the traveller had been in quarantine and hospital since touching down, indicating the virus had not been in the community as long as initially feared."We believe we have uncovered the piece of the puzzle we were looking for," Ardern told reporters.She said finding the outbreak's source also increased the "ability to circle the virus, lock it down and stamp it out".Case numbers grew by 11 overnight to a total of 21, she said.Ardern ordered a three-day national lockdown -- New Zealand's first in 15 months -- when the first case emerged on Tuesday, with Auckland and nearby Coromandel facing restrictions for a week."We're all prepared for cases to get worse before they get better, that's always the pattern in these outbreaks," she said.But she said there were grounds for cautious optimism "because we believe it wasn't here for long before it was found".The infected traveller arrived from Sydney on a so-called "red zone" flight, arranged to bring back New Zealanders stranded when Wellington suspended a trans-Tasman travel bubble due to multiple outbreaks in Australia.The person tested positive two days later and was hospitalised a week after that.Officials said it was still unclear how the virus spread into the community and 1,000 close contacts of positive cases were being assessed.A decision is due Friday on whether the three-day lockdown will be extended or end by Saturday.'Covid zero' strategyNew Zealand has adopted a policy of eliminating the virus in the community, rather than containing it, which has resulted in only 26 deaths in a population of five million.Neighbouring Australia has been pursuing a similar "Covid zero" strategy but is struggling to contain outbreaks of the Delta variant.Health authorities on Thursday urged mass Covid testing for an entire Outback town in far western New South Wales, where an outbreak that began in Sydney two months ago is spreading.The area is grappling with Australia's first significant outbreak in Aboriginal communities, with specialist military health teams deployed this week to boost sluggish vaccination efforts.Early in the pandemic, Wilcannia's roughly 750 residents put up signs on the town's limits asking travellers not to stop -- fearing the virus could obliterate an already vulnerable community, where more than 60 per cent identify as Indigenous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-says-it-solved-covid-19-puzzle-that-forced-nation-into-lockdown-101629356259835.html
19-08-2021||World||'Wasn't aware how important US President's role is': Donald Trump||Former president of the United States Donald Trump this week gave a rare interview since leaving the office earlier in January, in which he admitted that he wasn't aware of the President's power and how important the role is in the country. The interview was broadcast on Fox News on Tuesday night which gave a glimpse of Trump's understanding of the presidential powers."I have never realised how important, frankly - and it is a horrible thing to say - how important a president, the head of this country is,” the Republican leader said in the interview. Trump also said that he had thought that the office would "maybe run through the bureaucracy.""It doesn't. You need somebody up there that they are going to respect," he added.During the conversation, Trump also spoke about the US forces pullout from Afghanistan and slammed President Joe Biden for the mismanagement in the process. He called his handling of the issue "the greatest embarrassment in the history of our country"."I don't think in all of the years, our country has ever been so humiliated," Trump said, adding, "there has never been anything like what's happened here."Afghanistan is facing one of the worst humanitarian crises in the history of the country as US forces began pulling out of the country after striking a deal with the Taliban insurgents. With most of the troops already withdrawn, the Taliban took over the capital city of Kabul over the weekend after the collapse of the Afghan government.The issue created massive turmoil in the country as mass exodus was triggered by people fearing the return of the brutal regime of the Taliban which had ended in 2001 with the US' entry.This has led to massive backlash for Biden as critics say that the evolvi crisis could have been prevented if Washington had strategised it better.The peace deal between the US and the Taliban was cracked during Trump's presidency in which Washington promised to leave Afghanistan in exchange for a promise by the Taliban to not attack their country.However, during Tuesday's interview, Trump refused to share the blame for the Afghanistan crisis.Meanwhile, the head of the UN food agency in Afghanistan on Wednesday said that a humanitarian crisis is unfolding with 14 million people facing severe hunger following the Taliban takeover of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wasnt-aware-how-important-us-president-s-role-is-donald-trump-101629354876417.html
19-08-2021||World||Days after deadly earthquake, fresh tremors strike city in Haiti||Haitian city of Les Cayes was shaken by tremors late on Wednesday, news agency Reuters reported. This comes a few days after a devastating earthquake killed almost 2,189 people across the Caribbean nation, according to its civil protection agency.There were no immediate reports of deaths or damage in the region by Wednesday's quake.More than 12,000 people were injured when an earthquake jolted the south-western region of the country on Saturday (August 14), about 160 kilometres to the west of the capital city Port-au-Prince.Also Read| Explained: What makes Haiti prone to earthquakesThe civil protection agency also said that rescue and relief operations are continuing and 332 people have been reported as missing. Saturday’s earthquake of 7.2 magnitude led to the destruction of tens of thousands of buildings and also triggered landslides. Haiti is still continuing to recover from the effects of the earthquake back in 2010 which killed more than 200,000 people.The Les Cayes General Hospital in the Les Cayes city, which is already overwhelmed by regular patients, is also witnessing a large number of injured quake victims being admitted. Several patients had to lie in patios, corridors, verandas and hallways of the hospital due to lack of space. The city has also been battered by continuous rainfall.There is a growing impatience among the quake survivors in Haiti with regard to the sluggish arrival of relief material to the severely affected areas. Reuters reported on Wednesday that dozens of people went to the Les Cayes airport demanding food as a helicopter with supplies arrived there. Police had to intervene to allow a truck carrying the relief aid to leave. There have also been growing concerns for remote places outside Les Cayes, where access roads are damaged, hampering the delivery of such relief material.Also Read| Tropical depression Grace causes torrential rains in Haiti days after earthquakePierre Cenel, a judge in Les Cayes, hit out at the government over its non-preparedness to deal with the calamity. “As a judge, I must not have a political opinion. But as a man, as a man concerned about the situation of my country, nothing is working. They didn’t do anything to prepare for this disaster,” he was quoted as saying by Reuters on Wednesday.Jerry Chandler, the head of the civil protection agency, said that aid was yet to reach many areas, adding officials were working hard to ensure its delivery. Acknowledging the frustration of the people, Chandler urged them to not block convoys so that the agency could do its job. There were at least 600,000 people in need of humanitarian assistance and 135,000 families displaced, he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/days-after-deadly-earthquake-fresh-tremors-strike-city-in-haiti-101629351690564.html
19-08-2021||World||Canada to resume evacuation flights from Afghanistan soon: Defence minister||Canada has announced that evacuation flights from Afghanistan will resume “shortly”. The country expects to take in as many as 20,000 refugees fleeing the Taliban regime in Kabul.While all Canadian diplomats were evacuated before the Afghan capital fell to the Taliban, rescue operations stalled due to uncertainty over access to the Kabul airport. However, that is now expected to begin as Canada’s defence minister Harjit Sajjan tweeted on Wednesday evening that Canadian Armed Forces (CAF) flights to and from Hamid Karzai International Airport will “resume shortly” under Op AEGIS. That operation is being carried out by the CAF and two CC-177 Globemasters “have been assigned for evacuation efforts and will be flying regularly into Kabul”.“These flights will continue as long as the security situation on the ground permits, and will focus on evacuating Canadians and Afghan nationals who have an enduring relationship with Canada’s mission in Afghanistan,” Sajjan added.The issue that Canada is facing is not just access to the airport but also those seeking to escape being prevented from doing so by the Taliban. This issue was addressed by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as he told reporters that the “limiting factor” was “not paperwork” or “connections with the Canadian government” but “people being unable to get to the airport”.Sajjan said that it was his “absolute priority” to bring Afghan nationals who supported Canada’s mission in the country “to safety” and that the government was “in constant contact with our allies on this urgent matter”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-to-resume-evacuation-flights-from-afghanistan-soon-defence-minister-101629349903993.html
19-08-2021||World||Haqqani network cadres control Kabul, Mullah Yaqoob in Kandahar||The Taliban Islamist cadre visited closed Indian consulates in Kandahar and Herat, searched almirahs in Kandahar for papers and took away parked vehicles from both the embassies even as door-to-door searches are being conducted in Kabul to identify Afghans who worked for NDS intelligence agency. Reports on Indian consulate in Jalalabad and mission in Kabul are not available.Watch: Taliban flaunt weapons, dollars after US, IMF freeze funds amidst Afghan turmoilAccording to reports reaching from Kabul indicate that nearly 6,000 cadre of Haqqani Network have taken control of the capital city led by Anas Haqqani, brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, head of terrorist group and deputy leader of the Taliban. While Anas Haqqani met former president Hamid Karzai, Chairman HCNR Abdullah Abdullah and Hezb-e-Islami veteran Gulbuddin Hetkmatyar, it is understood that the movements of both Karzai and Abdullah are restricted and controlled by the Taliban. Negotiations are on to ensure to get both Karzai and Abdullah to stage a formal handing over power to the Taliban leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Barader in the Presidential Palace. Sirajuddin Haqqani is said to be passing instructions from Quetta.While Haqqani network cadre are largely controlling Kabul, the Taliban faction headed by Mullah Yaqoob, son of late Mullah Omar and head of Taliban military commission, is planning the take over of power and government from Kandahar, the traditional seat of Pashtuns. Mullah Barader met Mullah Yaqoob after he arrived from Doha on August 18. It was here in Kandahar that Mullah Yaqoob’s father was declared Emir ul Momeen on April 4, 1996. The religious head of Taliban, Mullah Haibatullah Akundzada, is still based in Karachi in Pakistan.Although negotiations are on within the Taliban leadership on the formation of government at Kabul, the Pakistan based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), a fellow Deobandi terrorist group, is apparently demanding a stake in the Afghan pie with jagirs or land in south Afghanistan. With the ascent of Taliban in Kabul, there is celebration both within the JeM as well as their handlers in Rawalpindi as troves of cash and top of the line US weapons and military vehicles have been seized by the new invaders.While India and its close allies are in a wait and watch mode, the Taliban are getting support from Britain whose Chief of Defence Staff General Nick Carter is openly lobbying for the Sunni Pashtun group to be given a chance at Kabul. It was Carter along with Pakistan Army who were instrumental in cutting out a botched up deal for the US with the Taliban through special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haqqani-network-cadres-control-kabul-mullah-yaqoob-in-kandahar-101629347132112.html
19-08-2021||World||EAM Jaishankar to chair important UNSC meeting today||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will chair the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) briefing on "threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts" on Thursday (local time), under India's presidency in August.The Foreign Minister also chaired a high-level meeting at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on Wednesday (local time). The event was an Open Debate on 'Protecting the Protectors: Technology and Peacekeeping'.This comes as the Taliban on Sunday took control of Kabul and installed themselves in the presidential palace in Kabul.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in a press release said that both these topics are priorities for India during its UNSC innings.Jaishankar reached New York on Monday to preside over two high-level meetings of the UNSC on UN peacekeeping and terrorism."Today in the UNSC. EAM @DrSJaishankar will chair UNSC meetings: Adoption of Resolution on "Protecting the Protectors" on @UNPeacekeeping; Open Debate on Technology and Peacekeeping," India at UN tweeted.On Tuesday, Jaishankar met with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and held discussions on Afghanistan. "Good to meet UN Secretary-General @antonioguterres. Our discussions focused on Afghanistan, following upon the Security Council meeting yesterday," Jaishankar tweeted.The world is closely watching the unfolding situation in Afghanistan as the countries have scrambled to evacuate their citizens from Afghanistan in an attempt to secure their people.President Ashraf Ghani fled the country as the terrorists entered the city on Sunday. Panic gripped the Afghan capital as people fear about a return to the Taliban's brutal rule and the threat of reprisal killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eam-jaishankar-to-chair-important-unsc-meeting-today-101629346257946.html
19-08-2021||World||World Photography Day 2021: Why is it celebrated?||August 19 of every year is celebrated as World Photography Day across the world, dedicated to the art, craft, science and history of photography.Photography is a very important medium of storytelling. It conveys emotions instantly and sometimes more effectively than words. With the rapid advancements in camera technology, it has become one of the primary modes of communication in the digital world.On this day, photographers come together to celebrate the creativity and nuances of photography that captivates us for years.HistoryThe day traces its origins to 1837 when the first-ever photographic process, the ‘Daguerreotype’ was developed by the Frenchmen Louis Daguerre and Joseph Nicephore Niepce. On January 9, 1839, the French Academy of Sciences announced this process, and later in the same year, the French government purchased the patent for the invention and gave it as a gift, "free to the world.”However, the first durable colour photograph was taken in the year 1861 and there is even speculation about the first digital photograph being invented in 1957, 20 years before the invention of the first digital camera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-photography-day-2021-why-is-it-celebrated-101629346705214.html
19-08-2021||World||'Simple choice': Biden responds to criticism of intelligence failure in Afghanistan||United States President Joe Biden on Wednesday responded to the criticism that the hasty pullout of forces from Afghanistan was a glaring intelligence failure, saying it was "a simple choice". Biden also said that the fallout in Afghanistan following the pullout could not have been handled in a way without "chaos ensuing".In an interview with an American television ABC, Biden was asked whether the situation over the past one week was a result of intelligence, planning, execution, or judgement failure. To this Biden responded by saying that he "doesn't think it was a failure" and it was a simple choice.Biden also pinned the blame on the South Asian nation for the collapse of the Afghan government and meltdown of Afghan forces as he defended himself amid the backlash. "When you had the government of Afghanistan, the leader of that government getting in a plane and taking off and going to another country, when you saw the significant collapse of the Afghan troops we had trained, 300,000 of them, just leaving their equipment and taking off... that's what happened, that's simply what happened," he said during the interview."No, I don't think it could have been handled in a way that, we're going to go back in hindsight and look, but the idea that somehow, there's a way to have gotten out without chaos ensuing, I don't know how that happens," Biden also said.Afghanistan fell into turmoil after the Taliban seized power in the country by capturing a city by city in just 10 days. Since the fall of Kabul over the weekend, scenes of chaos have unfolded as thousands tried to flee, fearing a return to the brutal regime of the Taliban that ended 20 years ago.After the military takeover, the group has also seized huge amounts of weaponry, equipment and munitions from the Afghan armed forces, most of it supplied over the past two decades by the US.Critics say that the US could have prevented the chaos in the country by handling the situation better or delaying the troop pullout. The Biden administration had long promised an "orderly drawdown" of America's longest war, with the president saying US forces no longer have any national interest in fighting in a protracted conflict.Earlier Secretary of State Antony Blinken also said that their mission in Afghanistan has been completed. "We went to Afghanistan 20 years ago, with one mission in mind, and that was to deal with the people who attacked us on 9/11 and that mission has been successful," Blinken said.The US entered Afghanistan in 2001 and ousted the Taliban who were ruling the country since 1996.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/-simple-choice-biden-responds-to-criticism-of-intelligence-failure-in-afghanistan-101629342556897.html
19-08-2021||World||South Korea plans to grant animals legal status to tackle cruelty, abuse||Jin-hui, a cream-coloured Pomeranian, was buried alive and left for dead in 2018 in the South Korean port city of Busan.No charges were filed against its owner at the time, but animal abusers and those who abandon pets will soon face harsher punishment as South Korea plans to amend its civil code to grant animals legal status, Choung Jae-min, the justice ministry's director-general of legal counsel, told Reuters in an interview.The amendment, which must still be approved by parliament, likely during its next regular session in September, would make South Korea one of a handful of countries to recognise animals as beings, with a right to protection, enhanced welfare, and respect for life.The push for the amendment comes as the number of animal abuse cases increased to 914 in 2019 from 69 in 2010, data published by a lawmaker's office showed, and the pet-owning population grew to more than 10 million people in the country of 52 million.South Korea's animal protection law states that anyone who abuses or is cruel to animals may be sentenced to a maximum of three years in prison or fined 30 million won ($25,494), but the standards to decide penalties have been low as the animals are treated as objects under the current legal system, Choung said.Once the Civil Act declares animals are no longer simply things, judges and prosecutors will have more options when determining sentences, he said.The proposal has met with scepticism from the Korea Pet Industry Retail Association, which pointed out there are already laws in place to protect animals."The revision will only call for means to regulate the industry by making it difficult to adopt pets, which will impact greatly not only the industry, but the society as a whole," said the association's director-general, Kim Kyoung-seo.Choung said the amended civil code will also pave the way for follow-up efforts such as life insurance packages for animals and the obligation to rescue and report roadkill.It is likely the amendment will be passed, said lawmaker Park Hong-keun, who heads the animal welfare parliamentary forum, as there is widespread social consensus that animals should be protected and respected as living beings that coexist in harmony with people.Animal rights groups welcomed the justice ministry's plan while calling for stricter penalties for those who abandon or torture animals, as well as a ban on dog meat."Abuse, abandonment, and neglect for pets have not improved in our society," said Cheon Chin-kyung, head of Korea Animal Rights Advocates.Despite a slight drop last year, animal abandonment has risen to 130,401 in 2020 from 89,732 cases in 2016, the Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency said. South Korea has an estimated 6 million pet dogs and 2.6 million cats.Solemn with large, sad eyes, Jin-hui, which means "true light" in Korean, now enjoys spending time with other dogs at an animal shelter south of Seoul."Its owner lost his temper and told his kids to bury it alive. We barely managed to save it after a call, but the owner wasn't punished as the dog was recognised as an object owned by him," said Kim Gea-yeung, 55, manager of the shelter."Animals are certainly not objects."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-plans-to-grant-animals-legal-status-to-tackle-cruelty-abuse-101629342443486.html
19-08-2021||World||Covid-19: Singapore to allow more employees to return to offices from today||As Singapore is set to ease restrictions to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) due to an improvement in the pandemic situation, companies are preparing towards allowing their employees to return to offices. The multi-ministerial task force tackling the health crisis recently announced that work from home (WFH) will no longer be the default requirement from Thursday. From now on, 50 per cent of employees can return to their workplaces.A majority of the companies are expecting hybrid working arrangements to be a permanent feature of the post-Covid-19 world, according to a report by The Straits Times on Wednesday. A spokesperson for the country’s Public Service Division told The Straits Times that the department was working towards supporting greater work flexibility in the post Covid-19 world. “This will go towards meeting the needs of officers and, at the same time, balancing organisational needs,” the spokesperson added.When Singapore was first hit by Covid-19 in 2020, companies were finding it difficult to make hybrid working conditions possible. In September, the government allowed some workers to return to their offices. However, in May this year, the country once again opted for work from home amid a huge increase in infections.At present, not all companies in Singapore are planning to bring back their employees to offices. According to a report by the Channel News Asia, financial services company Mastercard said its employees could come back to offices, if they wanted to, from August 23. On the other hand, Golin, a public relations agency, also pointed out that its employees could choose until the end of 2021, to return to office or work from home.Apart from easing restrictions for workplaces, Singapore from Thursday will abolish the mandatory temperature checks before entering public places and increase the occupancy limits for shopping malls and showrooms. The operating capacity of cinemas, cruises and libraries will also go up to 50 per cent. Earlier, the government loosened its border restrictions from August 10, allowing entry approvals for fully vaccinated foreign workers and their dependents. Restaurants have resumed dining-in facilities from August 10 and the group size increased to five.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19singapore-to-allow-more-employees-to-return-to-offices-from-today-101629341355629.html
19-08-2021||World||How Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube are struggling to keep Taliban at bay||Silicon Valley has a tough job at hand. For the first time in over two decades, social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube have to come up with ways to balance a response against the Taliban, a conservative terrorist-affiliated group now in control of the state apparatus in Afghanistan. With the terrorist-affiliated group now on the way to govern an entire country, the social media companies grapple with a set of tough questions - should they maintain their user policies to reflect a strict stance against the insurgents, or enable the Taliban regime to operate on social media as any other internationally-recognised government?For the most part, the social media platforms seem to be taking the no-consideration policy. So far, Facebook and YouTube have said that the Taliban are banned from their platforms, according to US sanctions policies. On the other hand, Twitter has not banned the Taliban yet but is reportedly cracking down on individual pieces of violent content.YouTube, the online video-sharing and social media platform owned by Google, also said that it will terminate Taliban accounts.However, some confusion has been reported among the social media platforms on how to handle the Taliban. Although Facebook claims that its ban on the Taliban has been in place "for years" under its "dangerous organisations" policy, it appears that the social media giant only deactivated certain Taliban accounts after facing a set of questions from the New York Times, according to a tweet by Sheera Frenkel, a reporter for the news organisation.Moreover, Facebook's purported action against Taliban accounts does not seem to have translated across other platforms owned by the company. Facebook-owned instant messaging service WhatsApp said that it will take action against sanctioned people or organisations using the app, but that would involve identifying who uses the app in the first place. A statement by a company spokesperson indicated that WhatsApp has not taken any action against some accounts spreading Taliban propaganda since the platform uses end-to-end encryption for its messages.However, Facebook later said that it would be blocking Taliban accounts on WhatsApp eventually, since it considers the group to be a terrorist organisation. For this purpose, the platform will be taking the help of Afghanistan experts, native Dari, and Pashto speakers with knowledge of the local context, to help guide policy.According to a news report by Politico, the Global Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism -- an industry group launched by Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Microsoft to “to prevent terrorists and violent extremists from exploiting digital platforms” -- has not taken an official position on how to address the Taliban regime's communications on social media, leaving the decision to the individual platforms instead."They (the companies) are struggling a bit," the political journalism company quotes an official at Access Now, a global digital rights advocacy group, as saying. "I don't think people were fully ready for this to happen in Afghanistan. So what's happening is that much more work is having to be done every hour on this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-facebook-twitter-and-youtube-are-struggling-to-keep-taliban-at-bay-101629335313700.html
19-08-2021||World||Twitter's updated privacy policy comes into effect today. All you need to know||Twitter, the social networking platform which has been involved in several privacy-related rows in India over the past couple of months, has announced that its updated privacy policy comes into effect from Thursday, August 19. In a blog post informing users of its updated terms of service, Twitter notes the changes in its privacy policy -- which includes those around Twitter Blue, Twitter Spaces, payment features, and the like."We have made some updates to our Privacy Policy," Twitter announced on its official website. "The updated Privacy Policy will go into effect on August 19, 2021. We believe you should always know what data we collect from you and how we use it, and that you should have meaningful control over both. We want to empower you to make the best decisions about the information that you share with us. That’s the basic purpose of this Privacy Policy."Twitter SpacesTwitter Spaces, a social audio feature that enables users to host or participate in a live-audio virtual environment, is a key part of the updated privacy policy. Elaborating on how the company uses this voice data as per its policies, Twitter said that it produces audio transcripts for the conversations taking place on the platform. This text is then scrutinised for any potential violations of Twitter's rules and guidelines. This is also used to, in turn, make "improvements" to the way the Twitter Spaces feature works, the company said.Payment informationTwitter receives payment information from a user -- including the credit or debit card number, card expiration date, CVV code, and billing address. The company said that when money is sent using Twitter features or services in order to purchase advertising or other offerings, it may receive information about the transaction such as when it was made or "when a subscription is set to expire or auto-renew."Video contentTwitter also explained that to improve user experience, the company works with third-party partners to display their video content on the platform. "When you watch or otherwise interact with content from these partners, they may receive and process your personal data as described in their privacy policies," the social media giant said. "If you do not want this content to play automatically, you can adjust your autoplay settings. If you’ve shared information like Direct Messages or protected Tweets with someone else who accesses Twitter through a third-party service, keep in mind that the information may be shared with the third-party service."Twitter users are recommended to read the entire text of the platform's new privacy policy here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitters-updated-privacy-policy-comes-into-effect-today-all-you-need-to-know-101629332463127.html
19-08-2021||World||Didn't take money, couldn't even change shoes, says Ashraf Ghani; vows to return to Afghanistan||Ashraf Ghani who was welcomed by the United Arab Emirates on Wednesday posted his first message on Facebook after the fall of Kabul and clarified several things including the allegation that Ghani left Kabul with four cars and a helicopter stuffed with cash. In the video message, Ghani said these claims are baseless as he was forced to leave to avoid bloodshed. He did not even have the time to change his shoes and left Kabul with the sandals that he was wearing at the Presidential palace on Sunday."Do not believe whoever tells you that your president sold you out and fled for his own advantage and to save his own life," he said adding, "These accusations are baseless... and I strongly reject them.""I was expelled from Afghanistan in such a way that I didn't even get the chance to take my slippers off my feet and pull on my boots," he said.The UAE said it is hosting Ghani on 'humanitarian grounds' after he left Kabul on Sunday after the Taliban entered Kabul and declared an unopposed victory."The UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation can confirm that the UAE has welcomed President Ashraf Ghani and his family into the country on humanitarian grounds," the ministry said in a brief statement. Between Sunday and Wednesday, his location was unknown as various reports said he might have fled to Oman, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, or Lebanon.'Expelled, not fled'Ghani said he had no intention of remaining in exile in Dubai and was in talks to return home. He said he was expelled from Afghanistan and had he stayed in Kabul, then he would have been hanged. "Had I stayed there, an elected president of Afghanistan would have been hanged again right before the Afghans' own eyes," he said.'Taliban had an agreement to not enter Kabul'Ghani said that the Taliban had entered Kabul despite an agreement not to do so. He also said that though he was in favour of a peaceful transition of power, he was expelled from Afghanistan. He backed the talks between the Taliban and former president Hamid Karzai and senior official Abdullah Abdullah and said he wants the success of the process.Ghani no longer a figure in Afghanistan: United StatesAfter Ashraf Ghani said he wants to return to Afghanistan, the United States said it did not see Ashraf Ghani as a player in Afghanistan. "He is no longer a figure in Afghanistan," Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman told reporters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/didnt-take-money-couldn-t-even-change-shoes-says-ashraf-ghani-vows-to-return-to-afghanistan-101629331753131.html
19-08-2021||World||IMF blocks Afghanistan's access to emergency reserves||The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has announced to block Afghanistan's access to the emergency reserve worth USD 460 million as the Taliban's control over the country has drawn uncertainty for the country's future, a media report said.The decision followed pressure from the Biden administration to ensure that the reserves did not reach the Taliban, New York Times reported.On Tuesday, the Biden administration also froze about USD 9.5 billion of Afghan reserves to keep cash away from the Taliban after it captured Afghanistan.US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and personnel at the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control had decided to freeze the accounts, Dawn reported citing The Washington Post."Any central bank assets the Afghan government have in the United States will not be made available to the Taliban," an administration official told the newspaper in a statement.According to the report, the US State Department, alongwith the White House, was consulted before the action adding that the Biden administration was contemplating other actions as well to pressure the Taliban, reported Dawn.The terror group took control over Afghanistan on Sunday after entering the presidential palace in Kabul.The Taliban leaders are discussing future government plans in Doha and are in touch with the international community and intra-Afghan parties to make government in Afghanistan.The world is closely watching the unfolding situation in Afghanistan as the countries have scrambled to evacuate its citizen from Afghanistan in an attempt to secure their people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-blocks-afghanistan-s-access-to-emergency-reserves-101629330592343.html
19-08-2021||World||3 killed as Taliban face first protests; airlifts ramped up||At least three people were killed in anti-Taliban protests in the Afghan city of Jalalabad on Wednesday, witnesses said, as the militant group moved to create a government and Western countries ramped up evacuations from a chaotic Kabul airport.The deaths mar the Taliban’s efforts to consolidate Islamist rule and their promises of peace following their sweep into the capital. They have said they will not take revenge against old enemies and will respect the rights of women within the framework of Islamic law.The witnesses said the deaths in Jalalabad took place when local residents tried to install Afghanistan’s national flag at a square in the city, some 150km from the capital on the main road to Pakistan.There were also more than a dozen people injured after Taliban militants opened fire on protesters in the eastern city, two witnesses and a former police official told Reuters.Video footage also showed the Taliban firing into the air and attacking people with batons to disperse the crowd. Babrak Amirzada, a reporter for a local news agency, said he and a TV camera aman from another agency were beaten up by the Taliban as they tried to cover the unrest. Taliban spokesmen were not immediately reachable for comment.The Jalalabad incident also had a domino effect, and protests soon spread to other regions, reports said. Hundreds took to the streets in Khost province in the east, according to Al-Jazeera.It was a rare resistance to their rule. In the days since the Taliban seized Kabul on Sunday, the militants faced one other protest by a few women in the capital.Meanwhile, videos from the Panjshir Valley north of Kabul, a stronghold of the Northern Alliance militias that allied with the US against the Taliban in 2001, appear to show potential opposition figures gathering there. It is the only province that hasn’t yet fallen to the Taliban.Those figures include members of the deposed government — vice-president Amrullah Saleh, who asserted on Twitter that he is the country’s rightful president, and defence minister General Bismillah Mohammadi — as well as Ahmad Massoud, the son of the slain Northern Alliance leader Ahmad Shah Massoud. It’s unclear if they intend to challenge the Taliban, which seized most of the country in a matter of days last week.The Taliban, meanwhile, pressed ahead with their efforts to form an “inclusive, Islamic government”. They have been holding talks with former president Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, a senior official in the ousted government. Mohammad Yusof Saha, a spokesperson for Karzai, said preliminary meetings with Taliban officials would facilitate eventual negotiations with Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the top Taliban political leader, who returned to the country this week.Chaotic evacuations, chaos outsideAmid the uncertainty, thousands of Afghans have tried to flee the country in recent days, and the US and its allies have struggled to manage a chaotic withdrawal from the country.Taliban commanders and soldiers fired into the air on Wednesday to disperse the crowds outside the airport, a Taliban official said. “We have no intention to injure anyone,” he said.About 5,000 diplomats, security staff, aid workers and Afghans have been evacuated from Kabul in the last 24 hours, a Western official said on Wednesday.The evacuations by military flights will continue around the clock, he said, adding that clearing the chaos outside the airport was a challenge. “It’s absolutely hectic and chaos out there.” the official said.US troops guarding the evacuation effort from Afghanistan at Kabul airport also fired some shots in the air overnight to control the crowds, but there were no indications of casualties or injuries, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said on Wednesday at a press briefing.Symbolic returnOne of the Taliban’s leaders and co-founders, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, returned to Afghanistan for the first time in more than 10 years and a Taliban official said the leaders would show themselves to the world, unlike in the past when they lived in secret.“Slowly, gradually, the world will see all our leaders,” the senior Taliban official said.The Taliban’s first news briefing since their return to Kabul suggested they would impose their laws more softly than during their harsh 1996-2001 rule. Women would be allowed to work and study and “will be very active in society but within the framework of Islam”, Zabihullah Mujahid, the Taliban’s main spokesperson, said.Many Afghans are afraid. Many said they could only wait and see.“My family lived under the Taliban and maybe they really want to change or have changed but only time will tell,” said Ferishta Karimi, who runs a tailoring shop for women.The Taliban have promised to maintain security, but residents say groups of armed men have been going door to door inquiring about Afghans who worked with the Americans or the deposed government. It’s unclear if the gunmen are Taliban or criminals posing as militants.On Wednesday, the United Arab Emirates also acknowledged that President Ashraf Ghani, who fled the country as the Taliban closed in last week, and his family were in the Gulf country. “The UAE has welcomed President Ashraf Ghani and his family into the country on humanitarian grounds,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-killed-as-taliban-face-first-protests-airlifts-ramped-up-101629314715772.html
19-08-2021||World||BRICS reiterates commitment to foster open, fair and non-discriminatory trade environment||The industry ministers of Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa (BRICS) reiterated their commitment to foster an open, fair, and non-discriminatory trade environment to ensure greater participation in global value chains by promoting digital inclusion and encouraging the sustainable use of disruptive technologies for advancing growth.India, chairing the 5th meeting of BRICS industry ministers, expressed its desire to expand the horizon of the New Development Bank (NDB) in strengthening social infrastructure besides promoting the industrial sector. The ministers agreed to collaborate with the NDB. The multilateral financial institution became fully operational in 2016 with an aim to mobilise resources for infrastructure and sustainable development projects in BRICS and other emerging economies.BRICS ministers recognised the unprecedented impact of the Covid-19 pandemic particularly on the trade and industry, an official statement said. The virtual meeting was chaired by India’s minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal on Wednesday. It was attended by Chinese minister of industry Xiao Yaqing, South African trade minister Ebrahim Patel, Brazil’s deputy minister for economy Carlos Da Costa and Russian industry minister Denis Manturov.India chose the theme “BRICS@15: Intra BRICS Cooperation for Continuity, Consolidation and Consensus “ this year.In his welcome address, Goyal said India has also been working towards channelising technology towards good and smart governance thus increasing transparency and accountability.He said India has developed a vibrant and dynamic start-up ecosystem, leveraged existing platforms and digital technologies such as Aadhaar and unified payment interface (UPI) for ensuring delivery of critical services to the last mile. Online systems like COWIN and digital vaccination certificates are being cited as success stories across the world today, the statement quoting the minister said.Goyal said in this swiftly changing world, the group’s adaptability to new and emerging technologies like Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, 3-D Manufacturing and other processes will determine the success of its efforts to embrace Industry 4.0.Industry 4.0 will play a crucial role in helping BRICS economies in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). However, there are challenges of data protection and cybersecurity too. Therefore, it is essential to manage the transition to new technologies in line with national policies and legislation. This understanding is at the heart of the BRICS cooperation agenda, he said.Goyal said emerging technologies would be an indispensable part of almost all activities, including manufacturing. This requires us to increase our pace towards the adoption of new technologies to develop sustainable industrial cooperation. He said that the adoption of new technologies by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) would play a crucial role in achieving the target of inclusiveness.“Our partnership would be successful if we as a group, on the basis of consensus, complement strengths of each other, share our best practices and learn from our weaknesses,” the statement quoting Goyal said.He said the horizon of NDB should be expanded and resources the be utilized for strengthening social infrastructure especially for funding service delivery in the education and health sector, besides the promotion of infrastructure and industrial sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brics-reiterates-commitment-to-foster-open-fair-and-non-discriminatory-trade-environment-101629314862224.html
19-08-2021||World||India’s 75th Independence Day celebrated in Canada||From iconic Canadian landmarks like the Niagara Falls and Toronto’s CN Tower being illuminated in the hues of the tricolour, to the flag being raised at city halls across several cities in the country, the Indo-Canadian community celebrated India’s Independence Day with verve this year amid eased Covid-19 restrictions.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau extended his best wishes on behalf of the government and remarked that today India and Canada “work closely together for the benefit of people in both countries, including as members of the G20 and through other multilateral institutions, to foster economic growth, reinforce the rules-based international order, invest in education and innovation, and empower women and girls.”He added, “We have also been close partners in the global efforts to fight the Covid-19 health crisis, working collaboratively to ensure mutual access to essential medical equipment.” Messages of congratulations were also delivered by the premiers of the provinces of Ontario and British Columbia, Doug Ford and John Horgan, respectively.The signature celebratory event in the country, a Drive-Thru India Day Parade, organised by the non-profit Panorama India, was held in the Mississauga in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), while nearly 500 cars participated in a Tiranga Yatra as the cavalcade drove from the city of Surrey to Vancouver, where participants, drawn from all Indo-Canadian communities, gathered in front of the Indian consulate. One of the organisers Neema Manral described the event as “very successful”.India’s high commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria hoisted the Indian flag at the Canadian capital Ottawa’s City Hall. Landmarks in Canada’s largest city Toronto bore the colours of the flag, including CN Tower and the 3D sign spelling out the city’s name located downtown. The iconic Niagara Falls was lit up in those colours in the evening, while large flags of India and Canada, measuring 40 feet x 60 feet were displayed together in Brampton in the GTA.Public buildings and historic landmarks were also illuminated elsewhere including City Hall in Vancouver, Olympic Plaza in Calgary and Northern Alberta Jubilee Auditorium in Edmonton.While protests were held at some venues, with security being enhanced by Canadian law enforcement agencies, there were no immediate reports of the sort of disruptions that occurred on January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-75th-independence-day-celebrated-in-canada-101629089303848.html
19-08-2021||India||RJD’s Tej Pratap, state chief lock horns; Tejashwi downplays row||PATNA: The simmering tension between Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav and the party’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh burst into the open on Thursday after the two leaders sparred over an appointment within the party.Tej Pratap threatened to register a case against Singh for “violating” the party’s constitution after the latter appointed Gagan Kumar as the RJD youth wing president, replacing Akash Yadav.Akash was appointed as the youth wing president in May last year by Tej Pratap Yadav.The decision by the state party chief was made following a closed door meeting with RJD leader and Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday. Taking a swipe at the state party chief, Tej Pratap tweeted: “The president forgot that the party runs by the constitution and the constitution of RJD says that without giving notice, you cannot removeany office-bearer of the party. What happened today was against the constitution of RJD.” “He owes an explanation for this,” he told a news channel later. Singh, a close aide of Lalu Prasad, shot back saying he is answerable only to the RJD chief. “Lalu Prasad is the president of RJD and no one else can ask him for clarification except him. Who is Tej Pratap?,” he said, adding that it was his responsibility to appoint the party’s student wing president. “When I did not appoint anybody (earlier), where does the question of removal arise? I have appointed Gagan Kumar to this post,” he told reporters as he returned to the RJD office here after a gap of several days. Hours later, Tej Pratap threatened to register a case against Singh and also demanded that the party initiate action against him. “There is a concerted effort to demoralize youths in the party,” he told reporters, adding that he will discuss the matter with his brother Tejashwi Yadav.“I will continue to fight unilateral decisions,” a visibly angry Tej Pratap said.Tejashwi, however, sought to play down the fight. “Everyone has their own opinion. When I am the leader of the opposition and the national president is Lalu ji, there is no problem. Everything will be fine soon,” he said. The resentment between Tej Pratap and Singh had been growing for a while with the former referring to the latter as “Hitler” at a recent meeting of the party’s student wing.“There can be no Hitler in RJD. Words like Hitler have no place in the party. That’s why whatever someone says, I don’t pay attention to it,” Singh said. “There are three people on constitutional posts in RJD, president Lalu Prasad, leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and the state unit president (himself),” he added. Singh had stopped visiting the party office and had even skipped the Independence Day function.Reacting to the developments, Janata Dal (United) vice-president Sanjay Singh said: “Tej Pratap is hurt because nobody in his party gives importance to him. It is a fight for the chair between the two brothers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjds-tej-pratap-state-chief-lock-horns-tejashwi-downplays-row-101629397207973.html
19-08-2021||India||Without checks, government’s palm oil plan may spell disaster||A plan cleared by the Union Cabinet to expand domestic palm oil output in ecologically-sensitive regions could be environmentally perilous unless backed by a set of strong safeguards, experts have said, citing disastrous impacts in growers such as Malaysia and Indonesia. Palm oil is the cheapest edible oil, used in most foods items, from bread to pizzas. In recent months, global prices have surged to multi-year peaks, forcing the government to cut import duties to make the fats affordable. To cut India’s growing reliance on import of edible oils, the government on Wednesday approved the “National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP)”, allocating ₹11,040 crore for it. The programme seeks to promote plantations in the northeastern regions, besides the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the programme a “game-changer” on Twitter. Edible oil plantations, as opposed to oilseeds crops, tend to replace natural tropical forests, depleting biodiversity. Environmental case studies in forested belts of Sumatra, Borneo and the Malay Peninsula -- which produce 90% of global palm oil – have found commercial cultivation had decimated swathes of pristine forests, wiping out wildlife, from orangutans to birds. Officials said they were “aware of” sustainability issues. “The non-financial aspects of the scheme will address them,” an official with knowledge of the matter said, but did not divulge details as these were being fine-tuned. A top expert on sustainable agriculture said it was possible to grow sustainable palm oil, but certain strict criteria will need to be followed, which he said he hoped to see in the government’s plan. India has become the world’s largest importer of vegetable oils, a base ingredient for cooking most common dishes. The country meets up to two-thirds of its domestic demand through imports. In 2020-21, India imported both crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. Edible oil is the country’s third most high-value import, after petroleum crude and gold. “The environmental impacts, especially in ecologically sensitive areas, are a huge concern,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury of the Centre for Science and Environment. “We don’t know yet how the plan will be put to implementation. It will need the same strong safeguards that are required and well recognised.” GV Ramanjaneyulu of the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture said India’s tropical climate was well suited to palm oil plantations, which thrive on peaty soils. The oil has healthy unsaturated fats and vitamins, although it does have its share of unhealthy saturated fats. Consumed as part of balanced diet, it should not be unhealthy for the heart. Palm oil, a perennial crop, yields more oil per acre, than say, coconut, but it requires three times the water. So, it must be grown in rainy areas to avoid groundwater extraction. “There are three or four ground rules. Rainforests should be absolutely no-go zones. Do field cultivation and soil management. Avoid weedicides and don’t allow monocropping. Grow other crops within the plantation,” Ramanjaneyulu said.“It can offer global advantages if grown sustainably, or else the country could face disaster.” The new scheme seeks to bring additional 0.65 million hectare under oil palm by 2025-26 to reach a targeted one million hectare, up from 0.3 million hectare at present. This would result in an increase in crude palm oil output to o 1.1 million tonne by 2025-26 and up to 2.8 million tonne by 2029-30, the official cited above said. The scheme also provides for viability gap funding to shield growers from international price volatility by paying directly to the farmers’ accounts in the form of direct benefit transfer. Environmental experts, such as Roy Chowdhury, cautioned about reckless expansion of palm oil in the Indian archipelago of Andaman. Ramanjaneyulu said humid and rainy Andaman was a good place to grow palm oil provided rainforests were not touched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/without-checks-government-s-palm-oil-plan-may-spell-disaster-101629397199084.html
19-08-2021||India||CBI, SIT to probe Bengal post-election violence: High court||The Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered separate probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal this year. A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot, under the court’s supervision. “All the cases where, as per the report of the committee, the allegations are about murder and crime against women regarding rape and attempt to rape, shall be transferred to CBI for investigation. It is made clear that it shall be a court-monitored investigation,” the order stated. The investigation of SIT, comprising three senior IPS officers Soumen Mitra (commissioner of Kolkata Police), Suman Bala Sahoo (DG communication) and Ranveer Kumar (ADG administration) will also be monitored by the court and overseen by a retired judge of the Supreme Court. The high court also directed the Mamata Banerjee government to pay compensation to the victims of violence directly into their bank accounts after due verification. The state has said it will appeal the verdict. “I don’t see it as a setback. It is a judgment passed. If the litigant, which in this case is the state, finds that the verdict is not in its interest or beyond law, we have the right to challenge. We are waiting for the order. We will definitely move the Supreme Court,” said Sanjay Basu, advocate who appeared for the DGP of West Bengal along with senior advocates including Abhishek Manu Singhvi. He added that the observations in the order are not correct.Soon after the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2, the BJP made allegations of widespread post-poll violence from across the state. With petitions filed in the immediate aftermath, the high court took cognizance and in June, the court asked NHRC to form a seven member committee “considering the fact that there was blatant violation of human rights besides violation of other rights of the victims”. The committee submitted its final report on July 13 recommending a CBI probe, and that trials should be held outside the state. The committee said at least 1,934 complaints were lodged with the state police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson with the committee receiving around 1,979 reports covering 15,000 victims. The order quoted acting chief justice Bindal as saying: “In our opinion, the heinous crimes such as murder and rape deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in circumstances can only be the Central Bureau of Investigation. It is for the reason that in a number of cases, the State had failed to register the FIRs and opined the same to not be cases of murder. In some cases, even after registration of FIR, the observation by the State is that these may result in ‘no case’. This shows a predetermined mind to take investigation into a particular direction.” The order comes as a setback to the ruling TMC, with party MP Saugata Roy saying that the handing over of cases to the CBI was a “transgression” on the rights of the state. “I am unhappy with the order. Law and order is a state subject and I think it’s a transgression on the state’s rights as it is not desirable that an external agency like CBI should be allowed to intervene in a state subject repeatedly. We had opposed when the NHRC team submitted its report because some of its members had BJP links. I hope and I expect that the state would go for an appeal against the order,” he said. According to officials, the CBI has formed four special teams, each headed by a Joint Director (JD) rank officer under overall supervision of an additional director (AD), to investigate the Bengal post-poll violence. The four teams have over two dozen officers and will meet on Friday morning before heading to Kolkata.The BJP attacked the TMC immediately after the order and said that the court had given a strong message, and that it would not be wrong to call Mamata Banerjee a failed chief minister. “The high court has given a strong message. It should be a milestone as the court has made it clear that anarchy has no place in India. It will not be wrong to call Mamata Banerjee a failed chief minister. A chief minister has to protect all citizens. The court has shown that when administration fails, the judiciary comes to people’s rescue,” BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said. In its counter affidavit, the state government argued that the committee was set up to spearhead a witch hunt against the Mamata Banerjee administration and was a concerted effort to discredit a democratically elected government. Justice Bindal however wrote, “Though the issue of bias of three members of the committee was sought to be raised, the argument just needs to be noticed and rejected. It seems to be an argument in frustration, where on the core issue the State has been found on a wrong foot.” In his comments, justice IP Mukerji said parts of the committee’s report that expressed opinion or made recommendations were “non-est” (beyond its jurisdiction) in the eye of the law. Mukerji was critical of the role of the Election Commission of India, saying that it was ECI’s duty to direct or advise the administration to register complaints “which it did not”. In his comments he added that “it is not established that the state has shown apathy to action”, and the investigation process, in his opinion, was at the initial stage. “Truth will prevail. The CBI probe will help people get justice,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. The CPI(M) also charged the state government with framing false charges against opposition leaders, but also charged the NHRC team of only talking to the BJP. “The state government has framed false charges against opposition leaders at random. I never killed a mosquito but there are two murder charges against me in Bengal,” said CPI(M) politburo member Hannan Mollah. CPI(M) central committee member Rabin Deb said, “Nobody visited the home of Kakali Khetrapal, one of our women activists who was murdered at Jamalpur in East Burdwan district on May 3.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-sit-to-probe-bengal-post-election-violence-high-court-101629397197978.html
19-08-2021||India||India highlights role of Pakterror groups in Afghanistan at UNSC||/New Delhi
19-08-2021||India||Start reopening schools for classes 6-8, Odisha’s child rights body to govt||Bhubaneswar: Odisha’s child rights body on Thursday asked the Naveen Patnaik government to resume offline classes for students of classes 6. 7 and 8 in a phased manner, a move that comes two days after a class 7 student fell from a boulder he had climbed on to get a stable internet connection to attend online classes.Andrea Jagaranga of Kandhapendaraguda village in Padmapur block of Rayagada district had gone to a hill with his friends due to poor network connectivity in the village when the accident took place. He died soon after due to the injuries sustained in the accident.The 13-year-old’s death spotlighted the digital divide in Odisha and beyond, particularly after schools turned to online classes due to the Covid pandemic.In her letter, Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (OSCPCR) chairperson Sandhyabati Pradhan did not refer to the death but welcomed the school and mass education department’s recent move to resume in-person teaching for students of classes 10 and 12, saying it was an appreciable step. The government should next allow students of classes 6, 7, and 8 to return to schools in a phased manner, she said.So far Odisha has started offline classes for students of class 9, 10, 11 and 12.“The department may issue necessary instruction to allocate one and half hour each day for two days in a week to each class and the school management committees must be consulted prior to reopening of schools,” Pradhan wrote in her letter.As per Odisha Economic Survey of 2018-19, more than 20% of the 51,311 villages in the state do not have mobile phone connectivity. And internet penetration in the state is 28.22% compared to the national average of 38.02. The school and mass education department of the state admitted that online education did not reach at least a third of 6 million school students last year.Earlier this month, the Union education ministry told Parliament that nearly 30 million children in India did not have a digital device to access education online. In Odisha, over 1.5 million children do not have access to a computer, tablet, or smartphone.Between May and June 2020, Oxfam India, an NGO surveyed close to 1,200 parents and 500 teachers across Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh and found that 80% parents said their children did not receive education during the lockdown. Four of five students said they didn’t receive textbooks for the 2020-21 academic year while more than one-third of the children had not received midday meals.A survey by Azim Premji University among 16,067 children from Classes 2-6 in 1,137 government schools across five states in January 2021 found on an average 92% of students had lost at least one specific language ability and 82% had lost at least one specific mathematical ability compared to previous years.Anil Pradhan, convenor of the Odisha Right to Education Forum, said the commission’s suggestion was a welcome step.“Online education is not feasible for primary school students due to lack of necessary infrastructure. Young minds can grasp education better in classrooms,” he said.Director of health services, Dr Bijay Kumar Mohapatra said there is no need to panic about Covid cases among the age group of 0-18 years. “Children were also getting affected in the first surge and second surge. However, there is the need of taking precautions as experts suggest that there are more chances of children getting affected in the third wave. The situation is being monitored on a daily basis and necessary steps are being taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/start-reopening-schools-for-classes-6-8-odisha-s-child-rights-body-to-govt-101629396363481.html
19-08-2021||India||Country in state of turmoil: Afghan embassy asks SC to defer hearing by 6 weeks||NEW DELHI: Afghanistan’s embassy on Thursday asked the Supreme Court to put off hearing a pending case in view of the regime change in Kabul and the mission’s inability to get instructions from the new regime under the Taliban.Lawyer Ejaz Maqbool, counsel for the Embassy of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, sought six weeks. “There is a regime change in Afghanistan and the entire country is in a state of turmoil and I am not able to get further instructions from the Ambassador and from the embassy located in New Delhi. I will be requesting for an adjournment of six weeks,”Maqbool said in his request for an adjournment.His request was granted by a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari but the court wondered if six weeks was a reasonable prayer to make at this juncture. “Do you think the situation will be resolved in six weeks.”Maqbool said: “We all pray that the situation improves soon….For now, let the matter be listed after six weeks.”Maqbool later said this is the only petition filed by the embassy pending in the Supreme Court.The case relate to a dispute with a Delhi-based firm initially contracted for the renovation of the mission in Delhi. The embassy engaged a different firm after 40% of the contracted work was completed on the grounds that the first firm had been unable to meet the laid-down quality standards and missed the 240 day deadline agreed.The firm subsequently initiated arbitration to get its payments. The matter reached the Supreme Court which allowed the firm to appoint a sole arbitrator, who ruled in the favour of the Delhi firm. For execution of the arbitrator’s award of November 2018, the firm went up against the embassy in the Delhi High Court where the question raised was whether an arbitration award can be enforced against a foreign country and if the consent of the central government was required to enforce it under the Code of Civil Procedure.On June 18 this year, the Delhi High Court held that prior consent of central government will not be necessary and ruled that “a foreign state cannot claim a sovereign immunity against enforcement of an arbitral award arising out of a commercial transaction.”The embassy approached the Supreme Court on August 10 against this ruling. The high court order required the embassy to deposit a sum of over ₹1.72 crore within four weeks with the high court registry. It was also required to file its affidavit of assets as on the date of the cause of action, date of the award and the date of the High Court judgment. The embassy claimed it was never agreed to the arbitration being done in Delhi since the seat of arbitration was Kabul, Afghanistan and thus no enforcement of the Arbitral Award was applicable to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-in-state-of-turmoil-afghan-embassy-asks-sc-to-defer-hearing-by-6-weeks-101629393241114.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Section 144 imposed in Rajasthan's Dholpur; all gatherings banned||The district magistrate (DM) of Rajasthan's Dholpur announced on Thursday that Section 144 is being imposed in the city due to the current situation of the coronavirus pandemic, according to news agency ANI. The order, DM RK Jaiswal said in a notification, will come into effect from August 20, and stay in force till further instructions."I am satisfied that prima facie Section 144 under the Code of Criminal Procedure needs to be imposed in Dholpur to keep people living here safe from Covid-19. Therefore, I announce a ban on all kinds of public, social, political, entertainment, educational cultural and religious gatherings, processions, or festivals," a rough translation of Jaiswal's order, issued in Hindi, read.Section 144 CrPC imposed in Dholpur district, Rajasthan in wake of #COVID19 situation. Organising of public, social, political, entertainment, educational, cultural & religious gatherings/processions/festivals will not be allowed. This will come into effect from 20th August. pic.twitter.com/W0UsU529dEViolators will be penalised under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as relevant sections of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, the notification further warned.Section 144 empowers a district magistrate to ban gatherings of five or more people at one place.Meanwhile, Rajasthan logged 12 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, while there was no new addition to its related death toll, according to a health department bulletin. Thus far, 953,981 people have tested positive in Rajasthan, of whom 944,874 have recovered, while 8954 patients have succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases, meanwhile, has risen to 153, according to official data.Of the 12 new cases, Dholpur reported one, while four each were reported from Jaipur and Alwar. Bharatpur, Bikaner and Pali contributed one case each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-section-144-imposed-in-rajasthan-s-dholpur-all-gatherings-banned-101629389170467.html
19-08-2021||India||Union ministry notifies timeline to replace existing meters with smart prepaid meters. All you need to know||hThe ministry of power on Wednesday released a gazetted notification to notify the timeline for replacing the existing meters with smart prepaid meters. All power consumers, besides the agricultural users, would be given access to electricity if they have these meters which comes with a prepayment feature.Read the notification issued by the ministry below:(i) Block level government offices and industrial and commercial consumers will be fitted with smart meters which will run on a prepayment basis by December 2023. “Provided that the State Regulatory Commission may, by notification, extend the said period of implementation, giving reasons to do so, only twice but not more than six months at a time, for a class or classes of consumers or for such areas as may be specified in that notification,” the gazetted notification read.(ii) All other areas shall be metered with smart meters with prepayment mode by March 2025. Provided that in areas that do not have a communication network, installation of prepayment meters, conforming to relevant IS, may be allowed by the respective State Electricity Regulatory Commission.(iii) All consumer connections having current-carrying capacity beyond that specified in relevant IS, may be provided with meters with smart meters having AMR facility.2. All feeders and distribution transformers (DTS) shall be provided with meters having AMR facility or covered under AMI, as per the timelines specified below:(i) All feeders shall be metered by December 2022.(ii) All DTs in electrical divisions having more than 50% consumers in urban areas with AT&C losses more than 15% in financial year 2019-20, and in all other electrical divisions with AT&C losses more than 25% in financial year 2019-20, shall be metered by December 2023.(iii) All DTs in areas other than those mentioned in (ii) above, shall be metered by March, 2025.(iv) DTs and HVDS transformers having capacity less than 25 kVA may be excluded from the above timelines. This notification shall be effective from the date of publishing in the Gazette of India.The ministry has proposed to install 10 crore prepaid smart meters by December 2023 in the first phase under the Revamped Reforms-Based Results-Linked Scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministry-notifies-timeline-to-replace-existing-meters-with-smart-prepaid-meters-all-you-need-to-know-101629386740228.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: China calls Taliban more clear-headed, rational and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taliban clear-headed, rational than two decades ago: ChinaThe Taliban appear to be more clear-headed and rational than two decades ago, China said on Thursday, adding that Beijing was in talks with the group and called international powers to be more objective in dealing with the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan. Read MoreCovid-19: Nearly 40 million beneficiaries did not get second vaccine shot within stipulated time, govt data showsNearly 40 million beneficiaries did not receive their second dose of a coronavirus vaccine within stipulated time, news agency PTI has reported. Read MoreWill appear before ED, but…’: Former Maharashtra home minister on PMLA caseFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday said he would appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which had summoned him in connection with its probe into a money laundering case, "after the legal process is completed". Read MoreDravid came up to me and said 'Hi, I'm Rahul.' I was shocked and startled: India seamer Chetan SakariyaYoung India left-arm seamer Chetan Sakariya shared an interesting story of meeting the legendary Rahul Dravid for the first time during the Sri Lanka tour. Read MoreNine Perfect Strangers review: Nicole Kidman awakens her inner Osho in Hulu's hollow showIf the success of Big Little Lies proved one thing, it’s that the success of Big Little Lies cannot be replicated, no matter how hard anyone, including creator David E Kelley himself, tries. Read MoreDisney+ Hotstar plans set to change from Sept 1; Here’s everything you need to knowDisney+ Hotstar is one of the most popular OTT platforms in India. As of now, it offers all its content in one free tier and two paid tiers. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-calls-taliban-more-clear-headed-rational-and-all-the-latest-news-101629385390506.html
19-08-2021||India||J&K leader Ghulam Hassan Lone shot dead by terrorists; Abdullah, Mufti tweet condolence||Jammu and Kashmir leader Ghulam Hassan Lone was killed by terrorists on Thursday at his residence at Devsar in the Kulgam district. After terrorists shot Lone, the Apni Party leader was shifted to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.Ghulam Hassan Lone became the third politician from the Kulgam district to be killed in the last 10 days. Omar Abdullah and Mehabooba Mufti, former chief ministers of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, condemned the assassination.Taking to Twitter, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah expressed concern over the “renewed trend” of targeting mainstream politicians by terrorists.“Very sorry to hear about the assassination of Ghulam Hassan Lone in Devsar area of South Kashmir. This renewed trend of targeting mainstream politicians by militant outfits is very worrying & I condemn the same in the strongest possible terms. May Allah grant the departed Jannat,” Abdullah tweeted.Very sorry to hear about the assassination of Ghulam Hassan Lone in Devsar area of South Kashmir. This renewed trend of targeting mainstream politicians by militant outfits is very worrying & I condemn the same in the strongest possible terms. May Allah grant the departed Jannat.Condemning the murder, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti said there seems to be “no end to the spree of political killings in Kashmir.”“Unreservedly condemn the killing of Apni party leader Ghulam Hassan Lone. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family,” she tweeted.Unfortunately there seems to be no end to the spree of political killings in Kashmir. Unreservedly condemn the killing of Apni party leader Ghulam Hassan Lone. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family.On Monday, terrorists killed a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district. Javeed Ahmad Dar, constituency president of Homshalibugh in Kulgam, succumbed to his injuries after militants fired at him at Brazloo-jagir in Kulgam.BJP sarpanch Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo were shot dead by two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists last week in south Kashmir’s Anantnag town. Dar, 68, was the president of BJP Kisan Morcha of the Kulgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-leader-ghulam-hassan-lone-shot-dead-by-terrorists-abdullah-mufti-tweets-condolence-101629381631937.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Nearly 40 million beneficiaries did not get second vaccine shot within stipulated time, govt data shows||Nearly 40 million beneficiaries did not receive their second dose of a coronavirus vaccine within stipulated time, news agency PTI has reported citing the Union government’s response to a Right to Information (RTI) query. Activist Raman Sharma had filed the RTI query seeking information from the central government in this regard.“The total number of beneficiaries who got their first dose of Covishield but did not get their second within stipulated period of time as prescribed by the government as per the due report on the CoWIN portal is 34,072,993,” the Covid-19 vaccine administration cell of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said in response to Sharma’s query. The corresponding figures for Covaxin, meanwhile, stood at 4,678,406, as per the ministry’s response. Together, the numbers add up to 38,751,399.The data provided to Sharma is according to figures as on August 17, 2021.“It is recommended that the beneficiaries who received their first dose of vaccine get their second in the stipulated period. There is no recommendation for those who do not take their second dose within stipulated period as prescribed by the Government of India, to get their first dose again,” the Union health ministry further said, noting that the gap between two doses of Covishield should be 84 to 112 days, while that between two shots of Covaxin should be 28-42 days.As per data available on the CoWIN portal, as of noon on Thursday, 442,285,854 beneficiaries had received their first dose, while 125,907,443 had taken both the doses.The national vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16 this year, days after Covishield and Covaxin received clearance from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Since then, three other shots have also been approved. Thus far, Covaxin is India’s first and only home-made shot against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nearly-40-million-beneficiaries-did-not-get-second-vaccine-shot-in-stipulated-time-govt-data-shows-101629380624285.html
19-08-2021||India||CBI submits progress report on Dhanbad judge death case to Jharkhand HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday submitted the progress report of the investigation into the death of Dhanbad additional session judge Uttam Anand to Jharkhand high court in a sealed cover, reported news agency ANI.The 49-year-old judge was mowed down by a vehicle while he was out for his morning jog on July 28. CCTV footage of the incident showed he was jogging on Randhir Verma Chowk when a vehicle veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had handed over the case to CBI on July 31, and the central probe agency had dispatched a 20-member team under the additional superintendent of police, Vijay Kumar Shukla, to investigate the matter.CBI had recreated the scene of the accident while experts of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) collected samples from the spot, as a part of its probe. The investigative agency had also declared a reward of ₹5 lakh for anyone sharing "information of importance" pertaining to the judge's death.The Dhanbad police, which was in charge of the investigation before CBI took over, had arrested Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma on July 29, the duo was allegedly riding the vehicle at the time of the accident. “Based on facts that came up during the investigation and the CCTV camera footage, two people and the auto involved in the crime were identified. Two persons, identified as Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma have been arrested and the auto was seized from their possession. They have confessed to the crime. Further investigation will be done carefully,” Amol V Homkar, inspector general (operations), told Hindustan Times. The accused are currently in CBI's custody till August 21.On its part the Jharkhand high court asked the concerned authority of Forensic Science Laboratory, Ranchi, to appear before the court in the next hearing. The court issued this order after learning that the urine test of one of the accused could not be conducted due to the unavailability of a required facility, ANI also reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-submits-progress-report-on-dhanbad-judge-death-case-to-jharkhand-hc-101629374300921.html
19-08-2021||India||Monsoon begins to revive gradually in N-W India but spell likely to be short||The monsoon has started reviving in northwest India from Thursday with easterly winds bringing in moisture for the revival, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Its trough was along the Himalayan foothills during the first half of August that led to a “break” in the monsoon over the plains for over two weeks.“The monsoon trough has started moving to its normal position. It was to the north which is why we had a dry spell. Easterly winds have started penetrating northwest India. Our models are showing an increase in rainfall over the Haryana, Chandigarh region. In August, there was very little rainfall activity. The monsoon current has also weakened which is why for many days there was very little rain over the west coast also,” said K Sathi Devi, who heads IMD’s National Weather Forecasting Centre. “But there will not be a copious amount of rain because monsoon flow is not very strong.”The withdrawal of monsoon from northwest India begins around September 17 and it withdraws completely by October 15.Also Read | Delhi weather: Monsoon expected to revive from tomorrow nightThere has been a 9% rain deficiency during the monsoon season since June 1. The deficiency is 10% in northwest India, 11% in the east and northeast India, and 11% in central India. There has been 5% excess rain in the south peninsula.Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have a 22% rain deficiency, Chandigarh 39%, Uttarakhand 8%. Delhi and Haryana have recorded 6% and 13% excess rainfall. There has also been significant rainfall deficiency in Odisha (29%), Gujarat (48%), and Kerala (27%).The western end of the monsoon trough is now near its normal position and the eastern end is south of its normal position. The eastern end of the monsoon trough is very likely to shift gradually northward towards the foothills of the Himalayas on Friday and Saturday.A cyclonic circulation lying over south Bihar and neighbourhood is likely to move nearly westwards over the weekend.Due to these meteorological conditions, a gradual increase in rainfall activity is likely in northwest India and Bihar. Widespread rainfall, with isolated heavy rain, is very likely in Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand from Thursday to Monday. Heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely in Uttarakhand on Thursday and Friday and east Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. Fairly widespread rainfall is very likely in west Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, and east Rajasthan from Friday to Monday with isolated heavy rainfall in these areas on Friday and Saturday.Enhanced rainfall activity is expected in Central and adjoining north Peninsular India on Friday and Saturday. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely in Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, and Madhya Pradesh on Thursday and Friday as well as Marathwada, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, and Gangetic West Bengal on Thursday. IMD said the rainfall activity is very likely to decrease thereafter in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-begins-to-revive-gradually-in-n-w-india-but-spell-likely-to-be-short-101629375885616.html
19-08-2021||India||UP govt hikes DA to 28 per cent, will benefit 15 lakh employees||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced that the dearness allowance (DA) for all its employees will be increased to 28 per cent ahead of the festival season. Announcing the decision in state assembly, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that increase DA will come into effect from July 1, 2021.He also said that the provident fund (PF) contribution will also be increased. The government employees in Uttar Pradesh were so far getting 17 per cent DA.Since the UP government has announced an increase in the DA, the salaries of the employees will go up. The PF contribution is calculated based on the basic salary and the dearness allowance. Now, when the amount is increasing, the amount the employees can contribute to PF will also go up.The move will benefit at least 15 lakh state government employees in Uttar Pradesh. Along with this, the Adityanath government has also increased dearness relief (DR) amount, which will benefit the state's 12 lakh pensioners.The move will cost the state exchequer ₹6,500 crore extra.Uttar Pradesh government's decision comes weeks after the Nitish Kumar government announced an 11 per cent hike in DA for its employees and relief measures for pensioners.The Himachal Pradesh government too the DA by six per cent, while the Gujarat government has decided to pay the DA arrears of three months to more than nine lakh salaried employees and pensioners.Last month, the Union finance ministry issued an order to implement the Cabinet decision to hike DA for central government employees to 28 per cent from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-hikes-da-to-28-per-cent-will-benefit-15-lakh-employees-101629374676771.html
19-08-2021||India||Gujarat HC stays sections of anti-conversion law on interfaith marriages: All you need to know||The Gujarat high court on Thursday ordered an interim stay on the implementation of certain sections pertaining to interfaith marriages in the state’s new anti-conversion law. While delivering the judgment, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav ruled that no First Information Report (FIR) will be registered unless it is proved that the union was solemnised through “coercion, pressure, or greed.”Here’s all you need to know about the legislation:(1.) The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, was passed by the state legislative assembly with a majority on June 15 this year. It was moved in the assembly on April 1 by Gujarat home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja.(2.) It aims to prevent marriages taking place through “forced or lured religious conversion.” It proposes imprisonment for a period of three to five years, along with a fine of up to ₹2 lakh fin such cases.(3.) However, both imprisonment and penalty are higher if the alleged victim is a minor, woman, Dalit or tribal. In such a case, if found guilty, an individual can be jailed for four to seven years, with a penalty of not less than ₹3 lakh.(4.) If an organisation is involved, the person heading it faces a jail term of up to 10 years, and a fine of up to ₹5 lakh.(5.) The act was challenged in the high court by a petitioner who argued that it allows “anyone to lodge a complaint” and “criminalises inter-religious marriages.” Responding to a notice by the high court, the Gujarat government said that the petitioner “is interpreting the provisions incorrectly.”(6.) Gujarat became the third Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state to pass such a legislation. In February this year, Uttar Pradesh passed the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Bill, 2021. In March, Madhya Pradesh passed the Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-hc-stays-sections-of-anti-conversion-law-on-interfaith-marriages-all-you-need-to-know-101629373097569.html
19-08-2021||India||IMD forecasts heavy rain in 21 Madhya Pradesh districts, issues yellow alert||Twenty one districts of Madhya Pradesh are expected to receive heavy rainfall, as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday issued a yellow alert. These districts will also witness thunderstorm and lightning strikes, according to IMD forecast.The 21 districts which have been out under yellow alert by the IMD include Sagar, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Tikamgarh, Panna, Niwari, Rewa, Satna, Anuppur, Umaria, Dindori, Katni, Narsinghpur, Chhindwara, Seoni, Rajgarh, Vidisha, Raisen, Hoshangabad, Betul and Dhar.The alert is valid till Friday morning, senior meteorologist P K Saha of the IMD's Bhopal office said.At least eight districts in the state received heavy rainfall (64.5 mm to 115.5 mm), while Singrauli in eastern Madhya Pradesh recorded very heavy showers (123 mm) in the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 am on Thursday, according to IMD.The weather department has also forecast rain or thunder showers for most places in 10 divisions of the state, including Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur.Earlier this month, 1,171 villages in the Gwalior-Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh were flooded due to heavy rainfall. Most of these areas are located in the Sheopur and Shivpuri districts.A massive rescue operation was launched, which included the Indian Army, state disaster response force (SDRF) and the national disaster response force (NDRF). THe Indian Air Force also pitched in, rescuing marooned people onboard choppers from far-off areas.The monsoon trough is now passing through Gwalior and Sidhi, bringing in moisture and causing rains, according to IMD. It further said that the wet spell is expected to continue for the next two to three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-rain-in-21-madhya-pradesh-districts-issues-yellow-alert-101629373371557.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre recommends CBI probe on Delhi govt's purchase of 1,000 buses and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre asks CBI to probe Delhi govt’s purchase of 1,000 low floor busesThe Centre has recommended a CBI probe in the purchase of 1,000 air-conditioned low floor buses by the Delhi government, a matter which has been a bone of contention between ruling AAP and the state unit of BJP. Read more'They are 1-0 up and fully deserve it': David Gower hails 'passionate' India's 'stunning performance' on final dayFormer England captain David Gower was highly impressed with the way India defied the odds to script a memorable win at Lord’s against England on the fifth day of the second Test. Read moreKangana Ranaut cheers for Akshay Kumar's 'blockbuster' BellBottom, wishes the team for theatrical releaseKangana Ranaut has congratulated the team of BellBottom for its theatrical release. The actor took to her Instagram Stories and shared the poster of the movie, featuring Akshay Kumar, and called the team 'a winner'. Read morePiaggio launches Vespa limited edition scooters for 75th anniversaryPiaggio has announced the launch of the Vespa 75th edition scooters in the Indian market at ₹1.26 lakh (125) and ₹1.39 lakh (150). Both the prices, ex-showroom Pune. Bookings for both the new scooters have also commenced at the company's official website and authorised dealerships. Read moreMouni Roy is the quintessential diva in crop top and skirt at Maldives, Aly Goni reactsBollywood actor Mouni Roy turned into a quintessential diva for her latest pictures from the Maldives, and the internet cannot keep calm. The star took to Instagram to post several images of herself twirling and posing in a monotone ensemble. Read moreIs India engaging with the Taliban? Watch what EAM Jaishankar said | AfghanistanIndia’s foreign minister Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar spoke on India engaging with the Taliban after Afghanistan takeover. Jaishankar was asked if India is in touch with the Taliban. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-recommends-cbi-probe-on-delhi-govt-s-purchase-of-1-000-buses-and-all-the-latest-news-101629372100456.html
19-08-2021||India||Kerala ramping up Covid-19 testing to identify ‘every single case’, says state health minister Veena George||Kerala health minister Veena George on Thursday said that the state was boosting the number of Covid-19 tests conducted to identify all positive cases. She also said that the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government started talks about producing Covid-19 vaccines in Kerala.The minister’s remarks came a few days after she met with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Thiruvananthapuram, during his visit to the state earlier on Monday.“We are ramping up the testing to identify every single case. Our system is already on high alert and we are taking the best possible measures to contain the disease,” health minister George said, when asked about the high Covid-19 caseload in the state, news agency ANI reported.Also read | Kerala reports over 21,000 new Covid-19 cases: 5 districts driving the surgeShe also said that Mandaviya had agreed to provide more vaccines to Kerala as the state continued to battle a high number of daily infections in the state. She also noted that the Kerala government had asked for an additional 11 million doses of the vaccine by next month, to which Mandaviya had agreed during the meeting.“It was a very positive meeting. We asked for 1.11 crore more doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of September and he (the Union health minister) agreed to it. We are thankful to the Union government,” ANI quoted George as saying.The minister also said that the Kerala government has already begun talks on producing Covid-19 vaccines in the state. “Kerala government has already started talks regarding vaccine production in the state. We are trying to introduce fill-finish units. We have discussed the issue (with the Union health minister) and the Centre is very positive,” she further said.Earlier in the day, the minister said that the state is ready to immunise children against the Covid-19 pandemic and would take steps as soon as the Centre approves a vaccine for children. She also mentioned that the state government aims to vaccinate all people above 18 years of age in the state by the end of September. Further, over 52% of beneficiaries above 18 years have been inoculated with the first dose while over 19% have received their second dose too, the minister added.On Wednesday, Kerala reported 21,427 new Covid-19 cases and 179 more fatalities. With this, the state has so far reported 3,745,457 confirmed cases and 19,049 deaths, a bulletin from the health department showed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ramping-up-covid-19-testing-to-identify-every-single-case-says-state-health-minister-veena-george-101629370569215.html
19-08-2021||India||EMMRC Pune documentary bags second award at national science film festival||PUNE: A documentary titled “Kamala- The Swadeshi Nutri-Indian” produced by the Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMMRC) of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has won the second award at the national-level science film festival held on August 15 to commemorate 75 years of independence. The award comprises Rs50,000 along with a certificate and memento.The award-winning film depicts the life and contributions of Dr Kamala Bhagwat Sohoni, the first Indian woman scientist to pursue a PhD in science from Cambridge university. A pioneer of nutrition research in the Indian context, she returned to her motherland with the aim to make her research available to the people here. The documentary has been directed by Dr Sameer Sahasrabudhe, director, EMMRC; with the able assistance of Milind Patil as editor and assistant director; and Ajita Deshmukh as scriptwriter.SPPU vice chancellor professor Nitin Karmalkar said, “This documentary on Dr Kamala Sohoni’s life presents her contributions to India in the field of science. The work done by EMMRC is commendable.”Sahasrabudhe said, “Senior experts in the field of education and science have contributed immensely in the making of this film. My colleagues have worked hard to make a good film in a very short period of time.”The national-level science film festival was organised by Vigyan Prasar of the science and technology department of the central government, which holds a competition every year on the occasion of Independence Day. This time, the competition was held online on August 13 and 14 in New Delhi and the results were declared on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emmrc-pune-documentary-bags-second-award-at-national-science-film-festival-101629370364573.html
19-08-2021||India||Intel offers $250 to its employees globally, including India, to get vaccinated||Intel Inc, the computer chipmaker, on Wednesday announced an incentive of $250 for all its employees, including those in India, to overcome Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy and increase protection against the deadly virus that continues to mutate in various geographies, infecting millions and claiming hundreds of thousands of lives.Pat Gelsinger, the chief executive officer of Intel Corporation, in a mail that was sent out late last night (India time on August 18) said that the incentive would be extended to all its employees who get vaccinated before December 2021.Intel has around 110,000 employees globally and a sizeable chunk of it in India, where it has campuses in four sites in Bengaluru and one in Hyderabad.Though the company does not share geography-specific employee count, it is estimated that the India offices has around 7,000 employees.Also Read | Palm-oil mission could stoke disaster without sustainability checks“While Intel does not currently require employees to get a COVID-19 vaccination, we commend those of you who have already gotten vaccinated and want to encourage others to do so. Subject to local law, we will offer the following to thank those of you that are vaccinated before the end of the year,” wrote Gelsinger.Hindustan Times has confirmed the contents of the letter independently.The company is offering $250, which comes up to approximately ₹18,600 in India for those who will get vaccinated or have already been inoculated, said one person aware of the developments, requesting anonymity.Intel could not immediately be reached for comment.The company is also offering $100 (geo-adjusted) amount in food vouchers for its hourly employees, according to Gelsinger’s mail.The incentive is a shot in the arm for Karnataka, which has been trying to increase vaccination coverage with the support of private industry.The Karnataka government has also asked high net-worth individuals and large corporations to use their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to procure vaccines and given them to the administration to increase the coverage and mitigate the impact of the imminent third wave of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intel-offers-250-to-its-employees-globally-including-india-to-get-vaccinated-101629369645141.html
19-08-2021||India||NK Singh succeeds Manmohan Singh as IEG president||The 15th Finance Commission chairman, NK Singh, has been elected as the president of the Institute of Economic Growth (IEG) Society on August 16. He succeeds former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh who has been in the position since 1992. Dr Singh recommended his name for the consideration of the IEG’s general assembly, an official statement said.Dr Singh expressed his desire to step down from the position on health grounds. Quoting him, the statement said, “... in the light of my advanced age and indifferent health I am having to withdraw from several active duties. I am afraid I will have to ask you to continue your journey with another leader. With this in mind, I would propose the name of my trusted and able friend Shri N.K. Singh, to lead IEG Society as its President.” IEG is an autonomous, multidisciplinary centre for advanced research and training, founded in 1952 by the eminent economist VKRV Rao.Also Read | Palm-oil mission could stoke disaster without sustainability checksIEG’s research falls into nine broad themes -- agriculture and rural development, environment and resource economics; globalisation and trade; industry, labour and welfare; macro-economic policy and modelling; population and development; health policy; and social change and social structure.In addition, the Institute organises regular training programmes for the trainee officers of the Indian Economic Service (IES) and occasional courses for officers of the Indian Statistical Service, NABARD, and university teachers. The institute’s faculty members also supervise doctoral students from India and abroad, provide regular policy inputs, and engage with government, civil society and international organisations.Over the years, IEG has hosted many renowned international scholars, including Nobel Laureates Elinor Ostrom and Amartya Sen, and others such as Ronald Dore, Yujiro Hayami, Jan Breman and Nicolas Stern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nk-singh-succeeds-manmohan-singh-as-ieg-president-101629368867693.html
19-08-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind undergoes cataract surgery at Army hospital in Delhi||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday underwent a cataract surgery at the Army hospital here, a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said.The surgery was successful and he has been discharged from the hospital, it said.Kovind, aged 75, took over as the 14th president of India on July 25, 2017."The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind underwent cataract surgery today morning (August 19, 2021) at the Army Hospital (Referral & Research), New Delhi. Surgery was successful and he has been discharged from the Hospital," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-undergoes-cataract-surgery-at-army-hospital-in-delhi-101629368360750.html
19-08-2021||India||Now, traffic violations to be monitored electronically: All you need to know||In a bid to use technology to act against those violating traffic rules, the Union ministry of road transport and highways on Thursday issued a notification amending the Central Motor Vehicles Rule 1989 for what it called "Electronic Monitoring and Enforcement of Road Safety." As the name suggests, under these rules, "electronic enforcement devices" will be used for issuing challans.MoRT&H has issued a notification amending the Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 for “Electronic Monitoring and Enforcement of Road Safety”, wherein electronic enforcement devices will be used for issuing challan. These shall have an approval certificate of the State Government.Here's all you need to know about this new methodology:(1.) The "electronic enforcement devices" shall carry an approval certificate issued by the respective state government. The certificate will act as a confirmation of the device being "accurate" and will be renewed annually.(2.) Such devices include speed camera, closed-circuit television camera, speed gun, body wearable camera, dashboard camera, automatic number plate recognition (ANPR), weigh-in machine (WIM), as well as any other technology specified by the state government.(3.) State governments bear the responsibility to place these devices at high-risk, high-density corridors on national highways, state highways and at critical junctions. These are to be placed at least in all major cities with a population of more than 1 million, including 132 cities highlighted in the notification.(4.) However, care should be taken to ensure that the devices are placed in such a manner that these do not lead to any obstruction, line-of-sight issues, or interruption in traffic flow.(5.) For any offence committed, the notice has to be sent within a period of 15 days from the occurrence of the said offence. Also, the electronic record, collected through the electronic equipment, has to be stored till the disposal of challan.(6.) Footage captured by an electronic enforcement device can be used to issue challan for offences such as not driving within the prescribed speed limit, stopping or parking the vehicle at an unauthorised location, not wearing protective equipment, jumping red light, violating a stop sign, speaking on the phone while driving, overtaking other vehicles in a dangerous manner, and any other traffic violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-violations-to-be-monitored-electronically-all-you-need-to-know-101629362239859.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Online registration mandatory for people visiting Himachal||Online registration has again been made mandatory for the people visiting Himachal Pradesh."All inter-state movement to the state will be monitored through registration on Covid e-registration software” of the Himachal government, Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperson of State Executive Committee Ram Subhag Singh said in an order on Wednesday.The government, however, exempted certain categories of people from the provisions of this order.They include daily or weekend commuters such as “industrialists, traders, suppliers, factory workers, project proponents, service providers, government officials and people visiting the state on medical grounds”.“Children below 18 years of age, if accompanied by parents or guardians with vaccination certificate for both doses or negative RTPCR/RAT reports too are exempted from e-registration,” he added.Similarly, all goods carriers, whether loaded or unloaded and movement of goods or cargo for inland and exports are also exempted from any type of Covid restriction while entering or exiting the state, he added.Earlier in an order on August 10, the state government had made negative Covid-19 report or full vaccination mandatory for all people intending to visit the hill state from August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-online-registration-mandatory-for-people-visiting-himachal-101629358046179.html
19-08-2021||India||Afghan nationals gather outside US embassy in Delhi, seek assistance from govt||Afghan nationals on Thursday gathered outside the embassy of the United States in Delhi as the situation continued to evolve in the neighbouring South Asian country after the Taliban takeover. They requested the Indian government to extend help to their family members stranded in Afghanistan. "My family back home is scared after the Taliban take over. We request support from India and the US. We don't have any jobs here and are facing financial troubles," news agency ANI quoted an Afghan national as saying.Afghanistan plunged into turmoil after the Taliban took over the capital city of Kabul over the weekend, leading to a humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country. The issue created massive turmoil in the country as mass exodus was triggered by people fearing the return of the brutal regime of the Taliban which had ended in 2001 with the US' entry.With most of the troops already withdrawn, the various foreign governments including India's are carrying out evacuation operations.On Tuesday, India withdrew its ambassador and diplomatic staff from Kabul. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting during which he directed officials to ensure all Indian nationals are evacuated safely from war-torn Afghanistan.Almost 200 people including India’s ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon have been brought back to the country so far.Meanwhile, the head of the UN food agency in Afghanistan on Wednesday said that a humanitarian crisis is unfolding with 14 million people facing severe hunger following the Taliban takeover of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-nationals-gather-outside-us-embassy-in-delhi-seek-assistance-from-govt-101629360493343.html
19-08-2021||India||Terrorist, armyman killed in encounter in J&K’s Rajouri||A junior commissioned officer was killed during an encounter with armed terrorists in Thanamandi area of Rajouri district on Thursday.“Today [Thursday], during an encounter with terrorists in Thanamandi area of Rajouri, one JCO of Rashtriya Rifles suffered bullet injuries and one terrorist died. The JCO was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility but later succumbed to his injuries. A search operation is going on,” the defence spokesperson said.The operation at Thanamandi was launched by police, army and CRPF.In the initial exchange of fire, two army personnel were injured, of whom the JCO succumbed to his injuries, authorities said.Also Read | Parliamentary panel, on visit to J&K, meets representatives of local bodiesThe encounter broke out in the Karyote Kalas area, where a cordon and search operation was launched on Wednesday following reports of suspicious movement.“This morning, as the forces were zeroing in on the suspected hideout, terrorists fired upon the them,” they added.The martyred JCO hailed from Pauri, Garhwal, in Uttarakhand.On August 6, security forces killed two terrorists in Pangai area of Thanamandi and on August 10, Jammu and Kashmir Police identified one of the two slain terrorists as Ramees Ahmad Tantray of Ramnagri in Shopian districtIn the past few weeks, several encounters have taken place in Rajouri sector — Daddal in Nowshera, Sunderbani and Pangai in Thanamandi followed by Thursday’s encounter at Karyote.“All these were fresh groups, which had infiltrated the area recently,” DGP Dilbag Singh said.The DGP also said that infiltration of terrorists from launch pads across the border has resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armyman-killed-in-encounter-with-terrorists-in-j-k-s-rajouri-101629360044382.html
19-08-2021||India||Taliban stop imports, exports from India through Pakistan’s transit routes||The Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO) said on Thursday that the Taliban have stopped all imports and exports from India through transit routes of Pakistan as they gained control over Afghanistan in recent days.“We keep a close watch on developments in Afghanistan. Imports from there come through the transit route of Pakistan. As of now, Taliban has stopped movement of cargo to Pakistan, so virtually imports have been stopped,”Ajay Sahai, FIEO’s director general, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The FIEO said that prices of dry fruits in India might increase in the near future as the country imports about 85 per cent of these commodities from Afghanistan.Also Read| Focus on safe return of Indians from Afghanistan: JaishankarWith regard to exports, Sahai said some goods were being exported through the international North-South Corridor and other goods were going through the Dubai route. Pointing out that India has healthy trade-relations with Afghanistan, Sahai said that exports to the latter were worth around $835 million for 2021.Also Watch| Taliban targets India, stops export, import; dry fruit prices rise | Afghanistan“We imported goods worth around USD 510 million. But besides the trade, we have a sizeable investment in Afghanistan. We have invested around USD 3 billion in Afghanistan and there are 400-odd projects in Afghanistan some of which are currently going on,” he further told ANI and was optimistic about the trade relations despite the worsening crisis in Afghanistan.On Wednesday, foreign minister Dr S Jaishankar said that the government is closely monitoring developments in Afghanistan, adding that the focus is on ensuring security and safe return of Indian nationals who are still there.Scores of Indian nationals are still stuck in Afghanistan with officials saying that they will be repatriated once commercial flights resume in Kabul airport. “The Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-stop-imports-exports-from-india-through-pakistan-s-transit-routes-101629358189040.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issue
and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issueBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (August 23) to discuss the issue of conducting a caste-based census. Read MoreCalcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violenceIn what comes as a major setback for the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, the Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the allegations of post-poll violence in the state. Read MoreNitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issueBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (August 23) to discuss the issue of conducting a caste-based census. Read More'Need to frustrate him': Panesar suggests how Kohli can cause troubles for RootWithout a shred of a doubt, England captain Joe Root has been India's biggest hurdle in the ongoing five-match Test series. Read MoreShilpa Shetty returns with her trademark praises in new Super Dancer 4 promo, dabs with contestantFans of Super Dancer 4 are happy to see Shilpa Shetty return to the show after several weeks. The actor stepped back from the show after her husband, businessman Raj Kundra was arrested in a pornography case in Mumbai. Read MoreHonda CB200X ADV launched in India at ₹1.44 lakhHonda on Thursday announced the launch of the new ADV in the Indian market at ₹1.44 lakh (ex-showroom). The new motorcycle comes based on the Hornet 2.0 and borrows the engine and platform from the naked roadster. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nitish-kumar-to-meet-pm-modi-on-monday-to-discuss-caste-based-census-issue-and-all-the-latest-news-101629357678364.html
19-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issue||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (August 23) to discuss the issue of conducting a caste-based census. Kumar's party Janata Dal (United) is an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bihar and is in favour of caste-based census."I had sought an appointment with the PM to meet him along with a delegation from Bihar to conduct the caste-based census. I thank him for giving us time on August 23," said Kumar's tweet translated from Hindi.जाति आधारित जनगणना करने के लिए बिहार के प्रतिनिधि मंडल के साथ आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री से मिलने का समय मांगा था। आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री का बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद कि 23 अगस्त को मिलने का उन्होंने समय दिया। @narendramodiOn Monday, during an interaction with mediapersons, Kumar said that he had been advocating the need for caste-based census across the country for a long time. “It was done separately between 2011-13, but the report did not come out. We want it to be with the Census at least once to have a clear picture, as it will help in planning and policy-making for they weaker sections,” the chief minister said.The issueHolding a caste-based census is a sensitive issue for the government in view of the assembly elections due in seven states next year. Many political parties have come together demanding a caste-based census.During the recently-concluded monsoon session of Parliament, the Congress asked the government why was it "quiet" and "running away" from a caste-based census.Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha. The party said that such a census is required to assess the exact ground situation because in at least 30 states and Union territories, the reservation for backward classes has crossed the upper limit.The parties in support of caste-based censusBJP allies such as the JD-U, Apna Dal and Republican Party of India-Athawale have raised the demand for holding a caste-based census. Many opposition parties such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party are also demanding that the exercise should be held.Other parties such as the Biju Janata Dal have asked for a caste census, as have some BJP leaders, including Badaun MP Sanghamitra Maurya and national secretary Pankaja Munde.What is the ruling BJP's stand on the issueThe BJP is carefully treading the path on the issue of caste-based census. People aware of the developments said that in view of the upcoming state polls, the BJP wants to prevent caste census from snowballing into an election issue.The party is also keeping a watchful eye on the impact this demand will have with its allies, the people cited above said.Officially, BJP spokesperson Bizay Sonkar Shastri downplayed the entire issue, saying that the party did not believe in caste-based politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-to-meet-pm-modi-on-monday-to-discuss-caste-based-census-issue-101629356197363.html
19-08-2021||India||Union minister draws flak for comments on Tagore’s ‘dark complexion’||Union minister Subhas Sarkar has drawn flak for his comments on Rabindranath Tagore’s “dark complexion”, which he claimed on Wednesday was the reason why his family members did not cradle him as a child.“Rabindranath Tagore had a dark complexion. Because of this, people in his family did not cradle him when he was a child. But later in life, he won the Nobel Prize and brought laurels to the nation,” said Sarkar at Visva Bharati, the university Tagore founded in 1921 in Bengal’s Birbhum district.Also Read | Calcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violenceFormer Rabindra Bharati University (Kolkata) vice-chancellor Pabitra Sarkar called the minister’s remarks racist. “It is true that Tagore was not as fair as other members of his family. But he was not dark. Moreover, children in the Tagore family used to be looked after by maids. Cradling children was not a common practice among members of the Tagore family back in those days,” said Pabitra Sarkar.Udayan Bandopadhyay, a political science professor, said Tagore’s complexion cannot be a subject of discussion. “I heard an academician refuting the minister and claiming that Tagore was extremely fair. How can anyone, be it the minister or academicians, discuss Tagore’s complexion? Can that be a topic at all? We should be talking only about Tagore’s works and his life,” said Bandopadhyay.The minister was unavailable for comments on the controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-draws-flak-for-comments-on-tagore-s-dark-complexion-101629356504240.html
19-08-2021||India||Haryana govt bans use of expression ‘Gorakh Dhanda’ in state||The Haryana government on Wednesday banned the usage of “gorakh dhanda”, a colloquial expression to describe unethical practices.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar took the decision after meeting a delegation of the Gorakhnath community. The delegation urged him to ban the phrase as it hurts the sentiments of the followers of Saint Gorakhnath.“The delegation representing the Gorakhnath community met the chief minister and urged him to ban the use of the expression, saying it hurts the sentiments of the followers of Saint Gorakhnath. The CM agreed,” a government spokesperson said.Also Read | Panchkula MC turns forest land into garbage dumpAssistant professor of sociology at Miranda House, Binu Somdas, said every word has a different meaning in different contexts and banning a word after reading it in isolation is not appropriate-- it is invalidating the heritage factor of culture. “However, considering the current political climate of the country, where religious sentiments are very sensitive, banning a word which might hurt a community is acceptable,” he added. Gorakhnath was an 11th century Hindu yogi, considered to be the founder of the Nath Hindu monastic movement in India. The Gorakhnath Math and Gorakhpur city in Uttar Pradesh are named after him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-bans-phrase-gorakh-dhanda-to-avoid-hurting-religious-sentiments-101629354704495.html
19-08-2021||India||DRDO develops advanced chaff technology for IAF jets: All you need to know||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed an advanced chaff technology to safeguard Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter jets against hostile radar threats.This come a few months after the DRDO developed a similar technology for naval ships to protect them from missile attacks.The technology was developed in three variants. The Indian Navy conducted trials of all three variants in the Arabian Sea on Indian Naval Ship and found the performance satisfactory.Where has the technology been developed?The advanced chaff technology has been developed by DRDO's defence laboratory situated in Rajasthan's Jodhpur.It was developed in collaboration with high energy materials research laboratory in Pune to meet qualitative requirements of the IAF. The Air Force has started the process of induction of this technology after completion of successful user trials, according to DRDO.What is the advanced chaff technology?It is an electronic countermeasure technology used by militaries worldwide to protect their assets, like naval vessels and aircraft. It protects the assets from radar and radio frequency.In case of naval ships, chaff rockets are deployed in the air, which act as multiple targets for missile guidance system.The importance of this development lies in the fact that very less quantity of chaff material deployed in the air acts as decoy to deflect enemy’s missiles for safety of the ships, the defence ministry said in a release.Difference between chaff and flaresBoth are used to as defensive countermeasure to confuse the radar from detecting a vessel, or deflect the missiles from the target.But there is a major difference between the two. While flares, when fired, generate a strong infrared source to attract heat-seeking missiles, chaff is used to misguide radar-tracking weapons.Chaff is composed of many small aluminium or zinc coated fibres. It will be stored on-board the aircraft as cartridges.What were the three variants of chaff technology developed by DRDO to Indian navy?Defence Laboratory Jodhpur indigenously developed three variants of the critical technology, namely Short Range Chaff Rocket (SRCR), Medium Range Chaff Rocket (MRCR) and Long Range Chaff Rocket (LRCR) to meet the navy's qualitative requirements, according to the defence ministry.The successful development of Advanced Chaff Technology by DLJ is another step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat, the minuistry further said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-advanced-chaff-technology-for-iaf-jets-all-you-need-to-know-101629353449306.html
19-08-2021||India||Separate civil services exam centre to be set up in Ladakh||Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh announced on Wednesday that the government would be setting up a separate Civil Services Exam (CSE) centre for Ladakh. The centre will be located in Leh.The announcement came after lieutenant governor of Ladakh RK Mathur called on the union minister in New Delhi to discuss the placement of IAS officers and other service-related matters.According to an official handout issued after the meeting, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) will have an examination centre at Leh from this year, which will operate for the first time for the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination 2021, scheduled to be held on October 10.Also Read | School in J&K’s Kupwara renamed after rifleman who died fighting terrorists“This will address a long pending demand of the youth from the Ladakh region whose grievance was that they found it difficult to reach examination centres in other parts of the country because of the constraints of affordability of air fare and uncertain weather conditions,” the ministry of personnel said in a statement.Singh also said that the Staff Selection Commission is conducting a computer-based examination for selection to Group B and C posts in the government of Ladakh. He said this arrangement will streamline free and fair selection on merit. The Lamdone Online Assessment Institute, Leh, is facilitating the SSC examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-civil-services-exam-centre-to-be-set-up-in-ladakh-101629353684082.html
19-08-2021||India||Instead of rakhis, Bengal govt to distribute masks this Raksha Bandhan||Amid apprehensions of a third wave of Covid-19, the West Bengal government has decided to distribute face masks on Raksha Bandhan this year instead of rakhis. “This year the government would distribute face masks on Raksha Bandhan day instead of rakhis. The state youth services and sports department would be purchasing around 635,000 rakhis for this purpose. The police and other departments would also be distributing masks,” said a senior official of the department. Even though West Bengal had reported more than 20,000 Covid-19 cases on a single day in mid-May, the number of daily cases has come down to 600 – 800 at present. On Wednesday, 646 new cases were reported from the state,and seven people lost their lives to the infection. “There are apprehensions that a third wave could hit sometime around September. The festive season is coming too. We need to be on guard,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. The state health department is planning to speed up the vaccination process in the adjoining districts of Kolkata so that local trains could be resumed. Local suburban trains connect Kolkata and Howrah with the villages and towns of the adjoining districts and thus form a major lifeline for the people coming to Kolkata for work every day. Howrah and Sealdah stations cater to more than two million passengers every day. “The government is targeting districts such as South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and parts of Bardhaman where 50% of the people need to be vaccinated with at least one dose before local trains resume,” said another official. In Kolkata, while around 3.86 million people have received the first dose, around 1.38 million people have received their second dose as well. The city has a population of around 4.5 million, as per the 2011 census. Compared to this, North 24 Parganas, which is the second most densely populated district in India, and has a population of more than 10 million, received around 2.7 million first doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/instead-of-rakhis-bengal-govt-to-distribute-masks-this-raksha-bandhan-101629352003936.html
19-08-2021||India||Army to expand goodwill initiative for students of J&K and Ladakh||To “integrate” youth of the union territories (UTs) of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh with other parts of the country, the Army has decided to expand its ongoing goodwill initiative -- operation Sadbhavana. The Army will now sponsor the education of youths from the UTs at its residential schools and colleges across the country starting this academic year.Under operation Sadbhavana, the Army has established 46 “goodwill schools” in the UTs and also provided assistance to over 1900 state-run schools as of now. Over 14,000 students are enrolled in these schools.For the first time now, 110 students from the UTs will get to study in Army-run colleges and schools every year as a part of the initiative.Also Read | School in J&K’s Kupwara renamed after rifleman who died fighting terroristsInitially, 100 seats (50 each) have been earmarked for students of classes eighth and ninth in Army schools at Beas in Punjab and Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand for the current academic year. From the next academic session, 100 seats will also be reserved in Army Public Schools in Dhaula Kuan (New Delhi), Noida (Uttar Pradesh), and Dagshai (Himachal Pradesh).“Till now the Army was helping the youth of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh through the schools within the territories of these UTs under Sadbhavana. But now the Indian Army will be sponsoring undergraduate courses and school education to selected children and youth from the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in residential schools and colleges functioning under the Army Welfare Education Society (AWES) across the country. This will help them explore the various career opportunities available in the country and also integrate them with the rest of the country,” a senior defence official said.Seats will also be reserved in undergraduate courses in some Army-run colleges. For instance, this year, two seats each will be earmarked in Army Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology and Army Institute of Fashion Design in Bengaluru, Army Colleges of Nursing in Guwahati, and Jalandhar. While colleges will offer undergraduate degrees in hospitality to both girls and boys, seats in courses like fashion designing and nursing will be available only for girls.“From academic session 2022-23 onwards, two additional seats each will be provided in Army’s Management institutions at Kolkata and Greater Noida and Army Institute of Education (only girls) at Greater Noida. The students will be offered MBA and B Ed/B Ed special education (only girls) courses in these colleges,” said a statement issued by the Army on Tuesday.All domiciled residents of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh will be eligible for admission. The Army will conduct an admission test for these seats from the next academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-to-expand-goodwill-initiative-for-students-of-j-k-and-ladakh-101629351583762.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid booster dose will definitely be recommended in India, says National Institute of Virology director||As the United States has okayed the booster dose of the Covid vaccine which will start rolling out from September, National Institute of Virology director Dr Priya Abraham said the booster dose will definitely be recommended in India in future. The official stand of the government regarding booster dose is that the issue is being closely studied.In an interview with India Science, the OTT channel of the department of science and technology, Dr Abraham said, "Studies on booster dose have been going on overseas and at least seven different vaccines have been tried out for booster dose. Now, the WHO has put a stop to it till more countries catch up with vaccination. This is because there is an alarming vaccine gap between high-income and low-income countries. But, in future, recommendations for boosters will definitely come."Covid vaccine for children in India by September, says ICMR-NIV directorA booster dose is an additional dose to augment the antibody level which may lower after a certain period of time following the second dose of the vaccine. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria earlier said that booster doses might become a necessity because of the emerging variants of the virus. The jury is out on whether this will be a yearly requirement or not or whether everybody will require a booster shot against Covid. The World Health Organization has opposed booster doses at present as many poor countries are still without vaccines. WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan has recently said that available data do not indicate that boosters are needed.In India, Pune's Serum Institute has reportedly administered booster doses to its employees. Chairman Cyrus Poonawalla himself has taken a booster dose, he has recently said. "After six months, the antibodies go down and that is why I have taken the third dose. We have given the third dose to our seven to eight thousand SII employees. For those who have completed the second dose, it is my request to take a booster dose (third dose) after six months," he said, as reported by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-booster-dose-will-definitely-be-recommended-in-india-says-national-institute-of-virology-director-101629346844788.html
19-08-2021||India||Muharram holiday: These are the dates announced by state governments||Muharram marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar. It marks the first day of the Islamic new year according to the Hirji calendar. The Hirji calendar is based on the lunar cycle due to which it is different from the Gregorian calendar followed by the West.The word Muharram means 'not permitted' or 'forbidden' hence, Muslims are prohibited from taking part in activities like warfare and use it as a period of prayer and reflection.Also Read | Muharram 2021: This is why Shia and Sunni Muslims fast on AshuraMuharram is observed across India with processions (tazia) being taken out. But this year, there are restrictions on public gatherings due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), so states have not granted permission to take out Muharram processions.Also Read | Muharram 2021: Date of Ashura in India, Saudi Arabia and other countriesHere is a look at dates announced by various state governments to mark Muharram:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muharram-holiday-these-are-the-dates-announced-by-state-governments-101629346646247.html
19-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, August 18. Meanwhile, vaccines for children may be available by September and the trials for inoculating those between 2 and 18 years are underway, said Priya Abraham, director of the National Institute of Virology.In an interview to India Science, an OTT platform of the department of science and technology, Abraham said phase 2/3 clinical trials are in process for those between 2 and 18 years of age. “Hopefully the results will be available soon and they will be presented to regulators. Probably by September or just after September, we may have a vaccine for children… this is Covaxin,” she said.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 565,732,128 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,881,588 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,585,420 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,296,168 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.Also Read | Sharp decline in Covid testing puts question on actual countIn the 18-45 age group, 2,593,571 were given the first dose while 577,183 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 208,043,061 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 17,281,211 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.On Thursday, India reported 36,401 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours, said the government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-565-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629346543338.html
19-08-2021||India||Sarpanch arrested in south Kashmir for brandishing pistol at patrolling party||Police arrested a sarpanch in south Kashmir for brandishing a pistol at a patrolling party. According to police, a joint patrolling party of 1 RR and police apprehended two suspicious persons from Khudwani on a motorcycle on Wednesday evening. Also Read | J&K Police chief directs action against officer for thrashing journalists“The riders, who were signalled to stop, brandished a pistol and tried to flee from the patrolling party. However, due to the quick and timely action of the security forces, both the individuals were apprehended. From their possession, one pistol, two magazines and 12 rounds were recovered,” the police spokesman said in a statement. Police identified the arrested persons as Aqib Shafi Badder of Badderpora Qaimoh and Mohammad Amin Hajam of Hangalgund Kokernag. Badder is a sarpanch. Locals said that he is affiliated with the Bharatiya Janata Party. Police have registered a case against the sarpanch and his associate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarpanch-arrested-in-south-kashmir-for-brandishing-pistol-at-patrolling-party-101629344203412.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Monsoon likely to revive over northwest India from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon likely to revive over N-W India from todayMonsoon is likely to revive over northwest India from Thursday with widespread rain likely over Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana in the next 3-4 days ,according to India Meteorological Department. Read moreUP schools to reopen for classes 1 to 5 from September 1. Details hereThe Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh has issued a slew of orders regarding the reopening of schools in the state, in view of the existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) conditions. Read moreCovid-19: Fewer than 10 active cases in 6 districts of MaharashtraThere are fewer than 10 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Dhule, Washim, Yavatmal, Bhandara, Wardha and Gondia districts of Maharashtra while only seven districts, including Pune and Ahmednagar, account for most of the infections in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his cabinet were informed on Wednesday. Read moreHow Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube are struggling to keep Taliban at baySilicon Valley has a tough job at hand. For the first time in over two decades, social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube have to come up with ways to balance a response against the Taliban, a conservative terrorist-affiliated group now in control of the state apparatus in Afghanistan. Read moreVishal Dadlani's message to those who call Bachpan Ka Pyar boy bad singer: 'Usko neecha dikhake what are you achieving'Singer-music composer Vishal Dadlani has shared a video, defending viral sensation Sahdev Dirdo. The 10-year-old boy went viral recently after an old video of him singing the song Bachpan Ka Pyaar was rediscovered. Read moreKhushi Kapoor in ₹95k beauteous lehenga looks like a dream for Antara Marwah’s baby showerIt is celebration time in the Kapoor family, and the whole clan has been serving good looks in their impeccable ensembles. After celebrating Rhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani's wedding, the whole Kapoor family got together to celebrate Mohit Marwah's wife Antara Marwah's baby shower in Mumbai. Read more‘His heroes are Sachin, Dravid’: KP lauds Kohli’s passion for Test cricketFormer England captain Kevin Pietersen has commended Virat Kohli’s fondness for the longest format of the game. The Indian captain on Monday led his team to a terrific 151-run win over England in the second Test match at Lord’s to go up 1-0 in the series. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-monsoon-likely-to-revive-over-northwest-india-from-today-101629341879621.html
19-08-2021||India||No evidence of lasting lung damage in Covid-19 survivors: Study||None of the Covid-19 survivors included in a Loyola University Medical Centre and University of Chicago Medicine study had any lasting lung damage directly attributable to the disease. The study published in the Annals of Thoracic Surgery on July 31 said the finding fills an important gap in the understanding of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in the survivorship phase.“Clinicians and patients alike now have observational evidence that once the patient recovers from their disease, it is unlikely to have permanent lung parenchymal sequelae at least up to four months from their infection, which was the maximal duration of this study.”India currently has the second-highest caseload of Covid-19 cases after the US. The disease attacks the lungs and progresses fast in some patients making it difficult for them to breathe.Also Read | Second Covid wave in check, but not over: Maharashtra CM appeals for caution“The lungs of patients who recover fully also recover as the disease regresses,” said Mumbai-based physician Hemant Gupta. “Commonly, patients who have some underlying ailments like Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease or a history of tuberculosis have a lasting impact on their lungs when they contract Covid-19. Other patients who become critical and spend several days in the intensive care unit also show signs of severe lungs damage, many of them require oxygen support even after discharge.”Radiologist Jignesh Thakker said the long-lasting impact of Covid is commonly seen in patients who become critical.In addition to underlying ailments, Indian patients may have compromised lungs due to the additional impact of air pollution, say experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-of-lasting-lung-damage-in-covid-19-survivors-study-101629342643691.html
19-08-2021||India||Second Covid wave in check, but not over: Maharashtra CM appeals for caution||The second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra is under control for now, claimed the state government on Wednesday, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to citizens to adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour to prevent a third wave, especially during the upcoming festive season. Thackeray cautioned that the second wave is not over yet.Also Read | Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to inaugurate new district HQ at Palghar todayThe state on Wednesday witnessed 5,132 fresh cases and 158 deaths. In a release post the meeting of the state Cabinet, the government said the average weekly positivity rate has now dropped to 2.4 %. In addition, it reported that of its 36 districts, zero patients were reported in Nandurbar district, less than 10 patients in six districts and less than 100 in eight districts. The state government also said that about 50% citizens above 45 have been given at least one dose of the vaccine, while in the 18-45 age group, it is 25%. Overall, over 50 million citizens have been given one dose, while 13,307,000 were fully vaccinated, as of Wednesday.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the figures indicated the declining trend. “When positivity rate dips below 5%, it indicates that the virus has been controlled,” said Dr Awate. “The authorities apart from their standard practices of testing, contact tracing and medication also took into account the local factors to combat the virus,” he added. Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive out of total tests conducted for an infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-covid-wave-in-check-but-not-over-maharashtra-cm-appeals-for-caution-101629341563246.html
19-08-2021||India||Monsoon likely to revive over N-W India from today||Monsoon is likely to revive over northwest India from Thursday with widespread rain likely over Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana in the next 3-4 days ,according to India Meteorological Department.There was a dry spell over many parts of northwest India in the first couple of weeks of August due to “break” monsoon conditions, which occur when the monsoon trough moves closer to the foothills bringing little rain to the plains.Also Read | Monsoon mingling: Sun romances Delhi skyA cyclonic circulation is lying over Jharkhand and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move west northwestwards in the next 48 hours across northeast Madhya Pradesh. The western end of monsoon trough is near its normal position and the eastern end is south of its normal position. Strong southerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India will continue to prevail till August 19. Due to these meteorological conditions, enhanced rainfall activity is likely over central and adjoining north peninsular India during the next 2-3 days. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Gujarat region, Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal on August 18 and 19; widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to continue over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next 2 days. There is likely to be increased rainfall activity over northwest India from Thursday-- August 19. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rainfall is likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from August 19 to 21; over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh on August 20 and 21. Isolated heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely over Uttarakhand on August 19 and 20. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Bihar from August 20 to 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-revive-over-n-w-india-from-today-101629341022942.html
19-08-2021||India||Not expressed any view on Taliban or Afghanistan, clarifies AIMPLB||The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) on Wednesday distanced from secretary Maulana Umrain Mahfuz Rahmani and national spokesperson Maulana Sajjad Nomani's reported comments apparently praising the Taliban for its success in the capture of Afghanistan. "All India Muslim Personal Law Board has neither expressed any view nor given any statement on Taliban and the recent political situation of Afghanistan. Opinion of some Board members has been portrayed as Board's stand by few media channels and wrong things are being attributed to the Board," tweeted AIMPLB.All India Muslim Personal Law Board has neither expressed any view nor given any statement on Taliban and recent political situation of Afghanistan. (1/3)Reports said Sajjad Nomani had praised the Taliban and termed the outfit as 'history-makers'. Maulana Umrain Mahfuz, on the other hand, tweeted that the Taliban conquered Afghanistan with the "eternal wealth of faith and belief". He also praised the general amnesty that the Taliban declared after completing the takeover of the country.This comes at a time when a sedition case has been filed against Samajwadi Party leader Shafiqur Rahman Barq's alleged remarks comparing the Taliban to India's freedom fighters. “They want to be free. This is their personal matter. How can we interfere?” Barq said.The charges against the Samajwadi Party MP include Sections 124A (Sedition), 153A (Promoting enmity between groups) and 295A (outraging religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code.One Rajesh Singhal filed a complaint against the MP based on which he was booked. "Taliban have been declared a terrorist organisation by the Indian government. These statements come under sedition. The police will take strict actions against the people making such statements," Sambhal SP Chakresh Mishra said.The comment has evoked a sharp response and Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said if such statements are given, then there is no difference between that person and Imran Khan.Burq, however, said his statement was misinterpreted and he never supported the Taliban. "I did not make any such statement. My statement has been misinterpreted. I am a citizen of India, not of Afghanistan, so I have no business with what is happening there. I support my government's policies," the Samajwadi Party MP said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-expressed-any-view-on-taliban-or-afghanistan-clarifies-aimplb-101629338074469.html
19-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Kerala Governor condoles death of PT Usha's coach Om Nambiar||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news:> Calcutta HC orders CBI probe into alleged post-poll violence in Bengal> Earthquake of 4.5 magnitude jolts Afghanistan> Encounter breaks out in J-K's Rajouri district> India records 36,401 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload lowest in 149 days> Monsoon likely to revive over northwest India from today> Over 500 million Covid-19 tests conducted in India so farFollow all the updates here:Kerala Governor condoles death of PT Usha's coach Om NambiarHon'ble Governor Shri Arif Mohammed Khan condoled the sad demise of PadmaShri #OMNambiar, famous coach who mentored noted athletes like #PTUsha."His services to Indian sport will be long remembered. My heartfelt condolences. May his soul attain Mukti",he said:PRO, KeralaRajBhavan pic.twitter.com/WeXplTj5ryKuwait to resume commercial flights with India, EgyptKuwait to resume commercial flights with India, Egypt https://t.co/7TUdH3u6Tt pic.twitter.com/FV9AlqioAhSection 144 imposed in Rajasthan's Dholpur due to Covid-19In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic Section 144 has been imposed in Rajasthan's Dholpur district. This is slated to come into effect from August 20, and bars public, social, political, entertainment, educational, cultural & religious gatherings/processions/festivals from being held.US police investigating bomb threat after suspicious vehicle is found near Capitol building #UPDATE US police said Thursday a suspicious vehicle near the #Capitol building and Library of Congress in Washington was being investigated for possible explosives and that people were told to leave the area pic.twitter.com/HtA26GLaHKMaharashtra records 5,225 cases of Covid-19, 154 deathsMaharashtra recorded 5,225 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, pushing the tally of cases to 6,411,570. In the last 24 hours 154 deaths have also been reported, the death toll now stands at 135,567, according to the state health bulletin.J&K leader Ghulam Hassan Lone dead shot by terroristsJammu and Kashmir politician Ghulam Hassan Lone was shot dead by terrorist in Kulgam district on Wednesday. Lone is the third political leader from Kulgam to be killed in the last 10 days.Taliban fighters open fire on people in Asadabad, several killedSeveral people were killed in the Afghan city of Asadabad when Taliban fighters fired on people waving the national flag at an Independence Day rally, a witness said https://t.co/T41C3byRy6 pic.twitter.com/s2AdjfvGUpCBI submits progress report on Dhanbad judge death case to Jharkhand HC in sealed coverThe Central Bureau of Investigation submitted the progress report on Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand's death in a sealed cover to Jharkhand high court, reported news agency ANI on Wednesday.Assam govt renames detention centres as 'transit camps'Assam government has said that detention centres, which house 'foreigners' in Assam, will now be called 'Transit camps'. pic.twitter.com/D675HlZLkCKerala govt starts talks on vaccine production in the stateKerala government has started talks on vaccine production in the state. "We are trying to introduce fill-finish units. We have discussed the issue (with the Union health minister) and the Centre is very positive," said state health minister Veena George to ANI.One terrorist killed by security forces in Thanamandi encounterOne terrorist killed by security forces in Thanamandi encounter, say J&K police.Nations must respect the rule of law, not violence: Afghanistan's caretaker President tweetsNations must respect the rule of law, not violence. Afghanistan is too big for Pakistan to swallow and too big for Talibs to govern. Don't let your histories have a chapter on humiliation and bowing to terror groups, tweets Amrullah Saleh, acting president of Afghanistan.Days after deadly earthquake, fresh tremors strike city in HaitiHaitian city of Les Cayes was shaken by tremors late on Wednesday, news agency Reuters reported. This comes a few days after a devastating earthquake killed almost 2,189 people across the Caribbean nation, according to its civil protection agency. Read moreEarthquake of 4.5 magnitude jolts AfghanistanThe National Center for Seismology (NCS) said on Thursday that an earthquake of 4.5 magnitude hit Afghanistan at 11:22 hours. Calcutta HC orders CBI probe into alleged post-poll violence in BengalThe Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the alleged post-poll violence in the state of West Bengal.Encounter breaks out in J-K's Rajouri districtAn encounter has broken out between terrorists and security forces in the Thanamandi area of Rajouri district, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Two terrorists were shot down by police in the same area on August 6, ANI further reported. With cakes, Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore raises awareness about Covid-19In Coimbatore, authorities are holding a month-long Covid-19 awareness drive, where cakes are being displayed to inform people to stick to Covid-19 guidelines. "We have organised this exhibition with 40 varieties of cakes based on different themes. These themes include gratitude to doctors, creating awareness regarding common precautionary measures like washing hands and maintaining social distancing and the most important one is urging people to get vaccinated," Vijayalakshmi, the organiser of the show told news agency ANI. India has administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, August 18. Meanwhile, vaccines for children may be available by September and the trials for inoculating those between 2 and 18 years are underway, said Priya Abraham, director of the National Institute of Virology. Read moreIndia records 36,401 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload lowest in 149 daysIndia's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 32,322,258 on Thursday after 36,401 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's update. As many as 530 patients succumbed and 39,157 recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the cumulative count of death and recoveries to 433,049 and 31,525,080 respectively. The active cases have come down to 364,129, lowest in 149 days. Over 500 million Covid-19 tests conducted in India so farCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/5Wr4ZOpBzxThe Indian Council of Medical Research said on Thursday that over 500 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far in the country. Monsoon likely to revive over N-W India from todayMonsoon is likely to revive over northwest India from Thursday with widespread rain likely over Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana in the next 3-4 days ,according to India Meteorological Department. Read moreCovid-19: Fewer than 10 active cases in 6 districts of MaharashtraThere are fewer than 10 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Dhule, Washim, Yavatmal, Bhandara, Wardha and Gondia districts of Maharashtra while only seven districts, including Pune and Ahmednagar, account for most of the infections in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his cabinet were informed on Wednesday. Read moreMaharashtra CM to inaugurate new district headquarters at PalgarhMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Thursday inaugurate a new administrative complex at the Palgarh district of the state. The building, set up by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), is touted to be the largest administrative complex not only in Maharashtra and but also across India. Read moreBrazil's Covid-19 caseload crosses 20.45 millionBrazil's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 20.45 million on Wednesday as 41,714 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the national ministry of health. As many as 1,064 more patients succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 571,662.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-19-2021-101629332047940.html
19-08-2021||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to inaugurate new district headquarters at Palghar today||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is all set on Thursday, August 19, to inaugurate a new administrative complex at Palghar. The building, set up by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), is touted to be the largest administrative complex not only in the state and but also in the entire country. The Maharashtra government had entrusted CIDCO with the task of accelerating the Palghar district, which was formed in 2014 after bifurcating the Thane district."CIDCO has developed the new district headquarters of Palghar over 103 hectares of land," wrote Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, the vice-chairman and managing director of the city-planning agency from his official Twitter handle on Wednesday. "This is being inaugurated tomorrow by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, along with a galaxy of luminaries..."This link would enable all of you to watch the #inaugral live, from your laptops, tabs or smartphoneshttps://t.co/wDDULiT6Jp#Palghar #Maharashtra #CIDCO #WeBuildCities @CIDCO_Ltd @CMOMaharashtraThe CIDCO vice-chairman also provided a link for everyone to watch the inaugural ceremony live from mobile devices since only the invited guests and registered media persons are allowed to physically attend the inaugural ceremony, where the chief minister will be present for the opening of the new administrative complex.According to reports, the construction for the new administrative complex at Palghar started in 2017 and was initially set to be completed by 2019, but the project kept getting delayed until it was completed in April this year. For the purpose of the new administrative complex at Kolgaon in Palghar, a 103-hectare plot was allotted to CIDCO, reports note. The complex is being built for streamlining the administration of the district; the new building will accommodate most of the government offices like that of the Zilla Parishad, the district collector, and the superintendent of police (SP), all of which earlier used to work out of rented premises.The new administrative complex in Palghar, set to be followed by two more within the next month, is reportedly a part of measures that the Maharashtra government is taking with the aim to make Palghar a commercial hub with proper industrial growth and all-round development of the tribal areas within the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-to-inaugurate-new-district-headquarters-at-palghar-today-101629330046203.html
19-08-2021||India||How region-wise contradictions are pulling Cong apart||Sushmita Dev’s exit from the Congress may be the latest entry in an exodus that began after the party lost the 2021 elections, but it is also different. Instead of joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is where most Congress leaders have gone, Dev, one of the party’s tallest leaders from Assam, has joined the All India Trinamool Congress (TMC), a party which has no base in the state, but secured a thumping victory in neighbouring West Bengal. In a way, this shows more desperation than opportunism on the part of Dev. The episode highlights the challenge facing the Congress party, which is increasingly finding it difficult to reconcile its national positions with realpolitik at the state-level.Sushmita Dev’s core support-group has been deserting the Congress graduallySushmita Dev carries the legacy of her father Santosh Mohan Dev, among the most important Bengali leaders of the Congress in Assam. It is no surprise that both father and daughter have been contestants from the Silchar Lok Sabha constituency from the Barak valley in Assam, which has a large share of Bengali-speaking population. According to the 2011 census, 81% of the region’s population is Bengali-speaking and the region has a roughly equal share of Hindus (50%) and Muslims (48%). Census data does not give break-up of mother tongue by religion.Dev’s political fortunes had been facing a squeeze, which is evident from the Congress’s vote share from 2014 onwards.This could not have happened without the Bengali Hindus – a constituency which was the bedrock of Santosh Mohan Dev’s political fortunes – deserting the Congress and moving towards the BJP. If the 2021 assembly election results are any indication, there was little probability of Dev being elected from Silchar to the Lok Sabha in the 2024 elections.Congress’s anti-CAA stance may have been the reason for alienation among Bengali HindusOpposition to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA was among the most important planks of the Congress in the Assam elections. The reason CAA is relevant in Assam is that it provides for granting of retrospective citizenship to Hindus who are found ineligible in the final list of National Register of Citizens (NRC). Enactment of the CAA, which has still not been implemented, will create a difference between Hindu and Muslim Bengalis – traditionally the outsider charge was religion agnostic in Assam – who are found ineligible in the NRC.The fact that CAA creates the legal ground for conferring citizenship on a large number of Bengali Hindus (the CAA excludes Muslims from this benefit) found ineligible in the NRC has drawn criticism from sections of the indigenous Assamese population. The Congress, when it allied with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) – a party with its main support base among Bengali Muslims – and adopted a vocal anti-CAA stance, was looking to build an alliance of Muslims and Assamese Hindus. One constituency which it risked alienating by this decision were the Bengali Hindus. The CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey shows that Bengali Hindus and Muslims had very different attitudes to CAA.If the CSDS-Lokniti post-poll numbers are any indication, neither Assamese nor Bengali Hindus voted for the Congress-AIUDF alliance in greater numbers in the latest elections. Leaders who have been leaving the Congress after the elections are from these communities.Congress erred on the other side in Kerala polls…If Assam is an example of the Congress losing out because of mechanically championing a national-level issue (liberal opposition to CAA) at the state level, the recent Kerala elections offer a completely opposite example. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) seems to have overinvested in the Sabarimala issue which led to the rout of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. With the Supreme Court effectively staying its decision to allow women of all ages to enter Sabarimala in November 2019 and the LDF government using this tactical route to bail itself out of the problem, the Sabarimala issue lost its political relevance. This can be clearly seen from the rise in share of LDF voters even among those who were opposed to the Sabarimala judgment....which may have cost it minority votes in Kerala﻿While the Congress was banking on the Sabarimala issue to get Hindu support, exactly what the BJP has been doing, it seemed to have erred on norms of secular propriety in attacking the CPI(M) in the state.“They (Left) do same division that BJP does, they spread same hatred. It’s interesting to me, the PM spends every single day saying ‘Congressmukt Bharat’, I have never heard him say ‘CPM Left Front Mukt Bharat or Kerala,” Rahul Gandhi said on April 4, while campaigning in Thiruvananthapuram.While both Christians and Muslims have voted in greater numbers for the Congress than the CPI(M) in Kerala, it does not mean that the state’s religious minorities would be comfortable with the idea of the BJP destroying the Left, something Gandhi suggested when he made this statement. It is no wonder that the LDF made significant gains among religious minorities at the cost of the UDF in the Kerala elections.To be sure, balancing regional and national issues is not an easy task. It is even more difficult when a party is not in power, limiting its ability to placate various sections both within and outside its fold. What is also true, however, is the fact that the current Congress leadership has no option but to learn to manage these contradictions better, failing which the grand old party will continue to atrophy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-region-wise-contradictions-are-pulling-cong-apart-101629326866202.html
19-08-2021||India||Cabinet nod to pact on cutting down of HFCs||The Union Cabinet has approved the ratification of Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, the ministry of environment said in a press statement on Wednesday.The Kigali Amendment aims to phase-down hydrofluorocarbons(HFCs) by curbing both their production and consumption. Though HFCs don’t impact the ozone layer, they are powerful greenhouse gases. HFCs are used as replacements for hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which are ozone-depleting gases.“With the Kigali Amendment, the Montreal Protocol will be an even more powerful instrument against global warming,” says the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. The amendment aims to achieve over 80% reduction in HFC consumption by 2047, which will curb a global increase of temperature by up to 0.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century.According to a statement by the environment ministry on HFC phasedown, a national strategy will be developed after consultations with all stakeholders by 2023. Amendments to the existing legislation framework, the Ozone Depleting Substances (Regulation and Control) Rules to allow appropriate control of the production and consumption of HFCs to ensure compliance with the Kigali Amendment will be done by mid-2024.Following a massive growth in the use of HFCs, especially in the refrigeration and air-conditioning sector, the parties to the Montreal Protocol reached an agreement at their 28th meeting of the parties in October 2016 in Kigali, Rwanda, to add HFCs to the list of controlled substances and approved a timeline for their gradual reduction by 80-85% by the late 2040s. India will complete its phase-down in four steps with a cumulative reduction of 10% in 2032, 20% in 2037, 30% in 2042 and 80% in 2047, as per a statement by the ministry.The industry producing and consuming HFCs will be phasing them out as agreed and transition to non-HFC and low global warming potential technologies.“The success of the Montreal Protocol is a role model for multilateral action on climate change. It shows clear targets and policies by the government can prompt industry to switch technologies,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of climate programme at World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-to-pact-on-cutting-down-of-hfcs-101629318728553.html
19-08-2021||India||Govt puts ₹30k-cr pvt trains’ tender on hold||The railway ministry has decided to put on hold the tender for running 151 private trains along 109 major routes with an estimated investment of ₹30,000 crore and will revaluate the process mainly due to tepid response from private firms, according to officials aware of the development.“The tender for the private trains has been put on hold and the entire process will be re-evaluated due to lower participation from private firms. Railways will issue a fresh tender,” a senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity.Of the 12 clusters put up for bidding, only three received any bids at all, the official added.An India Railways spokesperson would only say that “the evaluation process is on”.The national carrier, on July 1, 2020, began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes — a process that aimed to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises to private participation. However, only two bidders, the Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and Megha Engineering & Infrastructures evinced interest in the financial bidding stage. IRCTC, majority-owned by government, was touted to get the contract after quoting a higher revenue share figure. This, officials said, raised questions on the purpose of running trains via private firms.According to the ministry, the planned investment was estimated around ₹30,000 crore, and a majority of the rakes (70%) required will have to be manufactured in India; private entities cleared to run the train services shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains. Winning bidders were to be provided a concession period of 35 years.The first dozen private trains were due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 were to be operational by 2027. According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter was supposed to select companies by April . The schedule for operations was: the first 12 by 2023-24; 45 more in FY 2024-25; the next 50 in FY 2025-26; and the last 44 by 2026-27.The ministry last year issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for private companies to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that it hoped would “introduce modern technologies and world class services”.Of the 12 clusters across Indian Railways’s network where the plan was to be put in motion, there are two clusters each in Delhi and Mumbai, and one cluster each in Secunderabad, Chennai, Howrah, Jaipur, Prayagraj, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, and Patna.In October last year, the Indian Railways received a total of 120 applications from 15 firms including L&T, GMR and Welspun in response to its Request for Quotation.The firms which made the applications for the clusters included Arvind Aviation, BHEL, Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarrriles, S.A, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pvt Ltd and Gateway Rail Freight Limited among others||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-puts-30k-cr-pvt-trains-tender-on-hold-101629317826460.html
19-08-2021||India||SC publishes 9 names shortlisted by collegium for appointments||The Supreme Court administration on Wednesday evening published the nine names recommended by the collegium for appointment in the apex court.As reported by HT on Wednesday morning, these nine names include justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court (HC), who, if elevated now, could become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. She is the daughter of former CJI Engalaguppe Seetharamiah Venkataramiah, and will become the CJI in September 2027 for little over a month after her appointment.A one-page statement, published on the Supreme Court website, has listed out the nine names shortlisted by the collegium in the meeting held on Tuesday evening. HT reported the nine names.Besides justice Nagarathna, those recommended included justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (CJ of Karnataka HC), Vikram Nath (CJ of Gujarat HC), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (CJ of Sikkim HC), Hima Kohli (CJ of Telangana HC), CT Ravikumar (judge in Kerala HC), MM Sundresh (judge in Madras HC) and PS Narasimha (senior advocate and former additional solicitor general).According to people familiar with the development, the Union law ministry is yet to receive files from the Supreme Court on the recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-publishes-9-names-shortlisted-by-collegium-for-appointments-101629317289594.html
19-08-2021||India||ICMR study in Chennai shows Delta variant infects both vaccinated, unvaccinated||An Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study conducted in Chennai has found that the Delta variant of the Covid-19 virus has the potential to infect both vaccinated and unvaccinated people, but it reduces mortality among the former group.The study was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai and published in the Journal of Infection on August 17.The study findings indicate that the prevalence of the Delta variant or B.1.617.2 was not different between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups. The high transmissible Delta variant is the dominant strain circulating across the world and is one of the primary drivers for the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 in India.The report quoted other studies that have documented a reduction in neutralisation titres among Covishield and Covaxin vaccine recipients after infection with the Delta variant. “This might be the reason for the breakthrough infections observed in the fully vaccinated individuals,” the published paper said.Jeromie Thangaraj, a scientist at the National Institute of Epidemiology who was involved in the study said that since the sample size was low, they did not include re-infections as it was very few and have not further classified whether those who were infected post-vaccination had taken Covishield or Covaxin. “But the proportion of patients progressing to severe illness and mortality was lower in the vaccinated group which is the case globally,” said Jeromie.The proportion of patients with moderate and severe illness was significantly lower in the fully vaccinated group than in the unvaccinated group. “No deaths were reported in the fully vaccinated group, whereas three partially vaccinated (patients) and seven unvaccinated patients died,” the report said.After completing the study in May, the data was shared with Tamil Nadu’s health department. The report suggested that non-pharmaceutical interventions must continue to slow down the transmission combined with speedy vaccination coverage.Chennai was one of the worst affected cities during the second wave of Covid-19 in India with nearly 6000 cases reported daily during the first three weeks of May 2021, despite a high seroprevalence of around 45% estimated during October-November 2020. The study group selected patients from three triaging centres in the city.Of the 3,790 people who visited the triage centres between the first week of May, 373 reported receiving at least one dose of vaccine 14 days prior to their Covid-19 positive diagnosis. The remaining 3,417 were unvaccinated. The study enrolled 354 (94.9%) of the 373 in the vaccinated group. Of this 241 people had taken one dose or were partially vaccinated and 113 had taken two doses or were fully vaccinated. As many as 185 (5.4%) of the 3417 unvaccinated individuals were included in the study. The median age of the individuals who were unvaccinated, partially vaccinated and fully vaccinated were 47 years, 53 years and 54 years respectively.After retrieving genomic sequences from 414 of the 539 samples it was found that the delta variant was the predominant variant of concern in Chennai. About 72.4% in the unvaccinated group and 68% and 74% among the partially and fully vaccinated groups were found. Among the fully vaccinated, a majority that is 85% had IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 whereas 63.9% were partially vaccinated and 14.6% in the unvaccinated group were seropositive. “We also found the delta plus variant in five participants,” said Thangaraj. One out of the five infected with delta plus (AY.1) required hospitalisation with oxygen support but the rest had mild disease.Dr K Kolandaswamy, the former director of the directorate of public health in Tamil Nadu said that the objective for vaccination is threefold prevention: from infection, from the severity of disease and mortality.“The study isn’t able to measure how much prevention from infection has been achieved but it does clearly indicate that the other two objectives are working,” Kolandaswamy said.“And it shows with evidence what we have been repeatedly saying that no matter what variant is in transmission, we have to continue with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like masking, hand washing social distancing and increase vaccine coverage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-in-chennai-shows-delta-variant-infects-both-vaccinated-unvaccinated-people-101629315163336.html
19-08-2021||India||Babulal Marandi’s aide booked for rape: Police||RANCHI: The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Wednesday exchanged barbs after Ranchi police booked a close aide of BJP legislator Babulal Marandi for allegedly raping his domestic help at his home last year.While Marandi said the case against his political advisor Sunil Tiwari was a result of political vendetta and demanded probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the former chief minister should not deliver verdicts even before the police complete their probe.A case has been filed against Tiwari at Argora police station in Ranchi on the complaint of a 20-year-old woman, who has accused him of rape, physical assault and threat to life, police said, adding that sections of SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act have also been invoked.According to the FIR, the incident took place between March and September last year and the complaint was filed on August 16, 2021.“I demand an independent probe in this case, be it by CBI or judicial probe headed by a High Court justice. We will also take up this issue with the Governor once he returns from New Delhi,” Marandi said.Marandi alleged that Tiwari was framed as he became an intervener in a rape case against chief minister Hemant Soren. The case against Soren is likely to come up for hearing next week.“The case has a long background as it started in December 2020 when a girl filed a petition in the Bombay high court regarding her previous complaint of rape charges against the CM. Later, she posted a video on social media claiming she was facing life threat from me, Sunil Tiwari, Nishikant Dubey (BJP MP) and one other person from Mumbai whom I don’t know. That is when I had asked him (Sunil Tiwari) to become an intervener in that case and later also to file a writ petition in the Supreme Court, demanding CBI probe in that case,” Marandi told reporters on Wednesday.The BJP legislator added that he had then written to the Maharashtra DGP and Mumbai police commissioner to conduct a probe and provide security to the woman.Bhattacharya, however, said the rape allegation against Soren was fabricated and a defamation case has been filed with a lower court in Ranchi.“Ever since he has joined back the BJP, he has been issuing certificates well before the police complete their investigation. It seems he has taken annular maintenance contract of defending wrong elements in the BJP. He is a former chief minister and has considerable influence. He should not create un necessary pressure on police when probe is still on, especially in cases related to tribal girls who are often exploited due to their vulnerability,” said Bhattacharya.Tiwari said he was being framed by the Soren government as he has filed a writ petition against the chief minister.“I have filed a writ petition in Supreme Court in the rape allegation against chief minister Hemant Soren by a Mumbai girl, seeking CBI investigation in the incident. The case is to come up for hearing on August 23. The case against me is a result of that. I had written to the chief secretary, home secretary, Ranchi police as well as government of India on June 19 itself seeking protection. I had clearly mentioned in the letter that I was getting threats from different quarters threatening not to pursue the case,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babulal-marandi-s-aide-booked-for-rape-police-101629313899659.html
19-08-2021||India||‘Peacekeeping must be anchored in strong ecosystem of technology, innovation’: EAM at UNSC debate||The United Nations Security Council on Wednesday unanimously adopted a resolution on ensuring accountability for crimes against UN peacekeepers for the first time during a meeting held under the Indian presidency.The resolution, adopted at an open debate chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, calls for prevention, investigation and prosecution to bring to justice perpetrators of crimes against UN peacekeepers. It was initiated by India in the Security Council earlier this year and co-sponsored by all 15 permanent and non-permanent members of the body.The Security Council also adopted the first technology-related presidential statement on peacekeeping — “Technology for Peacekeeping” — which called for recognising that “technology has the potential to act as a force multiplier”.India, which holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August, is one of the largest troop contributors for UN peacekeeping missions. It has provided more than 250,000 personnel for 49 missions over the decades, and 174 of its troops have died during these deployments. Currently, more than 5,000 Indian personnel are deployed in nine missions.The open debate with the theme “Protecting the protectors” was one of three signature events being hosted by India as part of its presidency of the Security Council. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a virtual open debate on global cooperation for maritime security on August 9, while Jaishankar will chair a briefing on counter-terrorism on August 19 that is expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban.Jaishankar told the meeting that UN peacekeeping operations “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” to adapt to changing conflict dynamics. He proposed a four-point framework that lays out an architecture for securing UN peacekeepers from contemporary threats. This framework, Jaishankar said, should focus on technologies that are “operationally proven, cost-effective, widely available, reliable and field-serviceable”. It should establish a sound information and intelligence foundation for ensuring early warning and mobilising a coherent and early response.The framework should ensure regular technological improvements that are readily available in gear, weapons and tools for peacekeepers, and there should be attention and investment to consistent training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the field of technology, he added.In this regard, Jaishankar said, India is backing the UN in rolling out the “UNITE Aware” platform in selected peacekeeping missions. “This initiative is based on the expectation that an entire peacekeeping operation can be visualised, coordinated and monitored on a real-time basis. We should ensure that any attack on a peacekeeper or a civilian is predictable, preventable or responded to immediately,” he said.India contributed $1.64 million for the UNITE Aware platform that is being used by four peacekeeping missions in Somalia, South Sudan, Mali and Cyprus. The platform is a situational awareness software programme that uses modern surveillance technology and provides real-time threat assessment to improve the overall security of UN peacekeepers.The platform records data on critical incidents and events and tracks daily operational activities. It also provides access to live video and satellite imagery and early warnings in a volatile environment.The first presidential statement in the Security Council focused on using technology to help peacekeepers. It also encourages the use of modern technology to improve the performance, safety and security of peacekeepers operating in increasingly complex and risky environments.As part of India’s initiatives for the training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the realm of technology, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between India and UN to support the “Partnership for Technology in Peacekeeping” initiative and the UN Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Academy for Peace Operations based in Entebbe, Uganda.Jaishankar said 21st-century peacekeeping “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” that can facilitate missions to implement their mandates in complex environments. “After all, it helps them to adapt to changing conflict dynamics and take advantage of increased efficiencies. This is also in line with the Strategy for Digital Transformation of UN peacekeeping which seeks to advance the use of technology across the Action for Peacekeeping themes, including performance, safety and security, politics, protection and peace-building,” he said.UN Secretary-General António Guterres said digital tools, such as long-range cameras, unmanned aerial vehicles and ground surveillance radars, help peacekeepers protect civilians and themselves. However, new technologies also pose profound threats, reflected by the online proliferation of violent extremist ideologies, cyber-attacks and deadly vaccine misinformation.“Anonymous actors are able to target critical infrastructure such as power stations, hospitals, government facilities and the IT systems crucial to running our societies,” he said. “We are also seeing the increased use of autonomous weapon systems. On this rapidly emerging issue, governments must work together to ensure that sufficient human control and judgement is retained in the use of force.”Before the debate, Jaishankar participated in a ceremony held at the UN Peacekeepers Memorial that was also attended by Guterres and all council members. The event was held to pay tribute to UN peacekeepers who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peacekeeping-must-be-anchored-in-strong-ecosystem-of-technology-innovation-eam-at-unsc-debate-101629313721725.html
19-08-2021||India||Odisha: 13-year-old dies as boulder he sat on for online class rolls down||A 13-year-old tribal student in Odisha’s backward Rayagada block died when the boulder he was sitting on to attend his online classes rolled down on Tuesday evening, police said.Officials said Andrea Jagaranga(13) of Kandhapendaraguda village in Padmapur block of Rayagada district had gone to the nearby hill with his friends to attend online class due to poor network connectivity in the village.Police sub-inspector of Padmapur police station, Hiren Bhati, said Jagaranga was attending his class sitting on a big boulder at around 5 p.m. yesterday when it suddenly started rolling down following heavy rain. “The boy then hit a tree stump which tore through his right leg, critically injuring him. The boy was first admitted to a local hospital. But he died while being shifted to MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town,” said Bhati.Jagaranga was a student of Cuttack Missionary School , but was back at his village after physical classes were suspended due to Covid-19. Like other students in the locality with poor connectivity he used to climb a hill near the village to attend online classes.Jagaranga’s father, Narahari Jagaranga, said his son was forced to climb the hill in search of mobile signal.Students in rural area of Odisha have been at the receiving end of a digital divide. As per Odisha Economic Survey, 2018-19, report, more than 20% of the 51,311 villages in the state did not have mobile phone connectivity. And internet penetration in the state is 28.22% compared to the national average of 38.02. The school and mass education department of the state admitted that online education did not reach at least a third of 6 million school students last year.In Koraput district, students have been forced to access mobile networks from towers in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh by sitting on roads, while in Sundargarh district, they cross into Jharkhand border. Last month, Kavita Nisika, a Kondh tribal girl in Rayagada, rented a one-room house on rent in the district headquarters, so as to get on the grid.The Odisha government has been live-streaming lessons for Classes 1 to 10 on YouTube and now plans to start online classes for higher secondary students through YouTube.Last month, the Odisha state commission for protection of child rights asked the district administration of Kandhamal, Kalahandi, Koraput, Nabarangpur and Rayagada to ensure mobile connectivity for students to take online classes.“Students are facing immense problem in tribal-dominated areas due to poor mobile connectivity. Children are preparing for different entrance exams and are heavily dependent on online classes. They often trek to nearby hills or climb trees to access mobile network. In the Covid-19 scenario, with schools closed, children are struggling for good education. But in this case, they can’t as mobile network has come up as an issue which is affecting online classes in districts,” the commission wrote to the collectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-13-year-old-dies-as-boulder-he-sat-on-for-online-class-rolls-down-101629313722133.html
19-08-2021||India||Cabinet nod to Kigali Amendment on cutting down of HFCs||New Delhi: The Union Cabinet has approved the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, the ministry of environment said in a press statement on Wednesday. The Kigali Amendment aims to phase-down hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) by curbing both their production and consumption. Though HFCs do not impact the ozone layer, they are powerful greenhouse gases. HFCs are currently used as replacements for hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which were ozone-depleting gases. “With the Kigali Amendment, the Montreal Protocol will be an even more powerful instrument against global warming,” says the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. The goal of the amendment is to achieve over 80% reduction in HFC consumption by 2047, which will curb a global increase of temperature by up to 0.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. According to a statement by the environment ministry on HFC phasedown, a national strategy will be developed after consultations with all industry stakeholders by 2023. Amendments to the existing legislation framework, the Ozone Depleting Substances (Regulation and Control) Rules to allow appropriate control of the production and consumption of HFCs to ensure compliance with the Kigali Amendment will be done by mid-2024. Following a massive growth in the use of HFCs, especially in the refrigeration and air-conditioning sector the, parties to the Montreal Protocol reached an agreement at their 28th Meeting of the Parties (MOP) held in October 2016 in Kigali, Rwanda, to add HFCs to the list of controlled substances and approved a timeline for their gradual reduction by 80-85% by the late 2040s. India will complete its phase-down in four steps from 2032 onwards with a cumulative reduction of 10% in 2032, 20% in 2037, 30% in 2042 and 80% in 2047, according to a statement by the ministry. The industry producing and consuming HFCs will be phasing them out as agreed and transition to non-HFC and low global warming potential technologies. “HFCs are entirely man-made. They are primarily produced for use in refrigeration, air-conditioning, insulating foams and aerosol propellants, with minor uses as solvents and for fire protection. Most HFCs are contained within equipment, so emissions are the result of wear, faulty maintenance, or leakage at the end of a product’s lifetime,” according to Climate and Clean Air Coalition of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The Montreal Protocol (1987) is one of the world’s most successful environmental treaties, and since its adoption, it has encouraged countries to commit to phasing out the production and consumption of ozone-depleting substances, according to the UNEP. The Protocol has been successful in reducing ozone-depleting substances and reactive chlorine and bromine in the stratosphere. As a result, the ozone layer is showing the first signs of recovery, UNEP has said. “The success of the Montreal Protocol is a role model for multilateral action on climate change. It shows that clear targets and policies by the government can prompt industry to switch technologies,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of climate programme at World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-to-kigali-amendment-on-cutting-down-of-hfcs-101629313539647.html
19-08-2021||India||Pegasus row: SC to hear plea against Bengal’s probe move||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine a petition for disbanding the two-member Commission of Inquiry, headed by retired judge Madan B Lokur, that has been set up by the West Bengal government to probe into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, issued notices to the Centre and the West Bengal government, seeking their response to the plea which has sought quashing of the state government’s July 27 notification appointing the commission.The bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said that the interim plea for suspending the proceedings of the commission will be considered on August 25, when the petition by NGO Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust will be heard next.Representing the NGO, advocate Saurabh Mishra pointed out that since the bench, in a clutch of other petitions, is already contemplating an expert committee to examine all aspects of the Pegasus controversy, the proceedings before justice Lokur’s commission ought to be stayed to avoid any parallel inquiry.“We will see. It is just a preliminary exercise. We will examine this on the next date,” responded the bench.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, said he will be assisting the court on issues of constitutionality and legality of the subject involved.The Mamata Banerjee-led government recently set up the two-member commission, comprising justice Lokur and former acting chief justice of the Calcutta high court Jyotirmay Bhattacharya, to inquire into the snooping row.The NGO, in its petition, has said the Pegasus controversy has cross-border ramifications with footprints in India, and hence must be dealt with from a national perspective. “Considering the seriousness of the issue and its implications on the citizenry of the country as well as its cross-border implications, the Pegasus controversy warrants an in-depth investigation. This cannot be carried out in a truncated and unconstitutional manner as is sought to be done by the West Bengal government,” it added.The Supreme Court is already seized of a bunch of petitions filed by politicians, journalists and activists, demanding a court-monitored independent probe into the alleged surveillance using Pegasus. Responding to these petitions, the Union government has offered setting up an expert committee to look into the row while maintaining that a “false narrative” is being spun over the use of Pegasus. The Centre has, however, refused to disclose whether it used Pegasus for tracking individuals, citing concerns of national security and defence of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-sc-to-hear-plea-against-bengal-s-probe-move-101629313481281.html
19-08-2021||India||State govt appoints IAS officer for safe return of residents from Afghanistan||The Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed a senior IPS official as nodal officer to coordinate with the Centre to bring back residents of the state from Afghanistan. “As there is a conflict situation in Afghanistan, to bring back Indians stranded there, the central government has already started a helpline. To coordinate with the central government and bring back Kannadigas safely from there, Umesh Kumar, IPS, additional director general of police CID, Bengaluru, has been appointed as nodal officer,” an official notification said on Wednesday. The government also released helpline numbers for people to contact if they require assistance. According to the government order, people can send in their information at 080-22094498, 080-22942628, 9480800187 or afghan_kar@ksp.gov.in. India on Tuesday had brought back home the Indian ambassador and its staff at the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital, two days after its takeover by the Taliban. Earlier on Wednesday, state home minister Araga Jnanendra said there are 339 Afghans in Karnataka. Out of them 192 are students, and the Basavaraj Bommai administration will talk to the Centre on renewing their visas and will provide them protection. Talking to media, Jnanendra said that the government is extending all necessary assistance to the Afghan students studying in the state and to take steps to address their grievances following the political developments in their country. “The state government will extend all help to those of the students from Afghanistan, studying in Karnataka, in addressing their grievances arising out of the strife, if any, in their nation,” Jnanendra told reporters here. He noted that there are about 300 Afghan nationals, including students presently residing in the state. “The state government will interact with the Union government relating to any issues on extending visa of the Afghan students residing in Karnataka”, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govt-appoints-ias-officer-for-safe-return-of-residents-from-afghanistan-101629313420399.html
19-08-2021||India||Govt puts ₹30,000-crore private trains’ tender on hold||New Delhi: The railway ministry has decided to put on hold the tender for running 151 private trains along 109 major routes with an estimated investment of ₹30,000 crore and will revaluate the process mainly due to tepid response from private firms, according to officials aware of the development.“The tender for the private trains has been put on hold and the entire process will be re-evaluated due to lower participation from private firms. Railways will issue a fresh tender,” a senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity.Of the 12 clusters put up for bidding, only three received any bids at all, the official added. An India Railways spokesperson would only say that “the evaluation process is on”.The national carrier, on July 1, 2020, began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes — a process that aimed to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises to private participation. However, only two bidders, the Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and Megha Engineering & Infrastructures evinced interest in the financial bidding stage. IRCTC, majority-owned by government, was touted to get the contract after quoting a higher revenue share figure. This, officials said, raised questions on the purpose of running trains via private firms.According to the ministry, the planned investment was estimated around ₹30,000 crore, and a majority of the rakes (70%) required will have to be manufactured in India; private entities cleared to run the train services shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains. Winning bidders were to be provided a concession period of 35 years.The first dozen private trains were due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 were to be operational by 2027. According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter was supposed to select companies by April . The schedule for operations was: the first 12 by 2023-24; 45 more in FY 2024-25; the next 50 in FY 2025-26; and the last 44 by 2026-27.The ministry last year issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for private companies to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that it hoped would “introduce modern technologies and world class services”.Of the 12 clusters across Indian Railways’s network where the plan was to be put in motion, there are two clusters each in Delhi and Mumbai, and one cluster each in Secunderabad, Chennai, Howrah, Jaipur, Prayagraj, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, and Patna.In October last year, the Indian Railways received a total of 120 applications from 15 firms including L&T, GMR and Welspun in response to its Request for Quotation.The firms which made the applications for the clusters included Arvind Aviation, BHEL, Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarrriles, S.A, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pvt Ltd, Gateway Rail Freight Limited, GMR Highways Limited, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited, L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, Malempati Power Private Limited, Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited, PNC Infratech Ltd, RK Associates and Hoteliers Pvt Ltd, and Sainath Sales and Services Pvt Ltd and Welspun Enterprises Limited. Overall, 14 Indian firms and one Spanish firm had evinced interest in the beginning to run private trains in India. But all but two dropped out by the financial bids stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-puts-30-000-crore-private-trains-tender-on-hold-101629313361442.html
19-08-2021||India||Parliament meant for discussions, not disruptions: Naidu||Expressing anguish over disruptions in Parliament, vice president Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said that assemblies and Parliaments are meant for discussions, debates and not for disruptions.Naidu was in Bengaluru on Wednesday to present the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s (FKCCI) Sir M Visvesvaraya Memorial Award to Dr M R Jayaram, Chairman GEF and Ramaiah Group of Institutions.“You might have seen some time back, what happened in Parliament, a lot of youngsters called me and told me, Sir! you are the vice president of India, why are you so sad? I said I’m sad because of the bad behaviour of some people and the new low the Parliament had gone,” Naidu said.He was referring to the commotion and ruckus which took place in the Rajya Sabha in the just concluded session of the Parliament.He reminded elected representatives that they should focus on improving the standards of living of the people “by rising to the need of the occasion”.Naidu said that there were similar ruckus and commotion in the state legislatures too, including Karnataka and added that the elected representatives should improve their contribution by caliber, character, capacity and conduct.“You (elected representatives) are the role model for the people, if you behave like this then what is the inspiration the people and the youngsters will get?” Naidu said.He added that these platforms are not meant to be disrupted which goes against the cause of the country.“There may be some tension, but you must pay attention,” Naidu said.The vice president also hinted at taking action against the perpetrators involved in the ruckus in Rajya Sabha.“I can take action, if necessary I will take also, but the point is people of the country when they see such things on TV, they will become sad.”He said that protest and dissent is a right in a democracy but to agree or disagree cannot be enforced with physical force.He said that in a democracy the majority should be respected and that they should also take the minority (parties) along.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-meant-for-discussions-not-disruptions-naidu-101629313301928.html
19-08-2021||India||Justice Navin Sinha stresses on need to train young lawyers||Justice Navin Sinha on Wednesday emphasised on the quality training of young lawyers as he retired from the Supreme Court after a tenure of four-and-half years.“Today’s lawyers will be tomorrow’s judges… They (young lawyers) must be taught manners and demeanour of a lawyer. When the lawyer appears, a judge should be able to trust him,” justice Sinha said in his farewell address.“Humility lies in recognising one’s own shortcoming and addressing it. In today’s time, when competition is stiff and laws are tough, I believe the younger generation of lawyers need to be trained,” he added as he urged the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to train the young lawyers.Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, who also addressed the event, said that judges must make a conscious effort to keep aside their biases and prejudices while delivering judgments and must not be swayed by external pressures.“We often carry our individual baggage of biases and prejudices which can unconsciously affect the decision-making process. Our social conditions, upbringing and life experiences often colour our opinions and notions. But, when we adorn the robe of a judge, we must make a conscious effort to cast aside our biases and prejudices. After all, equality, objectivity and even-handedness form crucial aspects of fairness,” he said.Justice Sinha is the grandson of first advocate general of Bihar, Babu Baldev Sahay. He practised before the Patna High Court for 23 years and was appointed as a permanent judge there on February 11, 2004. He was the chief Justice of high courts of Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan before being elevated as a judge of the apex court.In the apex court, he was part of several important judgments, including the landmark verdict in January 2019 upholding the constitutional validity of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in its entirety.He was a part of the bench which, in 2020, held that the right to default bail on account of delay in filing chargesheet is not a mere statutory right but is part of the procedure established by law under Article 21 (right to life and liberty).He was also a part of a bench that ruled that “courts are guardians of the rights and liberties of the citizen and they shall fail in their responsibility if they abdicate their solemn duty towards the citizens.”In a 2018 judgment, justice Sinha had held: “A criminal trial is but a quest for truth. The nature of inquiry and evidence required will depend on the facts of each case. The presumption of innocence will have to be balanced with the rights of the victim, and above all the societal interest for preservation of the rule of law. Neither the accused nor the victim can be permitted to subvert a criminal trial by stating falsehood and resort to contrivances, so as to make it the theatre of the absurd.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-navin-sinha-stresses-on-need-to-train-young-lawyers-101629313179636.html
19-08-2021||India||2 elephants run over by train, herd blocks tracks in U’khand||Rudrapur: An elephant herd blocked rail traffic in Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday after two pachyderms — a female and its male offspring — were run over by a train on the Lalkuan-Kashipur route in the morning. The area falls within the Peepal Parao forest range. While the railway authorities had to arrange for buses to send passengers to their destination, forest officials had to wait for the enraged herd to calm down before driving them back to the forest. “We rushed to the spot and saw an adult and a baby elephant lying dead on the railway tracks. The elephant herd there was very angry. We waited for a while and then drove them away from the tracks,” said Harish Pandey, ranger, Peepal Parao forest range under Terai-Central Forest division in Kumaon. Pandey said the train was on its way to Ramnagar from Lalkuan around 5am on Wednesday. “When it reached the Peepal Parao forest range, 4km away from the SIDCUL halt, a herd of elephants was crossing the track. The speeding train hit both elephants and they died on the spot. After this, the rest of the elephants in the herd surrounded the carcasses, resulting in a blockade of rail traffic”, he said. Railway officials brought the train back to the SIDCUL halt and arranged for buses to Bazpur, Kashipur, and Ramnagar to send the passengers to their destinations and also halted the Kashipur-Kasganj train heading towards Lalkuan at Gularbhoj and sent it back to Kashipur. Some other trains were also cancelled on this route until noon. “The female elephant was around 40 years old while her baby was two to three months old. We informed our seniors and removed the carcasses from the tracks,” said Pandey. Pandey said the forest department would write to the railway authorities, asking them to drive trains at slower speeds in the forested stretch to avoid these incidents in the future. AG Ansari, a Kumaon-based wildlife activist, blamed “human error” for the incident. “An early warning system is needed to avoid such incidents in the future. The forest department should take the initiative in this regard and the railways, too, should control the speed of the trains.” There have been several such incidents in the past in Uttarakhand, especially in the state’s Tarai area. In July 2020, a three-year-old elephant was killed in Nakraunda area of the Dehradun forest division when struck by a moving train. In November last year, a 35-year-old female elephant was killed while in May 2018, a five-year-old female elephant died on the Lalkuan-Bareilly railway line in Nainital district. In March 2018 an elephant had died in a similar incident near the Nagla bypass on the Lalkuan-Bareilly railway line while in April 2017 two elephant calves were killed near Haldi railway station in Kumaon. The state has recorded a 29.9% increase in elephant numbers since 2015, and an elephant census held last year estimated the total elephant population in the state to be 2,026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-elephants-run-over-by-train-herd-blocks-tracks-in-ukhand-101629313120760.html
19-08-2021||India||SC publishes 9 names shortlisted by collegium for appointments to apex court||New Delhi The Supreme Court administration on Wednesday evening published the nine names recommended by the collegium for appointment in the apex court. As reported by HT on Wednesday morning, these nine names include justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court (HC), who, if elevated now, could become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. She is the daughter of former CJI Engalaguppe Seetharamiah Venkataramiah, and will become the CJI in September 2027 for little over a month after her appointment.A one-page statement, published on the Supreme Court website, has listed out the nine names shortlisted by the collegium in the meeting held on Tuesday evening. HT reported the nine names.Apart from justice Nagarathna, those recommended included justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (chief justice of Karnataka HC), Vikram Nath (chief justice of Gujarat HC), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (chief justice of Sikkim HC), Hima Kohli (chief justice of Telangana HC), CT Ravikumar (judge in Kerala HC), MM Sundresh (judge in Madras HC) and PS Narasimha (senior advocate and former additional solicitor general). According to people familiar with the development, the Union law ministry is yet to receive files from the Supreme Court on the recommendations. The ministry has the option of sending the recommendations back to the collegium for review, but if the collegium resubmits them, it has to approve the names. The collegium in the Supreme Court comprised CJI NV Ramana, and justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. It was the first collegium in the last 21 months when the five most senior judges could arrive at a consensus in forwarding names to the Union government for appointments in the top court. Since the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi as the CJI in November 2019, the collegium had not sent a single recommendation for appointments in the top court, which currently has nine vacancies after justice Rohinton F Nariman’s exit on August 12. Additionally, justice Navin Sinha retired on Wednesday, leaving the Supreme Court with 10 vacancies out of 34. Out of these 10 vacancies, names for nine vacancies have now been recommended by the collegium. The Supreme Court currently has only one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee, who is set to retire in September 2022. Senior advocate Narasimha, if appointed, will be only the ninth lawyer ever to be appointed directly from the bar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-publishes-9-names-shortlisted-by-collegium-for-appointments-to-apex-court-101629313120261.html
19-08-2021||India||Assemblies, Parliament meant for debates, not disruptions, says V-P||Vice-president Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said that assemblies and Parliament are meant for discussions and debates, and not for disruptions.While referring to the recent torrid monsoon session of Parliament, Naidu said that elected representatives should focus on improving the lives of the people by “rising to the need of the occasion”. “You (elected representatives) are the role model for the people, if you behave like this then what is the inspiration the people and the youngsters will get?” he said at an award ceremony of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s (FKCCI) here.The vice-president also said that disruptions in these (assemblies and Parliament) platforms are against the cause of the country. “Assemblies and parliament are meant for debate, discussion and decision. Debate, discuss and decide, but do not disrupt... There may be some tension but you must come back to attention,” he said.Naidu’s remarks came after the monsoon session of Parliament witnessed a premature end on August 11, a day after Opposition lawmakers protesting the contentious farm laws stormed the Well of the Upper House, sat on a table there and threw a file at the Chair.A visibly upset Naidu didn’t deliver his customary valedictory address -- the first time this happened in the 11 sessions he has chaired.“You might have seen some time back, what happened in the Parliament, a lot of youngsters called me and told me, Sir! you are the Vice President of India, why are you so sad? I said I’m sad because of the bad behaviour of some people, to the new low the Indian Parliament had gone,” Naidu said.While referring to a similar ruckus and commotion in the state legislatures, including Karnataka, Naidu said every elected representative should make efforts to increase the standard of the institution he or she is representing and improve their contribution by caliber, character, capacity and conduct.The vice-president said that he was not afraid of taking action against those involved in the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha.“I can take action, if necessary I will take also, but the point is people of the country when they see such things on TV, they will become sad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assemblies-parliament-meant-for-debates-not-disruptions-says-vp-101629313062128.html
19-08-2021||India||NDA infra, curriculum may change for women’s entry||The Supreme Court’s landmark interim order on Wednesday directing the government to allow women to take the next entrance exam for the National Defence Academy (NDA), thus far a male preserve, has opened the doors of the premier training institution to women, but their entry into the academy will require the creation of new infrastructure and separate physical training standards, people familiar with the matter said.The apex court’s order making women eligible to join NDA, which was formally inaugurated 66 years ago, comes almost three decades after women were allowed to serve in select branches of the three services as short-service commission (SSC) officers, and 18 months after the top court ruled that women officers who joined the Indian Army through SSC, were entitled to permanent commission and command roles.“ NDA was never meant to train women. New infrastructure will have to be created to address practical issues such as a separate squadron with segregated accommodation for women,” said former navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash (retd), who served as the NDA commandant during 1997-99.The training standards will also have to be readjusted for women, Prakash added.Students become eligible to take the NDA and Naval Academy Examination, conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), while they are in the 12th standard.Those who clear the entrance exam have to face the Services Selection Board (a rigorous personality and intelligence test spread over five days); candidates accepted by SSB undergo a medical examination before UPSC releases the final merit list. After training at NDA for three years, split into six terms, cadets head for further training at different academies depending on their choice of service before being commissioned as officers.“A new squadron will definitely be required in the initial years. After they settle down in the academy, the possibility of mixed squadrons can be explored with women being assigned segregated wings with toilets. That’s how they will develop squadron spirit,” said another former NDA commandant, who asked not to be named.He said that based on biological factors, the academy would have to come up with a fresh physical curriculum for women as the same qualitative requirements for training can’t apply to both men and women. “It is absolutely doable. As far as creating new infrastructure in concerned, things will also depend on how many women end up joining NDA every year.”After joining NDA, cadets are assigned to one of the 18 squadrons that form part of five battalions. Each squadron has 100 to 120 cadets from senior and junior courses training at the academy.“I think NDA should start its preparations now to avoid teething troubles. Teams should be sent to the Officer’s Training Academy in Chennai, the Air Force Academy at Dundigal and the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala to study their models as they have been training women for years. The proposed induction of women into NDA is a watershed in India’s military history. It’s important to get things right,” said a senior officer who did not want to be named.There was disappointment in some quarters about the new development. Some people HT spoke to said the armed forces should be left alone to make their own decisions.“The armed forces are in the business of national security and can’t be used as a laboratory for social experiments. Why don’t they push for more representation of women in Parliament and judiciary? They are being unfair to the armed forces,” a former senior commander said on the condition of anonymity.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, there were 9,118 women serving in the army, navy and air force.“It’s critical to give women equal opportunities in this day and age. I believe opening the doors of NDA to women will encourage them to take up a career in the military. I also feel that the physical training standards should not be reworked for women. They are quite capable of meeting the existing standards for male cadets,” said Captain Shalini Singh (retd), a former SSC officer whose husband , Major Avinash Singh Bhadauria, was posthumously awarded the Kirti Chakra in 2001.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when IAF decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Earlier this year, the Indian Navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years. India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and fleet tanker INS Shakti are the warships that have been assigned their first women crews since the late 1990s.In May 2021, the army inducted the first batch of women into the Corps of Military Police, the first time that women joined the military in the non-officer cadre. In June 2021, two women army officers were for the first time selected to train as helicopter pilots at the force’s premier Combat Army Aviation Training School at Nashik in Maharashtra.But tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-infra-curriculum-may-change-for-women-s-entry-101629312999540.html
19-08-2021||India||HC: Consider 1% reservation for transgenders in Corporations||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Wednesday asked the state government to consider issuing directions to state-owned corporations and statutory bodies to provide 1% reservation in recruitments for transgenders. While hearing an intervention application (IA) moved by Bengaluru-based organisation, Sangama, a division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice NS Sanjay Gowda said: “The state government has taken an innovative step of providing 1% reservation to transgenders in the Karnataka Civil Services General Recruitment (Rules), 1977. The state government shall consider issuing direction through advisory to all state-owned corporations and statutory bodies to provide for similar reservation. State shall place on record appropriate action taken within 6 weeks.” On July 21 this year, the Karnataka government informed the high court that it has made the provision for 1% horizontal reservation for transgenders in government employment. “It is submitted that similar horizontal reservation also must be provided for transgender persons in State Boards and State corporations, so that Transgender persons have equal opportunity in public employment as well. Many of such public boards and corporations have their own statutory provisions for recruitment and do not have their own statutory provisions for recruitment and do not necessarily follow the Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules,” read the petition filed by Sangama. Submitting that there are around 75-80 different state-owned corporations, senior advocate Jayna Kothari, representing the intervener, asked the government to issue a circular to consider reserving 1% for transgender persons in jobs. “We can’t implead each one of them,” she said. The counsel appearing for the state government submitted that these corporations and boards have their own their rules and regulations and that the state government could not coerce them into doing something. The matter will be next heard on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-consider-1-reservation-for-transgenders-in-corporations-101629313000134.html
19-08-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, UP replies on pleas against ASI survey of Gyanvapi mosque||The Allahabad high court on Wednesday granted three weeks to the central and state governments to file counter-affidavits (replies) in petitions seeking a stay on the April 8 order of a local court in Varanasi that had directed an archaeological survey of the entire complex of Gyanvapi Mosque by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).Justice Prakash Padia passed the order on two petitions filed by UP Sunni Waqf Board and Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, the management committee of the Gyanvapi Mosque, while fixing September 28 as the next date of hearing in the case.According to the petitioners, the April 8 order directing the ASI to conduct the survey of the land was passed illegally and without jurisdiction.The petitioners further said the local court’s ruling came even as the Allahabad high court reserved its judgment on the maintainability of the suit pending in the former. “The high court had reserved the verdict on the issue of maintainability of the suit. The court below should not have passed any order in the suit till the issue of maintainability of the suit was decided by the high court,” said senior counsel SFA Naqvi.On April 8, the Varanasi court of the civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered a five-member committee comprising two Hindus, two Muslims, and an archaeological expert to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey” of the centuries-old Gyanvapi Mosque complex. The plea in the case contended that the mosque in Varanasi was part of a temple. The suit was filed in 1991 seeking restoration of the ancient temple at the site where the Gyanvapi mosque currently stands. On March 15, the Allahabad high court reserved its judgment in various pleas that challenged the maintainability of the 1991 suit before the Varanasi trial court.In 1991, the government passed a law, Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, that maintained status quo in all places of worship as of 1947, except the disputed site at Ayodhya. In 2019, the Supreme Court finally ruled in favour of the Hindu parties in the Ayodhya dispute, ordering the creation of a trust to build a temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi site. In 2021, the Supreme Court asked the Union government to respond to a petition that challenges the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act. Analysts saw this as a move that created the possibility of litigation over other disputed religious sites, including the one at Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-centre-up-replies-on-pleas-against-asi-survey-of-gyanvapi-mosque-101629312942980.html
19-08-2021||India||Sharp decline in Covid testing puts question on actual count||Since June, Karnataka has seen a sharp fluctuation in Covid-19 tests conducted across the state, as per government data, thereby indicating if the stabilising number of new infections reflects the actual ground reality of the situation in the southern state. In the first three weeks of August, Karnataka conducted 2,682,882 Covid-19 (RT-PCR & RAT) tests across all districts of the state, as against a declining trend of 4,379,771 in July that was lower than 4,532,767 in June, according to the state health department.“You can test only the contacts, the symptomatic and a certain percentage of random (population),” Dr Arundhathi Chandrasekhar, the mission director of the National Health Mission said on Wednesday.She said that since the cases were low, the number of contacts will also come down, resulting in possible less number of tests.However, she said that barring Monday and Tuesday, Karnataka has been testing around 105,000 to 106,000 per day. “Random testing accounts for 20-30%,” she added.With most of the restrictions lifted in cities like Bengaluru, which is home to nearly a quarter of the state’s over 70 million population, markets and other areas have been operating with heavy footfalls in recently.Most of the testing, around 50,000 to 60,000 are being conducted in Bengaluru alone, data shows, which raises the possibility that there could be lower testing numbers in other districts.For instance, there were just 439 tests conducted in Bagalkote district as against 66,289 in Bengaluru on August 16, according to the state Covid-19 war room data. On the same day, there were just 7,575 tests done in Dakshina Kannada district which has just as many, if not more cases than Bengaluru and is among the highest contributors of new infections in the southern state.To make matters worse, the state government and law enforcement officials have unearthed a few rackets of issuing fake Covid-19 certificates for a bribe, adding to the challenges in the containing of the virus.Chandrashekar said that the government is currently discussing increasing testing in the state and is expected to take a decision on it in the next couple of days.However, free movement of people and gathering of large crowds, some by eminent political leaders, have become a huge cause for concern.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition, was welcomed by hundreds and thousands of people in Raichur on Tuesday. A day earlier, Siddaramaiah attended an event in Vijayanagar locality in Bengaluru, which was attended by a large number of people, ironically to distribute Covid-19 relief material.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers and legislators too have been part of huge crowds and gatherings, adding to the problems of a state that has been recently hit with droughts, floods and is staring at the resurgence of the pandemic.The upcoming festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Varamahalaxmi Puja, Muharram and Durga Puja among others only add to the challenges,The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday said that it will take all possible steps to prevent crowding in market areas before the festivals.“We will take all possible steps to promote Covid appropriate behaviour. BBMP health officers must raise awareness regarding Covid preventive measures issued by headquarters amongst public and vendors on the previous day and on the day of the festival via loud speakers,” the BBMP said in a statement.“A fine of ₹250 per person will be imposed on public and merchants for not wearing masks at major market areas in BBMP limits,” it added.“No matter what festivals are coming up, they should be celebrated in a cautious manner,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-decline-in-covid-testing-puts-question-on-actual-count-101629312940196.html
19-08-2021||India||Woman suffers 60% burns in Nalanda acid attack||PATNA: A 19-year-old woman suffered critical burn injuries after an unidentified man attacked her with acid in Bihar’s Nalanda districton Wednesday, police said. Police said that the incident took place when victim was going to a shopping complex with her cousin. As soon as they reached between a park and the Nalanda circuit house, two men came from opposite direction and one of them poured acid on her face and fled the spot, police added.“The victim’s cousin told the police that one of the two accusedsuddenly came towards them and hurled acid on her sister and fled the spot,” said Sadar deputy superintendent of police, Shibli Nomani, adding that two passersby were also injured in the incident. Police said locals in the area shifted the woman to the nearby Sadar hospitalfor treatment and informed them. The injured were discharged from the hospital. The woman was later shifted to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for better treatment, the police added. The victim has received around 60% burn injuries on her head, face and back, said the DSP.Nalanda Superintendent of Police Hariprasath S said, “While scanning the CCTV footage in and around the spot, they found two suspects moving near the park and one of them threw a liquid on the victim and fled from the spot.”Police are waiting to record the woman’s statement to establish the identity of the suspects. “We are working on leads and soon the accused will be nabbed,” the SP claimed. A case has been registered under sections 320, 322, 325 and 326 of the Indian Penal Code, police said. Section 320 deals with grievous hurt. Police teams are on the lookout for the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-suffers-60-burns-in-nalanda-acid-attack-101629312880635.html
19-08-2021||India||Cong plans rejig with eye on state elections||The Congress party is likely to reshuffle its organisation soon, a move that has been widely anticipated after its poor performance in the latest round of assembly elections in April and May, and which has led to speculation about the likelihood of a larger role for general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the induction of election strategist Prashant Kishor into the party.Party leaders who spoke on condition of anonymity said the changes could see the elevation of some young leaders to important posts, and also find proper roles for senior leaders such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ramesh Chennithala or Sachin Pilot who currently don’t have any.With the election for a new president unlikely to happen anytime soon, the leaders said that a reshuffle could balance equations and get the party ready for immediate challenges, including important state elections next year.As many as seven states are scheduled to hold elections next year: Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Himachal Pradesh.One of the leaders said that the process could accelerate after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s return to Delhi, and party president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with Opposition leaders.A section of the party wants Priyanka Gandhi, general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, to take wider responsibility and handle the affairs of the party’s frontal organisations such as NSUI and the Youth Congress. Rahul Gandhi had joined the organization as general secretary in charge of these two organizations.The reshuffle will also address the question of Kishor. The strategist, who helped in the Trinamool Congress’ emphatic victory against the BJP in West Bengal, met Rahul Gandhi last month with what some said was a plan on the party’s revival. In return, the Congress is believed to have invited him to join the party. With several elections around the corner, Kishor, who quit as advisor to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh recently , may be a valuable asset for the party that has been struggling to win elections since 2014. Kishor said he is not aware of any such developments.“While a section of the party wants Kishor to join Congress now and handle assignments for the upcoming elections, another feels he should work independently with the Congress for a few months to get accustomed with our style of political management before taking the plunge,” said a senior functionary of the party.The final decision on Kishor, and the roles for former Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Azad, former Kerala party unit president Ramesh Chennithala, former deputy PM of Rajasthan Pilot and others will be decided by Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.“At least three new general secretaries are expected to be inducted in the party. It will be a mix of young leaders and veterans,” said another senior Congress leader.On Wednesday, the party appointed Ajoy Kumar as in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura. Kumar’s appointment came even as the Congress alleged that the Union government has “pushed the entire North-East into chaos and there is complete breakdown of law & order and constitutional machinery in multiple states”. Its reference is to the clash between Assam and Mizoram and the violence in Meghalaya, all in recent weeks.“Uncertainty, conflict, violent clashes and unchecked lawlessness have marred a large part of India’s North East. The situation is beyond alarming. Multiple States of North East are being pushed into an unprecedented cycle of lawlessness with complete breakdown of law and order and Constitutional machinery,” said the Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. He alleged that Home Minister Amit Shah remained “oblivious” to the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-rejig-with-eye-on-state-elections-101629312881044.html
19-08-2021||India||ICMR: Delta variant can infect vaccinated||An ICMR study conducted in Chennai has found that the Delta variant has the potential to infect both vaccinated and unvaccinated people, but it reduces mortality among the former group.The study was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai and published in the Journal of Infection on August 17. The study findings indicate that the prevalence of the Delta variant or B.1.617.2 was not different between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups. The high transmissible delta variant is the dominant strain circulating across the world and is one of the primary drivers for the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 in India. The report quoted other studies that have documented a reduction in neutralisation titres among Covishield and Covaxin recipients after infection with the delta variant. “This might be the reason for the breakthrough infections observed in the fully vaccinated individuals,” the published paper said. Jeromie Thangaraj, a scientist at the National Institute of Epidemiology who was involved in the study said that since the sample size was low they did not include re-infections as it was very few and have not further classified whether those who were infected post-vaccination had taken Covishield or Covaxin. “But the proportion of patients progressing to severe illness and mortality was lower in the vaccinated group, which is the case globally,” said Jeromie. The proportion of patients with moderate and severe illness was significantly lower in the fully vaccinated group than in the unvaccinated group. “No deaths were reported in the fully vaccinated group, whereas three partially vaccinated (patients) and seven unvaccinated patients died,” the report said.After completing the study in May, the data was shared with Tamil Nadu’s health department. The report suggested that non-pharmaceutical interventions must continue to slow down the transmission combined with speedy vaccination coverage.Chennai was one of the worst affected cities during the second wave of Covid-19 in India with nearly 6000 cases reported daily during the first three weeks of May 2021, despite a high seroprevalence of around 45% estimated during October -November 2020. The study group selected patients from three triaging centres in Chennai. Of the 3,790 people who visited the triage centres between the first week of May, 373 reported receiving at least one dose of vaccine 14 days before their Covid-19 positive diagnosis. The remaining 3,417 were unvaccinated. The study enrolled 354 (94.9%) of the 373 in the vaccinated group. Of this 241 people had taken one dose or were partially vaccinated, and 113 had taken two doses or were fully vaccinated. As many as 185 (5.4%) of the 3417 unvaccinated individuals were included in the study. The median age of the individuals who were unvaccinated, partially vaccinated and fully vaccinated were 47 years, 53 years and 54 years respectively. After retrieving genomic sequences from 414 of the 539 samples it was found that the delta variant was the predominant variant of concern in Chennai. About 72.4% in the unvaccinated group and 68% and 74% among the partially and fully vaccinated groups were found. Among the fully vaccinated, a majority that is 85 per cent had IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, whereas 63.9% were partially vaccinated, and 14.6% in the unvaccinated group were seropositive. “We also found the delta plus variant in five participants,” said Thangaraj. One out of the five infected with delta plus (AY.1) required hospitalisation with oxygen support but the rest had mild disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-delta-variant-can-infect-vaccinated-101629312820139.html
19-08-2021||India||Centre, US work together to ensure safe return of Indians||The Indian government is coordinating closely with the United States, which currently controls the airport in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul and decides slots for all flights, for repatriating all Indian nationals who are still in the war-torn country.There was close cooperation between India and the US for the evacuation of some 200 Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and citizens on two military aircraft on Monday and Tuesday, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday.The evacuation was done in two phases against the backdrop of serious security concerns, including intelligence reports that elements of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network, both Pakistan-based terror groups, had entered Kabul along with the Taliban fighters that took over the capital following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on Sunday.The evacuation of Indians figured when US secretary of state Antony Blinken spoke to external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday as part of his conversations with several counterparts across the region. Besides the contact between the two foreign ministers, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval coordinated with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan while foreign secretary Harsh Shringla spoke with US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman to ensure that the evacuation of some 150 diplomats, security personnel and citizens could be done smoothly, the people cited above said.Only military evacuation flights are currently operating from Kabul airport though commercial flights by airlines, including Air India, are expected to resume later this week. The Hamid Karzai international airport was closed after chaotic scenes on Monday, when thousands of Afghans marched on to the tarmac in a desperate effort to flee the country.The people said the US will play a crucial role when commercial flights resume as it will decide slots for airlines.The people acknowledged that problems had arisen in repatriating Indian citizens as many of them didn’t heed several security advisories issued by the Indian embassy in Kabul asking Indians to register with the mission and to make immediate arrangements to return home while commercial flights were still available.Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed officials on Tuesday to ensure that all Indian nationals are safely repatriated from Afghanistan.“No Indian will be left behind and the repatriation will begin as soon as commercial flights resume. There are also plans for chartered flights. However, the situation is complicated as many of these citizens never registered with the embassy,” one of the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-us-work-together-to-ensure-safe-return-of-indians-101629312764619.html
19-08-2021||India||Will pass legislation in assembly to exempt TN from NEET: Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin Wednesday announced, in the Assembly, that the government will table draft legislation to get an exemption for the state from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Stalin said the government was studying the legal aspects of the recommendations made by Justice A K Rajan in his report on the impact of NEET on students from economically weaker sections of the state.“The report submitted by Justice A K Rajan is being examined legally, and a draft legislation will be brought in the ongoing budget session,” Stalin said. The common national entrance exam for medical college admissions became a reality in Tamil Nadu in 2017 following a Supreme Court order that the state has to follow the rest of the country. Until then, Tamil Nadu was admitting students based on class 12 marks. Since the introduction of NEET, more than a dozen students in the state, who belong to rural and poor backgrounds and could not access resources to crack the competitive exam, died by suicide either due to failure or fear of failing.This is the second time that the Tamil Nadu Assembly will pass a Bill seeking exemption from NEET. The President did not give his assent to legislation passed by the previous AIADMK government in 2017. “Stalin wants to build a watertight case, and a good group of legal experts are assisting us,” a senior DMK leader said on condition of anonymity. This year, NEET is scheduled for September 12, and students have been asked to be prepared for it. “The CM doesn’t want to rush, and we don’t want to cause any confusion for repeaters this year,” the leader said. Last year, the AIADMK brought in a horizontal reservation of 7.5% in undergraduate medical colleges for government school students who clear NEET. It ensured that government school students got 405 seats in the 2020-2021 academic year as opposed to six seats previously.Stalin urged all political parties in Tamil Nadu to be on the same page to oppose NEET. Except for the AIADMK’s ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), all parties in the state have opposed the exam.The A K Rajan committee received more than 87,000 representations from stakeholders, including students, parents, academicians, doctors, and the majority have rejected the conduct of NEET. The government has kept this report confidential and is expected to use the data collected to back its argument that NEET is discriminatory against rural and poor students pitted against urban and rich students. NEET offers unlimited attempts, and 70% of those taking the test are repeaters, and those against NEET have argued that this gives undue advantage to those who can afford coaching classes and repeat the annually conducted test.The committee received representations from students, parents, academicians, doctors, and others on the impact of NEET among students from rural areas and those belonging to financially weaker sections of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-pass-legislation-in-assembly-to-exempt-tn-from-neetstalin-101629312764066.html
19-08-2021||India||AIADMK opposes Kodanad case probe||The four-year-old heist cum murder case at late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad Estate has come back to haunt Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition AIADMK. The AIADMK on Wednesday decided to boycott the ongoing assembly for the next two days after the DMK furthered investigations with police quizzing the prime accused, Sayan in the case. After AIADMK legislators walked out alleging political vendetta for not being allowed to raise the issue in the House, former chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami told reporters that the DMK was trying to frame him and a few other party functionaries in the case. Soon after the demise of J Jayalalithaa in December 2016, ten people were accused of breaking into and murdering a security guard of the Kodanad estate in the Nilgiris hills which was Jayalalithaa’s summer retreat. Since Jayalalithaa’s death led to a battle over assets and legacy, the crime at this bungalow has remained in the spotlight if there is a political motivation. Palaniswami said that while his regime had undertaken a probe and the case in the Madras high court was coming to a close with a hearing on August 27, the DMK government deliberately schemed to probe Sayan. “Media reports say that a secret statement was taken from Sayan,” Palaniswami said. “In that report, my name and other functionaries’ names have been added. The Stalin-led DMK government is doing this purposefully to foist cases on AIADMK leaders and instil fear for political mileage. But this will not happen.” Palaniswami also questioned why the lawyers associated with the DMK appeared on behalf of the accused in the case. “DMK leaders applied for bail for the accused. What is the connection?” he asked. Responding to charges by the AIADMK and its allies PMK and BJP, Stalin responded in the assembly that the investigation was taking place with permission from the court. “This is not a political vendetta,” Stalin said. “The DMK promised in its election manifesto to send the real culprits to jail. We will ensure that justice is served in the case. No one needs to fear.”The sprawling bungalow at Kodanad was what Jayalalithaa had bought along with her close aide V K Sasikala in the 1990s. In the early stages of the investigation, the police had then alleged that a former driver of Jayalalithaa’s C Kanagaraj plotted the crime with Sayan.Subsequently, Kanagaraj, Sayan’s wife and their daughter died in separate road accidents. An independent investigation conducted by the former managing editor of Tehelka, Mathew Samuel alleged that Palaniswami was behind the break-in. But Palaniswami, who took over following Jayalalithaa’s death defended that vested interests were trying to defame him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-opposes-kodanad-case-probe-101629312761535.html
19-08-2021||India||Focus on safe return of Indians from Afghanistan: Jaishankar||India’s focus in Afghanistan is the safety and repatriation of its nationals and the Afghan people will be central to New Delhi’s approach to the war-torn country following the takeover by the Taliban, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Jaishankar was the first senior Indian leader to publicly speak on the situation in Afghanistan since the Taliban marched into Kabul on Sunday after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. India withdrew its envoy and all diplomatic staff from Kabul on Tuesday because of the deteriorating security situation. “At the moment, we are – like everybody else – very carefully following developments in Afghanistan. I think our focus is on ensuring the security, in Afghanistan, and the safe return of Indian nationals who are there,” he said during a media stakeout at the United Nations in New York. “So, that is really what has been very much the focus of my own engagements here, talking to the UN secretary-general, to other colleagues who are here, as well as with the US secretary of state a few days ago,” he added. Though Jaishankar didn’t give details, hundreds of Indian nationals – most of them professionals and workers – are still in Afghanistan. Officials have said they will be repatriated once commercial flights resume from Kabul airport, which was closed on Monday amid chaos as thousands of people entered the tarmac while attempting to flee from the Taliban. Asked if India, which was the largest regional donor in Afghanistan with investments of almost $3 billion, will continue to be engaged with the country, Jaishankar said, “First of all, while you used the word investment, for us, it reflected what was a historical relationship with the Afghan people. I think that relationship with the Afghan people, obviously, continues and that will guide our approach to Afghanistan in the coming days.” However, he reiterated that India’s focus is on ensuring the safety and security of Indian nationals still in Afghanistan. Jaishankar ducked a question on whether India has been in contact with the Taliban in recent days, and said: “I think at this point of time, we are looking at what is the evolving situation in Kabul. Obviously, the Taliban and its representatives have come to Kabul. So, I think we need to take it on from there.” Jaishankar arrived in New York on Monday as the UN Security Council held an emergency meeting on the situation in Afghanistan, the second time in 10 days that the body met under India’s presidency for August to discuss the issue. Earlier, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution on ensuring accountability for crimes against UN peacekeepers for the first time during a meeting held under the Indian presidency. The resolution, adopted at an open debate chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, calls for prevention, investigation and prosecution to bring to justice perpetrators of crimes against UN peacekeepers. It was initiated by India in the Security Council earlier this year and co-sponsored by all 15 permanent and non-permanent members of the body. The Security Council also adopted the first technology-related presidential statement on peacekeeping — “Technology for Peacekeeping” — which called for recognising that “technology has the potential to act as a force multiplier”. India, which holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August, is one of the largest troop contributors for UN peacekeeping missions. It has provided more than 250,000 personnel for 49 missions over the decades, and 174 of its troops have died during these deployments. Currently, more than 5,000 Indian personnel are deployed in nine missions. The open debate with the theme “Protecting the protectors” was one of three signature events being hosted by India as part of its presidency of the Security Council. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a virtual open debate on global cooperation for maritime security on August 9, while Jaishankar will chair a briefing on counter-terrorism on August 19 that is expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban. Jaishankar told the meeting that UN peacekeeping operations “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” to adapt to changing conflict dynamics. He proposed a four-point framework that lays out an architecture for securing UN peacekeepers from contemporary threats. This framework, Jaishankar said, should focus on technologies that are “operationally proven, cost-effective, widely available, reliable and field-serviceable”. It should establish a sound information and intelligence foundation for ensuring early warning and mobilising a coherent and early response. The framework should ensure regular technological improvements that are readily available in gear, weapons and tools for peacekeepers, and there should be attention and investment to consistent training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the field of technology, he added. In this regard, Jaishankar said, India is backing the UN in rolling out the “UNITE Aware” platform in selected peacekeeping missions. “This initiative is based on the expectation that an entire peacekeeping operation can be visualised, coordinated and monitored on a real-time basis. We should ensure that any attack on a peacekeeper or a civilian is predictable, preventable or responded to immediately,” he said. India contributed $1.64 million for the UNITE Aware platform that is being used by four peacekeeping missions in Somalia, South Sudan, Mali and Cyprus. The platform is a situational awareness software programme that uses modern surveillance technology and provides real-time threat assessment to improve the overall security of UN peacekeepers. The platform records data on critical incidents and events and tracks daily operational activities. It also provides access to live video and satellite imagery and early warnings in a volatile environment. The first presidential statement in the Security Council focused on using technology to help peacekeepers. It also encourages the use of modern technology to improve the performance, safety and security of peacekeepers operating in increasingly complex and risky environments. As part of India’s initiatives for the training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the realm of technology, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between India and UN to support the “Partnership for Technology in Peacekeeping” initiative and the UN Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Academy for Peace Operations based in Entebbe, Uganda. Jaishankar said 21st century peacekeeping “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” that can facilitate missions to implement their mandates in complex environments. “After all, it helps them to adapt to changing conflict dynamics and take advantage of increased efficiencies. This is also in line with the Strategy for Digital Transformation of UN peacekeeping which seeks to advance the use of technology across the Action for Peacekeeping themes, including performance, safety and security, politics, protection and peace-building,” he said. UN Secretary-General António Guterres said digital tools, such as long-range cameras, unmanned aerial vehicles and ground surveillance radars, help peacekeepers protect civilians and themselves. However, new technologies also pose profound threats, reflected by the online proliferation of violent extremist ideologies, cyber-attacks and deadly vaccine misinformation. “Anonymous actors are able to target critical infrastructure such as power stations, hospitals, government facilities and the IT systems crucial to running our societies,” he said. “We are also seeing the increased use of autonomous weapon systems. On this rapidly emerging issue, governments must work together to ensure that sufficient human control and judgement is retained in the use of force.” Before the debate, Jaishankar participated in a ceremony held at the UN Peacekeepers Memorial that was also attended by Guterres and all council members. The event was held to pay tribute to UN peacekeepers who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-safe-return-of-indians-from-afghanistan-jaishankar-101629312762071.html
19-08-2021||India||Are UPA’s oil bonds to blame for high fuel prices?||Fuel prices continue to be at record levels in the country. The fact that the government has not reduced the additional taxes it imposed during the pandemic is an important reason for prices being at their current levels. While speaking about rising input prices across manufacturing and service sectors even in face of weak demand, RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee in its latest resolution urged central and state governments to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel. “With crude oil prices at elevated levels, a calibrated reduction of the indirect tax component of pump prices by the Centre and states can help to substantially lessen cost pressures”, the MPC resolution said. The Tamil Nadu government reduced its taxes to slash the price of petrol by ₹three per litre in its budget which was presented last week. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has blamed the fiscal burden of oil bonds issued during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government’s term for the inability to provide relief from high petrol-diesel prices. “We’ll still have to pay interest of ₹37,000 crores by 2026. Despite interest payments, principal outstanding of over 1.30 lakh crores is still pending. If I didn’t have the burden of oil bonds, I would have been in a position to reduce excise duty on fuel”, she said in an interaction on August 16. Is there merit in the finance minister’s claims? What are oil bonds? Oil bonds are special debt instruments that were issued by the UPA government to oil marketing companies (OMCs) in place of a cash subsidy between 2005 and 2010. Since the oil companies were not free to fix their own price for petrol (before 2010) and diesel (before 2014), they were at times selling fuel below the international market price. To compensate for this loss, the companies received cash subsidies from the government. In view of rising international crude prices between 2005 and 2010, the UPA government issued total oil bonds worth around 1.44 lakh crores in order to subsidise retail fuel prices. The annual average price of India’s crude oil basket (COB) increased from $55.72 per barrel in 2005-06 to $ 62.46 (2006-07), $ 79.25 (2007-08) and 83.57 (2008-09) before falling to $69.76 in 2009-10. In three out of these five years, the COB price was higher than what it is currently ($68.92 per barrel according to data from petroleum ministry on 17 August,2021). However, retail prices of petrol and diesel were much lower than what they are today. The maximum price per litre of petrol and diesel in Delhi in 2005-06 was ₹43.49 and ₹30.45 respectively. This changed to 47.43 for petrol and 35.47 for diesel in the year 2009-10. To be sure, the rupee price of COB has been increasing because of the depreciation of the rupee, which was 44.27 per dollar(average) in 2005-06, fell to 47.44 per dollar in 2009-10 and is at 74.28 per dollar at the moment (as on 17 August). What is the current fiscal burden of oil bonds? As admitted by the finance minister, the central government has to pay around ₹1.7 lakh crore for these accumulated liabilities. However, the 2021-22 union budget shows that the government does not intend to pay all of them in the current fiscal year. Budgetary allocation for oil bonds in the current fiscal year is just ₹9989.96 crore in interest payments. This is only a fraction of the windfall gain to the union government from the additional petroleum taxes. Union excise duties, which comprise the bulk of petroleum taxes increased from ₹2,39,452 crores in 2019-20 to ₹3,89,677 crores in 2020-21 (provisional numbers) and are expected to be ₹3,35,000 crores in 2021-22, as per Budget Estimates. If the government wanted, it could have used last year’s proceeds to settle almost all of the pending liabilities from oil bonds. As soon as the principal component is paid, interest liabilities will automatically cease to exist. This increase in union excise duties happened as the central government increased excise duty on petrol by 65% to Rs32.98 per litre and diesel by 101% to Rs31.83 per litre between March 2020 and May 2020 in view of falling crude oil prices. Can the current government claim high moral ground on petrol-diesel prices? It is a fact that the UPA incurred liabilities to provide relief from petrol-diesel prices. Reduction of petrol-diesel prices is something the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) consistently demanded when it was in the opposition. Also, given the fact that both petrol-diesel prices are now deregulated (at least in principle), the government does not even have to incur a subsidy burden to bring down prices. What it will take to reduce petrol-diesel prices is the union government sacrificing its windfall tax gains. With its revenue under pressure, it may be hesitant to do so. That, not oil bonds, would appear to be the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-upa-s-oil-bonds-to-blame-for-high-fuel-prices-101629312640185.html
19-08-2021||India||Deployed at India’s embassy in Kabul, 3 dogs brought back home||As India began repatriation of its personnel from Afghanistan, there were three special evacuees, Maya, Roobie and Bobby, highly trained sniffer dogs of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) who were brought back along with embassy staff and 126 commandos from the war-torn country following Taliban’s takeover.The director general of the force, SS Deswal, categorically told Ravikant Gautam, who was in-charge of security at Indian embassy in Kabul that “at no cost should the K9 soldiers be left behind”. For three years now, Maya (a female Labrador), Roobie (a female Belgian Malinois) and Bobby (a male Doberman), have been the first responders to any threat faced by the Indian diplomats and averted several incidents.As soon as it was learnt that the second Indian Air Force (IAF) C-17 plane was on its way to Hamid Karzai airport for evacuating all personnel on Tuesday, the handlers of Maya, Roobie and Bobby, all aged between 5 to 7 years, made arrangements for the transportation of the canines. The flight reached Delhi late on Tuesday, after first landing at Jamnagar, following which the dogs were taken to ITBP’s Chhawla camp in South West Delhi, which has a special dog kennel.“They will rest and acclimatise themselves with Indian weather for four to five weeks,” said an official at ITBP’s K9 unit.During the three years for which they were deployed, the canine soldiers played an important role in the security of Indian embassy, the second most vulnerable establishment in Afghanistan after US bases.“They have been successfully carrying out anti-sabotage duties at the Indian embassy at Kabul for the past three years, checking every bag, parcel and article coming inside as well as keeping an eye on people. They detected several suspected IEDs (improvised explosive devices) during this time, saving lives of not only Indian diplomats and security personnel but also Afghan civilians working there for the Indian government,” said the officer cited above.Raised and trained at elite National Training Centre for Dogs (NTCD) of ITBP at Bhanu in Panchkula, Maya, Roobie and Bobby will soon be redeployed, with anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh their likely next posting.ITBP has been deployed in Afghanistan since 2002 to secure the Indian embassy in Kabul and consulates at Jalalabad, Kandahar, Mazar-i-Sharif and Herat.While the four consulates were closed on different dates over the last two months due to Taliban’s advance, the embassy at Kabul was functional till Tuesday. There have been many attempts by terrorists to breach the security of the Indian embassy and consulates but all have been thwarted by the ITBP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deployed-at-india-s-embassy-in-kabul-3-dogs-brought-back-home-101629312399507.html
19-08-2021||India||SC junks Maharashtra govt, Deshmukh’s plea against CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rapped the Maharashtra government for standing in the way of a probe ordered by the Bombay high court into allegations of bribery and extortion against its former home minister, Anil Deshmukh. It also dismissed separate petitions filed by the state and Deshmukh challenging the HC order allowing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate the matter.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah wondered why the state had filed an appeal when the investigation was directed against its former minister. “An impression is being given that your government is trying to protect this person (Deshmukh). Investigation is not against the state but against your home minister. At every stage you seem to stultify the investigation. Why does the state have to oppose? It should rather come forward and allow full and fair investigation,” the court said.The charges against Deshmukh stemmed from a letter written in March 2021 by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in which he alleged that the minister ran a corruption ring in the police department. The allegations against him pertained to extorting money from bars and restaurants on a monthly basis, exerting undue influence in pending investigations in high-profile cases, and using his position to effect transfers and postings of police officers. With these allegations as a basis, one Jaishree Patil wrote to the police seeking an investigation. When nothing moved, she approached the Bombay High Court demanding action against Deshmukh.Incidentally, the state was not prepared to argue its own appeal on Wednesday. Advocate Rahul Chitnis appearing for the state had moved a letter for adjournment late Tuesday night after the senior counsel engaged by the state returned the case file. But the bench turned down his request as they had already spent considerable time reading the files and noted that Chitnis was a seasoned lawyer capable of arguing the matter.Chitnis submitted that the HC order of April 5, 2021, ordered a preliminary enquiry based on Patil’s letter, which did not contain allegations of transfer or posting but of extortion from bars and restaurants. He further stated that in October 2020, the state had withdrawn consent under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946, preventing CBI from taking up any investigation in the state.Deshmukh also moved the top court, asking for the quashing of the FIR lodged by CBI on April 21. Senior advocate Amit Desai appeared for the former home minister and said his client enjoyed the protection of Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (amendment introduced in 2018), which offers public servants protection from any enquiry or investigation into any offence relatable to any decision taken by them in the discharge of their official duties. Such a probe could be possible only upon the approval of the competent authority, in this case the state government.The bench said, “Which government will order a CBI probe or grant sanction against its own home minister? This is the reason why the high court has proceeded in the matter and ordered an enquiry so that justice is not just done but seen to be done.”The bench further noted that sections 6 and 17A only offer protection from unjust prosecution of innocent public servants. “Here the high court has taken on itself the decision to refer the matter to CBI because the home minister is himself involved. If your argument is accepted that consent of state will be required, the very purpose of the high court order will get defeated. It will denude the courts of their constitutional power.”Deshmukh’s lawyer had also challenged a July 22 HC judgment that refused to quash the CBI case lodged against him. Desai argued that HC made certain conclusions that were not part of the letter written by Param Bir Singh or Jaishree Patil.Even in CBI’s preliminary enquiry report, no cognisable offence was made out as the issue was of transfers and postings. It was for this purpose, Desai argued, that HC ordered a preliminary enquiry and did not direct CBI to straightaway register a case.The bench discarded this view: “Transfer is only an incidental thing. The manner in which transfers were made for oblique purposes and illegal gratification is in question here….The high court was satisfied that prima facie a cognisable offence is made out. But bearing in mind the Supreme Court decision in Lalitha Kumari case (2013) mandating a preliminary enquiry, and the fact that allegations were against the home minister of the state, the high court ordered a preliminary enquiry by CBI.”The bench noted that the requirement under both Section 6 and Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act applies at the threshold. This stood “obviated” by the HC coming to the conclusion that public interest requires the ordering of an enquiry. This also protects the accused as the HC held that upon completion of enquiry, the CBI director shall apply his mind and proceed in accordance with the law, added the bench.The top court dismissed Deshmukh’s petition finding “no error in the high court judgment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-junks-maharashtra-govt-deshmukh-s-plea-against-cbi-probe-101629312340072.html
19-08-2021||India||SC allows women to appear in NDA exam||Breaking the glass ceiling that endured for 65 years, the Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered that women can also sit for the upcoming National Defence Academy (NDA) examination and held that the policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on “gender discrimination”. It also came down hard on what it termed the army’s mindset in providing equal opportunities to women.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy threw open the doors of the joint defence service training institute of the Indian armed forces to women cadets, directing the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) to give wide publicity to the new advertisement on admissions so that intent of the order is translated into effect and more women apply.In its interim order, the bench said women candidates will be permitted to sit for exam scheduled for September 5 (now rescheduled for November 14) and added that their admission will be subject to the final orders of the court. The court will hear the matter next on September 8.The court’s ruling comes days before the service chiefs of the army, navy and the air force are set to visit the NDA in Pune to review facilities and arrangements for women cadets. The visit was planned earlier this month, a senior army officer said on the condition of anonymity.Rejecting an argument by the Union government that the restriction against women from training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision, the court recorded in its order: “This is a policy decision based on gender discrimination. We expect the army and the government to take a more constructive view of the matter...”Hearing a petition filed by lawyer Kush Kalra for equal opportunity for women at NDA and the Indian Naval Academy , the bench expressed its disgruntlement over the “mindset” of the Indian Army when it comes to equal service opportunities for men and women in the country’s armed forces.“We keep passing orders after orders but the army will not change its mindset. I am finding it absurd now. It is like the army will act only when judicial orders are passed. Air force and navy are far more liberal but army does not believe in taking voluntary decision till the courts pass orders... There is a relevant bias in the army not to implement even the orders,” justice Kaul told additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the Centre and the department of defence.Bhati, on her part, argued that some amount of leeway will have to be given to the defence ministry in framing its policies regarding training institutes and other branches because the issues pertained to national security.To this, the bench replied: “We will also normally like to leave it to you to decide the manner of implementation but we cannot let you create a bar against women. Don’t make judiciary intervene every time. Do it yourself rather than inviting orders from the court. You must accept the broad principles of gender neutrality and then structure it in your peculiar set up.”The senior army officer cited above said that the discussion on induction of women through NDA had been ongoing. “The service chiefs from the army, navy and air force had planned a visit to the NDA in Pune on August 20 to review the training and administrative arrangements for women cadets. Additional infrastructure to provide for women cadets has been approved earlier and should come up in time bound manner. Gender equality has been an issue which has been actively debated and found positive response in the services.”As per the revised calendar of the UPSC, which conducts the exam for NDA, the entrance exam has been rescheduled from September 5 to November 14. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared class 12 level or its equivalent education and were in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 were eligible to apply.Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB) and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the Indian Army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955.On Wednesday, appearing for the petitioner, senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul, cited the Centre’s affidavit to question the rationale behind prohibiting women from entry at NDA when they could be recruited through Officers Training Academy (OTA) and Short Service Commission (SSC).While ASG Bhati argued that the prohibition at NDA is premised on a policy decision, the bench replied: “You yourself said that as a matter of policy you are allowing entry of women from two sources.. why close a third mode of entry? It appears to be largely discriminatory.”The law officer tried to persuade the bench that the army is not against women and that it is now granting permanent commission to women as well. The court was quick to point out that this too was courtesy a Supreme Court judgement. “No thanks to you for giving permanent commission to women because you kept fighting till this court passed its orders. I was unsuccessful in the high court to persuade the army to give them permanent commission. In the Supreme Court also, you were given many opportunities before justice Chandrachud had to finally pass a judgement expanding the horizons and extending permanent commission in the army to women,” said justice Kaul.As Bhati said that the issue of permanent commission is behind the army, the bench retorted: “It is not behind you because it is the question of mindset. Mindset is not changing; we could not persuade you. Instead of army taking its own call, it has come through judicial orders.”The bench also heard another petition for admission of girls into the Dehradun-based Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and asked Bhati how long it will take for the government to bring gender equality in such institutions. The court posted this petition, filed by advocate Kailash More, along with Kalra’s plea.Kalra’s petition argued that the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from NDA was unconstitutional and done entirely on the basis of their sex.In its affidavit filed a day ago, the Union government resisted the entry of women cadets, stating: “Training at NDA does not give any automatic advantage to male cadets over their counterparts from other training establishments / institutions. It has no bearing on the future career advancement prospects.” It suggested that choice of training at any equivalent training academy cannot be a violation amounting to discrimination based on gender under the Constitution.Referring to the Supreme Court judgment of February 2020 allowing women short service commission officers equal opportunities as male counterparts for getting permanent commission in 10 army branches, the affidavit said, “The issue of discrimination against women in the recruitment policies of the Indian Army, has attained finality and nothing survives….There is no denial of right or opportunity to women who desire to become officers in the Indian Army and who fulfil the necessary requirements and are found suitable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scallows-women-to-appear-in-nda-exam-101629312220792.html
19-08-2021||India||‘Centre compromising national security, territorial integrity: Cong over conflict in NE states||In the wake of violence erupting in several northeastern states, Congress on Wednesday accused the Centre of compromising the national security and territorial integrity of the country and asked why is the government not taking an action to stabilize the situation.“The entire northeast is in chaos. There is a complete breakdown of law and order and constitutional machinery in multiple states. Prime Minister and Home Minister are guilty of criminal culpability by compromising internal security and India’s territorial integrity,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewaala in a press conference.The responsibility lies at the door of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, he added.The Congress spokesperson was referring to the Mizo-Assam conflict, the extreme militancy that emerged in Shillong after the killing of former militant Chesterfield Thangkhiew, the centre’s failure to convert the Framework Agreement signed six years ago on August 3 to a final settlement and China’s invasion into Arunachal Pradesh earlier this year.Surjewaala said that the Modi government is “oblivious” to the violence brimming in the 5 of the seven northeastern states. It said, “This wholly indifferent, criminally aloof, hands-off approach of the Modi government emanates often from its illegal and divisive user-patients of power in many states of northeast adding a blind lust to illegitimately latch onto that power without thinking of the consequences for the country.”After the militant uprising on August 15, fresh violence broke out in Shillong on Tuesday when an unidentified individual attacked the carcade of Governor Satya Pal Malik with stones on its return from Assam after dropping him at an airport there.Earlier this year, media had reported that China had built a new village, consisting of 101 homes, in Arunachal Pradesh, about 4.5 km “within Indian territory of the de facto border”, on the banks of Tsari Chu river in Upper Subansiri district, an area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was the same area where five people were detained by Chinese troops last September.In response, China had said construction of the village in Arunachal Pradesh was “beyond reproach” because it had “never recognised” Arunachal as a part of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-compromising-national-security-territorial-integrity-cong-over-conflict-in-ne-states-101629311980101.html
19-08-2021||India||BJP to focus on govt schemes, OBC outreach||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is making a concerted effort to ensure that awareness about and implementation of the Union government’s welfare schemes and outreach among other backward classes (OBC) drowns out a growing chorus -- from the Opposition, allies and even within the party fold -- for a caste census.People aware of developments said that the party is not only concerned about the controversial demand snowballing into an election issue ahead of crucial polls in seven states but also its impact on ties with allies, especially the Janata Dal-United with which it runs a coalition government in Bihar.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has been leading the charge for a caste census and all parties apart from the BJP have come together to push for caste-based enumeration in the state where OBCs are a decisive vote bank.BJP allies such as the JD-U, Apna Dal and Republican Party of India - Athawale have joined the Opposition parties such as the Nationalist Congress Party, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party in demanding a caste census.Other parties such as the Biju Janata Dal have asked for a caste census, as have some BJP leaders, including Badaun MP Sanghamitra Maurya and national secretary Pankaja Munde.OBCs form an influential voting bloc in several states and were instrumental to the rise of the BJP in recent years. They are electorally important in the heartland states, especially in Uttar Pradesh where the party was able to stitch together a rainbow Hindu coalition with OBC groups at its core when it grabbed power with an unprecedented majority in 2017.Hence, to pre-empt any adverse impact of the caste census demand, the party has begun outreach to elucidate how its central schemes and interventions at the state level helped marginalised sections, said people aware of developments. Party cadre have been instructed to list the benefits that socially and educationally marginalised sections have accrued over the past seven years, the people quoted above added.In recent months, the BJP has sought to publicise its decisions to extend more representation to OBCs in the Union cabinet, grant OBC reservation in medical and dental education and restore the right of states to enumerate OBCs as helping the backward classes.BJP spokesperson and former MP, Bizay Sonkar Shastri, downplayed the caste census demand as “a political ploy” by the Opposition. He said the BJP did not believe in “caste-based politics”.A second BJP leader declined to comment on the demand from the allies, but said, “For decades, regional parties that promised social justice and ensuring equity and equality failed to do so. They spoke of social inclusion but ended up promoting just one or two castes.”He said schemes such as the Ujjwala Yojana, Har Ghar Jal, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana benefited people across castes.“These schemes have benefited people on the margins whether they come from scheduled caste, scheduled tribe or OBC categories. These schemes are an indicator of how the Modi government has walked the talk on social inclusion and parity for all even in the absence of caste-based census,” said the leader quoted above.The demand for a caste census is an old and sensitive one. Castes begun to be officially enumerated in the British era and the last caste census was conducted in 1931. Independent India limited the practice to only counting scheduled castes and tribes -- for extending reservation.Though the Mandal commission report in 1990 extended quotas in government jobs and education to OBCs, the Centre didn’t conduct a census, instead relying on extrapolations and smaller surveys to estimate OBC numbers. Based on various sources, the Mandal commission estimated OBCs constituted about 52% of the population.The demand for a caste census was first raised by activist groups who pointed to the importance of accurate data to extend quotas. It was quickly taken up by political parties such as the RJD and SP that count large OBC groups as key support bases. The Centre conducted a separate Socio-Economic Caste Census in 2011 but its caste data was never made public. Experts say caste enumeration can also fuel growing quota demands from dominant groups -- Jats, Patels, Gujjars, Marathas, among others.Opposition parties say the BJP does not want clarity about caste numbers as it could hamper its social engineering.Javed Ali Khan former MP of the Samajwadi Party said, “Our party has been asking for caste-based census so that we know the exact percentage of OBCs and SCs and the reservation policy can become more transparent. Right now, there is a lot of uncertainty and people often make claims that a handful of castes have cornered the benefits of reservations.”He said the BJP did not want to disrupt the existing quota formula or upset the upper castes.Given the sensitivity of the issue, the BJP has chosen not to explicitly state its stance.“The state governments of Maharashtra and Odisha have requested to collect caste details in the forthcoming census. The government of India has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste wise populations other than SC and ST in the census,” minister of state for home Nityanand Rai told Lok Sabha in July.However, in an interview this week to HT, Union labour minister Bhupender Yadav, who is also an OBC leader, said the matter was still under consideration and the ministry incharge of carrying out the census exercise will take a call based on feedback from experts.Party leaders at the Centre also indicated that states were free to carry out census on the basis of caste. “States have the provisions to do so, the Centre has not stopped them. They will have to. however, take a view on how the demand for revisit the existing quotas will have to be dealt with in view of the Supreme Court’s 50% cap on reservation,” said Shastri.The party is also worried about its partnership with the JD-U, which also broke ranks in the National Democratic Alliance when Kumar called for a probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy last month.“There is a lot of internal pressure. Since the BJP was part of resolutions passed in the assembly in 2019 and 2020 seeking caste-based enumeration, it is now being pushed to take a stand with the other parties,” said a BJP leader from Bihar on condition of anonymity.Kumar has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a meeting with all parties from Bihar to discuss the issue. “The BJP will have to clarify its stand. We still haven’t heard from the PMO on the meeting, but our party will continue with the demand,” said a JD-U leader, requesting to not be named.BJP lawmaker Sanjay Paswan said his party opposed caste-based census for ideological reasons. “There is no doubt it is an electoral issue, but it does not fit in with the ideology of the BJP which believes in Sabka Saath Sab Ka Vikas (development for all)…” he said.Political commentator AK Jha said the Opposition is unlikely to pin the BJP down on caste-based enumeration. “For the BJP, it is a win-win situation; not only has it taken steps such as giving greater representation to OBCs in the Union Cabinet, reserving 27% seats for OBC children in schools and providing quota for them in NEET exams, it is a party whose leadership is from the OBC communities so they can claim to have already worked for the benefit of these communities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-caste-census-demand-grows-bjp-to-focus-on-government-schemes-obc-outreach-101629310899463.html
19-08-2021||India||India stresses on ‘flexibility’ in climate goals for developing world||Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Wednesday said India will advocate principles of “differentiation” and operationalisation of “flexibility” provided in the Paris Agreement for developing countries, at the upcoming United Nations Climate Change conference (COP26) in November -- reiterating the country’s position at a time when there are demands in some quarters for it to commit to so-called net-zero emissions.Yadav met COP26 president Alok Sharma, following which he said “differentiation” and “flexibility” should be at the core of decision-making at COP 26.“India believes that climate actions must be nationally determined and strongly advocates that the differentiation and operationalisation of flexibility provided in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement for developing countries should be at the core of decision-making,” said Yadav, emphasising the importance of climate justice. Among other factors, climate justice incorporates an understanding of historical responsibility for the climate crisis and equality.The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international treaty on climate crisis. The agreement, which has a goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C, preferably to 1.5°C, compared to pre-industrial levels is guided by principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, in the light of different national circumstances.Article 13 of the agreement says its transparency framework shall provide flexibility to developing countries that need it in the light of their capacities. The transparency framework covers all substantive aspects of the Paris deal, including the tracking progress and achievement of nationally determined contributions (NDCs).IPCC flagged earlier this month that the planet has a very short window to prevent catastrophic climate change. The 1.5°C global warming-threshold is likely to be breached in the next 10 to 20 years and by 2040 in all scenarios, it said in its report.Sharma in an interview to HT on Monday said: “We want every country to plan for net-zero by the middle of the century.”But India has said earlier that pushing developing countries with extremely low per capita emissions to commit to a net-zero goal will undermine their right to develop. “We have noted the pledges made by some countries to achieve Net Zero GHG (green house gas) emissions or carbon neutrality by or around mid-century. However, this may not be adequate... Therefore, and keeping in view the legitimate need of developing countries to grow, we urge G20 countries to commit to bringing down per capita emissions to the global average by 2030,” India said in its statement at a G20 ministerial meeting.On Tuesday, Sharma met RK Singh, the power and renewable energy minister; PK Mishra, PM Narendra Modi’s principal secretary; and Piyush Goyal, minister of commerce and industry and textiles. The power ministry on Wednesday said India has already retired 16,369 MW of inefficient coal fired power plants -- an issue Sharma raised during the meeting.Sharma said on Wednesday: “I leave India hopeful. I’ve had a set of very constructive discussions here... In the context of India, it is worth pointing out that India is already on track to overachieve its current NDC...”Experts said all countries must do more. “We should be proactive; push for hard action by 2030 by top polluters; not net-zero by 2050. Currently, countries are not on track. We must run the talk; no doubt our actions today are comparable with our contribution, but this is not enough. We can and must do more,” said Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment.“Every country’s circumstance and capacities are different so flexibility is important from the perspective of both implementation and reporting, but overall, our actions collectively need to be circumscribed by the constraints set by science. We have a small window of opportunity, and everything to lose given our vulnerable population,” said Apurba Mitra, head, Climate Policy, WRI India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-cop-26-india-stresses-on-flexibility-in-climate-goals-for-developing-world-101629310839479.html
19-08-2021||India||India working closely with US to repatriate citizens from Afghanistan||The Indian government is coordinating closely with the United States, which currently controls the airport in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul and decides slots for all flights, for repatriating all Indian nationals who are still in the war-torn country.There was close cooperation between India and the US for the evacuation of some 200 Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and citizens on two military aircraft on Monday and Tuesday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday.The evacuation was done in two phases against the backdrop of serious security concerns, including intelligence reports that elements of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network, both Pakistan-based terror groups, had entered Kabul along with the Taliban fighters that took over the capital following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on Sunday.The evacuation of Indians figured when US secretary of state Antony Blinken spoke to external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday as part of his conversations with several counterparts across the region. At the time of the conversation, the second batch of Indian diplomats and citizens were waiting to be flown out of the Hamid Karzai international airport in Kabul.“Underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard,” Jaishankar tweeted after the phone conversation with Blinken.Besides the contact between the two foreign ministers, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval coordinated with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan while foreign secretary Harsh Shringla spoke with US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman to ensure that the evacuation of some 150 diplomats, security personnel and citizens could be done smoothly, the people cited above said.Only military evacuation flights are currently operating from Kabul airport though commercial flights by airlines, including Air India, are expected to resume later this week. The airport was closed after chaotic scenes on Monday when thousands of Afghans marched onto the tarmac as part of desperate efforts to flee the country. Dozens of people clung to the sides of US military aircraft and at least three of them plunged to their death.The people said the US will play a crucial role when commercial flights resume as it will decide slots airlines.The people acknowledged that problems had arisen in repatriating Indian citizens as many of them didn’t heed several security advisories issued by the Indian embassy in Kabul asking Indians to register with the mission and to make immediate arrangements to return home while commercial flights were still available.Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed officials on Tuesday to ensure that all Indian nationals are safely repatriated from Afghanistan.“No Indian will be left behind and the repatriation will begin as soon as commercial flights resume. There are also plans for chartered flights. However, the situation is complicated as many of these citizens never registered with the embassy,” one of the people cited above said.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Tuesday asked Indian nationals in Afghanistan to contact the Special Afghanistan Cell at phone numbers +91-11-49016783, +91-11-49016784, +91-11-49016785, WhatsApp number +91 80106 11290 or the email ID SituationRoom@mea.gov.in.“We have been issuing periodic travel and security advisories for all Indian nationals in Afghanistan, given the deteriorating security situation there. Those already in Afghanistan were urged to return immediately while others were advised not to travel there. Nevertheless, we understand that a number of Indians are stranded in that country, some of whom are employed by third country organizations,” the statement said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-working-closely-with-us-to-repatriate-citizens-from-afghanistan-101629308202617.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid vaccine for children in India by September, says ICMR-NIV director||A coronavirus inoculation for children is likely to be approved by September, according to two officials involved in the development of the vaccines, including Bharat Biotech’s managing director Krishna Ella, who said the trial phase of the clinical studies in volunteers in the 2-18 age group has been completed.Also Read | Bengal avoids wastage of Covid vaccine but faces shortage of syringes nowThere are two vaccine candidates that have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D. The Covaxin trial includes 525 volunteers while ZyCov-D’s trials – as part of the phase II/III clinical studies – includes 1,000 volunteers in the 12-18 age group.“Our clinical trial final phase is over. We are hoping that by either by month end or by next month we should get the license for vaccine in children. This is the only vaccine in the world that can be given to children between 2 and 18 years,” Ella said in an interview to DD News on Wednesday.A senior official from Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, which collaborated with Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, said she expected the results from the studies to be out soon and an approval to follow shortly after.“Hopefully, the results (of the trials) are going to be available very soon. These will be presented to the regulators. So, by September or just after it, we may have Covid-19 vaccines for children,” said Priya Abraham, director of NIV, Pune, in an interview to India Science, a web channel of the government’s Department of Science and Technology.“...Zydus Cadila’s vaccine trial is also going on. This can also be applied for children and will be made available,” added Abraham.Experts at India’s drug regulator are assessing ZyCov-D’s data for approval. The company has said its assessment of the clinical trials showed an efficacy rate of 66.6%.An expert aware of the process said early data has shown some promise. “There are a few promising data sets that the experts are examining that includes the vaccine candidate of Zydus Cadila, which has been tried in around 1,000 children. Then there is data from Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin trial in children that people are anticipating,” this person said, asking not to be named.The expert, who works with the central government, indicated the assessment of Covaxin may be easier since it is already in use and has established efficacy rates. “There are high hopes because Covaxin has already received the necessary approval for adults, so it will be examined for safety and immunogenicity in children.”Ella and Abraham also spoke on booster doses, which they both said will eventually become necessary.According to Abraham, studies on booster doses have been going on overseas and at least seven vaccines have been tried for it. “Now, WHO (World Health Organization) has put a stop to it till more countries catch up with vaccination. This is because there is an alarming vaccine [supply] gap between high-income and low-income countries. But, in future, recommendations for boosters will definitely come,” she said.Ella took a similar position. “It is a fact; I can’t lie about it that booster dose will be required. However, our priority will be to vaccinate all adults first. We are also doing trials for our nasal vaccine candidate against Covid-19, and instead of a booster dose of Covaxin we may even have the option of taking one dose of Covaxin and second dose of the nasal vaccine. It is too early to say anything conclusively at the moment; research is on,” he said.The NIV Pune director said there were no safety concerns in mixing different Covid-19 vaccines and the institute was carrying out further studies that will lead to more details in the coming days.Abraham reiterated that vaccination is a must and the studies at NIV show the vaccines in use work against variants of the coronavirus, citing the levels of antibodies produced in the bodies of vaccinated people.She said that while levels were reduced in case of some variants, “yet, the vaccines are still protective against the variants. They may show a little less efficacy, but vaccines are very important to prevent serious forms of disease due to which patients may get hospitalised and even die. So, whatever the variant, vaccine is till now protective against all, including the Delta variant. So, there should not be any hesitancy at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-for-children-in-india-by-september-says-icmr-niv-director-101629284019229.html
19-08-2021||India||Madras high court issues directions to ‘release caged parrot CBI’||The Madras high court on Tuesday asked the Centre to consider enacting a law giving statutory status to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to ensure its autonomy without the government’s administrative control. It was part of a slew of directions the court issued for improving the CBI functioning as part of an attempt to “release the caged parrot”. The Supreme Court described the CBI as “caged parrot” and “its master’s voice” in May 2013 while citing evidence of interference in the federal agency’s inquiry into alleged irregularities in the allocation of coalfield licences. The comments triggered a debate on political interference in the CBI’s functioning when the then Congress-led government faced a series of corruption charges.The high court said the autonomy would be ensured only when the agency is given statutory status on the lines of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), and Election Commission (EC). It noted CAG is only accountable to Parliament and that there should be independence for CBI like the EC. Also Read | CBI not entitled to documents till they show relevance to probe: Maharashtra govtThe CBI, which is mandated to probe corruption and major crimes, comes under the administrative control of the Department of Personnel and Training (DOPT) under the Prime Minister’s Office.The high court also sought more powers and jurisdiction for the CBI at the earliest as well as separate budgetary allocation for it. The court said the CBI director should be given powers as that of the secretary to the government and should directly report to the Prime Minister. It said the agency should get modern facilities on par with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (the US) and Scotland Yard (the UK). The court asked the CBI for a policy within six weeks for permanently recruiting cyber forensic and financial audit experts so that all its wings can have dedicated experts instead of having them on case-to-case basis. The court also gave a timeline for clearing pending cases. It posted the matter for hearing next six weeks later and asked the CBI to file a compliance report or for the director of CBI to appear in the court.Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi of the high court’s Madurai bench issued the directions while refusing to grant relief in response to a Public Interest litigation seeking a CBI probe in a chit fund scam. “This order is an attempt to release the ‘Caged Parrot’ (CBI),” the bench said.The bench said there is a clamour for a CBI probe because of an “aura of reverence” whenever a heinous crime is committed and there is no proper investigation by the local police. “When such is the trust and faith of the people, very sadly CBI is dragging its feet, whenever there is a demand for CBI enquiry on the ground that resources and manpower available with CBI are very restricted and therefore, it cannot conduct investigations,” the bench said. It added this is a standard response of the CBI that it “often parrots’ before the courts.The court, in an earlier order, asked 15 questions regarding the resources, manpower, investigating skills and infrastructure facilities available with the CBI. After the CBI submitted its response, the court issued the directions on Tuesday.A CBI officer, who did not want to be named, said this is a policy matter and only the government or the DoPT will be able to comment..A person aware of the matter, who did not want to be named, said top CBI officers met on Wednesday and took note of the observations for a comprehensive proposal. “This will have to be done within six weeks...”K Chandru, a retired Madras high court judge, said in a federal system, state police forces need to be strengthened to get better results. “Without the state police being involved in any local efforts, it will be difficult for the CBI...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-issues-directions-to-release-caged-parrot-cbi-101629274896943.html
19-08-2021||India||Samajwadi Party MP, 2 others booked for sedition in UP||Opposition Samajwadi Party Parliament member Shafiqur Rehman Barq and two others have been booked for sedition, promoting enmity between religions and deliberately outraging religious feelings following a complaint against them that they allegedly supported the Taliban and likened them to Indian freedom fighters.Also Read | Half-burnt body of 17-year-old girl retrieved from pyre in UPA police officer said a First Information Report (FIR) was registered against the three in Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night after one Rajesh Singhal filed the complaint. “Police have slapped charges under Indian Penal Code (IPC)’s Section 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between two religions) and 295A (outraging religious feelings of others),” the officer said, requesting anonymity. He added Mohd Muqeem and Chowdhary Faizan are the other two people named in the FIR.Barq on Monday said the Taliban wanted to free their country. He said Taliban taking over power in Afghanistan is that country’s internal matter.Barq said his statement has been twisted out of context. “I stand with my country,” he said in a statement to news agency ANI.Barq, who represents Sambhal in Parliament, was also named as an accused in an arson and violence case during an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-mp-2-others-booked-for-sedition-in-up-101629273456659.html
19-08-2021||India||BJP seeks more security amid increase in attacks on workers in Valley||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday sought security cover for grassroots representatives and workers in Jammu and Kashmir after two party leaders were shot dead by terrorists in a week, triggering panic among its members in the region.Acknowledging that the attacks created a sense of fear among party workers, BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said, “Their lives have been reduced to changing their residences to dodge militant attacks in the absence of security.”Other party leaders added that many BJP members were holed up in secure locations, unable to visit their hometowns or villages, where they are likely to face hostile local crowds that see the BJP as the main catalyst for the controversial scrapping of the region’s special status and statehood two years ago.On Tuesday, Javeed Ahmad Dar, the party’s incharge of Homeshalibugh assembly constituency, was shot dead by terrorists outside his residence. This was the second killing of a BJP leader in south Kashmir and the third attack on a party functionary in the Union territory in the last one week.On August 12, a two-year-old boy was killed and six others injured after terrorists lobbed a grenade at the residence of BJP functionary Jasbir Singh in Jammu’s Rajouri district. A clash also erupted in Rajouri town after an angry mob burnt tyres and shouted slogans, blaming the police and civil administration for the attack.On August 9, BJP village chief Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawahira Bano were gunned down by terrorists in their rented accommodation in Anantnag town. Dar was the president of BJP Kisan Morcha of Kulgam district and was also serving as the sarpanch of Redwani village in the district. His wife was a member of the panchayat from the same village.According to Thakur, the party has 530,000 members in J&K but only 200 of them have security. He added that at least 500 of those working at the district level as well as in Srinagar were provided safer accommodation by the government.“Our hopes are higher than the Himalayas and stronger than rocks. Despite the attacks, our political activities are going on and will continue,” Thakur said.In Dar’s case, police maintained that the BJP leader never asked for security. “Even the local BJP leader did not share his name in the list of PPs (protected persons),” a police officer said on condition of anonymity.Another BJP worker, who did not wish to be named, said the government had offered him and his family a secured accommodation of a single room to be shared with another BJP worker. “This has become a pattern across Kashmir,” he said.BJP leader Rajesh Pandita, who was killed in Pulwama in June this year, was allotted two personal security officers besides a secured accommodation in Srinagar. Pandita was at a friend’s place without his security guards when he was shot dead by terrorists in the city. A woman was also critically injured in the incident.Sajjad Raina, the party’s Pulwama district president, said he was waiting for a bulletproof vehicle to move around safely. “It has been months that I have sought it. I am hardly able to visit my home town.”“Pulwama is most hit by militancy and despite so many attacks on our workers across Kashmir, no one from my team of 60 members has resigned yet,” the BJP leader, who is residing in a secured government accommodation in Pampore near Srinagar, with almost 50 party workers, said.The Pulwama unit chief also said that it is not just him or his party workers who are under threat. “They can target anyone from our family. Neither do I nor do any of the BJP workers have any security for our families,” he said.While inspector general of police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar did not comment on the provision of safe accommodation for families of BJP workers, he said the allotment of bulletproof vehicles is solely under the purview of director general of police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh.HT tried to reach out to the DGP but could not get a response immediately.BJP leaders claimed that at least 22 of workers have been killed in the Valley in various terrorist attacks ever since the Centre revoked Jammu & Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Nine BJP workers were killed in Kulgam district alone in the past one year, they said.“On August 5, (second anniversary of the revocation of semi-autonomous status) BJP workers unfurled the national flag everywhere in the Valley as they did on August 15. This has caused frustration among the militants,” Thakur said.The spokesperson also linked the attacks to the local body elections held last year and developmental work in the Valley. “Since in a peaceful atmosphere, terrorism cannot flourish, this has unnerved the militants and they are on a killing spree,” he said.Explaining the surge in attacks, political analyst Noor Mohammad Baba said the workers are victims of a larger hate perception that has developed against the BJP in the Valley. “The reason they have (selectively) become a target is because the BJP is seen as the biggest adversary in Kashmir,” he said.(With inputs from Mir Ehsan in Srinagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-party-workers-killed-in-kashmir-since-2019bjp-101629265476331.html
19-08-2021||NA||Former PM Ghani who fled Afghanistan, in talks to return||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal logs 646 new Covid-19 cases and 7 deathsWest Bengal reports 646 new Covid-19 cases, 660 recoveries and seven deaths. Total cases rise to 1,540,258.Ahead of festivals, Maharashtra CM's request to peopleMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urges people to not violate Covid-19 protocols in the state.36 new Covid-19 cases and 4 deaths in DelhiDelhi logs 36 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths and 76 recoveries. Total cases at 1,437,192 including 1,411,688 recoveries, 25,077 deaths and 427 active cases. Positivity rate at 0.05%.Fresh Covid-19 cases rise in Maharashtra and MumbaiMaharashtra records 5132 new Covid-19 cases after three straight days of less than 5000 fresh infections. 285 people test positive in Mumbai, up from 196 on August 17.US authorises Covid-19 booster shots for all Americans from September 20US authorises Covid-19 booster shots for all Americans from September 20, warns of reducing vaccine efficacy.NATO foreign ministers to meet on Friday to discuss AfghanistanI have convened an extraordinary virtual meeting of #NATO Foreign Ministers this Friday 20 August to continue our close coordination & discuss our common approach on #Afghanistan."I have convened an extraordinary virtual meeting of NATO foreign ministers this Friday to continue our close coordination and discuss our common approach on Afghanistan," tweets NATO secretary general Jens Stoltenberg.Himachal announces easing of Covid-19 curbsCOVID restrictions eased in Himachal Pradesh for "all goods carriers, daily/weekend commuters or people who intend to commute for medical purpose. Children below 18 accompanied by parents with vaccination certificates (double doses) or negative RT-PCR report are also excluded." pic.twitter.com/cShC0b8AsxCovid-19 restrictions eased for "all goods carriers, daily/weekend commuters or people who intend to commute for medical purpose. Children below 18 accompanied by parents with vaccination certificates (double doses) or negative RT-PCR report are also excluded": Himachal Pradesh govtAfghan president Ashraf Ghani taken in by UAE: ReportAfghan president Ashraf Ghani and family taken in by UAE on "humanitarian grounds", reports APNo vaccination in Mumbai on Aug 19 and 20, says BMCDue to shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, there will be no vaccination in government and municipal corporation-run centres in Mumbai on August 19 and 20. Vaccination will resume from August 21: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)'Deeply worried about Afghan women': Joint statementWe're deeply worried about Afghan women and girls, their rights to education, work and freedom of movement. We call on those in positions of power and authority across Afghanistan to guarantee their protection. We stand ready to assist them with humanitarian aid. We will monitor closely how any future govt ensures rights and freedoms that have become an integral part of the life of women and girls in Afghanistan during the last 20 years: 21 countries including the US, UK and Canada in a joint statement.'2nd Covid-19 wave under control': Maharashtra govt"Zero patient in Nandurbar while less than 10 in six districts. Less than 100 in eight districts. Positivity rate 2.4. About 50 percent citizens above 45 have been given at least one dose of vaccine. As also, 25 percent in 18-45 age group," says Maharashtra govt in press release after meeting of state cabinet.Kerala logs 21,427 new Covid-19 cases and 179 deathsKerala reports 21,427 new Covid-19 cases, 179 deaths and 18,731 recoveries. Positivity rate at 15.5%.'Maintain branch-wise list of vacant lockers': RBI tells banksBanks to maintain a branch-wise list of vacant lockers as well as a wait-list for the purpose of allotment of lockers and ensure transparency in allotment of lockers. Revised instructions will come into effect from January 1, 2022: Reserve Bank of India (RBI)Cong appoints Dr Ajoy Kumar as in-charge of 3 northeastern statesCongress appoints Dr Ajoy Kumar as All India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura.Tsunami alert issued after quake off VanuatuTsunami alert issued after 6.8-magnitude earthquake off Vanuatu, reports AFP.Local trains suspended on Mumbai's Harbour LineLocal train services suspended on the Harbour Line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Vadala due to technical issues. Trains are operating between Kurla and Panvel railway stations.Cabinet approves implementation of National Mission on Edible Oils"Union Cabinet has approved the implementation of National Mission on Edible Oils–oil palm with a financial outlay of ₹11,040 crores. The focus is on increasing area and productivity of oilseeds and oil palm," announces Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.UNHRC to hold special session on Afghanistan on August 24UNHRC to hold one-day special session on August 24 to address "Serious Human Rights Concerns and Situation in Afghanistan." Session to be convened with the support of 60 observer states so far, including India, France, UK, Japan and Pakistan.Cong MPs break down while addressing media over RS ruckus#WATCH | Raipur, Chhattisgarh: Congress Rajya Sabha MPs Chhaya Verma & Phulo Devi Netam break down while addressing the media on August 11 ruckus in the House pic.twitter.com/mHFp0MUrFqCongress MPs Chhaya Verma and Phulo Devi Netam break down in Raipur while addressing the media on the August 11 ruckus in Rajya Sabha.'21 Indians onboard France's first evacuation flight from Kabul'The first French evacuation flight from #Kabul yesterday included 21 Indian nationals: the elite Gurkhas who were ensuring security of the French Embassy. 🇫🇷🤝🇮🇳 https://t.co/OxzUYMimTV"The first French evacuation flight from Kabul yesterday included 21 Indian nationals," tweets Emmanuel Lenain, the French ambassador to India.Taliban Ring Kabul Airport With CheckpointsTaliban fighters have ringed Kabul’s international airport with security checkpoints, raising concerns the group will prevent hundreds of Afghans from leaving the country after the US-backed government collapsed.Taliban destroy statue of Shiite foe from 1990s civil warThe Taliban have blown up the statue of a Shiite militia leader who had fought against them during Afghanistan's civil war in the 1990s, according to photos circulating on social media Wednesday.Gujarat: 2 killed, 5 injured in road accident; 2 drown during religious eventTwo people were killed and five others injured when a car hit them in Gujarat's Banaskantha district on Wednesday, police said. Besides, two persons drowned in a river during a religious programme in Anand district, they said.Bombay HC grants interim relief to businessman Raj Kundra in pornography caseBombay High Court grants interim relief to businessman and Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra and keeps his anticipatory bail application for hearing next Wednesday, 25th August.Over 56 crore Covid-19 vaccines administered in IndiaIndia achieved a landmark of administrating over 56 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses till date under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive, the Union Ministry of Health informed on Wednesday.Supreme Court directs women can sit for National Defence Academy entrance examsSupreme Court directs women can sit for exams for entry in the National Defence Academy (NDA). The exam is slated for Sep 5. Admissions etc will be subjected to the final orders of the court.UK inflation slows in July: Official dataBritain's annual inflation rate slowed sharply last month on falling prices for clothing, footwear and recreational goods and services, official data showed Wednesday.SC dismisses Maha govt plea challenging CBI probe against ex-HM Anil DeshmukhSC dismisses petition filed by Maharashtra government challenging CBI probe against former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. The Court said, “An impression is being given that the state is trying to protect this man….investigation is not against state but your Home Minister”.Delhi Court discharges Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in connection with Sunanda Pushkar death case.Delhi court discharges Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in connection with Sunanda Pushkar death case.First batch of Indian athletes leaves for Tokyo Paralympics amid warm send-offThe first batch of Indian athletes for the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics, including flag bearer Thangavelu Mariyappan left for the Games on Wednesday amid a warm send-off.Haryana CM asks Neeraj Chopra to head a centre off excellenceI have asked Olympic gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra to head a centre of excellence to groom athletes for the Olympics. We want to make Haryana a hub of sports: Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Over 2,200 people evacuated on Kabul military flights: Security officialOver 2,200 diplomats and other civilians have so far been evacuated on military flights out of Kabul, a Western security official in the Afghan capital told Reuters on Wednesday.India records 35,178 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia reports 35,178 new Covid-19 cases, 37,169 recoveries and 440 deaths in the last 24 hrs, as per Health Ministry.Total cases: 3,22,85,857Total recoveries: 3,14,85,923Active cases: 3,67,415Death toll: 4,32,519Sydney warned worse to come as Delta cases surgeSydney's Delta outbreak has not peaked and residents must brace for more deaths, authorities said on Wednesday, as Australia's largest city continued to break records for new daily infections despite a nearly two-month lockdown.New Zealand PM announces lockdown over single suspected Delta variant caseNew Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has announced a nationwide lockdown after the country confirmed the first locally transmitted Covid-19 since February.Japan extends Covid-19 emergency lockdown as cases surgeJapan on Tuesday extended its state of emergency in Tokyo and other regions and announced new measures covering seven more prefectures to counter a spike in Covid-19 infections that is threatening the medical system.Assam's revised Covid-19 guidelines comes into effect from todayThe Assam government's new set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in regard to Covid-19 pandemic will come into effect from Wednesday.US military has evacuated 3,200 people from Afghanistan so farUS military has evacuated 3,200 people from Afghanistan so far: AFP news agency quoting official.FM Jaishankar, Estonia counterpart exchange views on Afghan crisisExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday met Estonia counterpart Eva Maria Liimets and exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan.Iran to make efforts to stabilise Afghanistan: President RaisiIranian President Ebrahim Raisi on Monday said that his country would make serious efforts to stabilise Afghanistan as the country's government fell on Sunday and the Taliban took over the control, a media report said.Delhi Riots: HC to hear former AAP leader Tahir Hussain's bail pleas todayThe Delhi high court is set to hear today the bail pleas of suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain in connection with the four separate instances of violence during the northeast Delhi riots in January last year.Haiti earthquake death count rises to 1,941: OfficialsThe death toll from a 7.2 magnitude earthquake that struck Haiti has risen to 1,941, the Caribbean nation's civil protection agency said Tuesday, as a tropical storm brought torrential downpours on survivors already coping with catastrophe.Belur Math in Kolkata to re-open for public from todayBelur Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, will be open for devotees and visitors for about five hours from today, a spokesman had said on August 11.UK plans to welcome thousands of Afghans in new refugee planBritain on Tuesday announced plans to welcome up to 5,000 Afghans fleeing the Taliban during the first year of a new resettlement programme that will prioritise women, girls and religious and other minorities.California to review 2009 fatal shooting at train stationCalifornia's attorney general said Tuesday that his office will conduct its own review of a transit officer's involvement in the shooting death of a 22-year-old Black man at a San Francisco Bay Area train station in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-18-2021-101629243344103.html
19-08-2021||Today's||In 100 days, sowing the seeds of a New Assam||It is often said, well begun is half done. Ever since our government assumed office in Assam in early May, we have endeavoured to live up to people’s expectations and deliver to them, the Assam of their dreams. While 100 days may be too short a period to bring about transformative change, especially in governance, the seeds have been sown and will bear fruits shortly.Building on Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s philosophy of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Prayas”, we aim to ensure citizen-friendly governance in the state. Continuous engagement with citizens is an essential part of participatory governance. Case in point: The positive response to our government’s call for affluent people to surrender their ration cards. This appeal was made to ensure that those who need these benefits can avail them.Our government was formed amid the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. To tackle this, Team Assam, led by Covid warriors, dedicated its entire effort under the guidance of the PM. We adopted the test, treat, trace, and vaccinate strategy. We have also made preparations to minimise the impact of a possible third wave.With the tireless efforts of health workers, we brought the positivity rate down from 9.13% to 0.73%, installed oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 13.56 MT, nearly doubled the number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in state medical college hospitals from 793 to 1,308, and administered over 14.8 million doses of the vaccine.We recognise the long-term loss caused by Covid-19, particularly to children who lost their parents in the pandemic. We announced the chief minister’s Shishu Seva Scheme under which the state will provide these children with monthly support until the age of 24.In these 100 days, we have taken firms steps to defeat several other ills that confront our society, threaten our civilisational heritage, and undermine our future.Also Read | In a competitive marketplace, protecting India’s gig workersA drug-free society is essential for a prosperous Assam. In 100 days, Assam Police made great strides in demolishing the infrastructure that facilitated the supply of drugs and narcotics. Working under the guidance of Union home minister Amit Shah, we seized drugs worth ₹183 crore, and arrested 1,760 people. We will continue to fight the drug menace with an iron fist and achieve our mission of drug-free Assam.As mentioned in our election manifesto, the protection of cattle — revered in our culture — is a top priority. Delivering on our poll promise, we passed the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 2021. With this, we intend to stop the illegal trade and transit of cattle through Assam, which was rampant over the years. Further, we led encroachment drives to clear illegal settlements built around our temples and namghars (prayer houses).When I see files that come to my desk for approval, I prioritise those which reflect unfulfilled aspirations of our people. And in these 100 days , we have tried to shake status quo to ensure speedier outcome. People have voted for us with great expectations and we have to race against time to deliver them. For instance, in my various interactions with people, I came across heart wrenching stories of women being exploited by micro finance lenders for not able to repay small amounts of money. This was unacceptable and had to stop; our government cannot be a silent bystander to such injustice. We made a promise during the election to provide relief to small borrowers. To effect this, we notified the Assam Microfinance Incentive and Relief Scheme in 100 days by bringing all stakeholders on board.For us our Sankalp Patra (the Bharatiya Janata Party manifesto) is a sacred document. In the past 100 days, we either delivered on these promises or are working hard towards realising them. For instance, we have increased financial assistance under the Assam Orunodoi scheme from ₹830 to ₹1,000 per month and added 638,000 new beneficiaries. We increased the wages of tea garden workers from ₹167 to ₹205 in the Brahmaputra Valley, and from ₹145 to ₹183 in the Barak Valley, with retrospective effect from February 2021. Deen Dayal Upadhaya’s clarion call of “Antyodaya” is the foundational premise of our policies and we will continue to focus on the last person in the queue.Assam’s ace boxer, Lovlina Borgohain’s historic feat at the Tokyo Olympics was the proudest moment for every Assamese. We celebrated the occasion with great fervour by working towards ensuring that many more Lovlinas represent India at the 2024 Olympics.To ensure that the next five years are a glorious era in Assam’s history, we used the first 100 days to lay the foundation of transformative change. Under the maxim of “minimum government and maximum governance”, we delegated more powers to district deputy commissioners to fast-track Jal Jeevan Mission targets, allot land for industries and expedite flood relief work.In this short period, Assam became the first state to pass the Model Tenancy Act to provide a framework for resolving disputes between tenants and landlords. Assam has also become the second state to have an Ethanol Policy. For the first time, we created a consolidated database of all government-owned land within 100 days.In the past, governments at the Centre and in the Northeast had left inter-State borders un-demarcated and ambiguous. Over the past 100 days, we made sufficient progress to put an end to these decades-old legacy disputes, particularly with Nagaland, Meghalaya, and Mizoram.With the BJP at the Centre and in the state, the double engine of growth is gaining momentum in Assam. Along with our colleagues in the central government, we are speeding up the implementation of key central schemes such as Jal Jeevan Mission, PM Awas Yojana, and PM Kisan.Assam kicked off Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav on a historic note. For the first time since 1979, this year’s Independence Day was celebrated without any call for bandh by any extremist organisation.These milestones in our 100-day journey are reflective of the progress we are making in bringing Assam from the periphery to the epicentre of India’s progress and development. Governance is a team effort. It cannot be done without the people of Assam. And the first 100 days is a testament to the fact that Assam’s contribution will only keep increasing as we build a New India.Himanta Biswa Sarma is the chief minister of AssamThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-100-days-sowing-the-seeds-of-a-new-assam-101629375585705.html
19-08-2021||Today's||In a competitive marketplace, protecting India’s gig workers||In the past few weeks, anonymous Twitter accounts such as Swiggy DE and DeliveryBhoy have made allegations regarding issues faced by delivery partners of food delivery apps. These include low payouts, opaque payout calculations and alleged cheating, unexplained differences in surge rates, order clubbing and assignments to avoid incentive pay, and zone extensions to avoid return bonuses.Swiggy and Zomato, which offer delivery work to more than 360,000 gig workers, have responded to these allegations by insisting that earnings per order are much higher than alleged, and that full-time delivery personnel earn over ₹20,000 per month.India’s gig economy is among the few sectors offering flexible work to unemployed millions. In her 2021 Union Budget speech, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman mentioned the creation of a database of gig workers and extending social security to them. It is important, therefore, to examine these grievances and design policy mechanisms that protect worker rights.Also Read | From a pandemic to an endemic, India’s vaccine drive enables a way outMany of the grievances arise because of a trust deficit between the gig workers and the platforms. India has protected workers through heavy-handed industrial regulation and archaic labour laws, which suit the factory floor. They are irrelevant, insufficient, and ineffective in addressing disputes that originate on these platforms.With the apparent oversupply of gig workers, the platform’s incentive is to deliver orders at the lowest marginal cost (a large component of which is gig worker fees) while keeping the customer happy. This task is assigned to algorithms. An analysis of the grievances suggests that many are linked to the way gig work is assigned (denial of high-profit surge or incentive-linked orders), performed (clubbing orders, zone boundaries), and rewarded (complex, multifactor payment calculations).There are several factors in each of these algorithmic decisions. Work allocation can be based on weather, restaurant and customer locations, traffic, prevailing wages, and the available worker pool. The algorithms that make these decisions are flexible, learning algorithms that can account for the constantly changing input. Machine Learning (ML) and multi-factor optimisation techniques support millions of orders every day.Crucially, most of these techniques are black-box — their inner workings are unknowable, even to the engineers that design them. Such algorithms are known to include biases. Research has shown that ML algorithms pick up pre-existing biases from their training data.For example, a profit-maximising ML algorithm may deny orders to gig workers that are eligible for incentives, even without being programmed to do so. As a result, trust between the gig worker and the platform suffers.However, outdated, static mechanisms such as grievance redressal officers or onerous labour laws cannot keep pace with the gig economy. Instead, we can look to harness the power of technology towards improving trust between platforms and gig workers.Algorithm audits are one such technique, where an auditor has access to the algorithms and examine the results produced by them. Suitably qualified auditors could uncover implicit or explicit biases, or other shortcomings of such algorithms using computational and statistical techniques.Another technique is the use of “sock puppets” where researchers use computer programmes to impersonate user accounts. Auditors can use these accounts to identify instances where the platform algorithms produce undesirable results. Other auditing techniques can also be used.In a competitive marketplace, informed consumers can prioritise ordering from platforms that subject themselves to such audits. Workers may also choose to work for more transparent platforms. Regulators can examine work conditions as a function of work allocation, performance, and pay related to each gig, and mandate transparency related to each of these.If successful, this approach can be replicated in other industries. The divide between algorithm makers, platform creators, investors that support them, and gig workers is real. Policymaking that mandates transparency can improve trust and ensure the welfare of gig workers while not impeding the growth of the gig economy.Mihir Mahajan and Anupam Manur are researchers at the Takshashila InstitutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-a-competitive-marketplace-protecting-india-s-gig-workers-101629372885625.html
19-08-2021||Today's||The return of the Islamic Emirate||There is an old saying – Be careful what you wish for. China, Russia, Iran and Pakistan were the most vociferous in demanding the exit of the United States (US) from Afghanistan. Now that images of people hanging on to a C-17 Globemaster, as it taxis for take-off, evoking parallels with the fall of Saigon in April 1975, have been seen with smug satisfaction in Islamabad, Tehran, Beijing and Moscow, a grim reality is seeping in. China’s foreign minister Wang Yi has already expressed his unhappiness at the US’s “hasty” exit.The key question now is if there really is a Taliban 2.0 or just a more media-savvy repackaged Taliban 1.0 that will create more regional instability. But to unravel that, let us return to how Afghanistan got here.The demise of the Islamic Republic and return of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan became inevitable when in February, 2020, the US special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, signed an agreement with the Taliban deputy leader Mullah Baradar in Doha, committing to US withdrawal. While Khalilzad delivered the agreement for the Donald Trump administration, President Joe Biden’s announcement on April 14, 2021 that the US would be out before the 9/11 anniversary reaffirmed the unconditional withdrawal.Also Read | Don’t believe the Taliban’s rhetoric. Women’s rights are under threatThe US was hoping for a “decent interval” between its exit and the eventual collapse of the Kabul regime, but once the Taliban sensed victory, it moved in with an “indecent haste”. Despite a domestic backlash against the messy withdrawal, Biden has maintained that his decision was the right one.The reality is that a cumulative set of mistakes made the US’s continued presence a lightning rod for the insurgency. In 2001, the US went into Afghanistan on a counter-terrorism mission, deluded itself that the Taliban had been defeated when it had merely escaped across the border into Pakistan, got distracted with Iraq in 2003, and then got drawn into an increasingly vicious counter-insurgency mounted by the re-energised Taliban.Meanwhile, the narrative about “forever wars” gained traction. The reality is that, as Gen Douglas Lute said, the US did not fight a 20-year war; it fought a one-year war, 20 times over. In any case, the US had ended its combat operations in 2014 replacing it with a limited “train, advise and assist” mission. While 2,352 US soldiers were killed between 2001 and 2014, the number of deaths in the following six years was 96. The annual expenditure with its reduced presence was about $45 billion, a small fraction of its $700-billion defence budget.The real problem was that without removing the sanctuaries in Pakistan, the US was caught in a stalemate that made its continued presence unpopular. Its association with a local government that lacked legitimacy and was seen as corrupt and incompetent by the people, added to it.Pakistan’s strategy paid off when the Doha office opened in 2013, beginning the process of the Taliban’s legitimisation, something it had lacked in the 1990s. Changing power equations made Russia and China more wary and critical about the US presence in their backyard. Biden is right that delaying the departure would not have changed anything and no astrologer could have found a propitious moment.Like other countries, India too supported “an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned” peace and reconciliation process. But while other countries did not let this prevent their contacts with the Taliban in Doha and elsewhere, India followed it in letter and spirit. Indian officials did participate in meetings where the Taliban was present but refrained from exploring any direct engagement with it. With the US out and Ashraf Ghani gone, there was no option except to withdraw all diplomatic presence, closing the embassy for all practical purposes.While no one knows if Taliban have changed, it will find that Afghanistan has changed in the last 20 years. It is a young nation with a median age of 18-and-a-half years. More than two-thirds of the population is below 30, and this cohort has grown up in a conservative but open society; 60% of the population enjoys internet access. They, along with women and minorities, will resist a return to the Islamic Emirate of the 1990s.The Taliban today is also not a unified entity. Mullah Baradar is a co-founder of the Taliban and Mullah Omar was his brother-in-law. The Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) took him into custody in 2010 to punish him for being in direct contact with President Hamid Karzai. Eight years in ISI custody is unlikely to have left him with happy memories. The Doha negotiators constitute the public face but the fighting has been done by local commanders on the ground. The Quetta shura is headed by a cleric, Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada and two deputies, Mullah Yaqub, son of Mullah Omar who has been overseeing military operations in the south, and Sirajuddin Haqqani who heads the Haqqani network, operating in the east.There are other groups too – al-Qaeda, IS-Khorasan, Uighurs (ETIM), Uzbeks (IMU), Tajiks (Khatiba Imam al Bukhari) and Pakistani groups such as the TTP, LeT, JeM, Jamaat ul Ahraar, Lashkar-e-Islam and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. All of them have linkages with Taliban fighters on the ground but power-sharing negotiations may end up pitching them on opposite sides.Another chapter in Afghanistan’s political transition, which began with the coup in 1973, has ended and at present, India has little choice except to wait and watch because unlike the West, we remain part of the region.Rakesh Sood is a retired diplomat who has served as India’s ambassador to Afghanistan, and is currently Distinguished Fellow, Observer Research FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-return-of-the-islamic-emirate-101629360765029.html
19-08-2021||Editorials||A pathbreaking ruling on equality||The Supreme Court (SC)’s interim ruling allowing women to sit for the National Defence Academy (NDA) entrance exam for entry into the Army is a game-changer in eliminating gender discrimination. The court will hear the matter again on September 8 for final orders. The current landmark ruling is a logical step forward after the SC’s powerful intervention in 2020 ordering the Centre to grant permanent commission to women in the Navy and Army. Women are already being recruited through the Officers’ Training Academy and Short Service Commission. Therefore, shutting off entry through the NDA is inconsistent with the often stated claim that the armed forces have evolved on gender.The apex court has been consistently critical of the discriminatory attitude when it comes to giving women equal opportunities in the Army. On Wednesday, the SC bench acerbically observed: “Don’t make (the) judiciary intervene every time. Do it yourself rather than inviting orders from the court. You must accept the broad principle of gender neutrality and structure it to your peculiar set-up.” At present, there are only 0.56% women officers in the Army, 1.08% in the Air Force and 6.5% in the Navy — in the 1.4 million-strong armed forces.Also Read | In 100 days, sowing the seeds of a New AssamArguments to keep women out of the Army — low acceptance in leadership roles, physical constraints, vulnerability to sexual and other harassment, or lack of infrastructure — actually reflect institutional biases which need to be corrected. Women are victims of this mindset and must not be penalised for it. Since the induction of women into the Army in 1992 as officers, there has also been little evidence of women seeking special treatment.The very nature of warfare has changed. To be sure, physical fitness remains a prerequisite for both men and women, but technical expertise, decision-making skills and mental resilience are equally important, none of which are governed by gender constrains. If NDA needs to change the curriculum, create new infrastructure and provide for separate training standards to facilitate gender inclusion, then it must do so to ensure that the court’s directive is carried out in letter and spirit. At the root of all the SC’s rulings on women in the Army lies the principle of equality. This is not only important to meet a cherished constitutional value but will also make armed forces better and stronger. The court has opened yet another door to gender inclusion — the government and forces must embrace the change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-pathbreaking-ruling-on-equality-101629376845775.html
19-08-2021||Editorials||Walking the talk on climate commitments||The Union Cabinet, on Wednesday, approved the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the 1989 Montreal Protocol, which aimed at protecting the earth from ozone-destroying chemicals such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). The Protocol led to the replacement of CFCs with hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), which do not destroy the ozone layer but cause global warming. The 2016 Kigali Amendment aims to phase-down HFCs, a set of 19 gases used by the air-conditioning and refrigerant industry, by restricting their production and consumption. It is estimated that a complete phase-out of HFCs by 2050 would prevent about 0.5 degree Celsius rise in global temperatures by the end of this century. This is crucial to achieve the target of restraining the increase in global temperatures to a maximum of 2 degree Celsius from pre-industrial times. The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report says the average temperature has risen by about 1.1 degree Celsius, leading to back-to-back extreme climate events across the world.Also Read | Can’t wait for years to take action: COP 26 president Alok SharmaAs experts have pointed out, ratifying the amendment signifies that India will compete for low-global warming potential refrigerants, which can spur innovation and attract international investments. It will help the country achieve its climate goals and cooling commitments. India already has a Cooling Action Plan, which sets domestic targets for cooling efficiency and refrigerants. The ratification will also prevent imports that utilise highly potent HFCs.On Wednesday, environment minister Bhupender Yadav also met COP-26 president-designate Alok Sharma, and reiterated that India is committed to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement. On Thursday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that India is on track to meet its Paris goals. The ratification of the Kigali Amendment is yet another strong signal that India is ready to walk the talk on its climate commitments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/walking-the-talk-on-climate-commitments-101629376065554.html
