22-08-2021||Mumbai||Narayan Rane trying to create confusion in MVA: Eknath Shinde||A day after Union minister Narayan Rane said that Maharashtra minister “Eknath Shinde is fed up with the Shiv Sena” and that he is “welcome in BJP” , the latter hit back on Sunday saying that the remarks were aimed at “creating confusion within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government”.During the ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ on Saturday, Rane said that Shinde was fed up with Sena as he has no freedom of taking decisions.“Shinde is fed up with the Sena as he has to ask the Matroshree (residence of Thackeray) before signing any file. He is in trouble in Sena. If he approaches us, we will induct him in our party,” he said.Reacting to Rane on Sunday, senior Shiv Sena leader and urban development department minister Shinde said he has full freedom in his department and their was no interference from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray or any Sena leader.“I am happy in my party. Whatever Rane has said is an attempt to create confusion within MVA government. The BJP leaders have been doing it since beginning of the formation of the MVA government. I have full freedom in the government. As the chief minister Uddhavji Thackeray has final word in any department as it has been in any government,” he said.The MVA government in the state that was formed after the 2019 assembly polls, is led by the Shiv Sena, in which the Nationlist Congress Party and the Congress are its partner.“...my department has been working independently. Rane, who has been CM of Maharashtra, would know the hierarchy in decision making and as a union minister, he too would be answerable to the prime minister while taking any policy decision,” Shinde added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narayan-rane-trying-to-create-confusion-in-mva-eknath-shinde-101629656382998.html
22-08-2021||Other||35 hurt in bus-truck collision in Himachal’s Solan||At least 35 people were injured in a collision between a truck and a bus in Solan on Sunday, a state disaster management official said.The incident took place near Jabli-Dharampur at around 11.30am. The truck carrying three persons hit the rear end of the bus carrying 32 passengers, he said.The Chandigarh-bound bus and the truck were on their way to Kalka. Both the vehicles overturned after the collision.The injured have been admitted to the Dharampur civil hospital for treatment.Four passengers, including a minor, were critically injured and have been referred to a hospital in Solan, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35-hurt-in-bus-truck-collision-in-himachal-s-solan-101629654922027.html
22-08-2021||Other||Anurag slams Opposition for ‘complete washout’ of Parliament’s monsoon session||Union minister of information and broadcast Anurag Singh Thakur on Sunday slammed Congress and other Opposition parties for complete washout of the monsoon session of the Parliament.The Union minister, addressing a press conference in Dharamshala on third day of his Jan Ashirwad Yatra, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted to introduce his newly-appointed and promoted cabinet ministers in the Parliament.Besides this, discussion was to be held on important issues related to the common masses, Thakur said.“However, the Opposition parties don’t want the Parliament to function smoothly,” he said, adding that the Opposition did not let the session happen because Modi’s cabinet is the youngest one till date in which all sections, including women, have been given place.Thakur called Dharamshala his second home and said whatever he has achieved, Kangra district and Dharamshala have a big contribution in it.Dharamshala is a sports city and the Union government will further try to expand the facilities for the athletes, he added. He said along with sports, his priority will be to promote art and culture of Himachal in the country and the world.Thakur said the Modi government has given health projects worth ₹4,000 crore to Himachal, including AIMMS, six medical colleges and a PGI satellite centre.He said to prevent the third wave of Covid-19, the paediatric facilities are also being strengthened by spending ₹23,123 crore.On the issue of a water sports centre proposed at Pong Dam Lake, Thakur said sports is a state subject. He said programmes like Khelo India, schools games, college games and university games have played a big role in improving performance of sportspersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anurag-slams-opposition-for-complete-washout-of-parliament-s-monsoon-session-101629654679989.html
22-08-2021||Other||BJP ignored apple-growing belts, alleges Himachal Cong leader||“The irresponsible and indifferent attitude of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has put the World Bank-funded ₹1,134-crore horticulture development plan brought by the then Congress government in 2016, in jeopardy,” said former chief parliamentary secretary and Congress leader Rohit Thakur here on Sunday.He said it was due to the BJP government’s policies that the World Bank cut the cost of the project to ₹1,066 crore.Thakur alleged that horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur in the past fuelled politics of regionalism by terming the project ‘a scheme for the apple belt’.“Now, when the farmers are reaping its benefits, BJP is claiming credit,” he added.Under the horticulture development project, Parala fruit processing plant and new CA store were donated by the Congress. Thakur said an amount of ₹91.20 crore is being spent on the fruit processing plant in Parala under the horticulture development project.Similarly, six CA stores of the HPMC, apple grading and packaging centres are being upgraded under the project by spending ₹16.48 crore.He alleged that the BJP government cancelled three CA stores approved for Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment under the project over “petty politics”.Thakur said BJP is celebrating the 50th anniversary of formation of the state and despite having two Centre’s big leaders from Himachal, the Modi government is hell-bent on weakening the ₹5,000 crore apple economy of the state.He said during 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP had talked about giving special product category status to apples and making a three-fold increase on import duty on them.Contrary to this, the Centre reduced the import duty on apple by 15% which was a severe blow for the apple growers.He expressed concerns over the steep fall in prices of apples in past several days. “Farmers are not even able to recover the input cost on apple due to fall in prices,” he said.Thakur said the BJP government has failed to control the prices of apple packing material.Carton factories have increased the prices of apple-packing material by up to 25% this time as compared to last year.He also sought relief for apple growers whose crop was hit by hailstorm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-ignored-apple-growing-belts-alleges-himachal-cong-leader-101629654559460.html
22-08-2021||Other||Pune railway division installs oxygen plant at railway hospital||PUNE The Pune railway division has installed an oxygen plant at its railway hospital that has the capacity for 50 beds. Also, the division has installed solar panels on the roof of the divisional railway manager’s office building.“This new oxygen plant will benefit the railway hospital and it is based on a unique technique to draw oxygen from air. It can make 180 litres of oxygen in one minute and in a critical situation it will help to provide oxygen to critical patients,” said Pune divisional railway manager Renu Sharma.The 120 kWp, 100 kW solar power plant has been set up by the Railway Energy Management Company with the help of the Divisional Electricity Departmen, under which 310 solar modules of 390 Wp and two inverters of 50 kW have been installed. With its help, an average of 400 units per day and an average of 146,000 units of electrical energy will be produced annually. This electrical energy will be used to power to the Divisional Railway Manager’s office.“This solar-power plant will result in a reduction in carbon-di-oxide emissions by 102.2 tonnes per year, which is equivalent to planting 240 trees in terms of carbon absorption. Undoubtedly, this is an important contribution on behalf of Central Railway Pune to environmental protection,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-railway-division-installs-oxygen-plant-at-railway-hospital-101629652338107.html
22-08-2021||Other||Moderate income families struggle as LPG cylinder prices hiked again||PUNE: With the price of 14.2kg domestic LPG cylinders hiked again by Rs25 to reach Rs862.50 per cylinder as on August 19, moderate income families in the city are struggling to manage their monthly budget. As per records, the price per LPG cylinder in the city has increased by almost Rs265.50 since September last year and families who depend on the commodity are finding it difficult to make ends’ meet.Sarika Bharati, a resident of the Dhankawadi area and a homemaker who takes care of a family of four, said, “We have a single connection of LPG and need to refill our cylinder after every 40 days almost as apart from cooking, we use LPG for other purposes too such as heating the water. With the persistent price hike, my budget has collapsed completely. My husband is a car driver. We have two sons and have to manage our livelihoods and their education. With the rise in prices of essential items such as edible oil, petrol, diesel and LPG, the overall expenditure has increased while income has reduced due to covid and lockdowns.”Surekha Landge, who works as a domestic help, pointed out that families like hers have no other option but LPG. “Should we go back to using the kerosene stove? Also, everyone cannot afford electrical appliances for cooking as they also raise electricity bills. So, LPG has been an affordable option for many families. But with prices soaring coupled with limited income, things have become difficult to manage.”Some citizens expressed the view that just like record hikes in the prices of petrol and diesel, LPG prices also seemed uncontrollable and that at this rate, the price of a LPG cylinder would soon cross the Rs1,000 mark in the near future. Ramesh Karanjakar, a resident of Kothrud, said, “Nobody had thought that one day petrol would cross Rs100 and diesel would near the same mark. We used to joke about it but now it has become a reality. Given the trend, LPG cylinders too will cross the Rs1,000 mark and we still will not be able to do anything about it. There seems to be no end to the miseries of the common man and no one seems to care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moderate-income-families-struggle-as-lpg-cylinder-prices-hiked-again-101629652158124.html
22-08-2021||Other||Warasagaon and Temghar dams filled to capacity||PUNE Continuous rainfall in the catchment areas has seen Warasagaon and Temghar dams reach 100% of storage capacity, while Khadakwasla dam is at 59.59% of capacity.“Khadakwasala dam is very small as compared to other four dams and since water is released continuously from the dam for Pune Municipal Corporation supply, the water level is at 59.59%,” said HV Gunale, chief engineer, water resources, Pune division.Heavy rains in the month of July and moderate rains in August have kept water level in all dams high.“If you look at the Khadakwasla complex (Warasgaon, Temghar, Panshet and Khadakwasla) there is a total of 29 TMC of water. When needed we will release water,” added Gunale.Even though Warasgaon and Panshet are filled a decision is on releasing water from here is to be taken.“Since light rainfall is occurring, we don’t find the need to release water right now. If the pattern of rain changes, then we may release water from the dams,” said an officer from the water resources department.The India Meteorological Department, Pune, has forecast light rain till August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/warasagaon-and-temghar-dams-filled-to-capacity-101629651738212.html
22-08-2021||Other||Katraj, Dhankawadi residents oppose setting up of water meters||PUNE Ahead of the upcoming civic polls, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is facing resistance from local representatives and residents over the installation of water meters under the 24x7 water project, especially in Katraj and Dhankawadi.To resolve the irregular, uneven and insufficient water supply problem in the city, the civic body initiated the project, approved in February 2018 at a cost of Rs2,550 crore. Of this, PMC has raised ₹200 crore through bonds. It has also levied water charges, being charged for the past one year. The project work began last December. The project aims to provide a safe and equitable water supply to all areas for the next 30 years. With this, water will be supplied 24x7, water losses would be reduced, and technological, economic and environmental sustainability of the water supply service will be ensured.The PMC awarded the contract of the project to Larsen & Toubro Limited (L&T) and Jain Irrigation. These agencies are installing commercial meters and laying down pipelines across the city. Right now, only L&T is working on the project. PMC has stopped Jain Irrigation from working. It was supposed to cover the Hadapsar area.Nand Kumar Jagtap, superintendent engineer of water supply department said, “Earlier, we faced a problem of installation of water meters in the east part of the city, like Lohegaon, Kalas-Dhanori areas, as people were receiving insufficient water supply. However, after the Bhama-Askhed water project. People are happy to install water meters. The work has speeded up in the heart of the city and other areas, excluding Hadapsar.”He further said, “Now we are facing a problem in Katraj and Dhankawadi to install water meters. However, we are trying to convince them the importance of water meter installation for the accountability of water use.”“Due to Covid-19, we had stopped awareness and promotions activities of 24x7 water project. Now, we will restart it,” he added.One of the PMC officials on 24x7 water project team said, “Local representative are not cooperating with us. They are pushing local residents to resist to water meters, especially in areas where illegal water connection are provided by local corporators. Most of the people in Dhankawadi and Katraj have taken illegal connections. During installation of the water meters, we come to know about illegal connections.” As civic polls are scheduled in the next few months, local representatives don’t want to lose votes due to installation of water meters. “So they are supporting the resistance,” he added.At present, L&T has completed work in Viman nagar, Kharadi, Aundh and Baner. Of 141 metering zones, PMC has set targets to complete 50 zones by December 2021. PMC has set a deadline to complete the project by March 2023, as mentioned in contract.Under this project, contractors will have to lay down 1,600 metres of water pipelines and install the 350,000 water meters in the city. At present, the contractor installed 52,000 meters so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/katraj-dhankawadi-residents-oppose-setting-up-of-water-meters-101629651498108.html
22-08-2021||Mumbai||Only 10% engineering institutes opt for new-age courses like AI, data science||Undergraduate engineering courses have for long faced low demand. However, the recently introduced courses in undergraduate education might be the way out.The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) reveals that since 2019-20, nearly 127 diploma institutes and 663 undergraduate colleges across the country have opted for courses including artificial intelligence (AI), data science and analytics, blockchain, machine learning, robotics among others. While this covers less than 10% of the total number of engineering institutes in India, officials feel it’s a positive move in the right direction.This includes 222 institutes for AI and machine learning, 186 institutes for AI and data science, 52, 45 and 29 institutes for computer science and design course, and data science and AI courses respectively.“In 2020-21, electronics and communication sector managed to swoop the best of the minds and many also opted for BTech in AI and data science fields. Since jobs in the electronics as well as AI sectors are gaining more popularity, students too are very clear about their ambition and aiming for seats in specific departments,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.In early 2019, to attract more students to the engineering sector, the AICTE had requested all affiliated engineering colleges to introduce newer courses including data science and analytics, blockchain, machine learning, robotics among others. Since 2020, AICTE also implemented a two-year blanket ban on new engineering institutes across the country and had requested colleges to apply for new-age courses.In some cases, engineering institutes have also chosen not to apply for the new courses due to a lack of support from the state government for the same. “We didn’t apply for any new courses because to date, the state government has not approved faculty for the electronics and communication course that we had started in 2009. This particular course has attracted the brightest of minds over the years and is in popular demand amongst recruiters as well, which is why the institute is funding the course without any government support,” said Dhiren Patel, director, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI), Matunga.‘Trend for new-age course short-lived’While demand for the new-age courses is growing, more and more institutes are showing interest in wanting to introduce them at their institute. However, the experts have highlighted how this move could be short-lived, especially for courses like AI and data science and analytics due to the evolving technology in these fields.“These sectors evolve, and new trends emerge in them. At present, these courses might be in the position to offer many jobs to graduating students, there’s no guarantee the trend will stay for very long,” said SS Mantha, former chairperson of AICTE.He added that in the last few years, core engineering courses like civil as well as mechanical engineering courses have witnessed a drop in applications due to the lack of job opportunities for students after graduation. However, an undergraduate degree in core engineering, said Mantha, is very important for the students. “The shelf value of new-age courses could be limited whereas basic knowledge in core engineering sectors will take students a long way,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-10-engineering-institutes-opt-for-new-age-courses-like-ai-data-science-101629651438795.html
22-08-2021||Other||2 arrested for attacking restaurant staff for not taking biryani order immdtly||Two men have been arrested for causing severe injuries to staff at a local restaurant staff who asked them to wait for a biryani order the duo placed at the restaurant on Saturday evening.The arrested men were identified as Vaishnav Jhambre (21) and Mahesh Ubale (19), according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Mayur Mate (33) a resident of Dhayari, who owns a restaurant called Garva Biryani in Ganeshnagar, Dhayari, Pune.“One of the accused came to the restaurant in the afternoon to place an order for biryani. The restaurant staff had all sat down for lunch so the one who was closest to the counter attended to him and asked him to wait. The accused insisted that he be served immediately. The staff told him that nobody besides Mate touches the money or accepts payment, therefore, he must wait for some time. That enraged the accused. He left and came back with more people and attacked them,” said sub-inspector Rahul Khedkar of Sinhagad road police station.The accused arrived with men who were wielding long blades and started attacking the staff. As one of them tried to attack the owner, a staff member blocked the attack and suffered an injury to his left arm. The owner suffered fractures on his fingers while some other were also injured as the accused used metal chairs in the restaurant to attack them, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504, 56, rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)awith135 of Maharashtra Police Act, Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-arrested-for-attacking-restaurant-staff-for-not-taking-biryani-order-immdtly-101629651138100.html
22-08-2021||Other||2 held for attacking cops shutting down bar open beyond time limit||PUNE Two men have been arrested for attacking policemen who had gone to shut down a bar operating beyond the permissible time limit in Mulshi on Saturday.The men were among many others who were present in the bar, along with the manager, around 2am on Saturday.The two arrested were identified as Amol Pandharinath Dhobale (31), a resident of Pimple Gurav and Vinod Ashok Pol (32), a resident of Pargaon Bhimashankar in Karad, according to police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by assistant police inspector Haribhau Tukaram Ranpise of Hinjewadi police station. Sub-inspector G Yelmar and Hawaldar Kadam of Hinjewadi police station were inside the restaurant, according to the complaint.“They were remanded to judicial custody and denied bail. They said they were drunk on one beer but it is not possible to be that drunk, to not understand what was happening, on one beer. They are both customers,” said PSI Yelmar.The policemen started recording video of the men drinking at that hour even though the state government and district collector have ordered for restaurants and bars to shut down at 10pm.While the police were recording their videos, one of them started attacking Hawaldar Kadam while others started pushing them out of the bar, according to the complaint.A case under Sections 353, 504, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 85(1) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-for-attacking-cops-shutting-down-bar-open-beyond-time-limit-101629651018023.html
22-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch takes over probe in extortion case against Param Bir Singh||The fifth case of extortion, which was registered by Goregaon police station against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, dismissed cop Sachin Vaze and three others, based on an allegation made by hotelier and civic contractor Bimal Agrawal, was transferred to the Mumbai crime branch unit 11 for further investigation. The police also arrested one accused, Sumit Singh alias Chintu, out of the five. He was produced in court and remanded in police custody till Monday.A senior officer of the crime branch confirmed the development and said, they have been recording statements of Sumit Singh to know the exact sequence of the incident, while other accused in the case will be arrested soon. Agrawal alleged in his complaint that Singh, Vaze and arrested accused Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Vinay Singh alias Bablu and Riyaz Bhati had threatened him and extorted monthly payments from January 2020 till March 2021 for “letting him run his hotels in Goregaon and Andheri without any police hassles.” The complaint claimed that he had paid ₹9 lakh in cash and had given two Samsung Fold-2 mobile phones worth ₹212,000 to meet their extortion demands. Agrawal further claimed that he had learnt that the accused had also extorted money from other hotel owners and bookies, in return for letting them run their betting business in Mumbai without any police intervention.Vaze, who is already lodged in Taloja jail, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane resident Mansukh Hiren.This is the fifth criminal case filed against Param Bir Singh following one in Marine Drive and four at a Thane police station. Coincidentally, Agrawal is co-accused with the former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in an extortion case registered in Thane Nagar police station in July 2021. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested Agrawal in connection with corruption and hawala racket related to the IPL betting scandal in February 2017, while Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested him in December 2017 for a money-laundering probe in a cricket betting case.The Goregaon police registered a case under section 384 (extortion), 385 (extortion and threat of physical harm) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-takes-over-probe-in-extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-101629650958633.html
22-08-2021||Other||Maha-Metro to complete Agriculture college to Civil court route by March 2022||PUNE After a successful of trial on the elevated Vanaz-Ramwadi route, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) is now concentrating on the stretch from Agriculture college to Civil court (Shivajinagar), including the underground metro stations. Maha-Metro has set March 2022 as the deadline by which to complete this section.Atul Gadgil, director of Maha-Metro, said, “We have sped up work of both underground stations. We will complete work by March 2022. At present, we have completed 35-40 per cent of both stations. The remaining three underground stations - Kasba, Mandai and Swargate will be complete by December 2022. ““Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we are behind the six-month deadline. But, we are trying to complete work as early as possible. Mandai station work is delayed due to land-related issues,” he added.Maha-Metro is executing the Pune Metro Rail Project, which has two corridors — one from Vanaz to Ramwadi which is an elevated line; and the other from PCMC to Swargate, which is elevated from PCMC to Agriculture college, and thereafter underground, up to Swargate. The underground section is six km with stations proposed at Shivajinagar bus stand, Civil Court, Phadke houd, Mandai and Swargate.Meanwhile, Maharashtra State Regional Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to withdraw from the multimodal hub project due to a lack of viability in the funding. Gadgil said,”MahaMetro has taken a decision to pay to MSRTC for a piece of land which Maha-Metro acquired to construct the underground station. However, MSRTC has not started any formalities. Earlier, we were supposed to construct two layers of an underground basement.”Maha-Metro had proposed the construction of a multi-storied building with a bus depot and terminus at ground level where the MSRTC Shivajinagar bus terminus is located. It was decided that Maha-Metro will develop the MSRTC bus terminus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahametro-to-complete-agriculture-college-to-civil-court-route-by-march-2022-101629650718096.html
22-08-2021||Other||Baner residents complain of slow pace of road work now causing accidents||PUNE Residents of Baner have demanded completion of road work, citing that as many as 16 commuters who have been grievously injured in various accidents in the past four weeks. The work of cement concretisation of the road has been underway for the past six months as part of the smart city project.Most of the accidents have taken place after two-wheelers have skidded on loose gravel and sand left on the road due to the ongoing work. The local unit of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) also held a demonstration against the slow-paced work and demanded action, including relief and compensation to the accident victims.Local resident Nitin Kalamkar said, “We are seeing road work in progress for months. A number of safety norms have been violated and no action is being taken against the PMC for dereliction of duty. More than 19 persons have been injured and had sustained fractures and other ailments due to the ongoing work.”Activist Vaishali Patkar said, “There is no proper system in place to maintain safety and security of the commuters by the PMC road department. The signage and other markings for safety are completely missing. We have been pressing very hard for road safety during reconstruction and other civic work operations by the PMC, but the administration has no concern for the lives of residents. We demand an early end to the road work here in Baner.” Commuter Madhusudan Date said, “There are several spots on the road where the work is overflowing onto the main road with huge rocks, mud and construction material obstructing the path of commuters and motorists. I travel on this road on a daily basis for my work. Not all have been as lucky as me. I have seen two-wheeler riders slipping over the construction material.” Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation said, “The road department will mandatorily prepare a weekly report highlighting the status of road repairs. The decision has been taken after complaints about road digging and potholes were received by our department. We have instructed staff to conduct checks and compile a ground report. The status of pothole repairs and the quality of material used for repairs will be mentioned in it. All the issues of the citizens will be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/baner-residents-complain-of-slow-pace-of-road-work-now-causing-accidents-101629650479521.html
22-08-2021||Other||1 booked for attacking MSEDCL employees cutting illegal power line||PUNE An unidentified man from Kesnand village on the periphery of Pune city was booked for attacking employees of MSEDCL and stealing a phone, on Saturday. The two employees of Maharashtra state electricity distributor company limited (MSEDCL) had gone to cut an illegal electricity connection they had encountered in the area. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ganesh Shrikhande (33), an employee of MSEDCL, who was visiting the locality with his colleague Anjan Shingane, according to the complaint.The two had gone to the Mangal Murti Vastu Private Limited-developed Jogeshwari Suncity in Kesnand village of Haveli to cut the illegal power supply in the area, according to their complaint.The two reached there around 11:30am and started cutting the extension to the legal connection in the society. However, as they reached, the suspect started attacking them and verbally abusing them. According to the complaint, the man also threatened to kill them.“One of them snatched the mobile phone of the other official and ran away,” said an official of Lonikand police station.As Shingane started operating his mobile phone, the suspect snatched it and ran. The cost of the stolen mobile phone is ₹10,000, according to the police.A case under Sections 353, 392, 352, 504, and 506 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lonikand police station. Assistant police inspector Suhas Patil of Lonikand police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-booked-for-attacking-msedcl-employees-cutting-illegal-power-line-101629650418009.html
22-08-2021||Other||Pune race course reopens for fitness enthusiasts||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has reopened the Pune race course for joggers. The race course had been shut since the onset of the second Covid wave in 2020. PCB CEO Amit Kumar issued a letter of permission for the reopening on August 18 and thereafter, race course management opened the jogging track for the general public as per the guidelines of the government and the health department.Akshay Dhiwar, a police aspirant said, “I had started practicing at race course for getting into the police force, but the second wave led to the closure of the race course. Now with the race course open, I have restarted training.”Former PCB vice-president Vinod Mathurawala said, “The board administration studied all aspects of Covid-19 and had closed it as per government order. Currently, the situation is normal and the race course has been opened for citizens for exercise and other physical activities.” Pune race course is a 190-year old iconic landmark of the Pune Cantonment. The race course track is spread over a staggering 1,18.05 acres and is popular with walkers and joggers. It is open from 5 am till 8.30 am and from 4.30 pm to 7.30pm.Kumar said, “The permission has been granted as per order of the government and guidelines of the health department, where safety and security of citizens if of top concern for the board administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-race-course-reopens-for-fitness-enthusiasts-101629649757929.html
22-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports zero deaths due to Covid-19 for third consecutive day||Delhi on Sunday reported zero fatalities due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic for three days in a row, following which the death toll in the national capital stood at 25,079. The city reported no deaths due to the virus on Saturday and Friday as well, according to the bulletin shared by the Delhi government.On Sunday, Delhi reported 24 fresh Covid-19 cases and a total of 56 recoveries, which took the respective cumulative tally to 14,37,317 and 14,11,840, the bulletin data showed. The daily caseload is, however, a marginal rise from Saturday’s figures when 19 people were found to have been infected with the virus. However, the national capital reported eight more recoveries on Sunday as opposed to 48 on the preceding day.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 22nd August 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/2C6Hdt6vASThe single-day infections declined significantly on Saturday and relatively maintained the same on Sunday after recording 57 coronavirus cases on Friday, the government bulletin data informed.The cumulative positivity rate has also been dipping consistently for the last three days with 5.75 per cent on Friday, 5.74 per cent on Saturday, and 5.73 per cent on Sunday. The city’s active case count stands at 398.In the matter of Covid-19 vaccination, the national capital administered jabs to 92,421 beneficiaries in the previous 24 hours, according to the bulletin data. Of this, as many as 65,012 people were inoculated with the first dose while the remaining 27,409 were given the second dose of the coronavirus vaccine. A total of 12,314,706 people has been administered either the first dose or both the doses of Covid-19 vaccines in Delhi, the bulletin data noted.Owing to Delhi reporting a smaller number of Covid-19 cases daily, the government on Saturday lifted the 8pm restriction from all shops, establishments and businesses starting Monday. The decision came after a review meeting by chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal.Till now, because of Covid-19, shops and enterprises in Delhi’s markets were allowed to [stay] open till 8pm. “In the light of a decline in cases, the timing restriction will be removed from Monday. Markets can now follow their usual working hours,” the chief minister tweeted in Hindi.Delhi markets were permitted to function all days a week from June 14 onwards but with restricted working hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-zero-deaths-due-to-covid-19-for-third-consecutive-day-101629648659808.html
22-08-2021||Mumbai||Earthquake of magnitude 3.4 hits Maharashtra's Hingoli||An earthquake of magnitude 3.4 on the Richter scale hit Hingoli in Maharashtra on Sunday.According to National Center for Seismology (NCS), the tremors were felt at 20:06 hours on Sunday in Hingoli."Earthquake of Magnitude:3.4, Occurred on 22-08-2021, 20:06:32 IST, Lat: 19.43 and Long: 77.18, Depth: 10 Km, Location: Hingoli, Maharashtra, India," tweeted the NCS.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-3-4-hits-maharashtra-s-hingoli-101629647755314.html
22-08-2021||Other||Two dead as bike-borne cop rams into vehicle||Two brothers were killed and three others injured allegedly after a motorcycle-borne policeman hit them from behind at a place under Sikarpur police station in the district on Saturday evening, police said on Sunday. No case was lodged in this connection so far. The policeman,sub-inspector Mahesh Prasad Singh,attached with Gaunaha police station in West Champaran, was also injured and was currently undergoing treatment.According to a video footage, the incident occurred when Singh’s speeding motorcycle hit another motorcycle carrying three men from behind on Narkatiaganj - Lauriya road at Khiriya village. The injured were taken to the hospital where they died during treatment, said KK Gupta, station house officer (SHO), Sikarpur police station.The others injured are undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Bettiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-dead-as-bike-borne-cop-rams-into-vehicle-101629647238386.html
22-08-2021||Other||E Champaran: Case against 3 shops for selling urea at excess price||Amid ongoing shortage of urea, the East Champaran district administration have registered three cases against fertilizer shops for allegedly selling urea above the maximum retail price (MRP), officials said on Sunday. Confirming this, Chandradeo Prasad, district agriculture officer (DAO), East Champaran said, “While the cases against three shop owners belonging to Ghodasahan, Chiraiya and Dhanka were registered on Saturday evening, one more shopkeeper has been found indulged in black-marketing of urea at Chiraiya and that a case would be registered against the owner soon,” said the district agriculture officer (DAO). The development came after a team from Patna raided several fertilizer shops following the complaint of the black-marketing of urea after the receiving of the urea below requirements.Quoting the officials, Birendra Gupta, Sikta MLA on Sunday said Bihar has received around 1 lakh MT below the requirement by the farmers and hence a crisis-like situation has arisen across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/e-champaran-case-against-3-shops-for-selling-urea-at-excess-price-101629647118562.html
22-08-2021||Patna||1857 mutiny: War heroes of Tirhut to get place at LKA museum||The unsung 1857 war heroes from the state’s Tirhut Division would be restored to a place of honour and glory by the ministry of culture’s National Lalit Kala Akademi (LKA), officials said. A museum cum art gallery has been planned by the LKA, Delhi at the Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, where the portraits of such slain persons, who took part in the wars from 1857 to 1947, would be put on display along with their biography. At present, only names of the freedom fighters deported by the then British rulers are on display at the Cellular Jail. Among these political leaders and freedom fighters who were exiled to the Cellular Jail between 1857 to 1947, there were 27 freedom fighters from Tirhut, according to officials concerned. Their names were recently included in the Dictionary of Martyrs: India’s Freedom Struggle (1857-1947), published by the Indian Council for Historical Research and the ministry of culture. “People have been aware of the contributions of some prominent people, while many others’ sacrifices have remained obscured till date. We want to give them justice and have planned a museum cum art gallery at Cellular Jail. It’s been carrying only the names of the freedom fighters who spent years and died at the jail,” Dr Uttam Pacharne, protem chairman of the Lalit Kala Akademi, Delhi, said. Besides this, the LKA has also come up with a plan to help visual artists who have been affected by Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. “We have planned virtual art camps of 100 artists every month. The LKA will pay them some amount while participants will submit one or two of their works to the LKA,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/1857-mutiny-war-heroes-of-tirhut-to-get-place-at-lka-museum-101629647060269.html
22-08-2021||Patna||Dentists ignore proper work-up, rue govt docs; appeal for sensitisation||A government dental doctor has flagged the Indian Dental Association (IDA), saying most dental surgeons, unlike general physicians and surgeons, do not prescribe viral markers and other important blood investigations before doing a procedure, risking the patients and themselves. In an e-mail to the national IDA president and secretary on Sunday, Dr Jyotirmay Singh, associate professor, department of orthodontics and dentofacial orthopaedics, Patna Dental College and Hospital, said an average of two out of 10 dental surgeons were advising blood investigations before a simple tooth extraction or any other dental procedure. “HIV (to check for AIDS), HBsAg (hepatitis B), HCV (hepatitis C), bleeding and clotting time (time taken for blood to clot during surgery), prothrombin time or PT (to detect a bleeding or excessive clotting disorder) are essential investigations a dental surgeon must prescribe before any procedure. Not doing tests for HIV/AIDS and hepatitis may lead to spread of infection arising out of a cut in the gums and put at risk the doctor and other patients through contaminated equipment,” said Dr Singh. Similarly, blood sugar (affects the healing of wounds), thyroid profile and complete blood count (to check haemoglobin, platelets, white blood corpuscle levels, etc. for other chronic diseases or long-term oral infection), are equally important, Dr Singh added. “A simple tooth extraction procedure may require blood transfusion or even be fatal if the blood sugar, blood pressure, PT, bleeding and clotting time parameters are deranged. However, most dental surgeons, at best, prescribe teeth X-ray before doing a procedure like a root canal treatment along with cap and bridge, scaling (teeth cleaning) and deep curettage (cleaning of gums), etc.” added Dr Singh. He urged the IDA to disseminate information about the importance of these tests among its members. By not prescribing such blood investigations, most dental surgeons were risking themselves and their patients of serious complications, said Dr Shivendra Choudhary, professor and head, dentistry department at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH). “At least 60% dentists in the state lack awareness and do not go for proper work-up by prescribing blood tests before a procedure. We do it at PMCH,” he said. “Some doctors, in private setup, do not want to miss patients by prescribing a battery of tests, which pinches a patient’s pocket because the investigations are expensive. I have personal experience of patients not returning to me for a procedure after consulting me when I have prescribed them essential blood tests. From doctors’ ethics, personal and patient safety, dentists need to follow a protocol and prescribe blood investigations before doing any oral intervention. Patients will come to terms with it when all doctors follow the protocol,” said Dr Choudhary. Dr Nimmi Singh, associate professor, oral medicine and radiology department of dentistry at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), also regretted the lack of awareness among dentists. “Many patients referred to our centre from rural areas are not prescribed viral marker or blood tests. However, at IGIMS, we insist on these tests, along with rapid antigen or real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for Covid-19, as dental surgeons are most prone to airborne and blood-transmitted diseases,” she said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/dentists-ignore-proper-work-up-rue-govt-docs-appeal-for-sensitisation-101629646938442.html
22-08-2021||Patna||Patna: 2 killed in 48 hours||Two persons were killed in separate incidents at Bihta area under the same police station in Patna district within past 48 hours, police said on Sunday. No arrests have been made in any of the cases so far.An electrician,identified as Varun Thakur alias Ramnath (32), was found murdered near Bihta airforce station on Sunday, two days after his wife lodged a missing case with the police.The incident came to light on Sunday noon when locals found the body lying in a forest near Bihta airforce. In the second incident, a farmer Munna Rai (42) was shot dead allegedly over a dispute arising out of illegal sand mining at Amnabad Kater Asthan late on Saturday night.Police said that the incident took place when some members of land mafia were taking away sand from Munna’s field. “On getting information, Munna reached his field. When he protested, the land mafia shot him dead,” SHO Rituraj said.Police sent the body for autopsy and were investigating the case. However, no FIR was lodged by the deceased’s family. “The cause of murder is not clear,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-2-killed-in-48-hours-101629646818284.html
22-08-2021||Other||24x7 power supply to all soon: R K Singh||Union Minister for Power, New and Renewable Energy R K Singh said on Sunday that the motto of his ministry is to provide 24 hours electricity supply to all rural and urban areas across the country. “At present, there is the availability of 22 hours power supply in rural areas of the country and 23.5 hours in urban areas. But it is going to increase to 24 hours in days to come,” said Singh during his Jan Ashirvad Yatra at Buxar. “Against the demand of 2 lakh megawatt power, the country is generating up to 3.84 lakh megawatt power,” he said.The BJP MP from Ara, who is leading the party’s Jan Ashirvad Yatra, said that his ministry was also working to decrease carbon oxide levels by producing renewable energy, also known as green energy. “The ministry is working on it and has become successful in producing renewable energy up to one lakh megawatt till now,” said Singh. Earlier at Rampur in Buxar, the power minister said that the government led by PM Modi is known for taking strong decisions in the nation’s interest, like the surgical strike, abolition of Article 370 and deciding on triple talaq.The Jan Ashirvad Yatra led by union minister R K Singh started on August 19 from Gaya, and after passing through Aurangabad, Rohtas and Kaimur, it reached Buxar district and later to Bhojpur on Sunday. Meanwhile, the Union power minister also paid tribute to former CM of UP Kalyan Singh here on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24x7-power-supply-to-all-soon-r-k-singh-101629646698849.html
22-08-2021||Patna||Caste census: All eyes on meeting with PM||All eyes are on the proposed meeting on Monday between all party delegations from Bihar with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of caste census. The all-party delegation led by chief minister Nitish Kumar has been emphasising the need of doing caste census once. “It is a crucial issue and we have been seeking this for a long time. It if works out, nothing could be better than that. Moreover, it would be not just for Bihar, people in the whole country will benefit from this. It should be done at least once. We will put forward our views from this angle. We will keep our views before the PM on Monday,” said chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday after tying rakhis to trees in Patna on the occasion of Rakshabandhan to spread awareness on environmental conservation.“Some people have reached Delhi already and some will go with me. Tomorrow we will meet at 11,” he said. Asked if the matter will be resolved tomorrow, he said, “We will see”.CM Kumar left for New Delhi on Sunday evening for the meeting. Earlier on Saturday, Kumar had said, “The people desire that there must be a caste-based census. I hope there will be a positive discussion on this. If the caste census is not conducted by the Centre in the country, then it will be considered by the government in Bihar.” Kumar reiterated that “there is a countrywide sentiment in favour of a caste census to be conducted at least once. There should be no misgivings as such an exercise will be beneficial for all social groups”.Earlier in the day, Kumar tied rakhis to trees in Patna on the occasion of Rakshabandhan. The NDA-led Bihar government has been observing Rakshabandhan as ‘Vriksh Raksha Diwas’ (Tree Protection Day) since 2012 to protect Bihar’s green cover.Kumar urged people to plant saplings and save them to conserve the environment.“We need to plant trees and save them. The state government has been focusing on planting saplings under the Jal Jeewan Hariyali mission. The future generation is now aware of the environment conservation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/caste-census-all-eyes-on-meeting-with-pm-101629646580183.html
22-08-2021||Mumbai||'No': Eknath Shinde replies to Narayan Rane's 'fed up with Sena' claim||Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde on Sunday said that Union minister Narayan Rane’s claims that he was fed up with the Sena were ‘baseless’. Shinde said that he is happy in the Shiv Sena and that Rane’s comments were aimed at creating confusion in the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition.“Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde is fed up with the Shiv Sena as he has to ask the ‘Matoshree’ (residence of chief minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray) before signing any file. If he approaches me, I will surely induct him into the BJP. Shinde is bored there and has no work. He is in trouble there,” Rane was quoted as saying by news agency PTI while the Union minister was conducting a Jan Ashirwad Rally near Vasai in Mumbai. Rane formerly was a lawmaker from the Shiv Sena.Shinde said that he did not understand why Rane made that claim and said that he takes the decisions in the ministry which is functioning smoothly. Shinde said that Rane has been making such statements since the formation of the MVA to create confusion in the minds of the MVA partners. “I am loyal to the Sena and Uddhav Thackeray. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is involved when it comes to taking any policy decision and we make decisions together,” he said. He also said that Rane must be aware of these technicalities since he too was a chief minister earlier.“Rane in his capacity as Union MSME Minister is free to take decisions but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is involved whenever a policy decision has to be taken,” he further added. Shinde cited Unified Development Control Regulations (DCR) and the ongoing construction of the Samruddhi Mahamarg connecting Mumbai with Nagpur to assert that he is free to take decisions.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-eknath-shinde-replies-to-narayan-rane-s-fed-up-with-sena-claim-101629644286941.html
22-08-2021||Mumbai||Special Covid vaccination drive for women in Thane||To encourage women participation in the vaccination drive, civil hospital officials and Thane zilla parishad have organised a special vaccination drive on the occasion of Rakshabandhan.The Thane Civil Hospital started its special vaccination drive on Sunday from 11am till 4 pm. Around 550 women, all above the age of 18 were inoculated. A hospital official said, “Our civil surgeon had this idea for a long time to arrange a special vaccination drive for women, but it was delayed. Hence, we decided to hold the camp on Rakshabandhan. We have got a good response. All these women have got jab of Covaxin.”Meanwhile, zilla parishad, Thane, will organise the special drive for women on Monday (today). District medical officer, Manish Reghe said, “After observing lack of participation from women in the district, we decided to hold a special drive for them. Women are 45% behind men in getting vaccinated. We didn’t want to hold the drive on Sunday as most women would be busy with the festivities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-covid-vaccination-drive-for-women-in-thane-101629638482258.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Your Space: Pune local trains not lifeline of the city||While the Mumbai administration resumed local train services for fully-vaccinated commuters from August 15, the authorities in Pune, which has lesser population density as compared to the state’s capital, restarted the facility two days later. Readers share possible reasons for delay?Many beneficiaries waiting for second vaccination dose The local train is lifeline of Mumbai and without it Mumbaikar cannot imagine completing their day of work unlike Pune where most people depend on their personal vehicle and public transport buses for commuting. The mandatory fully vaccinated criterion for train passengers will not have many takers as I think around 70 per cent beneficiaries are yet to get the second jab, due to shortage of doses and long waiting period between two doses. Amol Patil Local train commuters are few For Pune, local trains is not as important an aspect of everyday life like Mumbai. Even though the locals have started in Pune, it only helps small group of people and half of them still are doing work from home so it’s okay if the government has started locals two days late. Ratnakar Detke Pune admn wants to assess situations Better late than never. I feel at least people will enjoy the train journey to Lonavla, although many tourist spots are closed under Covid lockdown restrictions. Many people prefer local journeys between Pune and Lonavla as it is economical. The two-day’s delay to reopen the local trains in Pune as against Mumbai may be because the administration wants to assess various situations. Sanjay Jadhav Authorities may have been in two mindsThe past experiences of Covid violations during curb relaxations must have left the authorities in two minds. They may want to see how it progresses in Mumbai before restarting at other places. But due to pressure from common people, the government may have resumed the local train facility in Pune in two days after restarting it in Mumbai. Arpita Marne Pune locals not as profitable as Mumbai Local trains in Pune do not generate revenue like Mumbai locals. So, the government was not much concerned about restarting it early. It could have been delayed by more than two days, if people had not requested the administration. Santosh Khivsara Local train fare is economical Two days’ delay could be only because of the extra cautious approach of Pune district administration. They are worried about Covid spread, but are not looking at how people from lower middle class are suffering due to closure of local trains. The Rs20 fare local train journey was costing ₹100/Rs200 daily for regular passengers because of non-service of trains. The district administration should resume local trains with Covid preventive measures in place. Vaibhav Gaikwad Banking on “Mumbai model” I believe the authorities in Pune still feel that they are answerable to the Mumbai administration, it being the capital of the state. God forbid even if a minor calamity befalls in Mumbai, like a slight surge in Covid cases, the local train services will be the first to be blamed. This delay seems to be a poorly thought cover-up so that under similar circumstances in Pune, the local train administration can blame the Mumbai authorities for restarting the train services first. Basically, going by the “We just followed what they are doing” scenario. Shagufta Khan Pune admn just emulated Mumbai Punekars do not usually travel in locals as much as Mumbaikars. Most of the people in the main city either travel via buses, cabs, autos or have their own vehicles. It seems as if the Pune administration was not thinking about restarting the local service yet. However, when they saw the Mumbai administration do it, they may have decided to just emulate the decision without a lot of contemplation. Hence, the two-day delay. Anisha Puranik Passengers should follow Covid precautions Since the population density in Mumbai is more than Pune, it means there are far more people that need to get to work than our city, and maybe that’s why they resumed the services two days before Pune did. We will be getting back to the new normal anyway so ideally a difference of two days doesn’t have the potential to cause a big change in number of cases and the spread of the virus. And since the commuters are vaccinated there’s a very low chance that they’ll be infected. As long as all guidelines are followed by the civilians of both cities it’s all good. Priyanka Fulzele Districts follow instructions of state government Pune had reopened malls and other markets two days earlier than Mumbai. Hence, the district administration can take their own decisions. However, regarding reopening of train and state transport facilities, the okay of the state government may be needed. They are issuing the government resolution (GR) and districts are taking the decisions accordingly. So, it may be the reason for delay of resumption of local train service in Pune. Rahul Upadhye Implementation of Covid checks may have caused delay Pune has less local train travellers as compared to Mumbai. The state government has issued new guidelines for local train transportation. Administration has allowed only people who have been vaccinated with both doses. They have to issue identity cards to passengers who have taken both doses. Also, 14 days should be completed after the second dose only then the railways will issue monthly tickets to such passengers. This all process will take extra manpower, extra budget and more time to implement. May be because of all this they have delayed to start local trains which were stopped since last year. Satyajeet Nikam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-pune-local-trains-not-lifeline-of-the-city-101629629057135.html
22-08-2021||Other||Mizoram files theft case against Assam cops; allegations concocted, says Assam Police||The ongoing boundary dispute between Assam and Mizoram has taken a new turn with Mizoram Police lodging a case of theft against Assam Police personnel on Saturday. Assam Police has dubbed the allegations as baseless and accused Mizoram authorities of indulging in construction activities on the Assam side of the interstate border without the necessary authorization. According to Mizoram authorities, policemen from Assam’s Hailakanadi district in Barak Valley entered the Mizoram side of the interstate border on Friday and stole construction material. A case in this regard was lodged on Saturday at Bairabi police station in Kolasib district of Mizoram. In a letter to his Hailakandi counterpart Rohan Kumar Jha on Saturday, Kolasib deputy commissioner Dr H Lalthlangliana alleged that on Friday noon, a team of Assam policemen entered Mizoram’s territory in Zophai where a bridge was under construction to connect the main road to the paddy field of C Chhunga, the first chief minister of Mizoram. “Assam Police created problems for workers on the site and even stole some construction materials including pieces of iron rods etc. A police case against theft of construction materials has been filed against them at Bairabi police station,” the letter mentioned. “I would like to reiterate that this incident may not be considered a boundary issue as it is ongoing construction works for connecting road. Government servant committing an act that can be interpreted as theft towards government property is very disappointing and considered very serious,” it added. Police officials in Hailakandi district of Assam, which borders Kolasib district in Mizoram, refuted the allegations and blamed Mizoram authorities for vitiating the atmosphere with false accusations and indulging in construction activities on the Assam side. “Mizoram authorities were constructing a bridge over a ‘nullah’ at Kachurthal which borders Mizoram on one side and Assam on the other. Since the construction was being done on Assam’s territory, necessary authorization from our side should have been taken. But the Mizoram side didn’t do that,” said Hailakandi superintendent of police Gaurav Upadhyay. “When an Assam police patrolling party saw the construction on reaching the site on Friday, Mizoram authorities didn’t provide satisfactory replies and have now filed a case based on allegations, which are concocted, baseless and malafide,” he added.Refuting the allegations of the Mizoram side, Upadhyay said that persons on the Mizoram side obstructed Assam policemen from carrying out their official duties on Assam’s soil. He said he has already talked to his Kolasib counterpart in this regard, and would file a counter-case if needed. Following the incident, security along the Assam-Mizoram border at Hailakandi has been beefed up and additional police personnel deployed to prevent any untoward incident from happening. Both Assam and Mizoram have a dispute regarding the demarcation of the 164-km long boundary between them. On July 26, six Assam policemen were killed and over 50 policemen and civilians were injured in firing between both sides. The incident led to an unofficial blockade of NH306 for several days by people on the Assam side affecting the movement of goods and people to Mizoram. Following the Centre’s intervention, central security forces were deployed at the border areas and the tensions de-escalated a bit. Ministers from both states held a meeting in Aizawl on August 5 where they agreed to maintain peace on the border areas. But days after the talks, on August 14, a blast damaged a school in Hailakandi district located along the border. Mizoram denied any involvement in the incident. This was followed by a firing incident on the border on August 17. Mizoram claimed Assam police fired at three Mizoram residents who were trying to cross the border and meet an acquaintance on the Assam side. Assam maintains firing started from Mizoram side and they retaliated. While no one sustained bullet injuries in the incident, according to Mizoram authorities, one Mizoram resident was injured while falling down in an attempt to flee the firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mizoram-files-theft-case-against-assam-cops-allegations-concocted-says-assam-police-101629622458240.html
22-08-2021||Other||Manipur extends night curfew for 15 days till September 6||The Manipur government has extended the night curfew imposed in the North Eastern border state from 6 pm to 5 am by another fifteen days till September 6 while lifting certain restrictions, officials said. State chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, who is the chairman of the state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued an order in this regard on Saturday night.The order said, the number of Covid-19 positive cases detected per day is declining albeit slowly while the hardships of the people due to continuous closure of many establishments have increased.Stating that unavoidable customary and religious rituals can be performed in open sheds by restricting the number of invitees to twenty only, the order said, “However social gatherings/feasts are not permitted.”“Micro containment zones shall be strictly monitored by dedicated police department teams and health department teams,” it stated. “DCs to involve the local clubs/local bodies with specific jurisdictions”.Informing that the fresh cases of Covid-19 infections shall be isolated as soon as possible and brought to Covid care centres, it said, “The health department shall scale up vaccination, contact tracing and testing by providing additional manpower, mobility support and IEC advocacy.”The order permitted the opening of government offices, PSUs and other public utilities with all secretariat departments, Manipur government offices and office of the Government of India to start functioning with e-office and physical attendance of Group A officers and 50 per cent of the remaining staff from August 23 by taking adequate precaution and strictly following Covid Appropriate Behaviour.It also allowed all employees and personal staff working in Information and Public Relations, Power, Fire Service, Public Health Engineering Department, Consumers Affairs Food & Public Distribution, Home, Health, Relief & Disaster Management, Forest, Environment & Climate Change, Finance and Treasuries, Police, Water Resources, Agriculture and Horticulture Departments and District Administration to function normally.Imphal airport shall remain open and movement of staff and passengers will continue to be permitted, the order said.On Saturday, the state reported 442 new Covid 19 positive cases, when 3,645 samples were tested, taking the state’s total infection tally to 1,10,657. The total number of active cases stands at 4,139. With 598 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the state’s recovery rate increases to 94.68%. On August 8, the state authority lifted the day-time curfew for 15 days till August 22 after imposing a total curfew for 21 days to break the chain of Covid 19 transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-extends-night-curfew-for-15-days-till-september-6-101629615376323.html
22-08-2021||Lucknow||Remembering Kalyan Singh: BJP’s first UP chief minister||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who breathed his last here on Saturday nigh, headed the first-ever Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh (UP) in 1991 and was the chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.Singh, an OBC leader, was a cadre’s delight, recalled former minister Rajendra Tiwari, who was UP BJP secretary when Kalyan Singh was the state party chief in 1984.Soon after becoming chief minister for the first time in 1991, “babuji”, as Kalyan was referred to, summoned top police and administrative officials in the Tilak Hall of Lucknow’s state secretariat for a purpose.“Our government has been formed with a lot of struggle. The cadres played an important role, taking lathis and bullets .. Just ensure one thing. If our cadres approach you with some work or complaint, be nice to them. Even if you can’t help them for some reason, at least offer them sweets, water ...”Born on January 5, 1932, Singh had a key role in BJP’s rise in Uttar Pradesh.Handpicked by the late Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leader Bhaurao Deoras to head the UP BJP unit after the sudden demise of the party’s first state chief Madhav Prasad Tripathi, Kalyan soon had a job on his hands – countering the Mandal agitation that the RSS feared would divide Hindus on caste lines.“Deoras told Kalyan to start holding meetings across the state... I remember the late RSS leader telling Kalyan, attache uthao aur sabhayein karon .. (pack your suitcase and start visiting the state to hold meetings),” recalled Tiwari.Kalyan did as told and his speeches would invariably refer to the agitation for the Ayodhya Ram temple. It was the period in UP when the Congress was on the decline and the period would witness the rise of two powerful, but ideologically opposite OBC leaders in UP who dominated politics for a long time — Kalyan Singh and Samajwadi Party’s Mulayam Singh Yadav.As luck would have it, for a brief period of 10 months, Kalyan even did the unthinkable — befriending his ideological rival, getting his son to join the SP, attended the party’s Agra convention and even wore the SP’s ‘red cap’. He would regret the decision later.“That was a big mistake ... I now want to die a BJP man. I have always been a swayamsevak ...,” he had shared with HT soon after rejoining BJP.He left the BJP thrice – twice over differences with party leadership and then in 2014 after being appointed governor of Rajasthan; coming back to the party each time.“The RSS would never leave him. He was their favourite, who combined Hindutva with backward politics and helped in uniting Hindus. Kalyan himself was livid with Mandal politics and actively participated in meetings to counter the reservation politics of Mandal with what was called Kamandal,” a BJP leader requesting anonymity said.Shankar Lal Lodhi, a High Court lawyer whose association with Kalyan dates back to 90s, described why Kalyan was an “all-rounder, a leader for all seasons ...”“He was quick to take decisions, never hesitant to call spade a spade, hated criminals, was a stickler for time, valued words and relationships and above all was a tall, true mass leader,” he said.Shankar said, “One key quality of babuji was his honesty. After the Supreme Court order led to vacation of bungalows by former chief ministers in UP, he never had any house of his own in the state capital.He later shifted in the residence allotted to his grandson, a minister in the UP government but in case that was not there he would well be living in a rented apartment in Lucknow. Such was his honesty.”Shankar was also Kalyan’s lawyer in the Babri mosque demolition case. The mosque was demolished with Kalyan as the chief minister on December 6, 1992 and his government was subsequently dismissed.Among the leaders named in the criminal conspiracy case for the felling of the mosque, Shankar, who was also Kalyan’s lawyer, recalled the former chief minister telling him not to dilute his stance on not firing at the kar sewaks.“Babuji categorically told me that he would stand by the fact that he asked the police officials in writing not to fire at the kar sewaks who had gathered at the Ayodhya site on the demolition day. He said as chief minister he had asked the police to follow the law, but had specifically prohibited them from opening fire,” Shankar said.Years later, Kalyan after being exonerated in the case along with other leaders, would proudly recall, “I never wanted to die with blood of kar sewaks on my hands!”There are innumerable instances of Kalyan not budging once he had taken a decision, no matter how unpleasant.“I remember as the health minister in the Janata Party government in the 70s, he had transferred all doctors who were posted at one place for a long time. This included some doctors who were close to the BJP including late Dr SC Rai, as also the relative of a BJP functionary. But Kalyan said since a decision had been taken, he would review it only later,” a BJP leader recalled.In 1998, as a second-term chief minister Kalyan was addressing a public meeting in Amroha when he was informed that his government had been dismissed and Congress leader Jagdambika Pal had been appointed the chief minister.“Everyone was surprised with the decision of the then governor Romesh Bhandari, who administered the oath of office to Pal at night.The decision was contested in the high court and Atal ji went on a fast unto death. Subsequently, on the court orders Pal was asked to prove his majority in the assembly which he couldn’t and Kalyan returned to head the BJP government,” BJP leader recalled.As chief minister, he would be fully updated on developments and wanted his ministers to attend meetings with full details.“He would do his homework, call up officials at odd hours to know progress ... And he hated criminals. At times he would, on coming to know that someone has been booked on rape charge or any other heinous crime, would tell the cop to pursue the case and ensure conviction,” Tiwari said.“He was a leader who loved a challenge. We don’t know if he was aware that no governor before him had ever completed a full term in office in Rajasthan. Kalyan Singh ji not only completed his term, but did so with great distinction,” Tiwari recalled.“After being sworn in as Rajasthan governor on September 4, 2014, Kalyan, in his first meeting with vice chancellors, had ordered them to adopt villages.On coming to know of reports of mass copying in Barmer, Rajasthan, Kalyan had ordered strict action on the college from where it was reported,” Dr Lokesh Chandra Sharma, the then assistant to the Rajasthan governor, recalled in a book containing speeches made by Kalyan Singh as governor.He also got the Rajasthan government to end the practice of according the guard of honour each time governor visited or left Raj Bhawan for tours.“He had sent a note to the home department, seeking to know if this practice could be done away with and on being informed that it was possible, he ordered it be followed,” Sharma said.Years ago, when UP government had decided to ban pan masala on secretariat campus, Kalyan when asked how he will cope with the ban, had said with a smile: “Haan, problem to hogi ... par agar niyam hai to palan karenge (Yes, there would be some problem but if it is a rule, we will follow it).”Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in a recent tweet acknowledged Kalyan’s vision.“I also have many memories of my interactions with Kalyan Singh Ji. Several of those memories came back to life. Talking to him has always been a learning experience,” the PM had recently tweeted. Neraly all the top BJP leadership had visited Kalyan Singh in hospital.“One saw nearly whole of BJP leadership visiting Kalyan Singh ji in hospital. It was BJP’s top leadership’s gesture for a leader who led the party through difficult times in a state which eventually shaped BJP’s rise nationally,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/remembering-kalyan-bjp-s-first-up-chief-minister-101629597245002.html
22-08-2021||Lucknow||Ganga Expressway: UP govt gets approval letter for ₹ 5100 crore loan from PNB||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday received the sanction letter of ₹ 5100 crore loan for the 594-kilometre-long Ganga Expressway project from the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in the presence of Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and chief minister Yogi Adityanath at an event in Lucknow. Sitharaman hailed Adityanath for creating an investment-friendly atmosphere in Uttar Pradesh.This expressway will be the longest in north India and the second longest in the country. The project’s estimated cost is ₹36,230 crore.SS Mallikarjuna Rao, managing director and chief executive officer (CEO) of PNB, handed over the approval letter to the state government at a ceremony at the Indira Gandhi Prathisthan in the state capital. Speaking at the event, Sitharaman said, “I am very proud of chief minister Yogi Adityanath who understands the larger national interest, translates that into the state’s policies and takes it at the execution level to the last mile.” Referring to the infrastructure work going on in the state, she said, “That which had to be done in six decades is being attempted to be completed within four-five years. It requires extraordinary commitment and efforts, and that is what the CM is doing. Pleasantly happy that a public sector bank has gone thinking forward.” Adityanath said the Ganga Expressway would become the backbone of the state’s economy. He also lauded Sitharaman for allocating a budget for infrastructure development.“We are connecting Meerut in west Uttar Pradesh with Prayagraj in the east. The Ganga Expressway will become the backbone of the state’s economy. Travelling time from Lucknow to Meerut will decrease to five hours and 6.5 hours from Prayagraj to Meerut through the Ganga Expressway,” the chief minister said.“The state government had decided to create a 594 km-long expressway between Prayagraj and Meerut…I am grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for allocation of funds in the Union Budget for big infrastructure development,” he added.With the approval letter, the state government has finalised the process of securitisation-based loans from banks as part of mobilisation of financial resources for the Ganga Expressway. The state government will use this amount for the project. During the currency of this loan (loan period), the expressway will be owned and operated by Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority. This is the first innovative attempt to monetize public infrastructure assets not only in the state, but in the whole of northern India, the state government claimed. UPEIDA, a state government body, is the nodal agency for executing all expressway projects in the state. According to UPEIDA CEO Awanish Kumar Awasthi, around 92% land required for the Ganga Expressway project has been acquired.The Ganga Expressway will start from National Highway-334 (NH-334 in Meerut and end at Prayagraj bypass at the National Highway-2 (NH-2). The six-lane expressway will be expandable up to eight lanes. It will pass through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj districts of Uttar Pradesh. The Purvanchal Expressway is in the final stages of completion and the Bundelkhand Expressway would also be completed soon, said UPEIDA chief executive officer (CEO) Awanish Kumar Awasthi. (WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ganga-expressway-up-govt-gets-approval-letter-for-5100-crore-loan-101629579853008.html
22-08-2021||Other||Tricity buzz: Crowd too close for comfort at Anurag Thakur’s yatra launch||The launch of Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra at Himachal Bhawan last week drew a huge crowd. Social distancing and Covid norms were forgotten as the lobby was packed with supporters. Even the minister was visibly perturbed, while his security struggled to keep the crowd at a distance. The situation improved only after somebody suggested he address them outside the bhawan and not in the hall. Journalists, cops wait 14 hours during ex-DGP Saini’s hearing Journalists and police personnel waited for 14 hours in a Mohali court during the hearing of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a corruption case on Thursday. Saini was produced in the court at 12.30 pm on August 19 after he was arrested by the Punjab Vigilance Bureau. Most mediapersons and cops rushed to the court immediately. Following the Punjab and Haryana high court’s directions around midnight, chief judicial magistrate Pamelpreet Grewal Kahal issued orders to release Saini at 12.15 am. Saini walked free at 2am on Friday, following which the journalists and policemen too left the premises. Online admissions for Class 11 turns out to be a big draw Though online admissions for Class 11 closed on Thursday, an extra day was given to complete the registration process of filling the form and paying the registration fee. Those who applied on the last day were allowed to pay their registration fee by Friday. According to the education department, 300 more students registered for the online admission process, taking the total to 18,703 students for 15,355 seats. The final list will be displayed by August 31. Reopen campus, PU students seek Rakhi gift from V-C Activists of the National Students Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Congress, seem to be making the most of Rakshabandhan festival. They have asked Panjab University students to greet vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on the occasion and urge him to reopen the campus for offline classes. The NSUI shared several such greeting cards by students on social media. The 2021-22 academic session has started but PU is yet to decide on reopening the campus for students, many of whom are on strike demanding offline classes and polling for the registered graduate constituency of the senate. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricity-buzz-crowd-too-close-for-comfort-at-anurag-thakur-s-yatra-launch-101629579492869.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University collaborates with Adobe Creative Technology Academy||Chitkara University has announced its collaboration with Adobe for offering advanced creative skill-based training to its students and faculty. The agreement was signed at a virtual event by Madhu Chitkara, pro-chancellor, Chitkara University and Girish Balachandran, India director, Digital Media Business; Supreeth Nagaraju, head, Education Vertical India, Digital Media Business; Aman Soni, Enterprise account manager, education, Digital Media Business; and senior officials of Adobe India.With industry looking to hire those who are technically skilled and creatively alive, Chitkara University’s collaboration with Adobe will go a long way in making students industry ready and will also ensure that the faculty is at par with the industry demand and the latest skills required.The digital era has signalled tremendous change and transformation in companies’ employment needs, resulting in a gap between industry demands and academic standards. New-age skills such as artificial intelligence, creativity, design thinking, machine learning and big data are in demand. The main objective of Chitkara University and Adobe Creative Technology Academy partnership is to offer digital and creative skill-based training to students to enhance employability and entrepreneurship skills as per industry demand.Speaking on the occasion Girish Balachandran, director, sales, Digital Media, Adobe, India emphasised that Adobe technologies will enrich Chitkara’s students’ academic experience and prepare them with the digital skills and confidence they need to take their place in the future workforce.Supreeth Nagaraju, head education, Digital Media, Adobe, India said, “If you want to build digital fluency, providing technology is only part of the equation.” He added, “We are happy to collaborate with Chitkara University to empower faculty and students and make it easy for them to integrate digital and creative-skill building into their coursework.”“This partnership will allow students to acquire a joint co-branded certification from Adobe and Chitkara University and will provide them with an opportunity to build industry connections and participate in creative competitions to further widen their skills and exposure. We strongly believe that the Adobe Creative Technology Academy is one of its kind initiatives which will benefit our design students immensely and make them responsible future digital citizens,” said Madhu Chitkara, pro chancellor, Chitkara University.“Adobe Creative Technology Academy at Chitkara Design School aims to deliver industry-accepted learning outcomes for students and faculty and enable them to be relevant in the digital economy and empower their creative technology entrepreneurship. This unique industry-academia partnership will support us in building immersive design courses which will be offered as a combination of theory and practical hands-on training sessions for students interested in gaining industry-oriented knowledge in the digital and creative technology space,” said Gopal Meena, vice-president, strategic initiatives, Chitkara Design School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-collaborates-with-adobe-creative-technology-academy-101629579072463.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||For 4th day in row, tricity’s daily Covid count remains in double-digits||With 15 cases, the tricity’s daily Covid count remained in double digits for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday. As many as six cases were reported each in Mohali and Chandigarh while Panchkula saw three new infections. In good news, however, no deaths were reported from any of the three jurisdictions. Earlier on Friday, the tricity had recorded two Covid deaths.In Mohali, two cases each were detected in Dhakoli and Kharar while one each was reported from Kurali and Mohali city. In Chandigarh, the infections were found in Sectors 20, 32, 41, 52, Dhanas and Mauli Jagran. In Panchkula, the fresh cases were reported from MDC-4 and Sector 8.The tricity’s active case tally has now climbed to 113, of which 57 are in Mohali, 44 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/for-4th-day-in-row-tricity-s-daily-covid-count-remains-in-doubledigits-101629578652491.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination centres in Chandigarh to remain shut today for Rakhi||All vaccination centres will remain shut on Sunday, on the occasion of Rakshabandhan. The door-to-door vaccination drive will also remain suspended on the day. Normally, all vaccination centres in Chandigarh remain open through the weekend, with a walk-in facility from 9am to 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-centres-in-chandigarh-to-remain-shut-today-for-rakhi-101629578352509.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Engineering graduate held with 50 stolen phones in Patiala||A 31-year-old engineering graduate, who was a gold medalist in the national wrestling games in 2014, was arrested on charges of theft following a tip-off on Saturday. Police have recovered 50 stolen phones, two high-end watches and a pair of branded shoes from his possession. The accused has been identified as Charan Kamal, a native of Patiala. He was nabbed from a hotel near gurdwara Dukhnivaran of Patiala, in connection with a theft case registered by a Chandigarh resident. The complainant, Sumeet Sehgal, an advocate, who stays in Sector 16, Chandigarh, said that on August 3, he had dozed off without bolting the door of his house. When he woke up around 5.15am, he found that his iPhone, two watches of Victorinsx and Lumiwox brands, and a pair of white Adidas shoes were missing. On his complaint, a case under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 17 police station. Addiction turned wrestler into thief Police said the accused, who was previously a national-level wrestler, took to crime about three months ago after his parents refused to fund him on finding out about his drug addiction. As per the cops, the accused consumes around two-gram heroin on a daily basis, which costs about ₹4,000.Police said that the 31-year-old also has an assault case registered against him in Patiala. The accused’s mother is a lecturer in a college in Patiala while his father works with a private firm. His brother is settled abroad. Police said the accused had mostly been active in Punjab. He was sent to two-day police remand on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/engineering-graduate-held-with-50-stolen-phones-in-patiala-101629577992352.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||AAP slams Punjab ministers for operating from Congress Bhawan||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday objected to the state’s ruling party ordering its ministers to operate from the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh instead of their offices at the civil secretariat. AAP Punjab president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said, ““If chief minister Amarinder Singh and his cabinet colleagues consider themselves the ministers of entire Punjab, then why don’t they sit in their offices at the civil secretariat where people could meet them freely.”“The ministers sitting in their mansions for four-and-a-half years have now have been reminded of the grievances of people in the run-up to the elections. Such politics did not suit the cabinet ministers,” said Maan.Whether the Congress will coerce the people of Punjab this way or will it take advantage of the exigencies of the oppressed, he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-slams-punjab-ministers-for-operating-from-congress-bhawan-101629577632272.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||89 trains cancelled in as cane farmers’ rail, road blockade enters Day 2 in Punjab||Farmers demanding hike in sugarcane prices continued the blockade of railway tracks and a national highway in Jalandhar for the second consecutive day on Saturday, affecting the movement of trains and road transport. The Ferozepur railway division said 89 trains were cancelled due to the blockade on Saturday. A large number of farmers, mainly from Doaba region, participated in the protest. Commuters on the national highway were at the receiving end amid the festive season. Many trains remained stuck at the Jalandhar railway station. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa will hold a meeting with the farmer leaders in Chandigarh on Sunday to end the impasse, an official said. The farmers on Friday had started the protest for an indefinite period to press the Punjab government to accept their demands on pending dues of sugarcane and hike in cane prices.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) president Manjit Singh Rai said, “We have received invitation from the Punjab government and will attend the meeting. If the government fails to come up with a concrete solution we will give call Punjab bandh on Tuesday. We had planned Punjab bandh on Sunday but postponed it due to the Raksha Bandhan festival.” Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said during the meeting, minister Randhawa will accompanied by additional chief secretary (development) Anirudh Tiwari, the cane commissioner and the director agriculture. He said 12 farmer leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Harinder Singh Lakhowal, will attend the meeting. The farmer leaders said they will allow two-wheelers and light motor vehicles to pass through the service lanes due to the Raksha Bandhan on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/89-trains-cancelled-in-as-cane-farmers-rail-road-blockade-enters-day-2-in-punjab-101629577575754.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab vigilance bureau to file recall petition in HC against ex-DGP’s release order||The Punjab vigilance bureau on Saturday announced to file a recall petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the August 19 release orders of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in a land fraud case. The bureau will file a similar plea against the court’s August 12 interim bail order in the disproportionate assets case registered against the former top cop.Saini was arrested on August 18 evening in the land fraud case when he went to the vigilance office in connection with the disproportionate assets FIR on the HC orders giving him interim bail on the condition that he join the probe within 7 days.A bureau spokesperson said that Saini failed to follow the HC orders in letter and spirit as he chose to visit the VB office late in the evening on the last day of the 7-day period. “Saini intentionally exhausted the 7-day period during which he had to join the probe in accordance with interim order in the FIR no. 13. Even then, he arrived at the bureau’s Sector 68 office in Mohali without intimating the investigating officer in advance. In fact, he intentionally did not go to the investigating officer’s office,” said the spokesperson.Under these circumstances, the bureau had thus decided to file a petition in the court seeking recall of the interim bail orders in the disproportionate assets case, he added.The case relates to 35 properties and bank accounts of public works department executive engineer Nimratdeep Singh with transactions of ₹100 crore, including some with Saini. The spokesperson said there is sufficient ground to seek recall of the HC orders releasing Saini from detention in the land fraud case. “First, Saini had been taken into custody not under FIR 13 (where he got interim bail) but in the FIR 11, in which he had no protection from arrest. The criminal acts in FIR 11 and FIR 13 are different,” he added. Second, the HC’s earlier protection orders dated October 11, 2018 and September 23, 2020, do not apply to this particular case as those had provided for 7 days’ notice to be given to the officer before arresting him for any offences committed during his service period, the spokesperson claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-vigilance-bureau-to-file-recall-petition-in-hc-against-ex-dgp-s-release-order-101629577515958.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Taliban don’t allow 70 Afghan Sikhs, Hindus to board flight to India||The Taliban on Saturday did not allow a group of nearly 70 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus to board the flight sent by Indian Air Force (IAF) to Kabul to evacuate the Indian nationals.The group managed to reach the airport on Friday night but was not allowed to enter inside it. After a long wait of around 12 hours, Taliban sent them back to Gurdwara Singh Sabha Karte Parwan in Kabul, said Vikramjit Singh Sahney of World Punjabi Organisation who is in constant touch with the community members. Sikh members of parliament Anarkali Kaur Honaryar and Narender Pal Singh were part of the batch that was sent back from the airport. Refuting reports that the Sikhs and Hindus have been kidnapped by the Taliban, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said: “The Sikhs and Hindus who had taken shelter in Gurdwara Karte Parwan are totally safe. They are in touch with us”.A Sikh taking shelter in the Kabul gurdwara said they had to wait for more than 12 hours for being allowed to enter the airport. “Later, the Taliban fighters said as we were Afghan nationals, we can’t board the flight that was meant for Indians,” he said. Another Sikh said the roads leading to the airport are badly due to rush of vehicles. Approximately 300 Sikhs and Hindus are taking a refuge at the gurdwara fearing threats from Taliban. They are waiting for being evacuated as Canada and India offered them shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taliban-don-t-allow-70-afghan-sikhs-hindus-to-board-flight-to-india-101629577514380.html
22-08-2021||Other||Guilty of molesting 2 girls, juvenile told to serve at home for elderly in Panchkula||For outraging the modesty of two teenaged girls, a 17-year-old boy has been directed to serve at an old-age home by the juvenile justice board of Panchkula.He will have to work at the old age home five days a week for up to six months. If any complaints are received against him during this period, he will be sent to the observation home in Ambala, the court ruled.As per the FIR, registered on June 1, 2019, the 17-year-old who is a BCA student, had molested two girls –aged 16 and 18 – when they were playing badminton in the neighbourhood. He was booked under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 509 (insulting the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code.The juvenile’s counsel said that his client has been implicated and stated that there were contradictions in the statements of victims.After hearing the arguments, the board held the juvenile guilty, however, took a lenient view due to his age and medical condition.Pronouncing the punishment, the juvenile justice board stated, “The board cannot ignore the guilt of the juvenile. However, keeping in view the career of the juvenile-in-conflict with law as well as the tender age at which he has committed this offence, it would be in the interest of justice if the juvenile is ordered to do some community service.” The juvenile-in-conflict with law was ordered to report to the in-charge, Old Age Home, Sector-15, Panchkula, on August 23 for the community service. The in-charge of the old-age home has also been directed to submit a report about his work and conduct.The girls’ counsel, Udit Mendiratta, said this is a big win for them, however, another case against the boy’s father is pending in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guilty-of-molesting-2-girls-juvenile-told-to-serve-at-home-for-elderly-in-panchkula-101629577452231.html
22-08-2021||Lucknow||Mission Shakti 3.0 launched in UP, ₹ 30.12 crore transferred to 155,000 girls’ accounts||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday launched the third phase of Mission Shakti as Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath transferred ₹ 30.12 crore Kanya Sumangla Yojana money into the accounts of 1.55 lakh (155,000) girls, the new beneficiaries of the scheme, here.Mission Shakti is the UP government’s flagship programme aimed at promoting the security, dignity and empowerment of women. The first phase was launched in October last year.Talking about women empowerment by the Yogi government in UP, Sitharaman said: “I can say that if you have a chief minister like him, then I can foresee the bright and prosperous future of the state and women in it. For the financial empowerment of people in the rural areas, he (Yogi) has appointed women banking correspondents, Banking Sakhis, all over the state.”Sitharaman further said: “CM Yogi’s energy, hard work and dedication are exemplary. I understand that he has travelled to each of the 75 districts of UP ten times over in the last five years. If you have a chief minister like this, then the state is set to progress fast. He is a very popular chief minister.”After chief minister Yogi Adityanath credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the all-round progress of the country since he became PM in 2014, Sitharaman lauded the PM’s efforts for launching several women-centric schemes and giving women priority in several other schemes. “In the latest cabinet reshuffle, PM Modi gave prominence to women. At present, there are 11 women ministers in the Union cabinet,” she said.“When a woman gets encouragement and opportunity, she does not feel shy and hesitant, and once she becomes a part of a task, she gives her best,” said Sitharaman“And, this is the speciality of women,” she said at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow after the launch of the campaign.Sitharaman also said: “Before coming to Delhi as the Prime Minister in 2014, Modiji auctioned all the gifts he had received as Gujarat CM and donated the proceeds for the education of girl children. During his chief ministership of Gujarat, he took several steps for empowering women in the state, including measures for increasing the number of women in panchayats.” “Whether it is the Ujjwala scheme, the Jan Dhan scheme or the MUDRA scheme, women are given priority in several schemes launched by the Centre,” the finance minister said. Speaking on the Covid vaccination drive, she said: “Even some developed countries do not have vaccines. But due to PM Modi’s efforts, we are producing six vaccines in India. We want to provide vaccines quickly to the country, especially the vulnerable population. And there will be vaccines for children over 12 years of age soon.” Sitharaman ended her speech by saying: “Jai Uttar Pradesh, Jai Bharat.”Sitharaman, Patel, and Yogi also felicitated 75 women from government and non-governmental sectors for their contribution to the first and the second phases of Mission Shakti and then laid the foundation stone (remotely) for the Veerangana Avantibai Battalion of PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) campus, Badaun.The third phase of the programme will end on December 31. The main schemes that are scheduled to be implemented in this phases are the launch of Mission Shakti Kaksha (classrooms) at all the 59,000 gram panchayat bhawans (village panchayat buildings), formation of one lakh women self-help groups, linking of 1.73 lakh (173,000) new beneficiaries to the destitute women pension scheme, safe city project at the divisional headquarters and Gautam Buddh Nagar, posting of women police personnel as beat police officers, construction of pink toilets (for women) in 1,286 police stations, special recruitment for women battalions of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) to 2,982 posts, deployment of women sub-inspectors in urban areas, setting up of creches in all police lines and construction of health clubs in women’s colleges.The governor said it was time that women started looking for empowerment within. She praised both Modi and Yogi for their government’s women empowerment initiatives.Yogi said that after the transfer of ₹ 30.12 crore into the accounts of 1.55 lakh new beneficiaries, the total number of Mukhyamantri Kanya Sumangala Yojana beneficiaries has reached 9.36 lakh.He said that 54% seats were won by women in the panchayat polls in UP this time.“Imagine, before this, women police personnel never used to be deputed on beat posting (field duty). Women used to wonder, why so? But now, they are getting and will be getting beat police officers’ postings.”UP minister of state (independent charge) for women welfare, child development and nutrition Swati Singh, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, UP finance minister Suresh Khanna, state women commission chairperson Vimla Batham and Apollo group of hospitals’ joint managing director Dr Sangita Reddy were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mission-shakti-3-0-launched-in-up-30-12-crore-transferred-to-155-000-girls-accounts-101629577392215.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Painting the town olive green||“I was a young major posted at Ambala when Chandigarh was in its infancy. Defence officers were being offered plots at highly affordable rates. That’s how we became proud residents of Sector-33,” said Lt Gen Harwant Singh (retd) candidly.“Was it really that simple, sir?” I asked.“Actually, yes,” replied the 86-year-old retired deputy chief of army staff.“MS Randhawa took over as Chandigarh’s chief commissioner in 1966 and lent elan to the upcoming modern city. Captain and equivalent ranks were entitled to one marla plots, majors to one kanal plots, colonels to two kanals, and brigadiers and above to four kanal plots. Can you imagine I bought one kanal land for merely ₹10,260 in 1967 and that too in instalments!” exclaims Lt Gen Harwant Singh (retd).Culture of cleanliness, orderlinessDefence officers took to the city like fish to water after some initial reluctance. Commander Rohit Kaushik , a submariner, explains why the men in olive green were given preferential treatment. “There is an inherent culture of cleanliness, orderliness, preservation and development of natural habitat that exists in the fraternity, which they lent to the city.”Lt Gen Harwant recounts an observation made by his father, a civil surgeon, who was working with the Punjab government at the time of Chandigarh’s inception, “People were apprehensive about moving here. The wide unchartered expanse beyond Kharar extending to and covering erstwhile villages that now are a part of Chandigarh had a high leprosy rate! Surprisingly, none of it manifested later. I suppose, adoption of soldiers as privileged residents did make it God’s country.”So true, sir!For those without defined roots, a posting to Chandigarh more often than not culminates in permanent residency. Lt Gen Gippy Dhillon says he had firmly locked Chandigarh as his post-retirement abode during his first posting. “During training at the academy, I visited Chandigarh as a course mate. The result is that I belong to Chandigarh.” To top it, he bought a piece of land close to his residence and has developed it into a multi-facility farm.”Nilofer, an alumni of Carmel Convent married Capt Vimal , another Chandigarh resident. Frequent postings forced her to shift to Chandigarh. “It was the second-best decision of my life. The best, of course, was marrying Vimal”, she says, gleefully.“Chandigarh is one of the safest places to settle in and work. I got a job with my alma mater, built a house, educated and settled my children, while my husband served the nation,” she says.Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi and his wife Neerupma are both from the defence background and as such had no fixed roots. Neerupama chose to stay at her parent’s house at Chandigarh when Praveen was posted in the field. Her safe, comfortable and hassle-free stay cemented Chandigarh as their post-retirement abode.Military wit, humour The story doesn’t quite end here. Faujis are loved for their discipline, subtle sense of humour and ‘never say die’ spirit, which is the city’s legacy. This is apparent from an anecdote narrated to me by a doctor friend.Speaking to a veteran who needed a major surgery, my friend said, “General saab, the surgery though necessary, is dangerous ”.Pat came the response. “Doc, tell me is the surgery more dangerous than crossing a busy Chandigarh road? If not, go ahead right away!’’Another friend says we all have a colonel to thank for turning him into a punctual person.My friend was hosting a party to celebrate the birth of his grandchild at an upscale hotel in the city. His colonel friend arrived dot on time. However, nobody, including the hosts, turned up till about 8.30pm.When the hosts arrived, the colonel and wife were helping themselves to a self-paid drink at the regular bar. My friend sheepishly asked him why he was not at the bar of the party venue, to which the wily colonel replied, “ Buddy, since we did not find anyone around, we reasoned that we were either at a different venue or the party had been called off, so we decided to celebrate the birth of your grandchild privately. Cheers!”avnishrms59@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-painting-the-town-olive-green-101629577332620.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||At 26.2°C, Chandigarh records coldest August day in 3 years||With the maximum temperature going down by over four notches due to day-long showers, Chandigarh recorded its coldest August day since 2018, on Saturday at 26.2°C.As per the Sector-39 IMD observatory, the city recorded 20.8mm rain, while the airport observatory reported 29mm rain. Met officials said moderate rain can be expected on Sunday as well, while from Monday, scattered showers are likely. The city has so far recorded 386.8mm rain this monsoon, which is 40% deficient. The maximum temperature of 26.2°C on Saturday, which was seven degrees below normal, was also the lowest the city has seen since February 21 this year, which the mercury was at 25.8°C. There was a difference of only a degree between the maximum and minimum temperature on Saturday.Speaking about the fall in temperature, IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “While it didn’t rain much, the sky remained cloudy due to which the maximum temperature couldn’t go up.”Singh added that moderate showers up to 30 mm can be expected on Sunday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will hover between 30°C and 32°C while the minimum temperature is likely to be around 26°C and 27°C.Water-level at Sukhna Lake close to danger markAfter Saturday’s showers, the water-level of Sukhna Lake climbed up to 1,162.65 feet, which was just 5.5 inches below the danger mark. Earlier this month, one of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake had to be opened to keep the water-level in check. Officials added that if rains continue in the catchment areas of the Lake, the same procedure will have to be repeated in the coming days too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-26-2-c-chandigarh-records-coldest-august-day-in-3-years-101629577152882.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Amendments to JJ Act are against children’s interests||Both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have approved the 2021 amendments to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (JJ Act), which allows district magistrates to issue adoption orders instead of civil courts. Amending provisions of the JJ Act to recognise executive magistrates as a competent authority authorised to issue adoption orders will allow speedier adoption of children. Beneficial, benevolent and progressive as the proposals may be, they are myopic and do not seem to be in tandem with parallel family law legislations. The cited reasonings — delay in civil courts and adoption processes being non-contested litigations — ignore the “interest and welfare of child” principle. The purpose defeats the ends. Further, it may create statutory conflicts with contradictory and inconsistent interpretations in issues relating to marriage, adoption and guardianship. The wholesome solution then may be to not amend the act or incorporate similar amendments in other existing laws. Adoption of children under the JJ Act, which is outside the scope of the provisions of the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956 (HAMA), is guided by Sections 56 and 57 of the JJ Act, wherein irrespective of religion, orphan, abandoned and surrendered children can be made wards of single or divorced persons as per procedure laid down under the Adoption Regulations, 2017. The process entails a robust and protective mechanism routed through the Central Adoption Resource Authority (Cara). Ultimately, under the JJ Act, all Cara approved adoptions require an adoption order from a court, which under the JJ Act “means a civil court, which has jurisdiction in matters of adoption and guardianship, and may include the district court, family court and city civil courts.” Section 61 of the JJ Act mandates that before issuing an adoption order approved by Cara, the court shall satisfy that the adoption is for the welfare of the child, as per the wishes of the child and without consideration, payment or reward for the adoption.Interpretation of “court” The definition of “court” in the JJ Act is shared by a similar interpretation of “district court” under the Guardians and Wards Act (GWA) and the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 (HMGA), wherein “court” means the city civil court, a district court or a judicial court notified by the high court under Section 4 of the GWA. Clearly, the functions, authority and powers to oversee and lend finality in matters of adoption and guardianship have jurisprudentially rested with judicial courts and not executive courts. This is because judicial and not executive minds, are trained to exercise legal powers, which require adjudicatory acumen to adjudge welfare of children, a prime duty vested by law. Subrogation of judicial functions to executive authorities in routine, for stamping judicial finality will offend the fundamental division of powers of judicial and executive courts, besides encroaching on powers of judicial courts under the GWA and the HMGA. The pivotal role of a judicial court under Section 61 of the JJ Act to x-ray an adoption, before passing an adoption order cannot be delegated to executive courts, the fundamental concept of determining the best interest and the welfare of the vulnerable child by making it an administrative exercise with no introspection. Children, an asset of the nation, deserve a cautious adoption process.Adoption order is not an administrative routine The 2021 amendment of the JJ Act empowers the district magistrates to issue valid adoption orders for inter and intra-country adoptions. Adoptions under the JJ Act are now in the realm of executive magistrates in place of judicial courts. Lawmakers failed to appreciate that an adoption order is not a license, permit or sanction, which is dealt administratively in routine. Legislators failed to appreciate that the entire adoption process was streamlined on intervention of the supreme court to prevent malpractices of inter-country adoptions. Three decades overhaul led to a rigorous, robust and full proof mechanism under the microscopic eye examination of judicial courts to certify adoptions. With one stroke, this has been undone without realising the consequences. Children are not commodities or merchandise and adoption is not a business. Adoption needs a parens patriae intervention of a judicial court to ensure welfare of the child. This cannot be an endorsement left to bureaucracy being handled by administrative staff who have no judicial training or expertise to adjudge the well-being of children. An anomalous predicament looms large as neither the GWA nor HMGA have been amended to vest district magistrates with such powers of approving adoptions. Split laws for adoptions cannot prevail. Children cannot be left to administrative exercises as trade. The unjust amendments fail the child. anilmalhotra1960@gmail.com(The writer is a Chandigarh-based lawyer and author. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-amendments-to-jj-act-are-against-children-s-interests-101629577092433.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s unemployment rate is nearly 10%||The unemployment rate in Haryana is 9.9%, the state government has informed the Vidhan Sabha.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala while replying to a question of Congress MLA from Nuh Aftab Ahmed during the monsoon session on Friday said the state’s unemployment rate was much less as compared to the national average of 13.3%. The figure, however, assumes significance as more than 44,000 sanctioned posts are lying vacant in state’s education and health departments. Dushyant said the latest periodic labour survey conducted by Union ministry of statistics and programme shows that the prevailing unemployment rate in Punjab is 10.8%, Delhi 12%, Rajasthan 15.1% and Uttar Pradesh 13.4%. At least 46% sanctioned non-teaching posts and 20% teaching posts are lying vacant in the education department. The figure for the health department is 39%. According to education department’s post-wide details of vacancies till July 1, over 9,600 non-teaching posts, out of nearly 21,200 sanctioned posts, are lying vacant. Similarly, in the field offices, over 25,600 posts of teaching staff, out of over 1.27 lakh sanctioned posts, are vacant. As many as 1,018 posts of the teachers (PRT/JBT/HT) are vacant in Mewat cadre. Also, 13,073 posts of postgraduate teachers (PGTs) and 11,041 posts of trained graduate teachers (TGT) are vacant in the state. As many as 1,045 posts of principals and 155 of headmasters of high schools are also waiting to be filled. In his written reply to Congress MLA Varun Chaudhry’s question, education minister Kanwar Pal said 711 vacant posts of principals, 98 of head masters have been filled through promotions in past two weeks. The education minister said requisition to fill 3,646 posts of PGTs, 2,636 posts of TGTs as well as 952 posts of PRT for Mewat cadre have already been sent to the Haryana Staff Selection Commission. The demand to fill 6,695 posts of peons has also been sent to the chief secretary. Medical staff crunch Over 9,000 posts, out of 23,600 sanctioned posts, are lying vacant in the health department. At least 980 posts of medical officers and 209 of senior medical officers are vacant. Against 436 sanctioned posts of nursing sister, 228 are vacant, and out of 4,403 posts of staff nurse, 2,260 (51%) are vacant, according to the health department data furnished in response to query of MLA Chaudhry. According to the data, of the total 1,959 posts of computer clerk, clerk, assistant, superintendent, steno typists and storekeepers in the health department, about 700 are vacant. Among other posts lying vacant are pharmacist (366), radiographer (232), lab technicians (711), ECG technicians (67), dietician (23), lab attendant (28), physiotherapist (55), plumber (10), senior dental surgeon (26), dental surgeon (110) and matron (23). 75% private job quota still not in force Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala told the Vidhan Sabha that the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act-2020, giving 75% reservation to local candidates in the private sector, has not come into force so far as the date of its enforcement has not been notified by the state government. He clarified that after Haryana legislative assembly passed the bill in question on November 5, 2020, and after receiving the assent of the governor. the act was enacted and notified on March 2. It may be recalled that under this act the private sector companies will have to employ 75% of local candidates with respect to posts where the gross monthly salary or wages are not more than ₹50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-unemployment-rate-is-nearly-10-101629576674821.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Power officials, cops held hostage in Hisar village||A six-member team of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) officials and two cops were held hostage in Hisar’s Sisar village on Saturday during a raid to check power theft. Those held hostage included a junior engineer. The officials and cops were released only after Hansi sub-divisional magistrate intervened in the matter. The villagers alleged the team members misbehaved with some women while visiting their houses in the early hours. Vikash Sisar, a villager, said the team couldn’t produce any document authorising them to carry out the raid. “Some team members misbehaved with women. It has become a routine for the electricity officials to harass villagers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-officials-cops-held-hostage-in-hisar-village-101629576372255.html
22-08-2021||Other||GGN Khalsa College, Ludhiana organises seminar on books penned by city teenagers||Pondering over an idea, creating a thread of words and then jotting it down on a piece of paper is all one needs to reach anywhere, anytime in the world during this pandemic, said deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma at a seminar organised on Saturday at Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College here.Organised by the post graduate department of English under the aegis of Gujranwala Khalsa Education Council, the event was in appreciation of young minds Sukhmani Brar, Pratibha Sharma, Baruni Arora, Sehajal Sharma and Oshin Sangha for penning down poetry volumes titled Lost in the Night Sky, Summer Enigma, Your Soulmate is You and Just Keep Going.Dr Sushmimdarjeet Kaur, Associate Professor and Head, P. G. Department of English, recited beautiful and soulful lines from the poetry created by the teenagers.Dr SP Singh, president of Gujranwala Khalsa Education Council and former V-C, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, appreciated the endeavours of the department for organising an event to provide a platform to the young and talented minds to show their talent.The event progressed with an observation of the books by Dr. Hargunjot Kaur, Associate Professor, PG department of English by delineating on the matured writing of all the writers. Talking about the book ‘Summer Enigma’, by Pratibha Sharma and Baruni Arora, she explained that it’s a story about four teenagers who take the reader on a virtual journey where a murder takes place and these teenagers solved the mystery.Sehajal Sharma’s book Your Soulmate is You talks about the awareness of identity and her poems end with an evolution of the poets.The book Lost in the Night Sky by Sukhmani Brar is an observation of people, their lives and the things that surround. Complete surrender to love is needed to realise the dreams, the book says.Oshin Sangha’s book Just Keep Going has deep emotive meanings, usage of metaphors, faith and constructive lifestyle.Professor Tajinder Kaur, head of the department of English, Ramgarhia College, Ludhiana, also analysed the books stating that the children had emerged stronger from the era of pandemic. She said that the books had emerged from a mature minds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ggn-khalsa-college-ludhiana-organises-seminar-on-books-penned-by-city-teenagers-101629576312623.html
22-08-2021||Other||New Ludhiana police chief bans low quality helmets||Soon after taking charge, the newly appointed commissioner of police Naunihal Singh issued orders banning the use of helmets that don’t meet the safety standards laid down by the Indian Standards Institute (ISI).Besides, the police chief has also asked the auto-rickshaw drivers to reverse the modification done on three wheelers to accommodate more passengers. He also directed the vehicle owners to procure their registration numbers within the stipulated 30 days. The order reads that those indulging in the sale of the plastic string will be dealt with strictly.The commissioner of police also issued orders to the shopkeepers, who sell uniforms of defence forces, to keep a record of the details of the buyers. The order also reads that stern action will be taken against those found using VIP tags of police and other defence forces.The police chief further directed owners of houses to get police verification of their talents, failing which action will be taken for non-compliance with the orders. Hookah bars bannedNaunihal Singh also banned hookah bars. He stated that stern action will be taken against those serving tobacco in hookah bars. The police commissioner also ordered the bar owners to ensure compliance with mandatory guidelines and keep a record of visitors.The order reads that action will be taken against street vendors obstructing public movement by encroaching upon the road.Further, the commissioner also banned swimming in canals and water bodies as it might lead to persons losing their lives due to drowning.Gurdial Singh is new SSP of Ludhiana rural Punjab Police Service officer Gurdial Singh has taken charge as the new Ludhiana (rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP). He has replaced Charanjit Singh Shoal, who has been transferred to Muktsar. Gurdial has previously served as AIG Intelligence, CID, DSP, Sarabha Nagar and also held the charge of DSP traffic in Ludhiana. After taking charge, the SSP said that tightening the noose around the neck of anti-social elements would be his top priority. He said that the grievances of the poor and needy will be addressed on a priority basis. Further stress will be laid on solving the traffic concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-ludhiana-police-chief-bans-low-quality-helmets-101629576253412.html
22-08-2021||Other||Scribe lets loose ‘Mom Da Shaitan’||A Punjabi book titled ‘Mom Da Shaitan’ was released at Punjabi Bhawan on Saturday. The book, comprising six short stories, has been authored by Tarsem Singh Deogan, a journalist with the Hindustan Times. This is the second book penned by him. His first book ‘Lakkad de Bhande’ was released in 2015. Padma Shri awardee Surjeet Patar was the chief guest. AIG crime Bhupinder Singh Sidhu, eminent writer, and author Dr Kewal Dheer, former principal of Ramgarhia Girls College Dr Narinder Kaur Sandhu, and writer Sukhjeet, were the special guests. Patar said, “All six stories are beautifully penned, and the writer’s efforts are much appreciated,” he said. Dr Dhir added, “Tarsem raised the level of Punjabi story writing by coming up with this interesting book.”AIG Bhupinder Singh said Tarsem, who is a journalist, was able to devote time to write this book despite his busy schedule. This makes his effort all the more laudable, he added. “It is my passion for writing that helped me complete the book. These days, book reading habit is slowly waning away, especially in the youth. This book is an effort to inspire young writers and to connect with young readers,” said Tarsem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scribe-lets-loose-mom-da-shaitan-101629576252267.html
22-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana DC releases poster of short film ‘Bojh’||Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma called upon the society to take a vow to empower women on this Rakshabandhan. He said this while releasing the poster of director and actor Deep Jagdeep’s short film ’Bojh’ at his residence here on Saturday. Dr Bishav Mohan, cardiologist, Prabhdeep Singh Nathowal, district public relations officer, Moga, among others, were also present. Actor Deep Jagdeep informed that the film is being released on Rakshabandhan. Producer Sukhjit Kambo, Nimrata Kamboj, Preet, Jas Grange, Balwinder Kaur, Mansirat Kaur Bani, Renu Mehra, Gurpreet Singh, Deepan Baweja, Palwinder Singh, Vishal, Raj Verma, Krish Sharma and others have contributed to the film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-dc-releases-poster-of-short-film-bojh-101629576193224.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||200 booked in Jind for burning bags with photos of PM, CM||The Jind police on Saturday booked nearly 200 people for burning the empty bags supplied to depot shops recently under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. The bags contain pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala.In the FIR, 10 people have been booked by name under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 53 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code, and Public Property Act,1985, on two complaints lodged by depot holders Sukhpal and Kuldeep Kumar.Jind BKU (Charuni) president Azad Singh Palwan said the cases were registered in frustration as the BJP-JJP leaders had not been allowed to enter Jind villages since November last year. “We protested by torching the empty bags to highlight misuse of government funds by printing photos of the PM, CM and his deputy on every bag that costs more than the flour it will carry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/200-booked-in-jind-for-burning-bags-with-photos-of-pm-cm-101629576134079.html
22-08-2021||Other||Amritsar registers slight lead on 2nd day of semi-finals of inter-district U-16 cricket tourney||Amritsar registered a 26-run lead on the second day of the semi-final of the PCA inter-district U-16 cricket tournament at GRD Global Education institute.Continuing from their overnight score of 64 for 2 in 35 overs, the Amritsar team could only add 101 runs and was bundled out for 165 in 86.5 overs.Aishveen Singh was the top scorer with 48 runs, while Varinder Viru and Rishab Gupta scored 29 runs each.While Karanjt Singh took six wickets for 29 runs, Anmoljit Singh took three wickets for 45 runs.Playing the second innings, Ludhiana lost nine wickets for 88 runs in 56 overs.Varundeep Singh of Amritsar took five wickets for 38 runs, while Sehbaj Gill took two wickets for nine runs.In the first innings, Ludhiana scored 139 runs for 10 wickets (all-out) in 73.3 overs. Amritsar scored 165 runs for 10 wickets (all-out) in 86.5 overs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-registers-slight-lead-on-2nd-day-of-semi-finals-of-inter-district-u-16-cricket-tourney-101629576133064.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU experts discuss use of paddy straw as feed||The directorate of extension education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, organised a workshop for animal scientists working at all KVKs of the state to explore the use of paddy straw as animal feed.Inderjeet Singh, the vice-chancellor, stressed joint efforts of PAU, GADVASU, and line departments to make farmers aware of the use of paddy straw as a cheaper source of livestock nutrition.He said that out of 8 MT of rice straw being burnt in the field, 0.8 MT can be consumed by unproductive animals kept in gaushalas.Rajbir Singh, director, Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Ludhiana, advised scientists to find reasons for less use of paddy straw in Punjab as compared to other states and address them.JS Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, asked all KVKs to immediately start with trials at KVK dairy farms to generate reliable data and develop demonstration units.During the workshop, treatment of paddy straw with urea and molasses to improve its nutritive value, making urea treated bales during harvesting and exporting to adjoining states were discussed apart from its alternate uses in livestock.Misconceptions about the ill effects of paddy straw feeding were also cleared by the scientists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-experts-discuss-use-of-paddy-straw-as-feed-101629576132021.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 195 children rescued from railway stations, trains this year||In a joint operation, the local Government Railway Police (GRP), Railway Protection Force (RPF), and Railway ChildLine have rescued a total of 195 children to date this year.According to the officials, many of these children had run away from their homes after altercations with their families and were found sitting at the railway station. They were timely rescued and counselled by the railway security teams along with the child helpline officials.The railway teams rescued and counselled nine children in January, 16 in February, 39 in March, 18 in April, 33 in May, 30 in June, 32 in July, and 18 to date in August.Kuldip Mann, director of Railway Child Line, said that families could have lost their children if they weren’t rescued timely.“These children could have become beggars or could have become prey to child labour or child trafficking if they weren’t rescued in time. We work as a unit along with RPF and GRP and try our best to save families,” said Mann.SAKHI reunites over 50 families SAKHI, the special women team of Ludhiana Railway Protection Force (RPF), formed in April this year, for ensuring the safety of women and children in the trains and at the railway platforms, rescued 57 children out of the total 195 and reunited them with their families.The team rescued six children in April, 10 in May, 25 in June, 10 in July, and six in August to date.Seema Rani, a resident of Jodhewal Basti, Ludhiana, and mother of a Class seven student who was rescued from platform number four of Ludhiana railway station on August 15, said, “I can’t thank railway authorities enough for reuniting us with our 14-year-old child. I will always be grateful to them”Praising the women RPF team, station director Tarun Kumar said that the team works hard to ensure women’s safety in trains too.“Other than rescuing children, the SAKHI team has caught over 5,500 people violating railway rules. These violations include passengers travelling without ticket, unauthorised food vendors, consumption of tobacco at public places, littering at railway stations or trains, and people travelling without masks”, told Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-195-children-rescued-from-railway-stations-trains-this-year-101629576076133.html
22-08-2021||Other||Foundation stone of sports park laid at Haibowal Dairy Complex area||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu laid the foundation stone of a sports park in the Haibowal Dairy Complex area. He was accompanied by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, besides several others.The cabinet minister, who is initiating various development works ahead of the polls, informed that the sports park is being developed on two acres of land at ₹50 lakh and will have proper fencing, lights, sports grounds, and grass. He said that the work will be completed in the next three months.He said that almost all existing sports infrastructure in Ludhiana are in the process of getting upgraded. This includes a new athletics synthetic track at Guru Nanak Stadium, while work on indoor swimming pool would also start shortly.Other sports infrastructures that will be upgraded include the Shastri Hall, basketball stadium, table tennis stadium, and hockey astroturf at PAU.He said that for increasing green cover and contributing to the conservation of the environment, several new green belts and leisure valleys have already been developed on more than 50 acres of area in Ludhiana city alone, while many more are either under construction or in the pipeline.The cabinet minister directed MC officials to undertake a massive plantation drive on vacant land in the city.He informed that a green belt has been developed in the Sidhwan Canal waterfront project, a leisure valley opposite DAV Public School in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, along with several other green belts and parks in the area. Another leisure valley on six-acre land is under construction in Haibowal, a leisure valley in Ludhiana (East), green belts are being developed properly on both sides of old GT Road, starting from Sherpur Chowk till Jalandhar Bypass Chowk, he added.Finally, work on indoor swimming pool to beginCity-based swimming enthusiasts have reason to rejoice as the MC is soon going to initiate the indoor swimming project at Rakh Bagh that is hanging fire for over 20 years.Ashu said that the indoor swimming pool had been a long pending demand of the city residents, and the work on it would commence shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/foundation-stone-of-sports-park-laid-at-haibowal-dairy-complex-area-101629576011937.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet minister’s son-in-law assaulted in Ludhiana||Amit Batra, son-in-law of cabinet minister Sunder Sham Arora, was allegedly assaulted by four men near Eldeco Estate, Hussainpura village, on Friday night.ADCP -I Pragya Jain said that they are investigating the incident and as the victim has suffered injuries, he has not recorded his statement yet. “It is not yet clear what exactly happened,” said Jain.As per preliminary investigation, Batra was driving home when he was waylaid by four unidentified men.He was then assaulted and robbed of cash and valuables, stated a family member.Amit was soon rushed to the hospital. High alert has been sounded in the area and CCTV cameras in the vicinity are being checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-minister-s-son-in-law-assaulted-in-ludhiana-101629575952121.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Malayali community tone down Onam celebrations in Chandigarh and around||The 10-day Onam celebrations were a low-key affair this year after the impact of the Covid pandemic and Thiruvonam, which concludes the festival, was also celebrated at home by the Malayali community here in the tricity.Chairman of the Confederation of Keralite Organisations in Tricity, Benny Thomas, said, “This is the second year that we did not have any public functions for Onam. Earlier, we would hold Onam Sadhya where we would serve over 22 vegetarian dishes on a banana leaf in the traditional way.”In the previous years, the Ayyappa Temple in Sector 47 would host big cultural functions on Onam, but nothing major was done this year. As per temple secretary Sunil K Nair, a private event will be held on Sunday for the members of the executive body: “Around 50 of us will gather in the temple and have a small event. Previously, over 100 people used to show up.” Temple president PV Sudhakaran said that a pooja held on Saturday didn’t see much participation. The temple had remained closed in 2020, he added. The president of Ayyappa Society in Mohali, Unnikrishnan, added that due to the pandemic, everyone was in a sombre mood and no celebrations were held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malayali-community-tone-down-onam-celebrations-in-chandigarh-and-around-101629575835655.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC upholds PSPCL’s decision to close down school in Ropar||The Punjab and Haryana high court has upheld the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited’s (PSPCL) decision to close down a school which it was running at the Power Colony area of Roopnagar. Students from the colony had challenged the PSPCL’s decision taken in July 2020, arguing that it was in violation of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. As per the Act, all children in the age group of 6 to 14 years are entitled to free and compulsory primary education in neighbourhood schools. Rules entitled the Punjab Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2011, have been framed by Punjab under the central law. According to this, students from Classes 1 to 5 must have access to a school within a distance of 1 kilometre from their house, and those from Classes 6 to 8 within three kilometres, the court was told.It was also informed that Nuhon Colony is at a distance of 15 kilometres from Power Colony. Thus, the decision is in violation of central law and rules framed under it. It was also argued that PSPCL is a “local authority” mentioned under RTE Act and is duty bound to establish schools. As per PSPCL, all employees will be allotted houses in Nuhon Colony, where a school is already established. Further, the step was taken to reduce costs at Roopnagar, as power generation is reducing. The PSPCL is not a “local authority” as defined in RTE Act, and it has no duty to establish a neighbourhood school and some government schools are already functioning in the area, it had submitted. The bench of justice Sudhir Mittal took note of submissions that only bodies like municipal corporation, municipal council, zila parishad, nagar panchayat and panchayat come under the definition of “local authority’. “Thus, only municipal corporations etc. and such other bodies are covered by the definition of “local authority”. PSPCL does not exercise any kind of control, nor does it have any function in relation to the administration of a city, town or village and thus, it is not covered under the definition,” the bench said, while holding that no fundamental or statutory right of the children is violated by closing down the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-upholds-pspcl-s-decision-to-close-down-school-in-ropar-101629575834328.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali man denied bail in drug seizure case||The high court has denied bail to a Mohali resident who claimed to be a passenger while sitting in the front seat of an auto-rickshaw with the driver in a case of drug seizure.“The auto-rickshaw was being driven by Harjit Singh Baidwan and by his side was sitting one Gurlal, who cannot be said to be a passenger. In case he was one, he would have been sitting in the rear seat. The fact that he was sitting in the front shows that he was a close acquaintance or a friend of Baidwan,” the bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill said, adding that in these circumstances, both the accused could safely be attributed conscious possession of the recovered contraband.The FIR was registered on January 17 under Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. As per the police, when they were patrolling in Sector 66 of Mohali, an auto-rickshaw being driven by Baidwan was signalled to stop; Gurlal was sitting in the front with him. The driver tried to speed away but the police were able to stop them.Upon checking, a black bag was found to be hanging from the driver seat in which 14 injections of Buprenorphine (2ml each) and 14 Avil vials (10ml each) along with seven needles were recovered. The duo could not produce any document to justify the possession of the injections.The petitioners’ counsel had told court that they had falsely been implicated and that they could not be attributed conscious possession of the contraband allegedly recovered. In any case, as per Rule 66 of the NDPS Act, an individual may possess up to 100 dosage units at a time for personal medical use, and that the recovered quantity was much less than that. It was further argued that Gurlal was a passenger in the auto-rickshaw.The court while dismissing the plea observed that the court was unable to accept the contention as the petitioners could not show anything to the effect that the same was for their personal medical use. The recovered quantity of contraband fell in the category of “commercial” and would attract fetters imposed by Section 37 of the NDPS Act in the matter of grant of bail, the court said, adding that the apex court had already held that a liberal approach in matters of bail in drug seizure cases was uncalled for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-man-denied-bail-in-drug-seizure-case-101629575833485.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||As Covid cases dip in Chandigarh, sales pick up this Rakshabandhan||With Covid cases going down, the festival of Rakhshabandhan that remained a lacklustre affair in 2020, is showing signs of improvement this year with shopkeepers reporting nearly 50% jump in sales across city markets.Speaking about this, proprietor of Dewsun in Sector 11, Diwakar Sahoonja, said, “The situation has greatly improved this time, but it is still not along the lines of previous years. Rather than shop for sweets, people are opting for healthy items like juices with no added sugar.”Last year rakhis with matching masks were introduced, but the trend has gone out of fashion now: “Masks have become the norm now and people don’t want to be reminded of Covid anymore,” he said.The footfall in markets has gone up now, which is encouraging for traders. President of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal Charanjiv Singh said, “The response on Rakshabandhan is encouraging and more good news is due for traders with festivals like Dussehra and Diwali coming up.”Malls are still testing the waters. When contacted, officials from Elante Mall said that they hadn’t planned anything special and Rakshabandhan on Sunday would be business as usual.Sale of sweets returns to normalThe sale of sweets has also returned back to normal as per owners of various sweetshops of the city. Proprietor of Sindhi Sweets Neeraj Bajaj said, “People are going out more now. Due to the rains on Saturday, our business remained affected, but the effect of Covid has reduced.”Proprietor of Uttam Sweets in Sector 46, Balwinder Singh, said, “We expect most of our sales will be on Sunday as people pick up fresh sweets. The cashew nut barfi remains our best-seller.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-covid-cases-dip-in-chandigarh-sales-pick-up-this-rakshabandhan-101629575832518.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey Chandigarh felicitates Tokyo Olympics’ heroes||Taking a cue from various state governments and other bodies, Hockey Chandigarh felicitated five stars of the Tokyo Olympics at a function held in the city on Saturday. The five players received a cash award of ₹5 lakh each, while the two coaches were given ₹2.5 lakh each. Those felicitated include Rupinder Pal Singh and Gurjant Singh from the men’s team; Monika Malik, Sharmila Devi and Reena Khokhar from the women’s team and coaches Shivendra Singh and Gurminder Singh. The Indian men’s hockey team won a bronze medal at the competition while the women reached the semi-finals. Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya was the chief guest on the occasion while Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi was the guest of honour. The governor said that the Haryana government had given ₹23.25 crore as reward to outstanding players, adding that all states should prepare a sports policy to encourage athletes so that they can perform even better. Sodhi spoke about sprucing up facilities in Punjab. He said, “While new facilities will be created in the state, existing ones will be upgraded”, he said. Other prominent office bearers who were present included Anil Vohra, general secretary of Hockey Chandigarh; former Indian hockey team captain Gagan Ajit Singh and Tejdeep Singh Saini, UT sports director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hockey-chandigarh-felicitates-tokyo-olympics-heroes-101629575776776.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Woman among 2 held for running fake call centre in Zirakpur||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police on Saturday arrested two people including a woman who were operating a fake call centre in Zirakpur and had duped a man of ₹41,340 on the promise of giving him a loan.The accused are Vikram Singh from Delhi and Navneet Kaur from Kapurthala in Punjab.The cyber crime team has recovered two registers, 16 mobile phones and 17 sim cards and a laptop from them and are questioning them to find out the identity of their accomplices and victims. Police said their victims were from Bihar, Maharashtra, UP, Jharkhand, Punjab and Gujarat.Police lodged the FIR case based on the complaint of Nitesh Kumar Sharma, who stated that he had received a SMS regarding the availability of a loan under Jandhan Yojana, where a contact number was provided.When he called, he was asked to deposit ₹41,340 as file charges, stamp duty and insurance, which he did. But, the loan was not sanctioned, and the number was also switched off.A case was registered on July 24 under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code at the Sector 31 police station. The accused were produced in court on Saturday, which remanded Vikram to three days in police custody while Kaur was sent to judicial custody.Police said they used a similar modus operandi to dupe their other victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-among-2-held-for-running-fake-call-centre-in-zirakpur-101629575773198.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana passengers fume as railway cancellations put a crimp in Rakhi celebrations||Despite the mercury dropping a couple of notches in Ludhiana city, the temperature at the Ludhiana railway station on Saturday remained sizzling with around 40 trains cancelled in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ protest at Jalandhar railway lines.The timing of the protest, a day before Raksha Bandhan, added to the commuters’ discontent as most of them were headed home to be with their families and celebrate the festival.Trains running towards Amritsar and Katra were primarily affected. The trains that were cancelled include Vande Bharat, which plies from New Delhi to Katra; Shane-e-Punjab, which plies from New Delhi to Amritsar; Amritsar-New Delhi evening Shatabdi; Paschim Express which plies on the Mumbai-Amritsar route; Jan Shatabdi Express, which runs from Amritsar to Haridwar; Malwa Express which plies from Katra to Indore; Shri Shakti Express, which runs on the Katra-Delhi Route. 10 trains short terminatedMeanwhile, around 10 trains were short terminated, including the morning Shatabdi. Apart from this, the routes of around 20 trains, including the Amritsar-Howrah special train and Amritsar-Mumbai Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) Express special train, which was to run on Sunday have been diverted by the northern railways, officials said, adding that these were temporary diversions.The Ludhiana railway station, which is usually among the busiest railway stations in Punjab, was mostly deserted. However, a few people could be seen running from pillar to post to enquire after the status of their trains.One such disgruntled passenger, Manvendra, who had reached the station with his wife and child to board the Malwa Express, said, “I work at a food joint here in Ludhiana. We were planning to visit our home in Jhansi on occasion of Rakhi, but my train has been cancelled. My sister and parents were also excited as we were going to meet after a long time, but it was not to be.”  ₹2 lakh refund issuedSimilarly, Rohit Kumar, who had booking a berth in the Amritsar-Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna special train for Banaras, looked dejected. “I booked my train well in time as I had to visit my sister for Rakhi. After reaching the station, I got to know that the train had been cancelled. I do not have enough money to immediately choose an alternative mode of travel,’ he rued.Notably, till the filing of this report, the railway had issued a refund amounting to ₹2 lakh to passengers, which will take around 72 hours to be processed. Meanwhile, Tarvinder Singh of Vadodra, Gujrat, said that he had come to Ludhiana for a meeting and had to return on Friday but had to prolong his stay. Station director Tarun Kumar said authorities were arranging seats for passengers in alternative trains the best they could in the circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-passengers-fume-as-railway-cancellations-put-a-crimp-in-rakhi-celebrations-101629575713360.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||40kg of heroin seized from Pakistan border in Gurdaspur||In a joint operation, the Border Security Force (BSF) and Punjab Police seized 40.810kg of heroin from along the Indo-Pak border in the Dera Baba Nanak sector of Gurdaspur district in the wee hours of Saturday. The contraband, which was packed in 39 plastic packets, was pushed into Indian territory through a PVC pipe inserted through the barbed wire fence in the Panjgraian border outpost (BOP) area. Police said the operation was launched around 2.30am when some movement was noticed along the border. The BSF opened fire on noticing suspects across the barbed wire fence and ahead of the zero line, but they managed to retreat.Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said following a tip-off that Nirmal Singh, alias Sonu Mayer, a notorious smuggler of the Gharinda area, was trying to smuggle heroin through the border, senior superintendent of police (SSP-Amritsar rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana shared the information with BSF officials. A police team comprising deputy superintendent of police (DSP-investigation) Gurinderpal Singh and DSP, Ajnala, Vipan Kumar also reached the spot, said the DGP. Besides recovering 40kg of heroin, the police and BSF also seized 180 grams of opium and two plastic pipes, said the DGP, adding a motorcycle and a scooter belonging to Indian smugglers have been impounded.“The police have launched a hunt to arrest Sonu, who is also wanted by the Tarn Taran police in a heroin recovery case of 2020,” said SSP Khurana. The smugglers used a Pakistan-made plastic pipe to push the heroin, tied neatly in packets, across the fence. A case under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act, Section 14 of the Foreigners Act and Sections 3, 34, 20 Indian Passport Act has been registered at the Ramdas police station in Amritsar, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40kg-of-heroin-seized-from-pakistan-border-in-gurdaspur-101629575472319.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Govt will pay insurance scheme premium for 3.24 lakh women: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday said the state government has decided to deposit about ₹40-lakh premium of ‘Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana’ from ‘Mukhyamantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana’ to help the women of self-help groups associated with the ‘Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission’. About 3.25 lakh women will benefit from this decision, he said. Dushyant, who holds the portfolio of rural development, said the economic condition of the rural women has been affected during the pandemic. He said about 4.91 lakh women are associated with Mission in the state and about 1.64 lakh have got themselves covered under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana for a premium of only ₹12 per annum. Under this plan, there is a risk cover of ₹2 lakh in case of death or total disability, and ₹1 lakh in case of partial disability. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-will-pay-insurance-scheme-premium-for-3-24-lakh-women-dushyant-101629575412183.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Financial bungling in livelihood mission: Kaithal DC recommends FIR against 5 officials||Kaithal deputy commissioner has recommended termination of service and registration of an FIR against seven people, including five officials of the Haryana State Rural Livelihoods Mission (HSRLM), for financial irregularities and other wrongdoings. Taking note of an investigation by the additional deputy commissioner Satbir Kundu, deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya made the recommendations in a communication to the HSRLM chief executive officer (CEO). The inquiry was conducted by Kundu about five months ago and the DC has taken note following protest by the members of some self-help groups on August 16. The inquiry report has indicted district project manager Rajat Bhaskar, Siwan block project manager Ramphal Sharma, president of women self-help group Renu, treasurer Sunia, data entry operators Neera (Dhand block), Sunaina (Pundri block) and Rakesh Sharma (Rajaund block) of financial irregularities. The matter came to light when some members of the women self-help groups raised the issue on the ‘CM Window’ and an inquiry was ordered. During the investigation, irregularities were found in sanctioning of loans and procurement of materials of different nature. In one instance, a self-help group claimed ₹40,813 for their spending on tea and snacks, but the bills submitted totalled only ₹20,141. The report found seven people guilty of financial irregularities, and violating the bylaws by not replacing members every two years. Also, they did not get any audit done from a chartered accountant, the report pointed out. Deputy commissioner Dahiya confirmed that he has written to the department concerned for further action as per the findings of the inquiry report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/financial-bungling-in-livelihood-mission-kaithal-dc-recommends-fir-against-5-officials-101629575292878.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man suffers cardiac arrest while driving, kills scooterist||In a freak accident, a man suffered a cardiac arrest while driving and rammed his car into the two-wheeler of a woman and hit two other vehicles near Ram Sharnam, Hambra Road, on Saturday before coming to a stop. Both, the woman, 34-year-old Reema Maghu, a resident of Kitchlu Nagar, who was mowed down by the careening vehicle; and the driver, Arun Jain, 45, also a resident of Haibowal succumbed at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Arun who was driving a grey coloured Toyota Innova suddenly felt excruciating pain in his chest and instead of hitting the brake, pressed the accelerator and rammed into Reema’s scooter. After hitting two more vehicles, Aurn finally alighted from his car trembling in fear and holding his chest. A woman in Arun’s car also suffered injuries.Rakhi festivities turn sourReema’s relatives said she was on the way to the market to purchase rakhis when she was hit by the car and was planning to visit her parents on Sunday. The accident took place merely 2-km away from her house. Reema is survived by her husband and two young children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-suffers-cardiac-arrest-while-driving-kills-scooterist-101629575291910.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tests rule out deficiency in food quality behind blackbuck deaths||BATHINDATests of feed and fodder samples by the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) has ruled out any quality deficiency in the food quality behind deaths of three blackbucks, a protected wildlife species, at a mini zoo in Bathinda’s Bir Talab.The post-examination report of antelopes, including two females, is expected next week. It will throw light on the reasons behind sudden deaths at zoo’s deer safari, state wildlife officials said on Saturday. The affected wildlife was below one year.Blackbuck is Punjab’s state animal and it is covered under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972.Sudden deaths in captivity on Wednesday triggered health concerns of the wildlife as the zoo houses about 200 antelopes in the open deer safari, including 112 blackbucks, sambar and hog deer. The mini-zoo that also has three leopards, and several herbivorous species, including emu and birds, has no full-time veterinarian.Following blackbuck mortality, forest range officer Pawan Sridhar was removed as in-charge of the zoo. Services of the lone veterinarian, who was hired on ad hoc, were also discontinued with immediate effect.Punjab’s chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Charchil Kumar said viscera samples are being analysed by experts at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana.“Deaths of blackbucks are being watched closely. It is premature to attribute reason to the wildlife mortality,” he added.Amarinder Singh, who took charge of the mini zoon on Saturday, said the university scientists may take another 10 days to submit a report as the body tissues are being cultured at the laboratory for in-depth study of deaths.Bathinda divisional forest officer (DFO) Swaran Singh said a team of veterinarians from Chhatbir Zoo on Friday audited wildlife health and safety at Bir Talab facility.“Other wildlife in the safari did not show any symptom of illness. But behaviour of the animals is being monitored,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tests-rule-out-deficiency-in-food-quality-behind-blackbuck-deaths-101629575231956.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||53-year-old Ludhiana banker suffers severe burn injuries||In a freak accident, a 53- year-old man suffered severe burn injuries on Saturday after a bottle of fuel caught fire while he was on the terrace of his house on Noorwala Road.The injured man, Pawan Kumar, who works at a private bank, was rushed to a hospital. The doctors there said he had suffered 65% burn injuries. Kumar’s son is a software engineer while his daughter is pursuing her higher studies.Pawan’s family said the bottle caught fire while he was on the terrace and he was injured while trying to put off the flames.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/53yearold-ludhiana-banker-suffers-severe-burn-injuries-101629575053220.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||MDU link in Haryana’s success story in sports||Four alumni of colleges affiliated to Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, have brought Olympic medals for India since the 2008 Beijing event when boxer Vijender Singh bagged the bronze medal. Wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt won a bronze for India in the 2012 London Olympics, wrestler Sakshi Malik secured a bronze in the 2016 Rio event and Ravi Dahiya, another wrestler, recently came back with a silver medal from Tokyo. The Rohtak varsity has produced as many as 276 international-level players in various disciplines. Twelve of the 30 players from Haryana who were part of the Indian contingent at Tokyo Olympics had a MDU connection. Wrestlers Sonam Malik and Anshu Malik, and three women hockey players — Neha, Monika Malik and Nisha Warsi — are at present students in different colleges affiliated to the MDU. As many as 27 MDU alumni, including Geeta Phogat, Babita Phogat, Vinesh Phogat, Sakshi Malik (all wrestlers); Vijender Singh, Akhil Kumar, Jai Bhagwan (boxers); Mamta Kharab (hockey) and wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, have been honoured with prestigious Arjuna Award. Raj Kumar Sangwan, a boxer, was the first MDU alumni to receive the Arjuna Award in 1996. Also, 20 MDU alumni have represented India in the Commonwealth Games and nearly 40 have secured a medal in the Asian Games, to date. MDU sports director Devender Singh Dhull said Haryana has emerged as the best state in the country in producing international players and MDU has played a crucial role in it. “We have produced four Olympic medallists since 2008 and all of them had represented MDU in the inter-university tourneys,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mdu-link-in-haryana-s-success-story-in-sports-101629575052104.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal detention: HC directs Moga SSP to register case against SHO, 3 other cops||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) to register a case against former station house officer (SHO) of Badhni Kalan, an assistant sub-inspector and two other cops for illegally detaining an elderly couple. The cops had detained them for four days and later registered a case of abetment of suicide against them.The high court’s directions came after the Moga district and sessions judge conducted an inquiry and found the cops guilty of illegal detention of Shinda Singh and his wife Paramjit Kaur of Rania village.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi also directed the Moga police to constitute a special investigation team to look into the case of abetment of suicide registered against them at the Badhni Kalan police station on March 4.Victims’ counsel Arshdeep Brar said the couple was illegally detained and FIR was registered in the first week of March.“SI Karamjeet Singh, then SHO of Badhni Kalan police station, had illegally detained Shinda and his wife Paramjit on March 1. The very next day, acquaintances of the victims and local activists approached the high court. On March 3, the court had appointed a warrant officer to look into the matter,” Brar said.“The warrant officer visited the Badhni Kalan police station on some day and did not find the victims there. The police somehow got information about the warrant officer’s visit and shifted victims to some unknown place. On March 4, the then SHO registered a case of abetment of suicide against the couple, their son and two activists, who approached the court. The incident of suicide, in which they were made accused, took place on February 25,” he added.Later, the high court directed district and sessions judge, Moga, to conduct an inquiry. The report has been submitted in the high court.“In his report, the district and sessions judge said that SI Karamjit Singh, SHO, Badhni Kalan, ASI Jaswant Rai, Gunman Pawan Kumar and a lady police official are guilty of illegal detention of Shinda and Paramjit. In view of the report, the SSP is directed to register an FIR against the above said persons found to be guilty of having illegally detained Shinda Singh and Paramjit Kaur,” the order reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-detention-hc-directs-moga-ssp-to-register-case-against-sho-3-other-cops-101629574931896.html
22-08-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra case: All that has happened||When policemen arrived at Green Park bungalow in Madh village on February 4, the languid noontime air of the partly-rural Mumbai suburb belied the frenetic activity taking place inside. A team of police officers from Mumbai Crime Branch (CB)’s Property Cell found light diffusers, LED halogen lights, illuminators, a tripod camera stand, a laptop, and a high definition video camera pointed towards a bed. On it laid a young couple in their mid-20s in a state of partial undress. They were enacting an intimate scene. It appeared to be a shoot till the 25-year-old woman spoke up. Her revelation blew the lid off what the police claimed is a pornography racket. On February 5, the Malwani police station lodged a First Information Report against five persons present at the shoot: producer Yasmin Khan aka Rowa (40), actors Bhanu Thakur (26) and Mohamamad Saifi (24), light man Monu Joshi (28), and graphic designer Pratibha Nalawade (33). They were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 420 (cheating), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays), as well as the Information Technology Act, including 67 (publishing/transmitting obscene material in electronic form), 67A (publication/ transmission of sexually explicit act in electronic form) and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. Over the following weeks, the CB, which took over the probe, would arrest more people: actor Vandana Tiwari (aka Gehana Vasisth), director Tanvir Hashmi, and Umesh Kamat, a representative with UK-based production company Kenrin Limited, which owns HotShots app. And then, on July 19, businessman Ripu Sudan Kundra, better known as Raj Kundra, actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband was arrested. A five-month long investigation leading up to his arrest revealed that alleged pornographic content — such as that being shot in the Madh village bungalow — was distributed over subscription-based mobile apps like HotHit Movies and Hotshots, as well as websites like Hothitmovies, Nuefliks, and Escapenow. Accounts of witnesses and complainants revealed that the accused threatened actors, who hoped for a big break in films or web series, to get them to comply. “There was a case registered with the Crime Branch Mumbai in February 2021 about the creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. We’ve arrested Mr Raj Kundra in this case on July 19 as he appears to be the key conspirator. We have sufficient evidence,” the Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale said in a statement after Kundra’s arrest. According to the police, the Hotshots app was developed by Armsprime Media Private Limited, a firm founded by Kundra in 2019. Armsprime later sold Hotshots to Kenrin Limited, a UK-based firm, owned by Kundra’s brother-in-law Pradeep Bakshi. “Though the company [Kenrin] was registered in London, content creation, operation of the app and accounting was done through Kundra’s Viaan Industries,” Joint Commissioner of Mumbai Police (Crime Branch) Milind Bharambe said. Kundra and Shetty are promoters of Viaan Industries. While Kundra is no longer associated with Armsprime, the police did find email messages between Kundra and Bakshi allegedly about the Hotshots. The making of obscene content and its distribution are both punishable under various sections of the Indian law, including the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO). Its illegality hinges on the creation and distribution of that which is considered lascivious and prurient. Section 292 of the IPC states: “Whoever takes part in or receives profits from any business in the course of which he knows or has reason to believe that any such obscene objects are for any of the purposes aforesaid, made, produced, purchased, kept, imported, exported, conveyed, publicly exhibited or in any manner put into circulation shall be punished.” Section 293 makes it illegal to distribute obscene content to anyone below 20 years of age in particular. And, in pre-internet era, the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act sought to prohibit indecent representation of women through advertisements or in publications, writings, paintings, figures or in any other manner. Thus, while shooting for adult content and viewing porn is illegal – several websites are periodically blocked by the government -- watching adult content is not an illegal act. [It is however, illegal to watch pornography involving children as per the IT Act.] The actor who was present at Green Park bungalow on February 4 turned case witness and told the cops that Yasmin (the producer) and other associates allegedly promised her a break in a web-series, but it was only when she arrived at the shoot that she realised she was to perform “obscene scenes”. “The woman protested that there was no information given in advance about the need to shoot scenes that were allegedly shot in the nude and were pornographic,” an investigator with the Crime Branch (property cell), who is part of the team investigating the case, said. “The accused persons present at the spot allegedly threatened and pressured the woman to perform the scenes,” the officer, who did not wish to be named, said. The young woman’s statement prompted others to come out. Three more women came forward with similar complaints against some of the accused. The Malwani police registered two complaints, the Lonavala police registered one. In all, 12 persons have been arrested in the cases so far and it is likely that the Crime Branch will take over all pornography-related cases. In February, the police verified that payments for HotHit used the gateway paykun.com. They have frozen a bank account, with a balance of ₹36.5 lakh, purportedly amassed from subscriptions to mobile apps and websites where adult films made by the accused arrested in February were uploaded. On August 13, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was set up. “The SIT will conduct further investigation into the case that was being handled by the Property Cell and two other cases that the Malwani police had registered based on complaints,” Assistant Commissioner of Police Shashank Sandbhor, who leads the SIT, said. The police have reportedly found evidence linking Kenrin with Viaan Industries including Whatsapp messages, email exchanges, and accounting details after a search of Kundra’s office. “As incriminating evidence was gathered in this case, the CB arrested Raj Kundra and his IT head Ryan Thorpe while further probe continues,” a CB official familiar with the probe said. “The content creation and operations of Hotshots app was carried out through a company named Viaan. While raiding the premises of the company we found evidence, on the basis of which we arrested Raj Kundra,” Bharambe said. The police said that Kundra was allegedly administrator of two mobile apps that disseminated obscene videos — Hotshots and Bollyfame — that are currently under the scanner of investigators. In the course of its probe, the police made incriminating seizures including a memory card containing video clips and script. According to CB officials, 68 pornographic films were allegedly found on a hard disk of a laptop seized during a search of Kundra’s premises. The police found a PowerPoint Presentation allegedly with details related to the Hotshots app including financial projections and market strategies. They claim to have made allegedly incriminating recoveries from Kundra’s personal laptop and said that have seized 51 allegedly obscene films with Hotshots and Bollyfame logos. The police suspect that some content in Kundra’s private cloud was also deleted. Among evidence seized – this from accused Gehena Vasisth -- was a script outline of a film titled Virginity on Auction, which ran to 147 pages. Investigators who went through seized short movies said they depicted actors portraying roles of “teachers, housemaids and nurses” in erotic sketches. Scripts titled “Bartanwali”, “Treatment” and “Chahat”. A short movie, whose trailer was available on a social media platform before it was removed this week Monday, showed a woman in undergarments lying on a bed with her hands and feet tied, as a man stands a few feet away. “Do you remember now?” the man asks the woman. The teaser ends by informing the viewers that they can access the “fully uncensored” content of the movie if they visit the website or download the app. The short movies were advertised on key social media platforms while the mobile app was available for download on Google Play. According to the police, the videos, usually 20 to 30 minutes long, were sexually explicit and the storyline was weak. This here was content that was obscene, produced and disseminated online, and was in clear violation of laws, according to the police. Police inspector Kedari Pawar, who headed CB’s Property Cell when it blew the lid off the racket in February, said: “The racket targeted female actors from poor, vulnerable families by promising them a role in a web series, movie or a television serial. The shooting would begin with a skeletal dialogue script and 10 minutes later, suddenly, the story would give way to obscene, pornographic content much to the shock and revulsion of the female actor. They would then be pressured into finishing the shoot and the content would be uploaded on illegal mobile apps and websites to earn lucrative revenue from subscriptions.” According to the police, the actors got a pittance. Pawar who was transferred out of Mumbai in May is no longer associated with the investigation. “Yes, the videos were pornographic and there is evidence to show that. The courts have turned down bail applications of the key accused, Raj Kundra. Why? Because there is evidence,” Pawar said. Both Kundra and Thorpe filed petitions in the Bombay high court (HC) challenging their arrests. Their pleas claimed that the mandatory provision of issuing a notice under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed, but the police had claimed that a notice under the section had been served, which Kundra refused to accept. A member of Kundra’s legal team, Subhash Jadhav, said, “The argument that the petitioner was arrested because after the petitioner was served with a Section 41A CrPC notice, he refused to accept, and it was found that the petitioner was deleting data in the office after the search, is completely false.” Senior advocate Aabad Ponda appearing for Kundra argued that even if Kundra had refused to accept the 41A notice as alleged by the police, the prosecution was expected to seek the court’s permission before arresting him. Ponda said that while Kundra’s arrest and seizure of his phone and other electronic devices took place on July 19, the police belatedly added a charge that pertained to destruction of evidence. However, taking note of the allegation regarding destruction of evidence, Justice AS Gadkari who heard the matter on August 7 said the petitioners did not deserve relief at this point and upheld their remand. Last week, the sessions court deferred the hearing on Kundra’s bail plea to August 20. Kundra’s lawyers challenged his arrest stating that the videos might be described as “lascivious” but do not show “explicit sexual acts”. However, the police opposed bail stating that the offence is of a “serious nature” and that Kundra might help his relative, Bakshi, an absconding accused, to evade the probe. Kundra’s lawyers however said that there is no material showing his involvement in the alleged offences. Other accused have also denied all wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-case-all-that-has-happened-101629574814148.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||4 booked for ex-Jalandhar Youth Cong chief’s murder||Two months after former Jalandhar (rural) Youth Congress president Sukhmeet Singh ‘Deputy’ (43), was shot dead in broad daylight by unidentified assailants in Jalandhar, police have booked four persons for murder. Jalandhar commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Saturday said the accused have been identified as gangster Guarav Patial, Vikas Maley, Puneet of Jalandhar and an unidentified person. Patial, who is lodged in an Armenia jail, hatched the conspiracy to kill Sukhmeet, said Bhullar. Sukhmeet, who was shot dead in the Gopal Nagar area of the city on June 20, was convicted in the 2008 Mickey kidnapping case and was sentenced to life imprisonment. Police are working on different aspects to apprehend Maley of Gurugram and two other accomplices, who committed the crime in Jalandhar. Gangster Davinder Bambiha group had owned up the responsibility for killing Sukhmeet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-booked-for-ex-jalandhar-youth-cong-chief-s-murder-101629574631754.html
22-08-2021||Other||Deputy jailor attacked inside Etawah jail compound; escapes unhurt||Unidentified men fired several shots at the deputy jailor of Etawah district jail early on Saturday morning when he was going for an inspection of the prison, police said.The deputy jailor SH Jafri, who lives on the prison compound, managed to escape unhurt but was followed by the gunmen who also fired several rounds at his residence, they said.This is not the first time that Jafri was attacked. In 2019, a similar attack was mounted on Jafri when two masked men fired at him. However, no one has been arrested in that case so far. According to police, Jafri was heading towards the jail for the morning inspection at 3.30 am. Just about 100 metres away from the jail gate he noticed three to four men walking towards the prison.“When he asked them about their purpose on the jail premises they started firing at him. He somehow saved himself and rushed back to his house and bolted it from inside. The gunmen even tried to forcefully enter the house but when they failed they fired several shots at the door,” SSP Etawah Dr Brajesh Kumar Singh said.He said though the exact cause of the attack was unclear yet but police suspect the role of some criminal who may have been lodged in the jail earlier.When contacted, jail superintendent Raj Kishore Singh said senior police officers have been informed about the attack and they have started a probe.The SSP said four teams led by CO City Rajesh Vashistha have been formed to crack the case at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deputy-jailor-attacked-inside-etawah-jail-compound-escapes-unhurt-101629574513420.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Increase sugarcane SAP to ₹380 per quintal: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday demanded increase in the state assured price (SAP) of sugarcane to a minimum of ₹380 per quintal, besides calling for the immediate release of all pending payments due to the cane growers.In a statement, the SAD chief also announced that in case the Congress government did not do justice to sugarcane growers, the SAD-BSP alliance will raise the SAP to a minimum of ₹380 per quintal if it forms the government in the state. “We will include this commitment in our election manifesto also,” he added.“It was shocking that after refusing to increase the SAP for sugarcane for four years, the Punjab government had affected a measly ₹15 per quintal hike towards the fag end of its tenure. This amounts to betraying both the sugarcane growers as well as the cause of diversification,” said Sukhbir.Asserting that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was impervious to the suffering of the sugarcane growers, Sukhbir demanded that all dues should be cleared along with the interest quotient. He said as per the Sugarcane Control Order and Clause 3 (3) of the Sugarcane Purchase and Regulation Act, sugar mills must make payments within 14 days of the purchase or else pay interest on the pending amount. “This Act should be implemented in letter and spirit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/increase-sugarcane-sap-to-rs-380-per-quintal-sukhbir-101629574451775.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Women rapidly gaining ground in criminal activity in Ludhiana||Women are rapidly storming every last male bastion in society. Sadly, they are also giving their male counterparts a run for their money in the unsavoury sphere of crime. In the first 20 days of August alone, nine cases were reported where women were directly involved in cases of murder, abetment to suicide and drug peddling apart from active participation in dowry demands and deaths. A woman, no less, the mother of the nine-year-old victim, had been involved in a cold-blooded murder that had sent shock waves through the city on June 21. It had emerged that the women and her husband had murdered the minor girl so that they could claim ₹2.5 lakh as insurance money. To top it all, cops are losing a lot of sleep due to a women’s gang of snatchers. The gang of three scouts the city in a car and offers lifts to unsuspecting elderly persons and then rob them. Six such cases have been reported in the last six months. Shockingly, women have also been found guilty of helping those accused of rape. In a recent case, lodged at the Daba police station on Thursday, a woman had helped a 21-year-old culprit escape after raping a minor.A woman wanted for cheating, and forging documents in a 2007 case had kept giving cops the slip for four years. The woman, Kulwant Kaur of Mohalla Gurbakhsh Colony of Patiala, was declared a proclaimed offender in 2017 by the court. She was arrested by the PO staff of Ludhiana police on Friday.Consultant psychologist Dr Rajiv Sharma said materialism has affected everyone and women are no exception. “Such incidents happen for a reason. Money is a strong incitement for most crime. It has often been seen that illicit relations and personal grudges have also led women down the path of crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/women-rapidly-gaining-ground-in-criminal-activity-in-ludhiana-101629574031672.html
22-08-2021||Other||Himachal logs 200 fresh Covid cases||With 200 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, Himachal’s Covid-19 case tally rose to 2,11,632 while the death toll mounted to 3,547 after one patient succumbed to the infection.Of the new cases, highest 51 were reported in Mandi, 41 each in Chamba and Kangra, 24 in Hamirpur, 12 each on Bilaspur and Shimla, seven in Kinnaur, five in Kullu, three each in Lahaul-Spiti and Solan and one in Una.The active came down to 2,276 while recoveries reached 2,05,784 after 336 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 46,323, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,288 and 26,331 cases respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,507 cases, Sirmaur 15,418, Hamirpur 15,063, Una 13,509, Bilaspur 13,298, Chamba 13,264, Kullu 9,405, Kinnaur 3,371 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,855.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-200-fresh-covid-cases-101629573491534.html
22-08-2021||Other||Anurag meets ex-CM Shanta Kumar in Palampur||Union minister of information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur met former chief minister Shanta Kumar and sought his blessings after reaching Palampur on the second day of his Jan Ashirwad Yatra on Saturday.Shanta Kumar welcomed Thakur at Vivekananda Medical Research Trust in Palampur. Thakur, Kumar and BJP state president Suresh Kashyap paid floral tributes to Vivekananda.Interacting with the media, Anurag said programmes such as Khelo India have boosted morale and performance of athletes and the way government is promoting sports, they will perform better at international level by winning medals.He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacts with athletes which instils self-confidence in them. He said government promotes youth who have talent.Rajya Sabha MP Indu Goswami, Himachal forest minister Rakesh Pathania and state BJP general secretary Trilok Kapoor were also present.Thakur was given a rousing welcome by party workers at Ghatta, at the boundary of Kangra and Mandi.Earlier, addressing a press conference in Mandi, Anurag said the Union government is making all efforts to bring back Indians stranded in Afghanistan after the Taliban took over the country. He said no one will be left behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anurag-meets-ex-cm-shanta-kumar-in-palampur-101629573373335.html
22-08-2021||Other||One crore people inUP fully vaccinated against Covid-19||LUCKNOW: The number of second dose of Covid vaccine administered in Uttar Pradesh crossed the one crore mark on Saturday, even as the number of total doses (first and second) administered reached 63478875. This means that one crore people inn in UP are now fully vaccinated against Covid--19 During the day, 298745 doses were administered. Till now, UP has administered 53400630 first and 10078245 second doses of the Covid vaccine, according to the data from the health department. “We organised a special campaign for the second dose and on Saturday the main focus was on this only, which gave a push to raise the number of fully vaccinated people in the state,” said Dr Lilli Singh, director general, family welfare, Uttar Pradesh. Over 3.27 crore beneficiaries who took the vaccine jab were between 18 and 45 years of age, while over 1.89 crore were between 45 and 60 years and over 1.17 crore above 60 years. Experts said that UP was leading in vaccination in the country and now the pace for second dose needed to be accelerated to ensure maximum people were fully vaccinated in the state. “Vaccination has been given a push with mega vaccination camps. Special arrangements and motivation programmes need to be conducted to push the second dose particularly,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Of the total beneficiaries vaccinated in the state till now, 35397897 were males and 28057889 females. Of the total vaccines used, 55816848 doses were Covishield and 7639611 Covaxin. Among districts, Lucknow is leading with 2424667 doses administered till now, including 1812823 first doses. Meanwhile, a state government statement said on Saturday that according to the latest updates, as many as 15 districts had zero active cases. In the testing done in the past 24 hours, 58 districts did not report any fresh Covid case while 17 reported fresh cases in single digit. “No district has reported fresh cases in double-digit,” the statement said. The government said that at present, the number of active cases statewide was 407. “Of the 2.08 lakh tests done in the past 24 hours, only 25 fresh cases were confirmed while 24 patients recovered. Since the onset of the Covid pandemic last year, a total of 16.85 lakh patients recovered from the disease. At present, the recovery rate is 98.6% and daily positivity rate is 0.01%,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-crore-people-inup-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101629573132987.html
22-08-2021||Other||Jai Ram announces sub-tehsil at Jari, BDO office for Bhunter in Kullu||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has announced opening of a sub-tehsil at Jari and new developmental block in Bhuntar.On Saturday, he virtually inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 14 developmental projects worth ₹40 crore for Kullu after his helicopter couldn’t fly due to bad weather.Major projects included over a dozen drinking and irrigation water supply schemes.Addressing a virtual public meeting from Shimla, he said the state government, in the last three-and-a-half years, has ensured equitable and balanced development of the state despite nearly two years being washed out due to the Covid-19 pandemic.He said the Centre, during all these years, has always been considerate towards developmental demands of the area. He said even during the pandemic, the central government provided all possible help to the state to effectively fight the virus.Jai Ram also announced widening of road to Bijli Mahadev, provided the land was made available. He said the proposed ropeway to Bijli Mahadev for which forest clearance is under process will boost the tourism.He announced upgrade of middle school in Neuli to high school, ₹5 lakh for development of park below national highway near Ram Shila, ₹3 lakh for maintenance of Seogi road, and ₹3 lakh for construction of Sarai Bhawan at Mata Neuli Ranni.He said he has taken up the matter of construction of Bhubhoo Jot Tunnel with the Prime Minister, the Union home minister and other senior central leaders at it will reduce the distance between Jogindernagar and Kullu by over 60km.He announced opening of health sub-centre at Karingcha, upgrade of high school in Doghri to senior secondary school.The CM announced ₹25 lakh each for developing Smana to Gurugug and Jathani to Mathasour roads from tourism point of view; ₹15 lakh for construction of bypass Shishamathi and Serveri, and ₹10 lakh for construction of Sarai at Bhalayani.State education minister Govind Singh Thakur said even during the pandemic, the state ensured that the pace of development is uninterrupted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jai-ram-announces-sub-tehsil-at-jari-bdo-office-for-bhunter-in-kullu-101629573131270.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Woman found dead after 4 months of marriage, husband on the run||A 21-year-old man is on the Pune city police radar after his 19-year-old wife was found dead in their house on Sinhgad road area on Friday night. Pending a doctor’s report, the police are verifying whether she was killed or died by suicide.The doctors at Sassoon General Hospital have preserved the viscera of the woman as the initial postmortem was inconclusive for identification of cause of death. “They had been married only four months ago and lived with his parents. They are low-income group people, and everyone was at work when it happened. “So, there are no witnesses so far. The husband is on the run and so we suspect him,” said senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhgad road police station. However, the police have suspicion as the husband was nowhere to be found since the woman’s death. The families of both of them have lived in Janata Vasahat for a long time. However, the man’s family had moved to Sinhgad road area after their wedding as the space in their earlier house was not enough for four people, according to the police authorities. There were marks on the woman’s neck that have raised suspicion of the police. However, the doctors have not been able to tell whether they were caused by suicide or murder. Therefore, they informed the police and lodged a medico legal case. An accidental death report was registered at Sinhgad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-found-dead-after-4-months-of-marriage-husband-on-the-run-101629573010625.html
22-08-2021||Other||Himachal govt hikes subsidy on edible oil||The Himachal Pradesh government has hiked the subsidy on edible oil by ₹20 for below poverty line (BPL) families and ₹5 for above poverty line (APL) families for the next four months.The subsidy for BPL families has been increased from exiting ₹10 to ₹30 and for APL from ₹5 to ₹10, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said.Thakur said his government is committed to safeguard the interests of people of the state, especially in providing relief to the weaker sections of the society through reasonable subsidy on essential commodities.“The country has witnessed a sharp rise in prices of edible oils during the last 2-3 months due to import-related issues,” said Thakur.He said oil prices are beyond the control of the state government. He said the state, through the public distribution system, is providing about 32-lakh litre edible oil to consumers in Himachal.The CM said in a bid to further provide relief to the consumers, the government had decided to enhance the subsidy for next four months.He said this will ensure additional financial benefits of ₹13 crore to the consumers in state during these months.Thakur said this decision will benefit over 18.71 lakh ration cardholders in HP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-govt-hikes-subsidy-on-edible-oil-101629572951303.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Man evades arrest on warrant by family court officials in Pune, booked||Pune: A man was booked by Pune police for evading arrest by court officials from his house in Kothrud on Friday morning. Two court officials reached his house at 8am to arrest him as per an arrest warrant issued against him by the family court.The accused man was identified as Saidas Salvaram Thorve, a resident of Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) area along Paud road in Kelewadi area of Pune, according“He ran by cheating them (court officials) into believing that he was using the toilet in his house. He told them he will get ready to go with them. The court officials were waiting for a good hour near his house and then realised that he had run away after they checked the bathroom,” said police sub inspector SV Kasbewad of Kothrud police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the case was lodged by court bailiff Jayesh Malkapurkar (55) a resident of Chinchwad. Malkapurkar had gone to Thorve’s house along with another family court employee identified as Jayprakash Salunkhe. The two completed the procedure of identifying the man as the one who had an arrest warrant against him by court number 4 of family court.A case under Section 225(B) of Indian Penal Code was registered against him at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-evades-arrest-on-warrant-by-family-court-officials-in-pune-booked-101629572890580.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Woman dies by suicide: Former boyfriend booked in Pune||A 23-year-old man and his parents were booked for driving his former girlfriend to suicide by marrying another girl, according to the deceased woman’s father.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the woman’s 60-year-old father.The accused was identified as 23-year-old resident of Panmala in Vadki area of Haveli who was booked along with his 64-year-old father and 54-year-old mother. The woman died by suicide in her house on August 17 sometime between 10am and 3pm when she was alone at home.Her father has alleged that the man’s parents knew about their relationship but still married their son to another woman, according to the police.A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-dies-by-suicide-former-boyfriend-booked-in-pune-101629572770626.html
22-08-2021||Lucknow||Kalyan Singh, BJP’s first chief minister in UP, dies||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who formed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s first government in the state in 1991, died of sepsis and multi-organ failure at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences on Saturday, the hospital said in a statement late at night. He was 89.“Former Chief Minister of UP and Ex-Governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh Ji breathed his last today. He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure,” said a statement by the hospital. The BJP stalwart was admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit on July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level.Singh, who was accused of criminal conspiracy in the Babri Masjid demolition case for it was during his tenure as chief minister that the 16th century mosque was demolished, also served as the Rajasthan governor between 2014 and 2015.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that coming generations will remain forever grateful to Singh for his contributions towards India’s “cultural regeneration”.“Kalyan Singh Ji gave voice to crores of people belonging to the marginalised sections of society. He made numerous efforts towards the empowerment of farmers, youngsters and women,” he said in a tweet.Singh was firmly rooted in Indian values and took pride in its centuries-old traditions, the PM said and lauded him as a “statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots level leader and great human”.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who rushed to SGPGI soon after Singh’s death, announced a three-day mourning in the state.“It is an irreparable loss for all of us. We have lost a great leader,” the chief minister said. “The body of the great leader would be taken from the hospital to his Mall Avenue residence and from where on Sunday his body would be kept at the Vidhan Bhawan as well as the UP BJP office,” the CM said.Appointed the BJP’s Uttar Pradesh unit chief after the demise of the party’s first state chief Madhav Prasad Tripathi in 1984, Singh was tasked with countering the Mandal agitation that the BJP’s ideological fount Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh feared would divide the Hindus on the basis of caste.Recalling Singh’s appointment by the late RSS leader Bhaurao Deoras, former state minister Rajendra Tiwari said, “Deoras told Kalyan to start holding meetings across the state... I remember the late RSS leader telling Kalyan, ataichi uthao aur sabhayein karon .. (pack your suitcase and start visiting the state to hold meetings).”During his tenure as the party chief, the state witnessed the rise of two powerful but ideologically opposite OBC leaders – Singh and Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav.Hailed by many for his administrative acumen, the influential OBC leader from western UP parted ways twice with the BJP and briefly floated his own outfits.While he returned to the BJP ahead of the 2004 general elections after leaving it for the first time in 1999, his second parting was in 2009, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections, when he said he felt “humiliated” by the party. Singh said it was a “political blunder” to have rejoined the BJP.Born on January 5, 1932, Kalyan Singh first became an MLA in 1967. Since then, he won the assembly polls several times, held important posts in the BJP and was appointed Rajasthan governor in the last phase of his public life.But it was the fall of the Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992, after the Sangh Parivar campaign to build a Ram temple at the spot gained momentum, that became the defining moment of Singh’s two stints as the UP chief minister.Admitting his failure to protect the mosque, he resigned the same evening. The state assembly was dissolved as riots erupted at several places in the country.In the November 1993 assembly election, Singh contested from two seats — Atrauli and Kasganj — and won both. But he got his second shot at the top post in September 1997, becoming CM again under a six-month rotation formula with the Bahujan Samaj Party.Even as the Babri Masjid demolition case trial dragged on, with several senior BJP leaders named as accused, Singh enjoyed immunity from trial as he held a gubernatorial post.After demitting office as Rajasthan governor, he appeared before the CBI court which pronounced its order in September 2020, acquitting him and 31 others accused of conspiracy to demolish the mosque.The judge concluded that there was no evidence to show that the demolition was pre-planned.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kalyan-singh-bjp-s-first-chief-minister-in-up-dies-101629572532574.html
22-08-2021||Other||Ram temple possible today only due to Kalyan Singh: Ayodhya saints||Lucknow: As news of demise of former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Singh was flashed on social media and news channels on Saturday night, a pal of gloom descended over Ayodhya. Saints of Ayodhya firmly believe that Ram temple could not have come up had Kalyan Singh not been chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the disputed structure was razed by karsevaks on December 6, 1992. Expressing grief over the demise of Kalyan Singh, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust said: “The doyen of Ram temple movement has passed away.” “It is an extremely sad day for us. Before Ram temple could come up at Ram Janmabhoomi, Kalyan Singh went for his heavenly abode,” added Nritya Gopal Das. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, said: “Kalyan Singh took complete responsibility for whatever happened in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. He had the courage to own up for all events that occurred in Ayodhya on December 6.” Mahant Dhinendra Das, head of the Nirmohi Akhara, said: “With the death of Kalyan Singh, an important chapter of the Ram temple movement has come to an end.” “Kalyan Singh had preferred to resign from the chief ministership instead of using force to stop karsevaks (on December 6),” added Dhinendra Das. He was talking about the December 6, 1992, events in Ayodhya when the disputed Babri Masjid structure was demolished by karsevaks. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, said: “Kalyan Singh was the one who had paved the way for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Had Kalyan Singh not been the CM of Uttar Pradesh (on December 6, 1992), Ram temple would been a distant dream even today.” Kalyan Singh had close association with the Mani Ram Das Chhavi Peeth, the math in Ayodhya from where all important decisions related with Ram temple are taken. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das is head of this math. Karsevakpuram in Ayodhya, the epicentre of Ram Mandir movement, paid tributes to the former Uttar Pradesh CM as news of his demise reached there. “It is a sad day for us. I wish Kalyan Singh had lived longer to see Ram temple come up in Ayodhya for which he had preferred to resign from the CM’s post instead of stopping karsevaks (on December 6, 1992), said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-temple-possible-today-only-due-to-kalyan-singh-ayodhya-saints-101629572711825.html
22-08-2021||Other||Heavy rains lash Himachal, four stranded in rivulet rescued in Hamirpur||Rescuers saved four people who got stuck in the middle of a rivulet after a flood triggered by heavy rains in Sujanpur subdivision of Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh.Heavy rains lashed parts of the hill-state on Saturday. Sujanpur was the wettest place in state, experiencing 107mm rainfall.Police said Pung rivulet was flooded suddenly due to heavy rain. Four people, including a driver and cleaner of a truck and two labourers, were stranded in the middle of the rivulet, besides three trucks and a JCB machine.They were mining gravel when the water-level suddenly started rising. A team of emergency workers including police, home-guard and fire fighters rushed to the spot and rescued the stranded people after gruelling efforts.Meanwhile, the NH-5 was blocked at Negulsari in Kinnaur after boulders started tumbling again The district administration has stopped vehicular movement on the highway as a precautionary measure.In Sirmaur, many roads were blocked due to landslides. Multiple landslides also hampered the traffic movement on Kalka-Shimla highway.The MeT department has issued a yellow weather alert for Sunday, predicting heavy rain, thunderstorms and lightening in low and middle hills.“Landslide may occur due to heavy rainfall. General public and tourists are not to venture near the river banks as the river levels may increase,” said Shimla MeT centre director Surender Paul.After Sujanpur, Hamirpur recorded second highest rainfall of 38mm followed by Baldwara 22mm and Kandaghat and Khadrala 20mm each.Gaggal and Mehre got 19mm rain each, Pachhad and Naina Devi 18mm each, Shillaro 17mm and Kasauli 14mm. State capital Shimla got 10.6mm rainfall and Dharamshala 6.6mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rains-lash-himachal-four-stranded-in-rivulet-rescued-in-hamirpur-101629572600863.html
22-08-2021||Delhi||Central agencies told to file false cases against 15 politicians: Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia alleged on Saturday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to “conduct raids and file fake FIRs” against 15 political leaders, including those from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), ahead of the next year’s state elections.Sisodia alleged that Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana was engaged to conduct probes and raids, and file cases against the 15 politicians. He, however, did not name the leaders.“We have learnt through reliable sources that PM Narendra Modi has handed over a list of 15 persons to the CBI, ED and Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana, for them to be raided, and false cases filed against them, especially in the light of upcoming assembly elections,” Sisodia said in a digital news briefing.“These agencies have been directed to destroy the 15 individuals, which include several leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party, who are seen as a threat by the BJP because of their excellent work and popularity among masses,” the deputy chief minister added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made similar allegations and said nothing had come out of the previous raids or “fake cases”.In a tweet in Hindi on Saturday, Kejriwal said: “Do politics of votes and win the trust of people. There were so many fake cases filed against us and raids conducted but you got nothing. You want to file more fake cases and carry out raids? You are welcome.”During the briefing, Sisodia said: “Mr Asthana is Modi ji’s brahmastra (biggest weapon). He has been asked to destroy those people named in the list. We have learnt all that from reliable sources. The AAP believes in the politics of honesty. You send police, income tax officers, ED, or CBI, we welcome all of them. Do as many probes and raids as you want. We won’t step back.”BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said: “The Aam Aadmi Party has become Bahut Corrupt Party. AAP was founded on the plank of eradicating corruption but today it is facing serious corruption charges. Rather than throwing muck at the central government and the investigating agencies, AAP should come clean for the sake of probity and propriety.”The Union home ministry and Delhi Police commissioner Asthana’s office did not respond to requests for comment over Sisodia’s remarks.“But we ask you one thing: what happened to the past raids – what has been their outcome? My house was raided twice. Satyendar Jain has 12 false cases registered against him. As many as 21 AAP leaders were arrested and jailed and, later, in several cases, Delhi Police was reprimanded by courts for pressing frivolous charges,” said Sisodia.He added: “Delhi chief minister’s office and residence were raided. AAP is gaining popularity in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa and Uttarakhand. Some of these states are BJP strongholds. It has apparently shaken BJP leaders. I want to tell the Prime Minister to engage in a fair competition. How long will he keep taking help of CBI, ED, Rakesh Asthana, and others to intimidate others?”Hitting out at Sisodia’s remarks, Bhatia said: “CBI was a caged parrot under the Congress, under the NDA government all investigating agencies have complete autonomy, they act as per law and independently. Let all matters be thoroughly investigated.”Meanwhile, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta asked deputy chief minister Sisodia to “identify the sources” in his allegations or “offer apology to the central government” and be prepared to face a people’s protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-agencies-told-to-file-false-cases-against-15-politicians-manish-sisodia-101629572145011.html
22-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s oxygen stock has not improved significantly: Uddhav||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday cautioned that the state’s medical oxygen stock has not significantly improved and added that if the state’s daily demand touches 700 metric tonnes (MT) then the government will look at a complete lockdown. Meanwhile, the state added 4,575 fresh infections on Saturday, taking the total to 6,420,510. The state also added 145 fatalities, pushing the toll to 135,817. The active cases in the state stood at 53,967. Mumbai, meanwhile, added 262 new cases and five fatalities.Mumbai’s tally rose to 740,870, while its active cases went under 3,000, at 2,988. Mumbai’s death toll rose to 15,946.Thackeray, who inaugurating a paediatric Covid-19 care centre in suburban Santacruz, appealed to people to not let their guard down and reminded that that the Covid-19 pandemic is still not over and that “people should behave responsibly”. He also said that political parties should not carry out programmes that would endanger the lives of citizens.Senior government officials said that the state’s current demand for medical oxygen is about 450MT daily for Covid and non-Covid patients. “The daily demand for Covid patients is 200MT and for non-Covid patients it is 250MT today. We have been able to increase our daily production from 1,700MT to about 2,100MT,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. As per estimates, if the third wave hits the state with more intensity than the previous one, then about 4,000MT of medical grade oxygen will be required daily. Thackeray expressed his concern in this context. “The threat of Covid hasn’t passed so far. If we do not follow Covid protocols and create crowding then it will possibly expedite the onset of the third wave [of covid infection]. I will again say this that our oxygen stock has not improved significantly. [So,] when we touch [the daily demand of] 700MT for Covid patients, we will probably have to introduce a complete lockdown,” Thackeray said, while speaking to reporters on Saturday.With increasing instances of crowding, traffic congestion, and political programmes, chief minister said that the relaxations were given to keep the economic cycle moving. “Don’t forget that Covid-19 restrictions have been eased to keep the economic cycle moving. People should not fall prey to any kind of provocation, which may endanger their lives and those of others,” he said.He added, “I appeal to all the people in the state that they shouldn’t act in manner that would affect their health or others. I appeal to political parties, social and religious organisations that they shouldn’t do things that would endanger the lives of the citizens.” The daily rise in infections and the deaths due to Covid-19 need to be brought down, he said. Experts had voiced concern that a third wave could affect children the most, therefore the government set up a paediatric Covid-19 task force, Thackeray said. Thackeray inaugurated a 30-bed dedicated paediatric Covid care centre at the IT Park on Mumbai University’s Kalina Campus on Saturday. Doctors from the paediatric unit of VN Desai Municipal Hospital and a private one will provide treatment to children at the centre.The centre is spread over 5,000 sq ft and will treat children below 12 years. Facilities for parent or guardians to accompany the child have also been made at the facility. It houses isolation areas, treatment sections, a breastfeeding room, play and an entertainment area for children.The dedicated centre has been launched as a preparedness measure as it is anticipated that the possible third wave of Covid-19 may hit children in large numbers. The civic body will assess each Covid positive case, assign beds through 24 war wardrooms--as done in the case of adults.A dedicated paediatric Covid-19 ward for children below 12 years has also been planned at the NESCO jumbo Covid centre in Goregaon East. The facility will be equipped with nearly 700 beds, including 300 for paediatric care. It will also include a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and a paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) with 25 beds each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-oxygen-stock-has-not-improved-significantly-uddhav-101629572291921.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Medical college: Staff not appointed, construction incomplete; PMC eyes opening this year||PUNE: Although the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to start a medical college in the name of late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from this academic year, teaching and non-teaching staff has not yet been appointed and neither has classroom construction work been completed.The PMC has got all the requisite permissions from the state government for starting the medical college from this academic year and as Class 12 results were announced, it was expected that the corporation would be prepared with all the administrative formalities.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We will definitely start admissions this year. It is true that the appointments of teaching and non-teaching staff have not been completed but as per my information, interviews for the same will start by next week.”“The civil work is in progress for the medical college. I am confident that within the next one-and-a-half month, the classroom work will be complete,” Mohol said.The PMC is trying its best to start the medical college from this academic year itself. After the B J Medical College, this will be the second government medical college in the city. The PMC has decided to attach the Kamala Nehru hospital to the medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/medical-college-staff-not-appointed-construction-incomplete-pmc-eyes-opening-this-year-101629572050498.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Third gender left out of vaccination drive; superstitions, misbeliefs keep their numbers low||Pune: Only a nominal number of 570 people who identify themselves as the third gender has received the Covid vaccine out of close to 1,000 such beneficiaries in the district. A major reason as to why people from the third gender, which includes transgenders, hijras and other communities, is superstition and mis-beliefs which also stems from lack of education within the community. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) along with a private hospital has organised a three-day special drive for people from the transgender community on July 14 this year. The Serum Institute of India’s (SII) CEO, Adar Poonawalla too had appealed to ensure vaccination for the community. Still, despite such efforts, the vaccine hesitancy within the third gender community still needs to be addressed. As per the district health office, only 570 third gender beneficiaries have got Covid-19 vaccine of which 290 are from Pune city, 145 from PCMC and 135 from Pune rural. Under the special provisions and guidelines introduced by the central government and implemented by the district administration, people who identify themselves as the third gender can get anti-Covid vaccine. Dr Suryakant Devkar, PMC immunisation officer said, “To ensure smooth and easy access of Covid vaccine to the third gender, the civic body had collaborated with a private hospital and vaccinated more than 169 people on the first day. We expect to get more beneficiaries and we will take up more such drives, it is an ongoing process and we have also made sure that no person is denied of vaccination because of lack of documents.” On July 14, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla had expressed his support to the cause by initiating a three-day drive at Sancheti Hospital. Bindumadhav Khire, founder of Samapathik Trust, said, “There is a lot of misconception and misbeliefs among the third gender community, especially the transgenders, regarding the vaccine. The transgenders believe that they might fall ill after the vaccine and as most of them are dependent on the daily wages, they do not want to lose their day’s wages. They have also got this perception that due to the breakthrough cases among those vaccinated there is no benefit in getting the vaccine and the hesitancy is also because of mis-conceptions that one might lose their life due to the vaccine. Even if they hear about one case where a person lost his or her life post vaccination, they become reluctant to get the jab. 290 might still seem like a large number especially considering the number of transgenders alone, however this includes both first and second dose and the term third gender is a very broad term and includes many sub categories, including hijras, transgender men and transgender women and the count of third genders people will cross a thousand in the district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/third-gender-left-out-of-vaccination-drive-superstitions-misbeliefs-keep-their-numbers-low-101629571810457.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Jewellers call for strike on Aug 23; government urges them to reconsider||PUNE: Jewellers in Maharashtra have called for a one-day statewide strike on August 23 to protest what they term as “penal provisions and arbitrary implementation of the hallmarking process with unique id (HUID) on jewellery by changing the Bureau of Indian Standards’ (BIS’) old yet simple system”. However the government on Saturday urged the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) to reconsider its decision to go on strike, asserting that the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery in 50 days of its first phase of implementation has been a “grand success”. The Pune Saraf Association (PSA) claimed that the HUID is not concerned with the purity of jewellery and is against customers’ interests and the concept of ease-of-doing-business. The PSA stated that the process adopted for HUID is impractical and that it interferes with citizens’ data privacy and business secrecy.Fatechand Ranka, president of the PSA, said, “HUID is a destructive process and does not guarantee jewellers’ safety. Apart from HUID, elements such as cancellation of registration, penal provisions, and search and seizure will ultimately institute ‘inspector raj’ in the country. This is nothing but harassment of customers and MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) jewellers.”Only 256 out of the 741 districts in India have been brought under the mandatory hallmarking system from June 16, 2021 and according to the PSA, the BIS does not have the infrastructure or control over hallmarking centres given that over 480 centres have been cancelled, suspended or de-recognised for fake/wrong hallmarking or sample failing between 2016 and 2020.Ranka said, “On failure of samples, jewellers face criminal liability or prosecution which is unconstitutional as the purity has been tested and stamped by third parties that are hallmarking centres.”While the system of marking on ornaments traditionally involves four stages namely, BIS logo, purity mark, house mark of hallmarking centre, and jeweller’s mark, the new mandate does not include the last two stages which according to jewellers will lead to future disputes at the time of remaking or selling the ornaments. According to the PSA, as the HUID system is very slow and takes five to 10 days to hallmark, industry production will come to a standstill and while it will be impossible to hallmark ornaments in just three to four years, the longer turnaround time of the manufacturer will result in loss of employment and increase in jewellery costs. Ranka said that due to the new draconian provision, the livelihoods of the gems and jewellery industry’s nearly five crore dependents will be at stake, and penal and criminal charges on jewellers who have not manufactured or hallmarked the jewellery and sold it like traders will eventually result in the winding up of business.Ranka said, “The industry’s demand that the Niti Aayog report on hallmarking be considered as a benchmark while framing the BIS Act has not been taken into consideration. Hallmarking should be based on point-of-sale as proposed by the jewellers while all other applications of storage, display, transit, and exhibit-to-sale etc. should be removed from the BIS Act and regulations. The industry has recommended that the standard for 22carat be increased from 916 to 918 as part of its commitment to offer quality jewellery to consumers.”Meanwhile, Pramod Kumar Tiwari, director general of the BIS, while addressing a press conference in Delhi on the progress made in hallmarking in India, said, “The hallmarking scheme is turning out to be a grand success, with more than 1 crore pieces of jewellery hallmarked in a short period of time.”Tiwari stressed that the scheme has been a grand success thanks to the jewellers’ support and cooperation which is demonstrated by the fact that the number of registered jewellers has increased to 91,603; the number of jewellery pieces received for hallmarking has increased to one crore and seventeen lakh; and the number of jewellery pieces hallmarked has increased to one crore and two lakh from July 1 to August 20, 2021.“The number of jewellers who sent their jewellery for hallmarking has increased from 5,145 (July 1 to July 15) to 14,349 (August 1 to 15) this year; and 861 AHCs have started hallmarking as per the HUID system,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jewellers-call-for-strike-on-aug-23-government-urges-them-to-reconsider-101629571630393.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Five PMC ward offices account for55% of active coronavirus cases in city||In the weekly Covid-19 review meeting, the Pune district administration emphasised that special attention be paid to five out of the 15 ward offices in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) that contribute to nearly 55% of active covid cases. Among the said five ward offices, Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Aundh-Baner have the most number of active cases.As on August 18, the Pune Municipal Corporation registered 2,056 active Covid cases out of which 1,134 were from five ward offices namely Hadapsar- Mundhwa (273); Aundh-Baner (244); Kothrud-Bavdhan (218); Sinhagad road (213); and Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar (186). In the week ended August 11 as well, the Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Aundh-Baner ward offices had the most number of active cases.Pune Municipal Corporation officials said that all efforts are being taken to control the caseload in these areas. “We all know the effective steps to be taken to control the spread of the virus. We have increased testing in these wards where the number of active cases is high. We are emphasising on contact-tracing and timely treatment,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer, Pune Municipal Corporation.“In ward offices such as Hadapsar and Aundh, priority is being given to the vaccination of super-spreaders. We have also strengthened health facilities in these areas. Thorough contact-tracing is being done in these areas,” said Dr Ashish Bharati, head of the health department, Pune Municipal Corporation.Speaking on Friday, Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar had said that the number of tests should not drop under any condition. “Since the past four weeks, the positivity rate in Pune is declining. But under any condition, the number of tests should not decrease. If necessary, the administration should increase the number of tests,” Pawar had said.The ward office which had become a hotbed of covid during the first wave – Bhawani peth – is now recording the least number of cases daily. During the week from August 12 to August 18, ward offices including Bhawani peth, Kasaba-Vishrambaugh, Kondhwa-Yewalewadi and Dhole Patil recorded the least number of covid cases daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-pmc-ward-offices-account-for55-of-active-coronavirus-cases-in-city-101629571450340.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Close to 3.83 million eligible beneficiaries in Pune district yet to get first dose||Pune: Though Pune has been receiving a much higher vaccine dose than the rest of the smaller districts in the division and the rest of the state, almost 44% of the eligible beneficiaries are yet to get the first shot. The shortage of vaccine and the vaccine hesitancy in a significant number of people has resulted in a much larger portion of people yet to get the vaccine. Close to 3.83 million people are yet to get the first dose, according to the health officials. About 1.1 million eligible beneficiaries in Pune city, 0.9 million in PCMC and 1.8 million in rural Pune are yet to get their first shot which is about 40% of the eligible population from the district. This despite the fact that Pune gets a major chunk of the available vaccines. Most of the beneficiaries who are yet to get the vaccine belong to the 18-45% who are also the least fully vaccinated age group as only 4% of the 18-45 age group people are fully vaccinated. The estimated eligible population is based on the 2011 census which estimates that 3.33 million people are eligible to get the vaccine in the city, 1.83 million in PCMC and 3.60 million in PCMC. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, district immunisation officer said, “Our potential is to vaccinate many more people than the stock that we are getting now. We can vaccinate 1.5 people in a day if we get enough doses. Our demand is much more than the supply. We are supplying vaccines as much as possible as per the government guidelines to the age groups and the gap criteria between two doses.” Since the beginning of August this year, the Pune civic body had to shut down its vaccination centres on multiple days due to shortage of vaccines. Even as the economy opens up, many in the workforce belonging to the age group between 18-45, are yet to get even their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/close-to-3-83-million-eligible-beneficiaries-in-pune-district-yet-to-get-first-dose-101629571210244.html
22-08-2021||Pune||FDA cancels 28 chemist licences, suspends 146||The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Saturday released the report of its inspection of chemists conducted between April 1, 2020 and March 2021, cancelling the licenses of 28 chemists and suspending those of 146 chemists across the city.Suresh Patil, joint commissioner (drugs) of the FDA, said, “This inspection was carried out from April 1, 2020 to March 2021 wherein 2,808 chemists were inspected in the Pune division out of which licenses of 28 chemists have been cancelled as shown in the report released today.”Patil said that the licenses of chemists who had no registered pharmacists at work or did not present bills or had unsuitable storage conditions were cancelled. In zone 1, 648 chemists were inspected, 47 out of whom were suspended for minor offences such as absence of pharmacists during drug sales. In zone 2, 864 chemists were inspected, 40 out of whom were suspended; in zone 3 (Pimpri-Chinchwad), 864 chemists were inspected, 36 out of whom were suspended; and in zone 4 (rural Pune), 432 chemists were inspected, 23 out of whom were suspended.The FDA also carried out inspections in Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur where licenses of 106 chemists were suspended and those of three chemists (Solapur) and two chemists (Kolhapur) were cancelled.Patil informed that there are a total 8,000 licensed chemists registered with the FDA and that such inspections are conducted randomly during the year. Each year, FDA inspectors have to carry out 21 inspections however due to covid and shortage of manpower, the number of inspections were less than usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fda-cancels-28-chemist-licences-suspends-146-101629571030251.html
22-08-2021||Delhi||27-year-old man who set himself afire near Supreme Court dies||A man who set himself on fire, along with a 24-year-old woman, outside the Supreme Court last week, succumbed to his injuries at Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on Saturday morning. The two were admitted to the burns ward of the central Delhi hospital after trying to self-immolate outside gate D of the apex court on August 16. The woman is currently being treated at the facility and doctors said she has sustained 80% burn injuries.The woman on May 1, 2019, filed a rape case against Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) parliamentarian Atul Rai at a Varanasi police station, for which he was imprisoned, and is still behind bars.The 27-year-old-man who died on Saturday and the woman were college mates.The police said that a preliminary investigation revealed that he was a witness in the case against Rai. His family did not wish to comment on his death.Doctors told police the man had critical burn injuries and was on ventilator support.On the afternoon of August 16, the two relayed a live video from outside the Supreme Court, before pouring kerosene on themselves and setting themselves on fire.In the video, the woman accused at least five senior Uttar Pradesh police officers of harassing her to save the parliamentarian. The woman also alleged that she was framed in a fake incident for filing a case against the BSP politician.The woman alleged that Rai raped her in his house on March 5, when he invited her on the pretext of meeting his wife.The woman in her complaint also alleged that Rai made a video of the act and threatened to make it public it if she approached the police.The UP Police have said that Rai was arrested after the woman’s complaint and a charge sheet filed against him.In the Facebook video, the woman said she was harassed for filing the complaint.The Delhi Police have not filed any case in the matter.A senior Delhi Police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “The two were not fit for statement. The Uttar Pradesh Police also came to the hospital to take their statements but could not. The UP Police are investigating the cases she had filed. Meanwhile, we are waiting to take the woman’s statement. If she is not able to give her statement, we can also use the video she relayed to start the investigation.”Initial investigations showed that Rai’s brother, Pawan Kumar, filed a case against her in November 2020 at a Varanasi police station, accusing her of forging her birth record. Earlier this month, a local court in Varanasi issued a non-bailable warrant against her.Kumar refused to comment on the matter, saying the case was sub-judice.Earlier this year, the woman also approached the Supreme Court seeking a transfer of the case against Rai from Uttar Pradesh to a Delhi court. The Supreme Court on March 9 stayed the trial and issued a notice to the jailed MP.On August 17, the Uttar Pradesh government formed a two-member team headed by an officer of director-general rank to probe all the FIRs pertaining to the rape survivor and her associate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/27yearold-man-who-set-himself-afire-near-supreme-court-dies-101629570310094.html
22-08-2021||Delhi||Authorities’ tall claims go under water again as rain brings Delhi to its knees||The city was brought to its knees on Saturday by six hours of rainfall between 2.30am and 8.30am that threw traffic into disarray and inundated several key stretches and underpasses, exposing how badly the national capital needs a comprehensive drainage plan as well a meticulous plan to ensure that local drains are cleaned properly ahead of monsoon that are managed by a multitude of agencies across the city.Saturday’s scenes --- people stuck in long traffic jams on roads that were turned into ponds -- were nothing new for its over 20 million residents.The Minto Bridge, which is an annual pain point for the Capital, was finally flooded on Saturday despite the authorities putting in place a new drainage mechanism there which had kept it dry during the rains over the past couple of months. Authorities barricaded the road below the bridge, where a man drowned last year.Nobody drowned anywhere on Saturday but a 60-year-old man in east Delhi died of electrocution.Despite the state Public Works Departments (PWD) and Delhi’s three municipal agencies claiming they completed this season’s desilting process, commuters shared on social media photographs of water-logged roads and traffic.Despite several roads and localities going under rainwater in south Delhi, SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan compared scenes of water-logging in the city to Venice and blamed the Delhi government for the day’s events. The Delhi government did not respond to multiple requests for comment.In the last 24 hours, Delhi received 138mm rainfall – the highest 24-hour record for the month in the last 14 years.BS Vohra, president, Federation of East Delhi RWAs, said that streets in parts of east Delhi were filled with at least two-feet-deep rainwater. “Every year whenever there is heavy rain, residents waded through the streets. There has been no solution for decades to this mess,” said Vohra.Places such as Laxmi Nagar and Krishna Nagar in East Delhi were waterlogged almost throughout the day.East Delhi mayor Shyam Sundar Agrawal said, “This is mainly because of the bigger drains under the Delhi government that have been choked for years. The stormwater drains are all choked, which even with the slightest rainfall overflow into the small drains inundating roads in residential colonies,” said Agrawal.In many trans-Yamuna areas, water even reached the ground floor of houses.Besides major roads, streets in residential areas too had knee-deep water making it difficult for residents to wade through the accumulated rainwater. This includes areas such as Munirka, Alaknanda, CR Park, Panchsheel Enclave, Saket, Jangpura, Kalkaji, Sukhdev Vihar, Lajpat Nagar, Govindpuri, Nizamuddin, Punjabi Bagh, Karol Bagh, Krishna Nagar, Patparganj, Laxmi Nagar, Preet Vihar, Sadar Bazar, Rohini Kamla Nagar,Vikapuri and Najafgarh, among others.The massive waterlogging across the city also led to blame game over desilting of drains with the municipal corporations alleging that roads under the Delhi government’s PWD were affected.“All the arterial roads and underpasses are with the PWD, which has completely failed to curb the problem. The waterlogging in residential areas too is a result of overflowing storm water drains under the PWD, which flood the smaller drain that fall under the corporations thus inundating colony roads,” said Suryan.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.Delhi’s three civic agencies are run by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), while PWD comes under the Delhi government run by the Aam Aadmi Party.Last month, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that his government will redesign the city’s drainage system to provide a lasting solution to the annual problem of flooding on roads.By 7.30am the Delhi traffic police had placed barricades on the road below the Minto bridge. It was the first time this season that the road was blocked.The traffic police set in place diversions which confused most commuters. The barricades were removed only after 10am. The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted an alert at around 7:30 am that read, “Traffic movement on Minto Bridge (both carriageway) has been closed due to water logging. Please avoid stretch.”Explaining why the Minto underpass was waterlogged again, a senior PWD official said even though it rained through the night, the situation at Minto bridge underpass was normal until 7am when the water level suddenly started to rise and eventually there was slight waterlogging in the underpass area. This happened when the water from the Delhi Jal Board line started overflowing and the excess water started accumulating on the road.“The line carries both rainwater and sewerage and the sewerage increases in the morning as people start using the water in their homes. This is an automatic process and happens every day just that it rained heavily today and could not be averted. This choked the line and led to an overflow. However, PWD had stationed three suction pumps in the area, which helped us to immediately clear the stretch for traffic,” said a PWD official.The official said that the depth of water under the Minto Bridge, went up to around 350mm but subsiding eventually. Earlier this year, the PWD laid a new pipeline for pressurised flow. Last year, a 56-year-old man died at Minto bridge underpass after his mini-truck submerged there while he was trying to cross it. Not just this, there have been several such incidents at this place in the past few years as well.A PWD official, who asked not to be named, said, “We have set up multiple suction pumps at various places but due to excessive rain, there’s water-logging on certain points. We have been working throughout the night and through the day to ensure the roads aren’t clogged and to clear out waterlogged roads, wherever there are any,” said an official.A PWD official said that they cancelled all leave for people from the entire department.It took west Delhi resident Gaurav Patel three hours to take his mother to a hospital in Gurugram, a trip that takes less than an hour.“Since there was a dry spell for almost two weeks, I decided to take my mother to the hospital in Gurugram. I stay in Hari Nagar. It would have otherwise been a one-hour drive from here, but it took us over three hours to get there. Starting from Pankha Road to Dhaula Kuan to the Ring road, every place was blocked. Traffic came to a standstill. I feel some things never change and water-logging on Delhi roads is one such thing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/authorities-tall-claims-go-under-water-again-as-rain-brings-delhi-to-its-knees-101629570190716.html
22-08-2021||Gurugram||Moderate rainfall leaves roads bursting at the seams||Around 39mm of continuous rainfall for five hours on Saturday morning left several parts of the city waterlogged, with traffic police issuing social media updates for commuters to avoid waterlogged stretches.Despite the moderate rainfall, several stretches and key junctions of Iffco Chowk, Sheetla Mata Road, MDI Chowk, AIT Chowk on Golf Course Road, Hamilton Court Road, Jwala Mill Road, Basai Road, Pasco traffic signal and Bristol Chowk were severely inundated. Commuters faced problems in reaching their destinations, even as the traffic police said that there were no traffic jams due to a lower volume of vehicles on roads during the weekend.According to a weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) of Chandigarh, Gurugram received 34mm of rainfall over the past 24 hours till 8.30am on Saturday and 5mm of rainfall later in the day.The rainfall started around 4am and continued till 9am, following which another heavy spell was recorded between 6pm and 6.30pm on Saturday. The rainfall continued to keep the maximum and minimum temperatures two degrees below the normal, at 31.4°C and 23.8°C, respectively.According to the IMD’s forecast, Gurugram will have a “generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” on Sunday and Monday. From Tuesday, the skies are expected to clear up.On Saturday, the Gurugram traffic police cautioned commuters to avoid the waterlogged stretches and plan their travel accordingly. Besides the key stretches, heavy waterlogging was also reported on the dividing road of sectors 3 and 5, Sushant Lok-1, Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, and Rezangla Chowk-Sector 5 stretch.Although susceptible to waterlogging, the Iffco Chowk junction had far higher rainwater accumulation than usual despite moderate rainfall and was the worst-affected area on Saturday.Passengers boarding interstate buses from the junction carried their luggage on their heads while navigating their way to the bus stop amid knee-deep rainwater. Such was the extent of waterlogging at certain points that vehicular movement on the carriageway was restricted to just one lane.“I cross Iffco Chowk almost on a daily basis. However, today’s waterlogging was the worst this season. It was almost inexplicable as the city has received much higher rainfall this monsoon, but the waterlogging situation was far better. Due to the waterlogging, I opted to drive through Cyber City to reach the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway,” said Manish Sinha, a resident of Sector 28.Officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said that rainwater was cleared from all major stretches by noon. “By noon, most roads across the city were completely clear of rainwater, barring one carriageway of the sector 3/5 diving road, and the Rezangla Chowk-Sector 5 stretch,” said Pardeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.Kumar said that a 100-metre section of the sector 3/5 dividing road is located on a depression, due to which the carriageway towards the railway road was filled with rainwater till 3pm. A similar situation was observed at the Rezangla Chowk-Sector 5 stretch in patches.“Using motor pumps and suction tankers, we were able to drain out rainwater by 3pm at both these points. Regarding waterlogging at Iffco Chowk, I have asked officials concerned for an explanation,” said Kumar.According to a senior GMDA official privy to the matter, the motor pumps near Iffco Chowk may have been turned on after heavy rainwater accumulation or that the passage to the master drain near the junction may have been hampered by a rock or silt deposition.Traffic police officials could be seen diverting vehicles at the junction through the limited road space available.Ravinder Singh Tomar, the deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said that around 1,100 traffic police officials were deployed across the city roads. “Due to the weekend, traffic volume across the city was far lower than usual and as such, we did not report any difficulty or congestion from any of the stretches. We are closely monitoring the rain situation, until the next dry spell,” said Tomar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/moderate-rainfall-leaves-roads-bursting-at-the-seams-101629568690662.html
22-08-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: When we had to “kiss” bye to a “bold” scene...||This will be the last in the series of articles on “Amar Photo Studio”. It has been an excellent experience for me to document it and I have realised that every play needs to go through this process. Whether the play does well or not is an unrelated topic. I used to have a habit of maintaining a diary for documenting the process of every play. It seems that over a period of time, I have forgotten that. I need to recommence this habit. As those of you who have been following this article series would know, that the play “Amar Photo Studio” opened in 2016 and is still running in theatres (by that I mean that whenever theatres will reopen, we will start performing it again). “Amar Photo Studio” was met with tremendous love in its opening run. The real time reactions were as good as they can get. And reading the reviews had become a complete confidence booster. Many audience members used to leave reviews and ratings on our social media page too. While many makers abstain from reading reviews (I do that too usually), I made an exception this time around because of the overwhelming response. But we all noticed one thing, especially during our initial performances. The word “bold” was used frequently in the reviews. Also, whenever friends, family and other audience members used to come to visit us post the show, we used to notice the use of word “bold” in almost every conversation. While we understood that “bold” could mean many things, the connotation in the context of Indian films or theatre usually means one thing – close to vulgarity. Had we done this intentionally, we wouldn’t have thought much about it. But since we hadn’t, this word started troubling us. When we asked a few audience members what part of the play they felt was “bold”, they couldn’t pinpoint it. We could have just ignored it, but word of mouth is extremely important for the commercial success of a play. And I am sure that we all are aware that many people form conclusions about a movie or a play even before watching it! I find it surprising that so many films are mired in controversies even before they release! Anyway, I digress. The team put their heads together to figure this out as it could be a potential commercial hazard. We combed through every scene and came up with a few instances which might be the reason for this – there were three cuss words used during the entire play and one short kiss at the end of it. But instead of taking them out altogether, we conducted a short informal survey. Whenever we had a personal discussion with anyone we knew who called it “bold”, we used to ask them pointed questions about the words and the kiss. And finally, when we had the results of the survey, we had our “culprit” – it was the kiss. All of us were very surprised with this! The act of the protagonists kissing each other at the end of the play seemed natural. They were apart throughout the entirety of the play and had travelled to different time eras to realise their love for each other. Now that they were meeting each other after travelling through time, it felt that it was the right way to express their feelings for each other, instead of using words. I also felt that as an audience, we must have gotten used to watching a kiss without getting uncomfortable. I listed all these points to my producers but they were of the opinion of performing a few shows without the kiss and noting the audience reactions. I relented, and sure enough, the word “bold” started fading away! This was a learning experience for me. Audience members come with certain expectations when they come to watch a play.The same audience wouldn’t mind this while watching an English or a Hindi film (or even a Marathi film nowadays). But for a play, it is still a no. I sometimes wonder what would have happened had we still kept it. Would this play not have done as well as it did? I guess I will never know... ... Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-when-we-had-to-kiss-bye-to-a-bold-scene-101629551888176.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | The good old days of ‘pay parades’||Rummaging through old papers, I was taken back to the days when as a barsaati Captain and I was always detailed to distribute pay to the men in my unit. Each time I use soft options for money transactions, nostalgia for the simple days of 1964 envelopes me. Every unit had the pay-distribution standard operating procedure prominently displayed in the adjutant’s office. Men and officers waited for the all-important pay-day — the men for the small amounts they would money-order to their homes and officers for the fun and useful reality check the exercise provided.Pay and accounts of soldiers were managed by the controller of defence accounts (CDA), Allahabad, that had its offices in the regimental centres, record offices and other major establishments for ease of functioning. Entitlement of the men according to their ranks, trade, qualifications etc was worked out and the approximate amount sent to the units well in time before the end of the month. The subedar major (SM) or some other senior JCO was the custodian of the money that was kept in the treasury in unit quarter guard (QG). The officer detailed for the pay distribution duty would carry the requisition to the QG and draw the amount worked out earlier for his unit or sub-unit from the SM or other JCO performing the duty of the treasurer. Acquittance-rolls showing details of credits and debits of each soldier were prepared and reconciled by CDA once in a quarter with the statement of accounts they sent to the units. The officer would reach the fixed venue where men would have already been lined up under the supervision of the company havildar major (CHM). The soldier had the liberty to draw whatever amount he wanted out of the total amount in his credit after deduction of provident fund and the balance, if any, was carried forward. Each printed or cyclostyled acquittance roll had six to 10 names and every recipient signed in front of his name for the amount received. At the end of each roll was an undertaking which the officer signed certifying that he had paid the above amount to the men as per their entitlement. The officer again signed the summary prepared at the end.Depending on the strength of the unit, the entire exercise for a company-size unit took just about three hours as the total amount to be distributed was never more than ₹20,000, even when the currency notes were largely in denomination of 100s and 10s. Once in a while, some company commander or commanding officer insisted on making the payments himself to remain connected with the men and junior officers like me assisted him. Sometimes, silly mistakes in counting and distribution resulted in hilarious situations and a little light laughter is always good for bonding.Physical distribution of pay was, perhaps, one of the best methods of one-to-one interaction of men with their officers and JCOs. The officer invariably talked to the soldier in a cordial and friendly manner about his leave and promotion and enquired about the well-being of his family before handing over the currency notes and coins. Everyone seemed to be in a joyous and happy mood and the officers could feel the pulse of their troops and knew exactly the state of their morale; and if there was any discontent brewing it was nipped in the bud.Soldiers’ broad smiles of gratitude and smart salutes would give the instant feedback that all was well in the unit. In fact, it was far better a method of man-management than the sainik sammelan or durbar which was formal in nature and more of a monthly ritual. Admittedly, the procedure of calculating dues of every soldier was cumbersome and tedious but it had its own benefits. Today’s faceless, emotionless and cashless transactions of transferring pay in the bank accounts of the men may be convenient but it has deprived the officer community of the ‘back-to-basics’ approach of time-tested management, giving rise to many problems. Alas, today’s officers don’t have the luxury of such a personal contact with their men. colcheema1942@gmail.com(The writer is a Panchkula-based retired army officer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-good-old-days-of-pay-parades-101629545467853.html
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||32 injured as bus skids off road in Himachal’s Solan district||Thirty-two people were injured, four of them critically, when a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus skidded and fell into 300-feet gorge in Nalagarh sub division of Solan district on Saturday. Police said the accident took place at Thedpura on Patta-Barotiwala road when the was on its way from Johadji to Nalagarh. The driver lost control of the bus while negotiating a curve. Nalagarh sub divisional magistrate Mahendra Pal Gurjar said a rescue team was rushed to the spot soon after the accident. The critically injured were referred to Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, while those who sustained minor injuries were being treated at Nalagarh hospital and Patta health centre. Police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving. 16 vehicles damaged in pileup at Kandaghat In another accident in Solan district, 16 vehicles were damaged in a pile-up at Kandaghat town on the Shimla-Chandigarh highway. Police said a truck loaded with apples rammed into a car stuck in a traffic jam, resulting in vehicles crashing into each other. It is learnt that the truck driver lost control on the wheel due to brake failure. The accident led to a traffic jam on the highway that was opened to traffic after half an hour. Five Hoshiarpur pilgrims injured in Amb In yet another mishap, five pilgrims from Hoshiarpur were injured when their car skidded off the road at Kinnu near Chintapurni temple in Amb sub division of Una district. Una superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur said the injured have been admitted to Amb hospital. The victims were returning after paying obeisance at Chintpurni temple. Speeding is said to be the reason behind the accident. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/27-injured-as-bus-skids-off-road-in-himachal-s-solan-district-101629541628268.html
22-08-2021||World||Biden to meet G7 leaders amidst growing Afghan fissures||US President Joe Biden will meet his G7 counterparts on Tuesday on Afghanistan amidst growing signs of unease and disquiet among allies with the American leader’s pullout decision, which is now playing out around the world in heart-wrenching scenes unfolding at the Kabul airport.Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said on Sunday the leaders, who will meet virtually, will discuss “continuing our close coordination on Afghanistan” and also plans to provide humanitarian assistance and support for Afghan refugees”.The meeting, she added, will build on President Biden’s calls this week with the UK’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel, France’s President Emmanuel Macron and Italy’s Prime Minister Mario Draghi.There was no mention of the simmering tensions and differences among them, which have emerged and persisted despite Biden’s claims to the contrary. “We are united with our closest partners,” he said on Friday, adding that he had kept them informed, specially at meetings of the G7 in London and Nato in Brussels in June.“Every one of them knew and agreed with the decision I made to ... jointly end our involvement in Afghanistan,” he said.But there are clear and growing signs of disquiet among these allies. Johnson - leader of the closest US ally - had requested to speak to Biden on Sunday, but did not get a call back until Tuesday. He has since been grilled by British lawmakers in parliament - “faced a wall of fury”, as The Guardian put it - which also condemned Biden’s decision in the sharpest terms.The Financial Times reported that British defence secretary Ben Wallace had appeared on the verge of tears on Monday as he said that “some would not get back” from the war-torn country. “It’s sad. Twenty years of sacrifice is what it is,” he added. Wallace had tried earlier in the year to put together a coalition of countries to keep some troops in Afghanistan.In a call on Thursday, French President Emmanuel Macron “underscored the absolute need for swift, concrete coordination between the allies to ensure the evacuation of our citizens, Afghan men and women who worked for the allies, and those who are in danger”, according to this office.“The head of state emphasised our collective moral responsibility towards the Afghan men and women who need our protection and who share our values. We cannot abandon them,” the office added.The White House readout of the same call did not mention the phrase or reflect that sentiment.And German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s successor Amin Laschet has called the pullout the “the greatest debacle that Nato has experienced since its foundation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-meet-g7-leaders-amidst-growing-afghan-fissures-101629654018888.html
22-08-2021||World||Afghan baby born on US military aircraft in Germany||The US Air Force announced on Sunday that an Afghan woman gave birth to a girl aboard one of its aircraft that was operating as an evacuation flight to Germany. The baby was born after the flight arrived at its destination, it added.Also Read | 'Do not want war': What Massoud said on Panjshir Resistance, deal with TalibanThe details of the incident were shared on the official Twitter handle of the US Air Mobility Command, a major command (MAJCOM) of the US Air Force. “Medical support personnel from the 86th Medical Group help an Afghan mother and family off a US Air Force C-17, moments after she delivered a child aboard the aircraft, upon landing at the Ramstein Air Base, Germany,” the Air Mobility Command tweeted.Medical support personnel from the 86th Medical Group help an Afghan mother and family off a U.S. Air Force C-17, call sign Reach 828, moments after she delivered a child aboard the aircraft upon landing at Ramstein Air Base, Germany, Aug. 21. (cont..) pic.twitter.com/wqR9dFlW1oIt added that the woman went into labour while onboard the flight, which, it said, took off from an intermediate staging base in the Middle East. “The aircraft commander decided to descend in altitude to increase the air pressure in the aircraft, which helped stabilise and save the mother’s life,” the Air Mobility Command stated further.Also Read | Which countries are taking in Afghan refugees and which countries are not?“Upon landing, Airmen from the 86th MDG came aboard and delivered the child in the cargo bay of the aircraft. The baby girl and her mother were transported to a nearby medical facility and are in good condition,” it concluded.Upon landing, Airmen from the 86th MDG came aboard and delivered the child in the cargo bay of the aircraft. The baby girl and mother were transported to a nearby medical facility and are in good condition.Footage and pictures released by the US military showed the woman being stretchered off the plane upon landing at its destination. The United States, which has several bases in Germany, has been granted permission by the German government to transfer some of the evacuees to the country. Around 1150 evacuees were brought to the Ramstein base alone on Saturday. They are expected to be moved to the US “within days.”Also Read | At least 20 deaths in and around Kabul airport in past week, says NATO officialThe evacuations by world governments of their citizens, as well as Afghan nationals, from Afghanistan, come in the backdrop of the return to power of the Taliban regime in the country. The Islamist movement seized power in the war-torn nation on August 15 by capturing its capital Kabul. The regime first ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001 after which it was driven away by the US-led forces who arrived here after the 9/11 attacks. However, in April this year, US president Joe Biden announced he will recall all American troops from Afghanistan by August 31. This paved the way for the Taliban to once again seize power in Afghanistan.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-woman-gives-birth-aboard-us-military-aircraft-in-germany-101629650669394.html
22-08-2021||World||'Do not want war': What Massoud said on Panjshir Resistance, deal with Taliban||Ahmad Massoud, the face of Resistance in Afghanistan, and the son of Ahmad Shah Massoud gave interviews to Reuters and Dubai-based al-Arabiya television channel on Sunday amid reports of Taliban approaching the Panjshir province. Explaining the vision of the Anti-Taliban force, Massoud said the Panjshir resistance does not want bloodshed and war and believes that negotiation with the Taliban will be the only way out.'Panjshir won't surrender'As reiterated by other Resistance leaders, Massoud once again said on Sunday that Panjshir, which has never surrendered to anyone, will not give in to the Taliban as well. But if the Taliban do not agree to dialogue, then war will be unavoidable.'Not a fight for Panjshir'Massoud told Reuters that the Resistance force is not only fighting for the Panjshir province. Forces have come from various provinces to Panjshir and they are defending the whole country in one province. Massoud told Reuters that he has a mixture of forces from regular army units and special forces as well as the local militia.'No problem with Taliban in government'Dubai's Al-Arabiya television channel quoted Massoud as saying that he has no problem with a government in which the Taliban participate. But a Taliban government will be a totalitarian regime, which should not be recognised by the international community. An inclusive, broad-based government in Kabul representing Afghanistan's different ethnic groups is what he pitched for.This is the first time after the fall of Kabul that Massoud gave interviews regarding the future plan of the National Resistance Front. On August 18, he wrote an opinion for the Washington Post calling the international help. In his appeal to all countries, including the United States which withdrew its troops from Afghanistan, the United Kingdom, Massoud wrote that the Taliban is not a problem of the Afghans alone as Afghanistan under Taliban will become "ground zero of radical Islamist terrorism".32-year-old Massoud had spent years in exile in Iran and Britain. He attended his school in Iran and then studied in the United Kingdom. After spending a year on a military course at Royal Military Academy Sandhurst he pursued a bachelor degree in War Studies at King's College London and then studied international politics at the University of London. In 2016, he returned to Afghanistan.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/do-not-want-war-what-massoud-said-on-panjshir-resistance-deal-with-taliban-101629650481962.html
22-08-2021||World||Anti-Taliban fighter Massoud says he hopes to hold peaceful talks with Taliban||Ahmad Massoud, leader of Afghanistan's last major outpost of anti-Taliban resistance, said on Sunday he hoped to hold peaceful talks with the Islamist movement that seized power in Kabul a week ago but that his forces were ready to fight."We want to make the Taliban realise that the only way forward is through negotiation," he told Reuters by telephone from his stronghold in the mountainous Panjshir valley northwest of Kabul, where he has gathered remnants of regular army units and special forces as well as local militia units."We do not want a war to break out."However he said his supporters were ready to fight if Taliban forces, which have so far stayed out of Panjshir, tried to invade."They want to defend, they want to fight, they want to resist against any totalitarian regime."Massoud, son of Ahmad Shah Massoud, one of the main leaders of Afghanistan's anti-Soviet resistance in the 1980s, said the forces did not just come from Panjshir, which also held out against the Taliban prior to 2001."We are defending the whole country in one province."He called for an inclusive, broad-based government in Kabul representing all of Afghanistan's different ethnic groups and said a "totalitarian regime" should not be recognised by the international community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antitaliban-fighter-massoud-says-he-hopes-to-hold-peaceful-talks-with-taliban-101629648898179.html
22-08-2021||World||'Everything has collapsed': Afghan women students see no future in Afghanistan||With the Islamist extremist group Taliban taking over Afghanistan two decades later, a group of Afghan women too young to recall the Taliban's 1996-2001 rule are experiencing the same trauma once recounted by their relatives, even as thousands flee the country."We are going back to darkness," said one of the university students evacuated to Qatar, who described feelings of anxiety and fear, and like others declined to provide details that could identify them or their families back home for security reasons."It's all the stories that we were hearing from our parents and our grandparents, and at that time it was a story, but now it's like the nightmare came true," a second woman said.The four, who spoke to Reuters, are among hundreds of Afghan students, mostly women, evacuated to the Gulf Arab state.When they last held power, the Taliban strictly enforced their ultra-conservative interpretation of Sunni Islam that included banning women from going to school or working.Many doubt the militant group's proclamations that this time women's rights will be protected under the framework of Islam.Also Read | Women's rights under Islamic law to amnesty for all: What Taliban said in 1st address"Everybody knows how harsh and brutal that era was," the second woman told Reuters at a residential compound in the capital Doha housing evacuees, including other nationalities.She said she did not believe there were enough female teachers in Afghanistan for the gender-segregated classes the Taliban insist on.The group of women said that the Taliban's values were alien to them and that they would not return to Afghanistan as long as the group exerted control, even under a power-sharing government."I feel like I no longer belong to this country and I cannot have my country back because the situation is getting worse day by day," the third woman said."It took us 20 years to build our country and … now everything has collapsed," another women added.The third woman said that she tried to bring a piece of soil with her but it was left behind in luggage at Kabul airport. Now, all she has to remind her of Afghanistan, is her passport.She did not know where she would settle but said she was determined to do her best to find a new home and complete her studies."I will do whatever I can do … because I don't see the future inside (Afghanistan)."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/everything-collapsed-afghan-women-students-see-no-future-in-afghanistan-101629647127867.html
22-08-2021||World||Biden to discuss Afghan issue with G7 leaders||US President Joe Biden will meet G7 leaders virtually on Tuesday to discuss Afghanistan issue amid deep unease in allies over his withdrawal decision.The White House announced the meet on Sunday, a day after French President Macron’s office released a readout of their conversation that said it is “our moral responsibility” to not abandon the people of Afghanistan.Armin Laschet, Angela Merkel’s successor as the head of Germany’s Christian Democratic Union party has called the pullout the “biggest debacle” for Nato since its founding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-discuss-afghan-issue-with-g7-leaders-101629647538452.html
22-08-2021||World||Which countries are taking in Afghan refugees and which countries are not?||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has resulted in a human catastrophe as it has triggered a mass exodus of Afghan people who are desperate to flee the clutches of the Taliban. But where will they go? On Sunday, Russia and Austria have made it clear that they don't want Afghan refugees for various reasons. Some countries are accepting Afghan refugees while some are weighing their options and are not too keen to expand their refugee programmes.Pakistan and Iran have taken in the maximum number of Afghan refugees and asylum seekers in 2020, reports said. They are followed by Germany, Turkey, Austria, France, Greece, Sweden, Switzerland, India, Italy, UK etc.List of countries that are accepting Afghan refugeesThe United States will accept people from Afghanistan who have previously worked with the government. Reports said these Afghans will be temporarily sheltered in Albania, Kosovo or northern Macedonia, the three Balkan countries in Europe which have opened their doors to Afghan refugees.United Kingdom: The United Kingdom said it can take up to 20,000 Afghans over the long term with priority given to women, children and those facing persecution.Australia: Australia has plans to provide at least 3,000 visas to Afghans over a year. It will not allow thousands of Afghans inside the country, Prime Minister Scott Morrison has said. "I note that some are talking about figures of 20,000 but can I tell you there are no clear plans about that. Australia is not going into that territory," he said.Tajikistan: In July, Tajikistan said it was ready to take in up to one lakh Afghan refugees.Canada: Around 20,000 Afghan refugees have already fled to Canada.Germany: Angela Merkel has told her party that the country needs to take in about 10,000 Afghans who are at risk.India: India is committed to evacuating Hindus and Sikhs who want to come to India. It has introduced a new category of e-visa, which will be valid for six months, as of now.Iran: Reports said Iran has set up emergency tents for refugees in three provinces that border Afghanistan.Pakistan: Pakistan said it would seal its border with Afghanistan but so far Afghans have been allowed to cross over to Pakistan.Countries with a conservative stance on taking in Afghan refugeesTurkeyReports said Turkey is reinforcing its border with Iran to stop a potential influx of fleeing Afghans. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said that Turkey will not become Europe's "refugee warehouse".AustriaAustria’s government said it won’t accept asylum seekers fleeing the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan and will instead focus on assisting them locally. “I am clearly against voluntarily accepting more people,” Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said, according to excerpts of an interview published by broadcaster Puls 24. “That won’t happen on my watch.”RussiaRussia has said that it does not want Afghan militants arriving under the cover of refugees.FranceEmmanuel Macron said France will protect those who are in danger but at the same time he pointed out that Europe has to protect itself from "significant waves of illegal migrants".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/which-countries-are-taking-in-afghan-refugees-and-which-countries-are-not-101629646800845.html
22-08-2021||World||'Better' face masks can mitigate spread of Covid-19 indoors: Study||A study conducted at Canada’s University of Waterloo has concluded that widespread use of “better” face masks is needed to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in closed spaces, according to news agency ANI. For the exercise, engineering researchers used a mannequin which simulated a seated person breathing in a large room. The team observed a significant build-up of aerosols, over time, despite the use of common cloth and blue surgical masks. According to the researchers, the exhaled droplets were so tiny that these can remain suspended and travel through air.The study finally showed that most common masks filter only about 10 per cent of exhaled aerosols primarily due to issues with their fit and filter. The remaining aerosols, it was found, are redirected in an unfiltered state, mostly out of the top of the mask covering the nose, and escape into the surrounding air.By contrast, high-quality and more expensive masks such as N95 and KN95 filter more than 50% of exhaled aerosols that can accumulate indoors and, when inhaled, lead to the transmission of Covid-19, the study found.Speaking on the exercise, Serhiy Yarusevych, its lead investigator, said, “There is no question that it is beneficial to wear any face covering, both for protection in close proximity, and at a distance in a room. However, there’s a reason that medical practitioners wear an N95 mask…these work much better. We have provided solid numbers and rigorous analysis to back our assumption.”Yarusevych also recommended the use of N95 and KN95 masks in indoor settings, such as schools and work places, as much as possible.An earlier research established that aerosols, when dispersed by people infected with coronavirus, can transmit SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The transmission can take place even outside the two-meter social distancing gap widely suggested by health authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/better-face-masks-can-mitigate-spread-of-covid-19-indoors-study-101629645445917.html
22-08-2021||World||Boris Johnson convenes G7 meeting, says ‘vital to support Afghan people’||United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday took to Twitter to announce that he will convene a meeting with the Group of Seven (G7) leaders on Tuesday for “urgent talks on the situation in Afghanistan”.“It is vital that the international community works together to ensure safe evacuations, prevent a humanitarian crisis and support the Afghan people to secure the gains of the last 20 years,” he wrote in the post on the microblogging site.His statement comes after the British defence ministry earlier in the day said that at least seven Afghan nationals have been killed in the crowds near Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport as tens of thousands of people tried to escape from Afghanistan and the Islamist militant group Taliban’s regime.“Conditions on the ground remain extremely challenging but we are doing everything we can to manage the situation as safely and securely as possible,” the statement read.Britain’s Sky News chief correspondent Stuart Ramsay, who was at the Kabul airport on Sunday, said that people were “crushed to death” at the front of the queue, while others were “dehydrated and terrified".Meanwhile, an official of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) on Sunday said that at least 20 people have lost their lives in and around the Hamid Karzai airport due to the evacuation currently underway following the Taliban regaining power after 20 years.The NATO official further stated that the crisis outside the Kabul Airport, which is being guarded by US troops, is “unfortunate.” “Our focus is to evacuate all foreign nationals from the city as soon as we can. Our forces are keeping a safe distance from the outer areas of the airport to prevent any possible clashes with the Taliban,” the official said.Various reports have suggested that the insurgents are present at the checkpoints leading up to the Kabul airport.Johnson’s statement to convene a G7 meeting – which includes the UK, US, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, and Japan, comes after he said on Friday that the UK will work with Taliban “if necessary” to find solutions to the Afghanistan conflict.Also Read | ‘Committed to Afghanistan; will work with Taliban if necessary’: UK PM Johnson“What I want to assure people is that our political and diplomatic efforts to find a solution for Afghanistan, working with the Taliban, of course, if necessary, will go on and our commitment to Afghanistan is lasting,” he told the media following an emergency Cabinet Office Briefing Rooms (COBRA) meeting focussed on Afghanistan.The UK PM though accepted that the “logistical challenges” at the Kabul airport are “formidable,” he noted that British troops are doing an “outstanding job in very difficult circumstances.”The Johnson-led government on Tuesday announced the Afghanistan Resettlement and Assistance Programme (ARAP) under which Afghan citizens, who have worked for the UK in Afghanistan, will be permitted to reside in the European nation over a period of five years. As many as 5,000 Afghans will be rendered refuge in the first year itself. The government has also announced 5 million pounds for local councils in England, Wales and Scotland offering to house Afghan nationals who arrived in the UK under ARAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-convenes-g7-meeting-says-vital-to-support-afghan-people-101629642918491.html
22-08-2021||World||Pak army captain killed, two soldiers injured in IED blast in Balochistan||A captain from the Pakistan Army was killed and two soldiers suffered injuries after their vehicle hit an IED planted by terrorists in the Gichik region of Balochistan, news agency ANI reported, citing the Pakistan army’s media affairs wing, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR). The ISPR on Sunday said that the injured were shifted to a medical facility in Khuzdae.Balochistan, a restive province, has seen an uptick in violence over the past few weeks. Earlier this week, two children were killed along with four others which included a Chinese citizen when a suicide bomber blew himself up targeting a vehicle carrying Chinese nationals in Gwadar province.Separatist group Baloch Liberation Army (BLA) earlier in July set fire on installations made by Chinese telecom companies in Balochistan’s Quetta and detained six officials who were involved with these telecom projects. The insurgents also believe that the Pakistan government along with these Chinese telecom companies like Huawei, Netcom, Exeleron and ZTE is setting up a communications network in hilly regions of resource-rich Balochistan to spy and trace the region's citizens under the Universal Service Fund programme. The region is also among the focal points of China's $60 billion Belt and Road development programme.The region also saw increased fights between Baloch insurgents and Pakistan security forces. The freedom movement for a free Balochistan continues to trouble the Pakistan government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-army-captain-killed-two-soldiers-injured-in-ied-blast-in-balochistan-101629640933086.html
22-08-2021||World||Provincial Chinese capital bans unvaccinated from entering public areas||Authorities of a provincial capital in northern China have said citizens not vaccinated against Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter public places including hospitals, malls, subways, hotels, and markets.Grassroot workers in the city have been ordered to daily submit the names and details of people who have not taken the jab to local committees and sub-district offices.The government of Hohhot, capital of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, said those who have not been vaccinated but found to be responsible for spreading Covid-19 will be prosecuted, Chinese media reported on Sunday.This is the first time authorities of a major city in China have made vaccinations compulsory except for medical reasons.Residents have to show proof of vaccination and a green health code to enter public areas.In July, the national health commission (NHC) had said “informed, consented and voluntary” were the basic principles for China’s inoculation programme, adding, however, that people without medical reasons and within the acceptable age should take the shots.The NHC issued the guidelines after authorities in several cities had issued rules saying unvaccinated people will be prohibited from entering public venues such as hospitals and supermarkets.The government of Tanghe county, in central China’s Henan province, for example, had requested civil servants, including retired staff, to get vaccinated or warned that they won’t be allowed to continue to work or receive salary.The Hohhot government’s decision, announced on Saturday, seems a departure from the NHA guidelines.“In principle, it is not advisable to enter the above-mentioned places (without being vaccinated),” the Hohhot government notice said after listing the places banned for those who have not taken the jabs.The banned public places include markets, tourist attractions (scenic spots), amusement parks, indoor enclosed entertainment venues, cinemas, cultural centres and libraries.“Those who have not been vaccinated shall be persuaded by their units to be vaccinated as soon as possible before the end of August,” the notice quoted by Chinese media said.Students have been advised not to go to school without being fully vaccinated, the notice indicated.Inner Mongolia’s push to boost vaccination rates comes as the ruling Communist Party of China stresses on achieving herd immunity - which puts an end to community transmission - by December this year.The decision also comes in the backdrop of the recent outbreak in several parts of China of the Covid-19 Delta variant; more than 1,300 cases were reported during the cluster outbreaks, the highest for China since last year.Not only the fear of censure, Chinese cities have also offered incentives to citizens including electronic bikes, eggs, ice cream and milk to get jabbed.Over 1.9 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in China as of Wednesday, NHC data showed.China could reach 80% Covid-19 vaccines coverage by the end of this year, achieving herd immunity, the country’s top epidemiologist Zhong Nanshan said in a virtual speech at a health conference on Friday.A total of 777.046 million people in China, a country of 1.4 billion, have been fully vaccinated, NHC spokesperson Mi Feng said earlier this month.China has also been vaccinating children and teenagers aged between 12 and 17 with over 60 million doses administered in the age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/provincial-chinese-capital-bans-unvaccinated-from-entering-public-areas-101629638597878.html
22-08-2021||World||Afghanistan crisis: At least 20 deaths in and around Kabul airport in past week, says NATO official||An official of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) said on Sunday “at least 20” people have lost their lives in the past seven days in and around the Kabul airport during evacuation efforts following the Taliban regime seizing power in Afghanistan on August 15, according to Reuters. Fearing persecution at the hands of the insurgents, Afghans have swamped Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport in a bid to leave their country.Also Read | Desperate Afghan women throw babies over razor wire at Kabul airport compound“The crisis outside the Kabul airport in unfortunate. Our focus is to evacuate all foreign nationals from the city as soon as we can. Our forces are keeping a safe distance from the outer areas of the airport to prevent any possible clashes with the Taliban,” the official, who chose to remain anonymous, further said.While the airport itself is relatively secure, given that it is being guarded by American troops, roads leading up to it are manned by fighters of the extremist group. The Islamist movement has, however, slammed the United States for the chaos. “America, with all its powers and facilities, has failed to restore order at the airport. While there is peace and calm all over the country, there is chaos only at the Kabul airport,” Amir Khan Mutaqi, a Taliban official, told AFP.Also Read | Taliban blame US for Kabul airport chaos as Afghans race to fleeEarlier in the day, the British defence ministry said in a statement at least seven Afghans have been killed near the international airport.Also Read | 7 Afghans killed in chaos at Kabul airport, says British militaryThe desperation among the Afghans to leave their homeland is evident from several visuals that have emerged from the airport in the wake of the Taliban’s return to power. In one of the videos, some Afghan men are seen clinging to an aircraft of the US Air Force that is taking off; later, they are seen plunging to their death from mid-air.This is for the second time when the Taliban is in power in Afghanistan. It previously ruled the war-torn nation for five years, beginning 1996. In 2001, it was defeated by US-led troops who arrived here after the 9/11 attacks. However, in April this year, US president Joe Biden said he will recall all American troops in Afghanistan by August 31. This paved the way for the Taliban to advance towards Kabul, and conquer it eventually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-crisis-at-least-20-deaths-in-and-around-kabul-airport-in-past-week-says-nato-official-101629637657147.html
22-08-2021||World||Don't want Afghan militants arriving under cover of refugees: Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday criticised the United States and the NATO allies for sending refugees from Afghanistan to central Asian countries, and said they pose a direct threat to Moscow.Calling the visa-free refuge of Afghan migrants in Asia "unfair", Putin said he would bring up the issue at the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) summit on Monday, Russian news agency Ria Novosti reported.On Saturday, Putin held a virtual meeting with his Kazakh counterpart Kassym-Zhomart Tokayev where the two leaders discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan.Putin criticised an idea of some Western countries to send refugees from Afghanistan to neighbouring Central Asian countries while their visas to the United States and Europe are being processed, according to Reuters."We don't want Afghan militants arriving under cover of refugees," Ria Novosti quoted Putin as saying. He added that the issue of refugees from Afghanistan will be a priority for the Russian foreign ministry.Some central Asian nations, including Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan — which share borders with Afghanistan — have raised concerns over the influx of refugees into their countries after fleeing Taliban regime. They are worried Islamic State fighters and other fundamentalists as well as religious extremists could infiltrate into the countries in the guise of refugees.Al Jazeera reported that thousands of natives of Uzbekistan and other central Asian countries joined the IS while hundreds others found refuge in northern Afghanistan.Countries like Uzbekistan and Tajikistan fear that Taliban's hardline religious views could disturb their secular social fabric.Thousands of Afghans have been making desperate attempts to flee the war-torn nation after Kabul fell to the Taliban last week.The Pentagon said last week that the US has evacuated more than 7,000 people from Afghanistan since the start of rescue operations on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-taliban-regime-afghan-refugees-russia-vladimir-putin-central-asia-101629632850937.html
22-08-2021||World||'Panjshir will resist': What Massoud's National Resistance Front wants from Taliban||Former defence minister of Ashraf Ghani's government General Bismillah Mohammadi on Sunday tweeted that Panjshir will not surrender and will continue to resist. This assertion comes amid reports that the Taliban might now launch an attack to capture Panjshir, the ground of resistance since the Afghan-Soviet war. The anti-Taliban force gaining strength in Afghanistan's Panjshir has claimed to have taken control over Pul-e-Hesar, Deh Salah, and Banu on Saturday.تو شاهینی قفس بشکن به پرواز اه و مستی کنکه بر آزاده گان داغ اسارات سخت ننگین استپنجشیر همیش سبز و استوار خواهد ماند،طالبان تروریست خواب تسخیر پنجشیر، زادگاه قهرمان ملی را با خود به گور ببرند. مقاومت علیه تروریست ها بر هریک ما فرض است! pic.twitter.com/u5sKXvHkXwAs the world is watching how the Panjshir force steps up their resistance, reports said that the first aim of the National Resistance Front will be to avoid bloodshed, though they are ready for a long-time conflict with the Taliban. Ali Maisam Nazary, the spokesperson of the National Resistance Front, gave an interview to news agency AFP, where he outlined what the anti-Taliban force at present is aiming for.'If Taliban launch a full-scale attack on Panjshir...': What analysts sayAhmad Massoud, son of legendary Mujahideen commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, former vice president and self-proclaimed acting president of Afghanistan Amrullah Saleh and former defence minister General Bismillah Mohammadi are the leaders of this resistance.Here is all you need to know about the National Resistance Front and how they are preparing> Reports said the front has assembled around 9,000 soldiers who are being trained in the valley. They are performing their regular fitness regime and a handful of armoured humvees are driving across the valley, pictures taken by AFP revealed.> The main goal of the NRF is to press for a new system of government.> If the Taliban do not negotiate, they will face resistance across the country, Ali Maisam Nazary told AFP.> The conditions for a peace deal with the Taliban is decentralisation -- a system that ensures social justice, equality, rights, and freedom for all, Nazary said.> Nazary said many local militias which were not initially part of the NRF have begun resisting the Taliban and have now formed an alliance with Massoud's NRF.> What makes NRF hopeful against the Taliban which have captured the entire country? "The Taliban are overstretched. They cannot be everywhere at the same time. Their resources are limited. They do not have support amongst the majority," Nazary said to AFP,Talking about the differences between Amrullah Saleh and Massoud, Nazary said that Amrullah Saleh's strong anti-Pakistan stance was at odds with Massoud who wants good relations with Pakistan, but Amrullah Saleh is respected as he is in Panjshir and the first priority of the group is to defend Panjshir and its people. Apart from Panjshir's people, around 1,000 displaced people from across Afghanistan have come to the valley as it is still safe from the Taliban, the spokesperson said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panjshir-will-resist-what-massoud-s-national-resistance-front-wants-from-taliban-101629636421158.html
22-08-2021||World||UK announces new antibody tests for Covid-19 patients: All you need to know||The British government on Sunday announced a new nationwide surveillance scheme for antibodies, that will make available, for free, antibody tests at home for people infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Antibody testing will be rolled out to thousands of adults per day, across the UK. If you've tested positive for Covid-19, I urge you to opt-in to help us better understand the effectiveness of the vaccines and develop future treatments," health secretary Sajid Javid tweeted.Antibody testing will be rolled out to thousands of adults a day across the UK from Tuesday. If you’ve tested positive for COVID-19, I urge you to opt-in to help us better understand the effectiveness of the vaccines and develop future treatments.https://t.co/qvGzhf8b0THere's all you need to know about this new initiative:(1.) Under the scheme, which comes into effect from Tuesday, any citizen who is aged over 18 can opt for this antibody testing while booking PCR test to see if they are infected with Covid-19.(2.) Those who return a positive test result will then receive "two-finger prick" antibody tests at home. These are to be completed and sent back for laboratory analysis.(3.) Each day, a maximum of 8000 people, who opted for the antibody test and subsequently tested positive for the coronavirus disease, will receive the test kit.(4.) The tests will be offered by the UK Health Security Agency, which will work with the National Health Service (NHS) Test and Trace testing services in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to monitor the level of antibodies among positive Covid-19 cases across the UK.(5.) There are two stages in this test. The first stage will determine the level of antibodies a person had before current positive Covid-19 test result. It is to be taken "as soon as possible" after testing positive for the viral disease.(6.) The second stage is for 28 days after testing posit. It will determine the antibodies generated in response to the infection.(7.) The two sets of data will then be compared to study the proportion of those who caught the virus despite developing antibodies through vaccination, or while they earlier had Covid-19.(8.) However, those who test positive for antibodies should continue following the norms as a positive antibody test does not mean they are immune from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-announces-antibody-tests-for-people-positive-with-covid-all-you-need-to-know-101629630156443.html
22-08-2021||World||Taliban blame US for Kabul airport chaos as Afghans race to flee||Ever since Kabul fell into the hands of Islamist extremist group Taliban, the most chaotic scenes have emerged from the city’s Hamid Karzai International Airport where Afghan citizens have been making desperate bids to flee the country and the Islamist regime. Now, a senior Taliban official has put the blame of the evacuation chaos on the United States.“America, with all its power and facilities … has failed to bring order to the airport. There is peace and calm all over the country, but there is chaos only at Kabul airport,” Taliban official Amir Khan Mutaqi told AFP.On Sunday, the British defence ministry said that at least seven Afghan citizens died in the mayhem at the airport, even as scores of civilians tried to escape Afghanistan.A journalist, who was among a group of media workers and academics fortunate enough to reach the Kabul airport for a flight, said that people were begging to be flown out of the country.“They were showing us their passports and shouting ‘take us with you … please take us with you’,” the journalist was quoted as saying by AFP.The media worker added that the Taliban fighter ahead of them shot in the air to make the crowd disperse.Britain’s Sky News reporter Stuart Ramsay, who was at the airport on Sunday, said that people were being “crushed”, while others were “dehydrated and terrified.”The pandemonium is a sign of worry especially because the US has set August 31 as the deadline to complete the evacuation, and there are up to 15,000 US nationals and between 50,000 and 60,000 Afghan allies still in Afghanistan, according to AFP.Also Read | US may enlist commercial airlines to help evacuate Afghan refugeesUS President Joe Biden, who has come under severe criticism for his decision to end America’s longest war and withdraw the troops from Afghanistan, termed the evacuation to be “one of the largest, most difficult airlifts in history.” “I cannot promise what the final outcome will be,” he added in a televised address from the White House on Friday.Also Read | Kabul evacuation among ‘most difficult’ in history’: BidenThe Pentagon on Saturday said that as many as 17,000 people, including 2,500 Americans have so far been evacuated from Afghanistan. According to Reuters, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said, “We’re fighting against both time and space … And we’re trying to do this as quickly and safely as possible.”The US, meanwhile, has advised its citizens still in Afghanistan to keep from travelling to the Kabul airport due to potential security threats outside the gates of the venue. Furthermore, Biden has also warned the Taliban with “swift and forceful response” if they attack the US forces or cause disruption of the country’s operations at the Hamid Karzai airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peace-everywhere-but-kabul-airport-taliban-blame-us-for-evacuation-mayhem-101629631804817.html
22-08-2021||World||Taliban seeks 'cooperation' from former govt officials, to hold meetings over next few days||Former governors and bureaucrats from more than 20 of Afghanistan's 34 provinces will meet commanders from the Taliban over the next few days, an official of the group said on Sunday on condition of anonymity, according to Reuters. The meeting will take place to "ensure the safety" of the officials and to "seek their cooperation", he added.Also Read | Taliban 'mock' US by copying famous WWII photo of troops raising Iwo Jima flagThe official further said there is no pressure on former government employees to join the Taliban. "We are not forcing any former government official to join us or prove their allegiance to us. They have a right to leave their country if they want to," he said.Also Read | Taliban release propaganda video showing fighters in US army uniform, gearThough the insurgents offered "general amnesty" to government officials upon seizing power on August 15 by capturing Kabul, the city's airport has, in recent days, been thronged by Afghans desperate to leave their country fearing persecution by the regime. Other "promises" made by the Taliban include honouring women's rights "within the norms of Islam." None of the "promises" have been, however, fulfilled till now.Also Read | ‘Won’t relinquish our rights’: Afghan women protest, say haven’t been allowed to work by TalibanThe Taliban official also said they were seeking complete clarity on the exit plan of foreign troops, adding that managing crowds outside the Kabul airport has become a "complex task." Also Read | Ahmad Massoud, son of assassinated anti-Taliban fighter, calls for supportPreviously it has been reported that the group will wait till August 31 to announce a new "government," as it has a deal with the United States. In April, US president Joe Biden fixed August 31 as the date by which American troops will leave the war-torn nation, nearly 20 years after arriving here in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. The US-led troops ended the Taliban's first rule, which lasted from 1996 to 2001.Also Read | Taliban may announce framework for new Afghan government soonTaliban officials have also held talks with former Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, who headed the High Council of National Reconciliation (HNRC) over the formation of a future Afghan "government."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-seeks-cooperation-from-former-govt-officials-to-hold-meetings-over-next-few-days-101629626340859.html
22-08-2021||World||‘Garbage on tarmac’: Pak state-run airlines on reason behind suspending flight operations to Afghanistan||Pakistan temporarily suspended flights operations with Kabul and put a halt on the evacuation process, according to news agencies Geo News and PTI. The state-run Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) was the sole commercial airline which carried out evacuation operations helping diplomats and foreign nationals from Afghanistan exit the country after the Taliban took control of the nation last week.The PIA said that it ‘temporarily suspended’ operations due to lack of facilities and ‘heaps of garbage’ on the tarmac of Hamid Karzai International Airport. People familiar with the developments also told Geo News that there were no security personnel or immigration officials at the Kabul airport. Workers with the sanitation department also were absent from their duties following the takeover by the Taliban. The people familiar with the developments said that the ‘authorities were afraid that garbage at the airport’s tarmac could lead to a tragic accident’.The PIA spokesperson Abdullah Hafeez told news agency Radio Pakistan that the PIA temporarily suspended its flight operations to Afghanistan due to lack of necessary facilities at Kabul airport. “We have talked to the Afghan Civil Aviation Authority for restoration of all required facilities at Kabul airport as soon as possible so that PIA could resume its flight operation,” Hafeez was quoted as saying by Radio Pakistan.He said that the PIA has evacuated 1,500 people, including journalists, UN officials and Pakistani nationals, in five flights.Chaotic scenes unfurled over the last two weeks in Kabul airport as several Afghan citizens struggled to get out of Afghanistan in a bid to escape the Taliban takeover. People in the war-torn country were reminded of the regressive regime of the Taliban between 1996-2001 following their hostile takeover of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-suspends-flight-operations-to-afghanistan-101629626618882.html
22-08-2021||World||Austria says won't take Afghan refugees; Chancellor Kurz explains why||At a time when activists from across the globe have urged world governments to take in Afghan refugees leaving their country fearing persecution by the Taliban regime, Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said on Sunday the European nation “will not take any refugee from Afghanistan.” In a series of tweets, Kurz ascribed this decision to what he called “problems with integration” and the number of Afghan refugees already living in Austria.Also Read | US may enlist commercial airlines to help evacuate Afghan refugees“Austria has already made a disproportionately high contribution by taking in 44,000 Afghans. The Afghan community in Austria is one of the largest such communities in the world per capita, after those in Iran, Pakistan and Sweden. There are still major issues with their integration and thus we are against additional inclusion,” a rough translation of Kurz’s tweet, posted in German, read. On the return to power of the Taliban regime for the first time since 2001, the young Chancellor described as “unacceptable” the “complete undoing of progress made in Afghanistan in the last 20 years on human rights and women’s rights.”Es darf von uns nicht hingenommen werden, dass die in den letzten 20 Jahren in #Afghanistan erzielten Fortschritte bei Menschen- und Frauenrechten wieder gänzlich zunichte gemacht werden. Wenn wir als #EU mit den Taliban das Gespräch suchen, dann vor allem darüber!While he admitted that events taking place in Afghanistan are “dramatic,” Kurz warned against “repeating the mistakes of 2015.” He tweeted, “The people from Afghanistan should be helped by our neighbouring states. The European Union must secure the external borders and fight against illegal migration and human traffickers.”Die Ereignisse in Afghanistan sind dramatisch, aber wir dürfen die Fehler von 2015 nicht wiederholen. Den Menschen aus #Afghanistan soll in benachbarten Staaten geholfen werden. Die #EU muss die Außengrenzen sichern sowie illegale Migration und Schlepper bekämpfen.The Austrian Chancellor mentioned 2015 in reference to the arrival in Europe that year of refugees from various countries.Also Read | UK to resettle 20,000 Afghan refugees over 'long term', prioritise minoritiesAustria’s ruling People’s Party, headed by Kurz, has adopted a hard line towards immigration amid the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan, whose capital Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15. The regime first seized power in the war-torn country in 1996 but was driven away by US-led troops in 2001. The group’s recent surge towards the Afghan capital came amid the withdrawal of American troops as directed by US president Joe Biden in April.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/austria-says-won-t-take-afghan-refugees-chancellor-kurz-explains-why-101629624287778.html
22-08-2021||World||No super-spreader event: US wants world leaders to address UNGA event virtually||The United States has called on world leaders to virtually attend the upcoming annual session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) to prevent the weeklong high-level programme from becoming a super-spreader event amid rising concerns over the rapid spread of the Delta variant of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.The UN General Debate is slated to begin on September 21 and will run through September 27. On September 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to address the session physically. This is as per the first provisional list of speakers for the General Debate at the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. US President Joe Biden is also scheduled to speak at the event, his first address to the world organisation as the American leader.US ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield has reportedly written to the 193 member states of the UN that as the host country of the UN headquarters, her country bears a “significant responsibility” to ensure the safety of participants and New York residents."So too does the Secretariat and President of the General Assembly. We need your help to prevent UNGA 76 High-Level Week from being a super-spreader event,” she further wrote.Stating that the Covid-19 pandemic continued to pose a significant health risk around the world, Thomas-Greenfield said the Delta variant has “necessitated enhanced mitigation” measures given its virulence among fully vaccinated and unvaccinated persons alike.With cases and hospitalisations increasing sharply in the US and all counties in New York City currently rated as having the highest level of community transmission, she said, “In light of current health concerns, we will convey to all member states and observers that heads of delegation should consider delivering their statements to the UN General Assembly’s General Debate by video.”In case delegations choose to travel to New York for the General Debate, the US requested that delegations bring the minimum number of travellers necessary.So far, 167 heads of state and heads of government and 29 ministers and diplomats are scheduled to address the UN General Debate. About 40 leaders are listed to address the high-level session through pre-recorded statements, including Iran, Egypt, Indonesia, South Africa and Nepal.The 76th session of the UN General Assembly will begin September 14. Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid will be president of the year-long session.The US is also urging member states to address all other high-level events, including those held on the sidelines, virtually.Thomas-Greenfield said while the UN Secretariat has already communicated some modalities for the high-level week, “I want to make clear our call, as the host country, for all UN-hosted meetings and side events, beyond the General Debate, to be fully virtual".Parallel meetings and high-level events drawing travellers to New York needlessly increase risk to the community, New Yorkers and other travellers, she said.“I am particularly concerned regarding the possibility of the UN, through the auspices of the Secretary-General and the President of the General Assembly, hosting several in-person high level events during high-level week -- possibly to include events on climate change, vaccines, the 20th Anniversary of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the Food Systems Summit, and the high-level dialogue on Energy.“We feel strongly that the General Debate should be the only event held with in-person participation during High-Level Week; the United States is willing to make every effort to make these important events on shared priorities successful in a virtual format,” Thomas-Greenfield said.She said with a view to ensure safety of UNGA participants and New York residents, the US will significantly limit its in-person delegation travelling to New York and Washington encourages other member states to do the same."We must each do our part in reducing the number of activities that would draw travellers to New York City at this time,” Thomas-Greenfield said.Last year, world leaders had submitted pre-recorded video statements for the UNGA session in September, as heads of state and government could not physically attend the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. It was the first time in the UN's 75-year history that the high-level session had gone virtual.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-super-spreader-event-us-wants-world-leader-to-address-unga-event-virtually-101629622609869.html
22-08-2021||World||Kamala Harris kicks off tour to Southeast Asia week after Kabul’s fall||US Vice-President Kamala Harris landed in Singapore on Sunday to kick off her tour of Southeast Asia. Harris’s Asia tour comes a week after the fall of Kabul to the Taliban and an impending US withdrawal from Afghanistan. Harris’ visit is expected to put the focus back on countering China as criticism over America’s Afghan policy mounts at home and abroad, reported the Wall Street Journal on August 20.Harris’ itinerary includes stops in Singapore and Vietnam, where she will meet political leaders and seek to assuage apprehensions of America’s reliability as an ally. "The Vice-President will make clear throughout the trip that we do have an enduring commitment to the region," a senior US official told AFP.Harris is will be starting off her official tour of Singapore from Monday, and is scheduled to visit Hanoi on Tuesday, becoming the first US Vice-President to visit the country. While in Singapore Harris will meet the President and Prime Minister of the island state and make a stop at the Changi Naval Base, where she'll address US sailors aboard the visiting USS Tulsa. Harris, an Indian-American, will not be visiting her motherland India this time around.Also Read: Speed of Taliban advance stuns countries as US scrambles to airlift embassy staffHer plan to visit Vietnam has drawn comparisons between the US’ withdrawal from Afghanistan and Saigon in 1975, when American helicopters made last-minute rescue from rooftops as troops from the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam advanced.Critics have dubbed America’s evacuation plan in Afghanistan “another Saigon”, and called out Harris for being tone deaf. US officials, however, told AFP that this trip was planned long before things in Afghanistan became intense, and Harris is focused on Washington's broader strategic goals in Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-kicks-off-tour-to-southeast-asia-week-after-kabul-s-fall-101629622502452.html
22-08-2021||World||Taliban 'mock' US by copying famous WWII photo of troops raising flag at Iwo Jima||The Taliban have now appeared to mock the United States by 'recreating' what seems like the famous World War II photo of US Marines raising the flag on the island of Iwo Jima. The hardline Islamist group, which has now taken control of the state apparatus in Afghanistan, wasted no time in wake of the chaotic withdrawal of American troops from the country, quickly assimilating the US-made array of weaponry into its own ranks.The Taliban dressed up in American military gear we left behind when we fled the country and staged their own mock Iwo Jima photo. pic.twitter.com/Akr2fQTnvqAlso Read | ‘The Resistance has just begun’: Ahmad Massoud, son of assassinated anti-Taliban fighter, calls for supportIn a renewed propaganda push, the Taliban are attempting to solidify their control in Afghanistan by releasing a series of footage that show the insurgents inspecting long lines of vehicles and opening crates of new firearms, communications gear, and even military drones. The group has also released propaganda videos their fighters wearing stolen US-made military gear, including assault rifles and sophisticated tactical radio. The video, with a musical soundtrack, was aired on propaganda channels affiliated with the Taliban and said they have deployed soldiers from the “the Badri 313 Brigade” to guard locations in Kabul.This Badri 313 Battalion, a little-known elite unit within the ranks of the Taliban, has now reportedly 'recreated' one of the most important and recognisable images from World War II - Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima.As can be seen from the photos, the Badri 313 unit has its fighters donned in US-made tactical gear, complete with night-vision goggles, camouflage, and combat equipment, to simulate the iconic World War II photograph. The Badri 313 unit is reportedly named after the Battle of Badr 1,400 years ago when Prophet Mohammed defeated the enemy with just 313 men.Also Read | Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihadThe original Iwo Jima photograph was clicked by Joe Rosenthal of the Associated Press on February 23, 1945. It shows six United States Marines raising the US flag atop Mount Suribachi during the Battle of Iwo Jima in the final stages of the Pacific War. It was the only photograph to win the Pulitzer Prize for Photography in the same year as its publication and was later used for the construction of the Marine Corps War Memorial in 1954, which was dedicated to honouring all Marines who died in service since 1775.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-mock-us-by-copying-famous-wwii-photo-of-troops-raising-flag-at-iwo-jima-101629618584813.html
22-08-2021||World||‘The Resistance has just begun’: Ahmad Massoud, son of assassinated anti-Taliban fighter, calls for support||In spite of information warfare by the Taliban that it is negotiating with Northern Alliance resistance in Panjshir Valley, Ahmad Massoud, the leader of the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan, has said he will follow in his father’s footsteps and won’t surrender to the Taliban, who have seized the country after the US and allied forces virtually ran away from Kabul. French philosopher Bernard-Henri Lévy said, “I just spoke to Ahmad Massoud on the phone. He told me: “I am the son of Ahmad Shah Massoud; surrender is not part of my vocabulary.” This is the start. The Resistance has just begun.Massoud is the son of Ahmad Shah Massoud, who was known as the Lion of Panjshir and led the strongest resistance against the Taliban from his stronghold in the valley until he was assassinated two days before 9/11 by al Qaeda terrorists of Moroccan origins. The Panjshir Valley, which never fell to the Taliban during the civil war of the 1990s and was not conquered by the Soviets a decade earlier, is now Afghanistan's last remaining holdout against the Sunni Pashtun forces.Also read | Ahmad Massoud, son of assassinated anti-Taliban fighter, requests US for weapons“My father, Commander Massoud, our national hero, bequeathed to me a legacy: and that legacy is to fight for Afghans’ freedom. That fight is now irreversibly mine. My companions in arms and I are ready to give our blood. We call on all free Afghans, all those who reject servitude, to join our bastion of Panjshir, the last free region in our tormented land. To Afghans of all regions and tribes, I say: do fight with us!” Massoud said in a letter to Levy on August 16. He also called for aid from those in France, Europe, America and the Arab world, who he said helped them in their fight against the Soviets and then against the Taliban 20 years ago. “I ask: Will you, dear friends in freedom, assist us once more, as in the past? Despite the betrayal of some, we still have confidence in you. We Afghans find ourselves in the situation of Europe in 1940. Except in Panjshir, the debacle is near total, and the spirit of collaboration with the Taliban is spreading among the vanquished, who lost this war by their own failings. Only we remain standing. And we will never yield,” he said.Also read | Son of famed Afghan commander Massoud steps into spotlightSeveral photographs on social media have shown Massoud meeting Afghanistan's defiant vice president Amrullah Saleh in what appears to be an effort to take on the Taliban. Saleh has asserted on Twitter that he is now the country's rightful president after President Ashraf Ghani fled to the United Arab Emirates.Stalwart! @AmrullahSaleh2 pic.twitter.com/ZkYIBAQp0UAlso watch | Anti-Taliban militia rises: Saleh, Massoud revive Northern Alliance in PanjshirIn a reference to Levy, Massoud also said that he quoted Winston Churchill’s phrase promising blood, toil, tears, and sweat on the eve of the Taliban’s takeover of his country. “Today I think of what General de Gaulle said after the rout of french army : France has lost a battle but not the war. We Afghans have not even lost a battle, since Kabul did not fight. Here in Panjshir, Mujahideen young and old have taken up arms,” he added.In an almost poetic call for help, Massoud said, “Together we will write a new page in the story of Afghanistan. It will be a new chapter in the eternal resistance of the oppressed against tyranny.”Massoud reiterated his call for help in an op-ed published Wednesday in The Washington Post as well and called on the United States to help with arms and ammunition to his militia. "America can still be a great arsenal of democracy" by supporting his fighters, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahmad-massoud-son-of-assassinated-anti-taliban-fighter-calls-for-support-101629618970044.html
22-08-2021||World||Pakistan allows fully vaccinated Sikh pilgrims to visit Kartarpur Sahib from next month||The Pakistan government on Sunday announced it will allow pilgrims who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur for the death anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev next month.Pakistan's National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) held a meeting during which they unanimously decided to allow Sikh pilgrims to visit Kartarpur in the Narowal district, next month under strict Covid-19 protocols, Dawn reported.Dawn reported that fully vaccinated persons with certificates will be allowed to enter Pakistan provided they show real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test reports which should not be more than 72 hours old.Apart from this, Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) will also be conducted at airports, and in case of a positive result, the individual will not be allowed to enter Pakistan.Besides, as per non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs), a maximum of 300 people will be permitted to assemble at a time at the darbar.Early this month, Pakistan has lifted travel restrictions from 11 countries including India.Pakistan had put India under Category C from May 22 till August 12 due to the spread of the Delta variant, which meant that the movement of people, including Sikh pilgrims, from India, was subjected to special permission.On March 16, 2020, both India and Pakistan had temporarily suspended the day-long pilgrimage in wake of Covid 19 and also suspended the registration for the Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage.However, on October 2, 2020, the Pakistan government announced to unilaterally open the Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage but India denied to reciprocate the gesture.India and Pakistan signed the Kartarpur corridor agreement with Pakistan on October 24, 2019.Under the pact, Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round-the-year visa-free travel through the Kartarpur corridor to Gurudwara Kartarpur Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-allows-fully-vaccinated-sikh-pilgrims-to-visit-kartarpur-sahib-from-next-month-101629617866597.html
22-08-2021||World||Fearing renewed refugee influx, Greece erects wall along Turkey border||Greece has finished erecting a 40 kilometre-fence on its border with Turkey to deter possible asylum seekers from knocking at its door following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. "We cannot wait, passively for the possible impact," the country's citizens' protection minister Michalis Chrisochoidis told reporters on Friday. "Our borders will remain safe and inviolable." The development comes amid apprehensions in Europe, which is still living under the shadow of a migrant crisis triggered by the 2015 Syrian war, of a renewed influx of migrants into the continent triggered by the Taliban's Afghanistan offensive.Greece has also installed a new surveillance system along its border with Turkey, the Reuters news agency reported, adding that the country is taking all measures to alert its border forces, making sure it does not become Europe's gateway again.Chrisochoidis, the Greek minister, said that the extension to the existing 12.5-kilometre fence on the border with Turkey had been completed in recent days, as well as a hi-tech, automated electronic monitoring system.Greece and Turkey, Nato allies and historic rivals, have long been at odds over migrant issues and competing territorial claims in the eastern Mediterranean.Nearly a million people had fled war and poverty in the Middle East following the Syrian war, finding their way to Greece from Turkey, before travelling northward to wealthier states. However, the migrant arrivals, either by land or by sea, slowed in recent years (since 2016) when the EU agreed on a deal with Turkey to stem the flows in exchange for financial support.The country fears a repeat of the situation, when it was at the frontline of the migrant influx, and is taking measures in advance this time to prepare for the "possibilities for migrant flows".Meanwhile, Turkey's president Recep Tayyip Erdogan, faced with the new wave of migration from Afghanistan, has called on other European nations to share the responsibility of providing refuge to the stranded people from the war-torn country. Warning that Turkey won't become Europe's "refugee warehouse", Erdogan said earlier this week that his government would “if necessary” engage in talks with a government that could be formed by the Taliban ” for the stability and security of this country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fearing-renewed-refugee-influx-greece-erects-wall-along-turkey-border-101629616257939.html
22-08-2021||World||Taliban may announce framework for new Afghan government soon||The Taliban is likely to announce a framework for setting up of the new government in Afghanistan in a few weeks, the country’s television channel Tolo News reported on the basis of a conversation between an official of the Islamist militia and news agency Reuters.Those familiar with the evolving situation said the Taliban leadership and a group of Afghan political leaders continued to hold negotiations on the formation of a government. However, there is no clarity yet on whether the key points have been discussed.It was learnt that the legal, religious and foreign policy experts in the Taliban were deliberating on the framework that would form the basis of their government.One of the founding members of the Taliban and the militia’s second-in-command, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar reached Kabul on Saturday to join the discussions with Afghan political leaders.This comes a day after former Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the High Council of National Reconciliation, met Kabul’s acting governor Abdul Rahman Mansour, in which they discussed the security of Kabul and its people.ALSO READ | Taliban may not announce new government until August 31 as per 'deal' with US: ReportPolitical analyst Tariq Farhadi was quoted as saying by Tolo News that the Taliban is likely to take around 10 days, as there are issues concerning the inclusion of women and representatives of all Afghan ethnicities in the government.“If they continue with their monopolisation of power like Ashraf Ghani and distribute it to certain provinces, without respecting other provinces and their people there could be a possibility of a civil war,” warned another political analyst, Farhad Akbari, according to Tolo News.Pakistan's foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi is scheduled to visit Kabul later in the day to meet with Taliban leaders. Weiss Nasir, a political analyst Tolo News spoke to, said Qureshi's visit assumes significance at a time when Pakistan is willing to "play its part" in forming a new government in Afghanistan with the Taliban and politicians.A senior Taliban leader said last week, however, stressed there would be no democratic system at all in Afghanistan because it "does not have any base" in the country, while highlighting that the new regime would impose the Shariah law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-afghanistan-government-framework-kabul-discussion-101629614953730.html
22-08-2021||World||7 Afghans killed in chaos at Kabul airport, says British military||At least seven Afghans have been killed in the crowds near Kabul's international airport as tens of thousands tried to leave Afghanistan amid the Taliban takeover of the country, the British defence ministry said in a statement Sunday. “Conditions on the ground remain extremely challenging but we are doing everything we can to manage the situation as safely and securely as possible," the defense ministry said in a statement.Several videos, which are being shared on social media, have shown desperate dash by Afghans to flee the Taliban, who swept into Kabul a week ago after their lightning advance seized the country. On Saturday, a video posted to Twitter by Barak Ravid, a reporter for Walla News, showed the continuing chaos and desperation at Kabul airport.Also read | ‘Indian brothers, sisters came to rescue’: Afghan woman after fleeing TalibanRavid’s video, which he said was sent by an NGO worker in Kabul, showed a massive crowd of Afghans pressed up against a barbed-wire fence with small children and women at the front shouting for help. "The scene at Kabul airport several hours ago per source from an NGO who is trying to get people out. Main problem is that it's impossible to pass the gates and get to the planes even if you are on an evacuees list,” Ravid wrote.Also read | Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihadAccording to several reports, at least a dozen people have been killed and several others injured at the Kabul airport in stampedes as Taliban fighters fire into the air to drive away those desperate to get out of the country.The US embassy on Saturday issued a new security warning telling citizens not to travel to the Kabul airport without individual instruction from a US government representative.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/7-afghans-killed-in-chaos-at-kabul-airport-says-british-military-101629615012860.html
22-08-2021||World||Israel bombs Gaza after violent clashes along border||Israeli warplanes bombed Gaza on Saturday after clashes between its troops and Palestinian protesters left dozens injured, including an Israeli border policeman and a 13-year-old Palestinian boy who were both critically wounded.The Israeli military said it carried out airstrikes against four weapons sites and that it had reinforced its Gaza division with additional troops.The escalation came exactly three months since Israel and the enclave's Islamist rulers Hamas reached a truce following their deadliest fighting in years.Israeli troops fired at Palestinian protesters who gathered near the Gaza border wall, the army and Palestinian witnesses said.A Palestinian gunman fired at Israeli troops through an opening in the wall and crowds of young protesters hurled explosives over the barrier and tried to scale it.The Hamas-run Gaza health ministry said the injured included a 13-year-old boy left in a critical condition after being hit in the head."Forty-one civilians were wounded with various injuries," the ministry said in a statement, with Hamas saying "thousands" of protesters had taken part.The Israel Border Police said a 21-year-old sniper in its undercover unit was critically wounded when he was shot by a Palestinian protester."His condition is critical and there is a risk to his life," it said of the wounded officer.Hamas called for protestIsraeli police commissioner Kobi Shabtai in a statement vowed the force would "continue to act firmly and with all our might against those who want to harm us."Defence Minister Benny Gantz had warned that "these are definitely extremely serious events that will have a response".Shortly after his comments, the Israeli Air Force said on Twitter that its "fighter jets struck four weapons manufacturing and storage sites belonging to the Hamas terrorist organisation".There were no immediate reports of any casualties from the strikes.Hamas had called a protest Saturday to mark the burning 52 years ago of Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa Mosque, the third-holiest site in Islam."Al-Aqsa Mosque is a red line, and any attack on it will be met with valiant resistance from our people," the movement said in a statement.Late Saturday, Hamas and other groups in Gaza issued a joint statement in which they "saluted the heroic youth" who clashed with Israeli forces.The violence is some of the worst since the May 21 ceasefire came into force.Over 11 days in May, Israel pounded Gaza with airstrikes in response to rockets fired from the enclave.Gaza reconstructionHamas said it took action after Israeli security forces stormed Al-Aqsa in May.Reconstruction in Gaza has stalled since the ceasefire, in part because of a crippling blockade Israel has maintained on the enclave since Hamas seized power in 2007.On Thursday, Israel announced it would allow funds from Qatar to reach impoverished Palestinians in Gaza. Other restrictions remain.The ceasefire Egypt brokered between Hamas and Israel has largely held, although there have been flare-ups.On Monday Israel said its "Iron Dome" missile defence system intercepted a rocket fired by militants in Gaza into Israel, the first time since the recent battle.That came after four Palestinians were killed in the Jenin refugee camp in the occupied West Bank.In 2018, Gazans began a protest movement demanding an end to Israel's blockade and a right for Palestinians to return to lands they fled after the Jewish state was founded.The Hamas-backed weekly demonstrations, often violent, sputtered as Israel killed some 350 Palestinians in Gaza over more than a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-bombs-gaza-after-violent-clashes-along-border-101629614945225.html
22-08-2021||World||Biden administration may enlist commercial airlines to help evacuate Afghan refugees||President Joe Biden’s administration is considering enlisting commercial airlines in the US to help in ferrying Afghan refugees who have been evacuated from the war-torn country via military aircrafts, the Associated Press reported on Sunday.The Wall Street Journal had reported on Saturday that an order has been issued by the US Transportation Command to several commercial airlines that the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) could be activated. The flights won’t ply from Afghanistan itself but might include carrying stranded people at American bases in Germany, Qatar and Bahrain. However, officials at the Pentagon didn’t specify which airports or bases the planes might be used at.Also Read: IAF's C-17 aircraft with 168 people from Kabul lands at Hindon airbaseThe CRAF is a nearly 70-year-old programme that provides backup to military aircraft capabilities during a crisis related to national defense. It was created after the Berlin airlift between 1948 and 1949, during which the US and the UK delivered more than 2.3 million tonnes of food, fuel and supplies to its ally West Berlin.The United States Transportation Command, however, told reporters on Saturday that the Pentagon has set no such plan in motion yet.President Biden told reporters on Friday that the US has made “significant progress” in evacuating US citizens, Afghan allies and others, even as the Taliban has started to crack down on dissent.However, the US and German embassies asked their citizens in Afghanistan to not travel to Kabul airport due to security concerns. The US embassy cautioned citizens that they should travel to the airport only if there is an “individual instruction from a US government representative to do so”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-may-enlist-commercial-airlines-to-help-evacuate-afghan-refugees-101629614449333.html
22-08-2021||World||US: At least 10 killed in Tennessee flash floods; dozens missing||Catastrophic flooding in Middle Tennessee left at least ten people dead and dozens missing Saturday as record-shattering rainfall washed away homes and rural roads, authorities said.Business owner Kansas Klein watched in horror from a bridge Saturday morning as cars and entire houses were swept down a road in Waverly, a town of about 4,500 people that Klein, 48, has called home for more than half his life.Two girls who were holding on to a puppy and clinging to a wooden board swept past, far too fast for Klein and other onlookers to go down and grab hold of them.After being told by authorities to go back, Klein returned a couple of hours later, shocked that the floodwaters had almost entirely receded and aghast at the destruction that was left behind.“It was amazing how quick it came and how quick it left,” Klein said.Klein said his restaurant, a decade-old New York-style pizzeria, was still standing, but the morning deluge of between 10 and 12 inches (25 to 30 centimeters) of rain in Humphreys County had caused floodwaters to reach 7 feet (2.1 meters) inside the eatery, rendering it a total loss.After leaving his restaurant, Klein walked to the nearby public housing homes and heard yelling. A man had just recovered a baby's body from one of the homes. Other bodies would soon follow.“I'm looking at my restaurant, thinking how horrible it was that I lost my restaurant and then I walk around the corner and see someone's baby dead — my restaurant doesn't mean a whole lot right now,” Klein told the Associated Press in a phone interview Saturday night, still in shock as he watched a local news channel air footage he had recorded on his phone hours ago.The low-income homes — dozens of block buildings known as Brookside — appeared to have borne the brunt of the flash flood, Klein said.“It was devastating: buildings were knocked down, half of them were destroyed,” Klein said.“People were pulling out bodies of people who had drowned and didn't make it out.”Humphreys County Sheriff Chris Davis told news outlets more than 30 people have been reported missing. It was not immediately clear how many had lived at Brookside, located about 60 miles (96 kilometers) west of Nashville.Two of the bodies recovered were toddlers who had been swept away from their father, Davis told WSMV-TV.Waverly couple Cindy Dunn, 48, and her husband Jimmy, 49, were rescued from their attic by a crew who used a bulldozer to reach them.“Hell. That's what we had to go through,” Cindy Dunn told The Tennessean.She said her husband woke her up Saturday, telling her that floodwaters had pushed her car to their backyard. Eventually, the water in their house rose to at least 6 feet (1.8 meters) high, forcing them to the attic. Dunn said the rooftop wasn't an option.“My husband is dealing with cancer. He's going through chemotherapy. And I am an amputee. So there was no going anywhere besides the attic,” Dunn said.Dunn said their home and neighboring houses “are gone.”Just to the east of Waverly, the town of McEwen was pummeled with about 17 inches (43 centimeters) of rain in less than a day, prompting water rescues, road closures, and communications disruptions.That rainfall total smashed the state's 24-hour record of 13.6 inches (34.5 centimeters) from 1982, according to the National Weather Service Nashville, though Saturday's numbers would have to be confirmed.Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee tweeted on Saturday, “Tennesseans, please stay cautious of rising floodwaters caused by heavy rainfall in parts of Middle TN. We are actively working with emergency response officials & first responders as they support Tennesseans in flooded areas.”The Tennessee Emergency Management Agency activated its emergency operations center and said agencies that include the Tennessee National Guard, the state Highway Patrol, and Fire Mutual Aid were responding to the flooding. In a bulletin, TEMA called the situation “dangerous and evolving” and urged people to avoid travel in the affected counties.Klein isn't sure what the future holds for his family or his town.He also isn't sure what happened to the two girls and the puppy he witnessed who had been clinging to the board. He heard that a girl and a puppy had been rescued downstream and that the other girl was also saved, but he wasn't sure it was them.“This is the third 100-hundred year flood that we've had in about 10 years,” referencing 2010 and 2019 floods. “But this is 100 times worse than either one of them was. ... The last report I saw was there were 31 missing. This is a small town so the odds are I know most of those people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-at-least-10-killed-in-tennessee-flash-floods-dozens-missing-101629613017399.html
22-08-2021||World||Co-founder of all-girls Afghan school burns her students' records amid dread||The co-founder of Afghanistan’s lone all-girls boarding school has set afire to all documents of her students as she sought to protect them and her families in the wake of renewed fears of persecution following the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban and the fall of the West-backed elected government, led by Ashraf Ghani.Sharing a series of tweets along with a clipping of burning down the records, Shabana Basij-Rasikh, who is also the principal of School of Leadership Afghanistan (SOLA), said her aim was not to erase them , but ensure safety of all.Nearly 20 years later, as the founder of the only all-girls boarding school in Afghanistan, I’m burning my students’ records not to erase them, but to protect them and their families. 2/6 pic.twitter.com/JErbZCSPuCRecounting a personal experience, she said in March 2002, after the fall of Taliban, thousands of Afghan girls were invited to go to the nearest public school to participate in a placement test “because the Taliban had burned all female students’ records to erase their existence. I was one of those girls”.Also read | Taliban attack women, children at Kabul airport despite peace promise: ReportShe further said her desire to invest in the education of Afghan girls who have no way to leave the war-torn country only grew louder and stronger even as the world focussed on desperate measures being adopted by panic-driven residents to escape the Taliban, known for their brutal imposition of a regressive version of the Sharia law during their previous rule when girls and women’s rights were among the worst hit.“My students, colleagues, and I are safe with enormous gratitude to our ever vibrant global village. The time to appropriately express my gratitude will come. But right now there are many who aren’t or increasingly don’t feel safe. I’m broken & devastated for them,” she further wrote.Also read | Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihad“I’m making this statement to mainly reassure the families of our students whose records we burned and our supporters of our safety. As I focus on the safety and well-being of my students, I don’t plan on making any further comments,” she added.She also shared a link seeking donations for her school SOLA, which means peace in Pashto.While the Islamic militant group has repeatedly promised a different kind of rule to their brutal regime of the 1990s that saw women confined to their homes, most entertainment banned, and punishments including stonings and public executions, there is immense scepticism so far over the pledge to respect progress made in women's rights (but only according to their strict interpretation of Islamic law).Also read | Afghan women set afire for 'bad cooking', used as sex slaves by Taliban: LawyerSeveral nations, including the the United States and United Kingdom, have said they would closely monitor how any future government in Afghanistan was ensuring the rights that became an integral part of women and girls over the past 20 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cofounder-of-all-girl-s-afghan-school-burns-her-students-records-amid-dread-101629612279905.html
22-08-2021||World||Hurricane Henri closes in as Northeast US braces for impact||Hurricane Henri kept on course early Sunday to crash into a long stretch of northeastern coastline, as millions on New York’s Long Island and in southern New England braced for flooding, toppled trees and extended power outages.With the centre of the storm projected to pass just off the eastern tip of Long Island by midday, hurricane warnings extended from coastal Connecticut and Rhode Island to near the old whaling port of New Bedford, Massachusetts, and across the luxurious oceanfront estates of New York’s Hamptons to the summer getaway of Fire Island.The first thunderstorms bringing what could be up to half a foot (15 centimeters) of rain arrived late Saturday, and flash flooding began in some areas overnight. Bands of heavy rain overwhelmed storm drains and drivers plowed through foot-deep water in a few spots in New York City, and Newark and Hoboken, New Jersey.Tropical storm-intensity winds were expected to begin striking the coast at around 8 amPeople in the projected path spent Saturday scrambling to stock up on groceries and gasoline. Those close to the coast boarded up windows and, in some cases, evacuated.Residents and visitors on Fire Island, a narrow strip of sandy villages barely above sea level off Long Island’s southern coast, were urged to evacuate. The last boats out left before 11 pm Saturday and officials warned there might be no way to reach people left behind.The evacuation threw a wrench into Kristen Pavese’s planned Fire Island bachelorette party. The group of 10 had intended to celebrate Saturday night, but ended up leaving on the ferry just a day after arriving. They had planned to stay until Monday.“I’m upset about it, but it’s the weather. It’s nothing I can control,” said Pavese, a Long Island resident. “I’ve been going to Fire Island for a long time, so I’m sort of familiar with this happening,”Approaching severe weather Saturday night also cut short a superstar-laden concert in Central Park. The show headlined by Bruce Springsteen, Paul Simon and Jennifer Hudson was meant to celebrate New York City’s recovery from the coronavirus. But officials asked concertgoers to leave the park during Barry Manilow’s set amid the threat of lightning.Gov. Andrew Cuomo, set to leave office Monday after resigning over a sexual harassment scandal, emerged Saturday to plead with New York residents to make last-minute preparations, warning that heavy rain, wind and storm surge from Henri could be as devastating as Superstorm Sandy back in 2012.“We have short notice. We’re talking about tomorrow,” Cuomo said in one of his final forays before TV cameras, a setting that shot him to fame during the worst of the pandemic last year. “So if you have to move, if you have to stock up, if you have to get to higher ground, it has to be today. Please,”Gov. Ned Lamont warned Connecticut residents they should prepare to “shelter in place” from Sunday afternoon through at least Monday morning as the state braces for the first possible direct hit from a hurricane in decades. Rhode Island Gov. Dan McKee issued a similar warning.Major airports in the region remained open as the storm approached, though hundreds of Sunday's flights were canceled. Service on some branches of New York City’s commuter rail system was suspended through Sunday, as was Amtrak service between New York and Boston.The White House said President Joe Biden discussed preparations with northeastern governors and that New York Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul, who succeeds Cuomo on Tuesday, also participated.Biden later began approving emergency declarations with Rhode Island.New York hasn’t had a direct hit from a powerful cyclone since Superstorm Sandy wreaked havoc in 2012. Some of the most important repairs from that storm have been completed, but many projects designed to protect against future storms remain unfinished.With a top wind of 75 mph (120 kph), just above hurricane strength, Henri sped up to move north at 21 mph (38 kph) as of Saturday night. It was still about 180 miles (290 kilometers) south-southeast of Montauk Point on the tip of Long Island.Some gas stations from Cape Cod to Long Island sold out of fuel. Southampton Town Supervisor Jay Schneiderman described a run on supplies like batteries and flashlights as people “are starting to wake up” as weather models showed the storm's centre would run “smack on the town of Southampton.”Regardless of its exact landfall, broad impacts were expected across a large swath of the Northeast, extending inland to Hartford, Connecticut, and Albany, New York, and eastward to Cape Cod, which is teeming with tens of thousands of summer tourists.Storm surge between 3 and 5 feet (1 to 1.5 meters) was possible in much of Long Island Sound all the way to Chatham, Massachusetts, and slightly less on Long Island's Atlantic coast, the hurricane center said. Flash flooding was possible in inland areas already saturated by recent rain.In the Hamptons, the celebrity playground on Long Island’s east end, officials warned of dangerous rip currents and flooding that’s likely to turn streets like the mansion-lined Dune Road into lagoons.“We have a lot of wealthy people. There’s no doubt that we do, but everybody pulls together in an emergency,” Schneiderman said. “So, you know, yeah, there are people hanging out on their yachts at the moment drinking martinis, but they’re also starting to talk about this storm and I’m sure they’re going to want to be helpful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-henri-closes-in-as-the-northeast-braces-for-impact-101629611477550.html
22-08-2021||World||Canada polls: Trudeau’s Liberal Party unlikely to get majority||With four weeks of the campaign for the 2021 Federal elections in Canada remaining, the Liberal Party leader (and caretaker Prime Minister) Justin Trudeau’s gamble for calling snap polls amid a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic may partly pay off. Trudeau is favoured to head the next government, even if that will still be short of a majority in the House of Commons.Trudeau was strangely absent from the campaign trail on Saturday, but the latest polls indicate the ruling Liberal Party may garner additional seats but, as things appear, not gain enough to get a majority that was the rationale behind risking the elections scheduled on September 20.Poll trackers are not exactly in line with Trudeau’s ambition to capture a majority and not depend on support from another party to implement its agenda as his government had to do after the 2019 Federal elections, when the Liberal party fell 13 seats short of the 170 majority mark in the 338 seats House of Commons. Of course, when he first came to power in Ottawa in October 2015, Trudeau led his party to a thumping victory with 184 seats.That a minority verdict may be in the offing was underscored by the updated Poll Tracker from the news outlet CBC, which noted, “The Liberals continue to hold a lead over the Conservatives in national polling and would likely gain seats if an election were held today, but are slipping further away from being within reach of the 170 seats needed for a majority government.” The ruling party has 34.2% support, against 30.1% for the principal opposition party, the Conservatives. No tracker gives the Conservatives enough seats to capture a majority or even emerge as the single-largest party.Modelling from the election analysis outlet 338 Canada projects a similar scenario: As of Saturday, Trudeau’s party is slated to capture 156 seats, with the Conservatives getting 117. It also puts the odds of the Liberals getting a majority at just 26.4%.The latest Federal vote intention data from the non-profit Angus Reid Institute also places the Liberals comfortably ahead of their rivals, with 36% support against 30% for the Conservatives.As it stands, Trudeau is almost certain to return as Prime Minister, but his objective of securing a majority may well be thwarted by the voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-polls-trudeau-s-liberal-party-unlikely-to-get-majority-101629610095860.html
22-08-2021||World||Taliban likely to host first foreign leader, Pak minister Qureshi, at Kabul today||Pakistan's foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi is expected to arrive in Kabul on Sunday to meet with Taliban leaders, days after the Haqqani network took over the security of the Afghan capital. According to the Tolo News agency, Qureshi is scheduled to be in Kabul on August 22, Sunday. This will be the first visit by any foreign leader to the insurgents in the war-torn country after their lightning-fast offensive this month won them control of the state apparatus. As per a political analyst cited by the agency, Qureshi's visit is largely on account of the fact that Pakistan wants to play its part in forming the new government in Afghanistan.Also Read | Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihadThe Taliban are trying to hammer out a new government in Afghanistan after its forces swept across the country as US-led forces pulled out after two decades, with the Western-backed government and military collapsing. The Reuters news agency reported on Saturday that the group's co-founder, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, arrived in the Afghan capital of Kabul earlier in the day for talks with other leaders on forming the government.Qureshi, Pakistan's foreign minister, on Saturday held telephonic conversations with his counterparts in Russia, Germany, Turkey, the Netherlands, and Belgium. In conversation with Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, Qureshi emphasised that a peaceful and stable Afghanistan was of critical importance for Pakistan and the region."Pakistan had consistently supported the Afghan peace process,” he said, according to the Pakistan foreign office, adding that an "inclusive political settlement" was the best way forward for peace and stability in Afghanistan.A Taliban official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told Reuters earlier this week that the new government structure in Afghanistan will not be a democracy by Western definitions, but “will protect everyone’s rights.”Also Read | Afghan crisis: Propaganda against Taliban false, says Pakistani ministerThe Taliban, who follow an ultra-hardline version of Sunni Islam, have sought to present a more moderate face since returning to power in Afghanistan, saying they want peace and will respect the rights of women within the framework of Islamic law. Afghan refugees, however, insist that the "moderate" face of the Taliban is only a temporary show.When in power from 1996-2001, also guided by Islamic law, the Taliban stopped women from working or going out without wearing an all-enveloping burqa or a male relative and did not let girls from going to school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-likely-to-host-first-foreign-leader-pak-minister-qureshi-at-kabul-today-101629604107969.html
22-08-2021||World||Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihad||US President Joe Biden has played politics with terror when he claimed mission accomplished in his August 20 speech after taking credit for the decimation of al Qaeda in Afghanistan and 2011 neutralisation of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan. The pusillanimous retreat of the US forces from Afghanistan, leaving both weapons and men behind, is nothing short of an abject surrender at the hands of shalwar-kameez-sandal wearing AK-47 rifle-toting Sunni Islamic militia. The unfortunate part is that the Taliban did not even deliver a knock-out punch, the US forces simply chose to run away from the battlefield. The loss of the US credibility globally on the advice of its second-division ally UK with the Pakistan army, of all the people, acting as a broker in the horrible deal with the Taliban, will play out in the coming decade with innocents having to pay the price of terror.While al Qaeda may not have the organisational structure of the previous decade in Afghanistan, the Salafi organisation with its ideological brother, Lashkar-e-Taiba in Pakistan, is very much alive in the Af-Pak region. So is the Islamic State of Khorasan Province. The Taliban along with Haqqani Network and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) share the same Deobandi ideological platform, which gets inspired from Wahhabism. And the aim of all these boys, as the delusional UK chief of defence staff Nick Carter defined the Taliban, is the establishment of the Islamic Caliphate and global jihad. Also read | Air India flight with 87 Indians from Kabul lands in Delhi, another enrouteWith the Taliban now occupying 652,000 square kilometres of Afghanistan Emirates territory barring Panjshir Valley, the global jihad now has an address in Kandahar with a showroom in Kabul. This moment is akin to the Islamic State capturing Mosul in Iraq in 2014 and the world especially the Yazidis and Shias still have nightmares of those brutal days.Also watch | The Taliban leader who once trained at Indian Military Academy: Sher StanikzaiWhile the US may have washed its hands off playing the global cop and given priority to gender politics, Afghanistan under the Taliban will be the beacon of jihad and will become the galvanising force for other gun-toting non-state actors to take on their governments particularly in Africa and Asia. A weak Taliban may force multiply the clout of its mentor Pakistan but a strong Taliban will press for Pashtun rights way beyond the Durand Line and destabilise Islamabad. A similar ripple effect will also be seen in the Middle East with increase Islamic radicalisation all over the world.Also read | Taliban hold keys to trillion-dollar trove of minerals, but it's not easy to tapEven though the US and the UK believe the Taliban narrative that they will not export terror to a third country for recognition and funds, Afghanistan will become the new terror factory with more than 40 terror groups in Pakistan sending their cadre for graduation with state of the art US weapons, communication devices, drones and helicopters. With Baloch insurgents and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan already targeting the Chinese engineers working on the CPEC project, there is no Xinjiang insurance policy for Beijing too. Shia Iran will be safe till such time it plays ball with the Taliban and allows passage to Sunni jihadists as it did in the past. As Islamic groups are known to undergo metamorphosis, it is quite evident that new terrorist groups, successors of Harkat-ul-Ansar and HUJI in the 1990s, will spawn from Afghanistan under the watch of the Taliban. India by its geographical location, regional adversaries, democratic polity, and culture will be the first ones to get hit. The world has suddenly lost appetite for Rambo and US Seal Hollywood movies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/under-taliban-afghanistan-is-the-address-of-global-jihad-101629601393384.html
22-08-2021||World||Taliban hold keys to trillion-dollar trove of minerals, but it's not easy to tap||The Taliban, now in control of the state apparatus in Afghanistan, have inherited an untapped $1 trillion trove of minerals, some of which could power the world's transition to renewable energies, but tapping the resources would not come so easy. Highlighting that the country has long struggled to tap into its vast deposits, the AFP news agency reported that the Taliban are already in a "financial bind", as major aid donors stopped their support for Afghanistan after the hardline Islamist group came to power two decades after their ouster.According to a report by the US Geological Survey (USGS), the mineral resources include bauxite, copper, iron ore, lithium, and rare earth.Copper prices have soared to more than $10,000 per tonne this year, as the metal, with its very high thermal and electrical conductivity, has become a commodity in demand for making power cables.Lithium, on the other hand, is a crucial element in making car batteries, solar panels, and wind farms. The International Energy Agency estimates the world demand for lithium will grow by over 40 times by 2040, as the need for renewable resources surfaces.Guillaume Pitron, the author of the book "The Rare Metals War", noted that Afghanistan "sits on a huge reserve of lithium that has not been tapped to this day."The country is also home to rare earth, a crucial part of the clean energy sector. These include Neodymium, praseodymium and dysprosium. Afghanistan also mines for talc, marble, coal, and iron. It has done better digging for precious stones such as emeralds and rubies as well as semi-precious tourmaline and lapis lazuli, but the business is plagued with illegal smuggling to Pakistan.According to the USGS, all these untapped mineral riches are estimated to be worth a total of around $1 trillion. Afghan officials, however, have put the worth three times as high.However, there is no certainty that Afghanistan will become a mineral El Dorado, AFP cited French expert Pitron as saying. "For that, you need a very stable political climate," he said. "No company will want to invest if there is no stable political and legal system." He added that it can take as long as 20 years between the discovery of a mineral deposit and the start of mining operations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-hold-keys-to-trillion-dollar-trove-of-minerals-but-it-s-not-easy-to-tap-101629599253772.html
22-08-2021||World||Afghanistan vulnerable to hunger, illness after Taliban takeover: WHO raises alarm||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has triggered a series of humanitarian crises across the country, not the least of which is a worsening healthcare situation. The World Health Organization (WHO) on Saturday issued a statement raising an alarm over the healthcare situation in Afghanistan, where conflict had left countless people vulnerable to hunger and illnesses. According to the public health body's estimates, around half of Afghanistan's population, which includes more than four million women and nearly 10 million children, are in dire need of humanitarian assistance.Also Read | Haunted by Syrian war, Europe seeks to avoid influx of migrants from AfghanistanAccording to reports, the UN agency's spokesperson Tarik Jasarevic said in a statement that the current drought in Afghanistan is expected to worsen an already dire situation. "Continuity of health services must continue without interruption across the country, with a focus on ensuring women have access to female health workers," said the WHO spokesperson. "Most major health facilities are functional. And this is based on provincial-level field monitoring. Health workers have been called to return to or to remain at their posts, including female health staff."Notably, the United Kingdom has said that it will administer vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to Afghan refugees coming to the country on fleeing the Taliban. England, Scotland, and Wales are also accessing emergency funds for providing housing and support to the arriving Afghans, reports said, adding that so far the UK has decided to double its amount of humanitarian aid in the region. The country is also looking to resettle around 20,000 vulnerable Afghans under a new resettlement programme.Also Read | 7,000 people evacuated from Afghanistan since August 14, says PentagonThe UN refugee agency, the UNHCR, has also called for "continuous support" to ensure necessary humanitarian assistance in the country and expressed its concern regarding the "prevailing humanitarian needs within Afghanistan". In a statement issued on Friday, the UN agency said the situation on the ground across the country remains extremely fluid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-vulnerable-to-hunger-illness-after-taliban-takeover-who-raises-alarm-101629592038343.html
22-08-2021||World||US state department hit by cyber attack, perpetrators unknown: Report||The US state department was hit by a cyberattack this month, local media reported on Saturday, adding that the United States department of defense cyber command has notified of a possible "serious breach". However, the exact extent of the cyber breach and the suspected perpetrators behind the attack still remain unclear, according to the reports.The US cyber attack story was first played up by Jacqui Henrich, the White House correspondent for Fox News, who said that the breach is believed to have occurred "a couple weeks ago". Citing a person familiar with the development, the journalist reported that the US state department's ongoing mission to evacuate Americans and allied refugees in Afghanistan has, however, not been affected in any manner. According to the Fox News reporter's tweet thread, the exact extent of the breach, the investigation into the suspected entity behind it, the efforts being taken to mitigate it and any ongoing risk to operations still remain unclear.It is unclear when the breach was discovered, but it is believed to have happened a couple weeks ago.A source familiar tells Fox the State Department’s ongoing mission to evacuate Americans and allied refugees in Afghanistan “have not been affected”.Moreover, the Fox News reporter said that a department of state spokesperson told her that the officials are currently "not in a position to discuss the nature or scope of any alleged cybersecurity incidents at this time" for 'security reasons'. "The department takes seriously its responsibility to safeguard its information and continuously takes steps to ensure information is protected," the government spokesperson added, according to the reporter. The same statement was also relayed on part of the government to the CNBC media network when the latter tried to contact the Department of State for a quote on the alleged cyber attack incident.However, the Reuters news agency reported that a "knowledgable source", without confirming any incident, said that the US state department has not experienced significant disruptions and has not had its operations impeded in any way.Notably, members from the US Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee released a bipartisan report earlier this month which stated that none of the eight federal agencies that were reviewed for security had met even the basic cybersecurity standards and protocols to secure the personal identification information of Americans as well as equipment and programs on the agency’s networks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-state-department-hit-by-cyber-attack-perpetrators-unknown-report-101629593137701.html
22-08-2021||World||Taliban release propaganda video showing fighters in US army uniform, gear||The Taliban have released videos that show their fighters wearing stolen US-made military gear, including assault rifles and sophisticated tactical radio, according to a report. The video, with a musical soundtrack, was aired on propaganda channels affiliated with the Taliban and said they have deployed soldiers from the “the Badri 313 Brigade”, an elite unit, to guard locations in Kabul.The Sun reported that the Taliban fighters, usually seen in traditional clothes and brandishing AK-47 assault rifles, can be seen wielding M4 and M-16 assault rifles, wearing bulletproof vests and helmets with night vision goggles. The Sun reported that the unit is reportedly highly trained and equipped with state-of-the-art military equipment.بدري ۳۱۳ قطعهد ارګ او د کابل ښار د حساسو سیمو امنیت په غاړه لري pic.twitter.com/dSSgnuAUbMThe Badri 313 soldiers are seen with US special forces military helmets with mounts for night vision goggles in the Taliban video. They also appear to be wearing eyewear which could help protect the eyes from explosion flashes and tactical radios over bulletproof vests, camouflage jackets and trousers. The Sun cited reports on Afghan social media, saying the troops have been deployed for security purposes after the Taliban's lightning sweep of the country and Kabul last Sunday.Also read | Biden thanks Qatar for ‘generous support’ on evacuating US nationals from KabulThe Badri 313 unit is reportedly named after the Battle of Badr 1,400 years ago when the Prophet Mohammed defeated the enemy with just 313 men."Everything that hasn't been destroyed is the Taliban's now,” a US official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told Reuters. Another official told Reuters that while there are no definitive numbers yet, the current intelligence assessment was that the Taliban are believed to control more than 2,000 armoured vehicles, including US Humvees and up to 40 aircraft potentially including UH-60 Black Hawks, scout attack helicopters, and ScanEagle military drones.Also read | Taliban don’t allow 70 Afghan Sikhs, Hindus to board flight to India"We have already seen Taliban fighters armed with US-made weapons they seized from the Afghan forces. This poses a significant threat to the United States and our allies,” Michael McCaul, the top Republican on the US House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee, told Reuters in an email.The United States gave the Afghan military an estimated $28 billion in weaponry, including guns, rockets, night-vision goggles and even small drones for intelligence gathering between 2002 and 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-release-propaganda-video-showing-fighters-in-us-army-uniform-gear-101629591679802.html
22-08-2021||India||Constantly question the actions of those in power, says SC judge||In a democracy, citizens must use their liberties to constantly question those in power and not be complacent about any encroachment of their rights, Supreme Court judge Justice S Ravindra Bhat said at an online event on Sunday.Speaking on the topic, ‘Role of Judiciary in Governance’, Justice Bhat said at a time when the world is passing through a pandemic and its painful and traumatic consequences, it is all the more important for people to cherish their liberties and question the moves and policies that displace the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.“We gained our freedom at a great cost. Every Indian, therefore, has to use his liberties to constantly question the actions of those in power because democracy gives no tickets to free meals. It is for us to assert and guard liberty and not be complacent about any encroachment,” he said.The judge was addressing the first anniversary celebrations of an organisation called Connecting Governed, Governing and Governance that comprises lawyers, judges and academics and which also has former Chief Justice of India (CJI) KG Balakrishnan as one of its patrons.Justice Bhat touched upon the horrors of the Covid-19 pandemic and said personal freedoms become even more important during such a crisis. “Today the world is reeling under the painful and traumatic consequences of the Covid pandemic disrupting lives and livelihoods, leaving behind destruction, despair and impoverishment. It is more important for people to cherish liberties and constantly question, through every legitimate channel, the moves and policies which undermine the democratic government and displace creepingly, the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.”The judge also shared his personal view on reservations. “Reservation, at least in regard to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled tribes and most backward classes is essential and we cannot put a time limit on it...I would say it is not possible that we should do away with it (reservation) as long as society is unequal and people are socially and educationally backward. So long as the society is unwilling to cast off the shackles of caste, these quotas are needed because they underline empowerment.”Justice Bhat emphasised that in a democratic way of governance, citizens should be prepared for imperfections. That’s where the role of courts comes in. “The rule of law through democracy is a continuing work-in-progress where people’s scrutiny is paramount and courts are part of the dialogue,” the Supreme Court judge said, emphasising that a person may have a fundamental right to get a ration card or change the date of birth, but if people don’t get justice internally, there is no other way than to go to court.Even on the limits of freedom that the legislature or executive places on its citizens, Justice Bhat highlighted the need for laws to clearly define limits and not sound vague. Giving instances of what constitutes an obscene publication, an incitement that is likely to affect communal harmony, or the extent of regulation permissible at any given point of time, the judge said, “These are very important in governance, because unless you know what you can speak and what you cannot speak, it is very easy for the state to criminalise any content.”Justice Bhat also said that the broad role played by the judiciary in governance operates in two ways. “Firstly, by protecting people’s fundamental rights and constitutional ethos by ensuring transparency and accountability to the rule of law. And secondly, interpreting new-age laws and filling policy gaps in existing norms,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constantly-question-the-actions-of-those-in-power-says-sc-judge-101629655458421.html
22-08-2021||India||Returnees will be vaccinated against polio, says Mansukh Mandaviya||India on Sunday decided to vaccinate all returnees from war-torn Afghanistan against the wild polio virus, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday.“We have decided to vaccinate Afghanistan returnees with free Polio Vaccine - OPV & fIPV, as a preventive measure against Wild Polio Virus. Congratulations to the Health Team for their efforts to ensure public health. Take a look at the vaccine drive at Delhi International Airport,” tweeted the Union health minister.This comes as part of India’s evacuation operations from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country.Afghanistan and Pakistan are the only two remaining polio endemic countries in the world.“Since the infection is still prevalent in our neighbouring countries, including Afghanistan, it was decided to go for mass inoculation of all returnees against the infection as a preventive measure,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.“Dedicated health teams have been deployed to vaccinate all returnees where the flights land. Even though India has been polio free for a while, it is important to continue with the efforts that resulted in eradication of the disease from the country as there always runs a risk of the disease re-entering the country as long as it is prevalent in other countries,” added the official.Close to 540 people from Afghanistan, including Indians, have so far landed in India at different airports since the crisis in the country.“Ministry of external affairs is sharing itinerary of incoming flights that they are organising; based on the details provided by them, the recipient airport’s APHO (Airport Health Organisation) in collaboration with the States is doing this exercise,” said another senior central government official in the know of things, on condition of anonymity.“The vaccination and Covid-19 testing of Afghan migrants who landed at the Hindon airforce station in Ghaziabad is being taken care of by teams from the Urban Primary Health Centre, Karhera,” added the official.According to Unicef, disruption in the polio vaccination programme in the war-torn country lead to increase in wild polio virus cases, and polio circulation remained particularly high in the southern region of Afghanistan that contributed to 66% of the total national cases in 2020.In India, the last polio case was recorded in January 2011. And on March 27, 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared India polio free, since then no cases of wild polio infection have been reported from anywhere in the country.India’s polio immunization programme has been one of the largest in the world and so meticulously implemented that the country got polio cases down from 741 in 2009 – the highest in the world -- to one within a year, with the last case was confirmed in West Bengal on January 13, 2011.Even now India conducts the polio immunisation drive twice a year, followed by mop-up rounds to cover all those children who may have been missed in the primary rounds. “We have a robust polio surveillance mechanism in place in the country; as long as there are cases of wild polio still getting reported even from a single country in the world, we will have to be vigilant,” said the first official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/returnees-will-be-vaccinated-against-polio-says-mandaviya-101629655278370.html
22-08-2021||India||TN BJP gives cars to 4 district secretaries who worked for party’s victory||Four of BJP’s district presidents in Tamil Nadu received an SUV each on Sunday as reward for helping the party win four assembly seats in the April 6 state elections for which results were announced on May 2. Former Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan, who has now been elevated as a Union minister of state, had promised an Innova car to district functionaries who worked to ensure victory of the party’s MLA candidates in the 2021 assembly polls. After a gap of twenty years, the BJP entered the assembly in Tamil Nadu this May with four MLAs. BJP contested 20 seats as part of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) led alliance in Tamil Nadu and won in Tirunelveli, Nagercoil, and Modakurichi apart from a nail-biting contest in Coimbatore South. Murugan had said after the results were declared that their win is a strike against all those who ridiculed the BJP’s symbol in Tamil Nadu. Murugan is touring the state as part of the Jan Aashirwad Yatra. At the Chennai BJP office, he distributed the car keys of Toyota Innova Crysta to Maharajan (Tirunelveli), Dharmaraj (Kanyakumari), Sivasubramanian (Erode), and Nandakumar (Coimbatore). “This was done to recognise hard working district secretaries who won despite the climate here being against us,” said senior BJP leader CP Radhakrishnan. “Previously such rewards were given by the DMK. It’s the first time we are doing it and party workers will be enthused.” The cars were purchased using party funds. Such rewards to district secretaries are common in Tamil Nadu where the DMK and AIADMK have offered gold to party functionaries who bring successful election results. The national party has been trying to get a foothold in the Dravidian heartland after the demise of former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa in December 2016 and M Karunanidhi in August 2018. While it is evident that the Dravidian parties still hold sway in Tamil Nadu with the DMK winning a majority and the AIADMK finishing second with 66 seats, the BJP’s modest performance has kept its ambition of becoming a dominant force in the state by 2026, alive. The BJP had last won four seats in Tamil Nadu in 2001 in alliance with the DMK. Currently, the BJP is focussed on the upcoming local body polls for which the party has formed a 17-member panel for preparations. The alliance with the AIADMK is likely to continue. “Some more work and attention is all that’s required for the BJP to grow in Tamil Nadu,” said Radhakrishnan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-bjp-gives-cars-to-4-district-secretaries-who-worked-for-party-s-victory-101629654923115.html
22-08-2021||India||‘People must follow Covid norms; can’t put them on gunpoint’: Experts on Kerala||With Kerala continuing to be one of the worst-affected states in India due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, medical experts have said people cannot be made to follow protocols on gunpoint and would rather need to do so themselves.“You cannot hold a gun to people’s head and make them follow the guidelines. They need to modify their behaviour on their own,” Dr Amar Fettle, the state nodal officer for Covid-19 told news agency PTI.Dr Fettle and another medical expert, Dr Kannan, said that the test positivity rate (TPR) in the state will witness a rise from Saturday’s 17.73 per cent as the festival season is yet to end and people are venturing out and not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.When asked if the recent relaxations were the reasons behind the increasing TPR of the state, the experts stated that easing of curbs were required as people were cooped indoors for over a year – and also because of the financial crisis.Dr Fettle and Dr Kannan added that the rising TPR could also be due to a large population of the state that is still not infected by the virus. With the emergence of the Delta strain of coronavirus, which is seen as a more virulent and transmissible subtype, the TPR will take a "considerable amount of time" to come down, Dr Fettle added.He further told PTI that Kerala has adequate medical infrastructure and personnel in place, which can be out to maximum use if the need arrives.Kerala health minister on Thursday urged the citizens to be more vigilant during Onam as coronavirus cases were on the rise in the state. She also mentioned that the TPR was increasing because more tests were being done. “While lives and livelihood are important, self-preservation was also important,” she added.Also Read | For pandemic-hit Kerala, it’s a make-or-break OnamEchoing Dr Fettle’s view that people cannot be compelled to follow orders, Dr Kannan said that when police officers point out Covid-19 violations by shops during festive season, the latter’s reaction is that they’re ready to face legal consequences. He, however, noted that such a response was due to traders and merchants starving from loss of revenue due to lockdown and restrictions.Dr Fettle said that when out in public, people must consider the risk being taken by health workers, who are working day-in and day-out without breaks, and even on holidays such as Onam, to care for those affected by the virus.“The public, who escaped the virus, need to dedicate their carefulness, modify their behaviour by taking into account the health workers who are working tirelessly without holidays and the people who lost their lives or those who lost loved ones or breadwinners in the family to Covid-19," the medical expert added.Also Read | Numbers Matter: Kerala’s Covid numbers concerning, but it managed crisis betterNotably, Kerala on Sunday recorded 10,402 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 38,14,305. A total of 25,586 new recoveries were logged along with 66 fatalities, following which the respective tally stood at 36,31,066 and 19,494, according to the state government’s daily Covid-19 bulletin.The daily caseload is an improvement from Saturday’s figures when 17,106 new cases were reported along with 83 fatalities. After Sunday’s changes, the active case count in the state stands at 163,212.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-must-follow-covid-norms-can-t-put-them-on-gunpoint-experts-on-kerala-101629653936116.html
22-08-2021||India||Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav: Union minister Anurag Thakur to kick-off ‘Iconic Week’ celebrations||Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur will kick off a series of activities to celebrate the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ starting August 23. The series of events will go on till August 29. The activities organised by the ministry will aim to ‘ showcase the convergence of the values and glories of the freedom struggle of the past with the aspirations and dreams of a young, new and iconic India’, a statement released by the ministry said.Thakur will kick off the ‘Iconic Week’ which will attract participation from across the country under the overall spirit of ‘Jan Bhagidari and Jan Andolan’. During the Iconic Week, the ministry will showcase the journey of new India and celebrate the contribution of freedom fighters, including the 'Unsung Heroes of the freedom struggle, through massive outreach activities, the ministry said.The celebrations will be a 360-degree outreach via traditional means such as cultural programmes, nukkad natak and TV programmes along with innovative means of digital and social media. “All India Radio's daily capsule 'Azadi Ka Safar, Akashvani Ke Saath' will be reaching schools and colleges across India through collaborative efforts of the Directorate of Information and Public Relations of various states and regional offices of the Ministry,” the statement said.The AIR will launch a series of special programmes called ‘Dharohar’ which are speeches of freedom fighters; ‘Nishaan’ which will showcase 75 landmark sites and ‘Aparajita’, a show on women leaders. The Doordarshan network will telecast programmes covering themes such as diplomacy, Digital India and legislative reforms through sectoral programmes like ‘Naye Bharat Ka Naya Safar’ and ‘Journey of New India’. Popular films like Raazi will also be broadcasted. Daily news capsules on ‘Unsung heroes and Freedom Struggle’ will also be shown. “The National Film Development Corporation of India (NFDC) is also organizing a film festival on its OTT platform www.cinemasofindia.com screening a specially curated bouquet of films such as Island City, Crossing Bridges and many others,” the statement said.“The Bureau of Outreach and Communication will also reach out to the people through nukkad nataks, skits, magic shows, puppetry, folk recitals through more than 50 Integrated Communication and Outreach Programmes by ROBs and over 1,000 PRTs by Song and Drama Division across the country,” it further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-information-and-broadcasting-to-kick-off-iconic-week-celebrations-101629653367861.html
22-08-2021||India||ITBP aids police to rescue 17 people who went missing after cloudburst in Ladakh||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police along with Ladakh Police rescued 17 villagers on Sunday evening who went missing during the cloudburst in the Rumbak village area.In a tweet by the ITBP, it informed, "Brave North West Frontier ITBP Special Response and Rescue team of #Himveers assisted the Ladakh State Police earlier today in rescuing 17 villagers who were missing during a cloudburst event in Rumbak village area."Earlier today, the border police informed that 14 persons were rescued by ITBP and State Disaster Response Force teams from the Rumbak Village along Ladakh's Zanskar River that was hit by a flash flood due to the bursting of a glacial lake.The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) of Leh informed on Saturday that an artificial lake near Rumbak had burst, which resulted in the blockage in the Indus River and creating an artificial lake in the area."Alert!!! As per information received from CEO, DDMA Leh, there is an outburst of an artificial lake near Rumbak resulting in blockage of the Indus River and creating an artificial lake in the area. The artificial lake formed in the river may outburst anytime," tweeted by the Department of Information and Public Relations Leh (DIPR Leh)."The road approaching Rumbak, Zingchen, Yurutse and Rumchung has been cut off from the main road," DIPR Leh further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-aids-police-to-rescue-17-people-who-went-missing-after-cloudburst-in-ladakh-101629653071541.html
22-08-2021||India||Schools in Karnataka to reopen on Monday as threat of third wave of infections loom large||After a gap of nearly four months, the Karnataka government has decided to reopen physical classes for students in classes 9, 10 and 12, that would allow them to be back in schools for the first time since the second wave of Covid-19 infections hit the country.The decision to reopen schools comes at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka appears to have stabilised but fears of an imminent increase in viral infections loom large over the state, especially with the impending third wave.“In the last one year, no matter how much we tried we could not give the same kind of education in our homes,” BC Nagesh, Karnataka’s minister for primary and secondary education said on Sunday.He listed a variety of reasons for the same which included the technical aspects like poor or no internet connectivity and the general disconnect between students and teachers in an online set-up.Despite being known for its prowess in technology, the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the fault lines in Karnataka’s inequitable development; nearly half of the state’s students lost an academic year due to internet accessibility-- or the lack of it.In July, S Suresh Kumar, the then primary and secondary education minister had stated that around 9.3 million students out of the total 10.05 million across private and public schools in Karnataka, have been accounted for in terms of access to devices, internet, TV, radio and even email.Of the 9.3 million who have been accounted for, only 58,59,907 have smartphones/tablets and around 31,27,524 are without any access to such devices. Further, there are just 51,34,386 students who have access to the internet while 37,799,65 students do not have access to the internet, rendering the exercise of online classes as redundant for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state, Hindustan Times reported on July 2.The restarting of schools has been a contentious one, especially at a time when there appears to be a resurgence of new Covid-19 infections.Karnataka has 20,556 active Covid-19 cases after the state reported 1189 new infections in a 24 hour period, the health department said in its bulletin on Sunday.The death toll rose to 37,145 as 22 more people succumbed to the virus.The average positivity rate stands at 0.94% and the case fatality rate is 1.85%, according to government data.To make matters worse, the testing numbers in Karnataka too have dropped with just 125158 tests on Sunday, including 92,842 RT-PCR, data shows.While the state positivity rate is below 1%, there are at least eight districts that have a higher than state average, data from the Covid-19 war room shows.Dakshina Kannada, which has been at the receiving end of heavy rains, has an average positivity rate (in the last seven days) of 3.5% until 5 pm on Saturday while Udupi has 2.71%.Kodagu has a positivity arte of 2.16% while it is 1.64% in Hassan.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will be visiting schools and colleges on Monday to check if Covid-19 safety protocol has been followed.Several ministers of the Bommai government, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members, have been asking children to return to school without fear. Parents and guardians have questioned the decision of the government.“Let them reopen schools where there is not much impact of Covid-19 but you cannot have one yardstick for the entire state,” Mohammed Shakeel, president of Voice of Parents, an association of parents and guardians, told Hindustan Times on Sunday. He said that Karnataka says it wants to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) which states that students will graduate only in class12, which gives them no reason to push children below these classes to rush back to schools.He, and several other parents, have challenged the right of schools (private) to demand full school feels as well.Shakeel said that by reopening schools, the government is helping these private institutions to collect fees and then when the third wave comes, close them down again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-karnataka-to-reopen-on-monday-as-threat-of-third-wave-of-infections-loom-large-101629653178864.html
22-08-2021||India||Railways suffered losses worth ₹36,000 crore during pandemic: Minister||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Sunday said the Indian Railways suffered losses to the tune of ₹36,000 crore during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Danve said that goods trains are the real revenue generators for the Indian Railways.“The passenger train segment always runs into losses. Since increasing the ticket fares affects the passengers, we cannot do so. During the pandemic, the Railways suffered losses of ₹36,000 crore,” Danve was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also highlighted that a bullet train project will be developed along the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway and is currently under construction.He also said that the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor project which will connect Navi Mumbai to Delhi has also been undertaken. Danve assured that tracks will be doubled between Nanded and Manmad and said he would check if the Jalna-Khamgaon railway line would be viable or not.Indian Railways last month said that it had improved its operating ratio to 97.45% owing to no concessions and tightening of expenses due to Covid-19. It also said that it has no plans to restore concessions offered to certain categories of people in ticket fares which was initially suspended due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-suffered-losses-worth-rs-36-000-crore-during-pandemic-minister-101629649380289.html
22-08-2021||India||Question authority, don’t be complacent about encroachment of rights, says SC judge||In a democracy, citizens must use their liberties to constantly question the authorities in power and not be complacent about any encroachment of their rights, said Supreme Court judge Justice S Ravindra Bhat.Speaking at an online event on Sunday on the topic “Role of Judiciary in Governance”, Justice Bhat said at a time when the world is passing through a pandemic and its painful and traumatic consequences, it is all the more important for people to cherish liberties and question the moves and policies which displace the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.Justice Bhat said, “We gained our freedom at a great cost. Every Indian therefore has to use his liberties to constantly question the actions of those in power because democracy gives no tickets to free meals. It is for us to assert and guard liberty and not be complacent about any encroachment.”In the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, “Today the world is reeling under the painful and traumatic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic disrupting lives and livelihoods, leaving behind destruction, despair and impoverishment. It is more important for people to cherish liberties and constantly question, through every legitimate channel, the moves and policies which undermine the democratic government and displace the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.”The judge was addressing the first anniversary celebrations of an organization called “Connecting Governed, Governing and Governance” having former Chief Justice of India (CJI) KG Balakrishnan as one of its patrons.The judge also gave his personal views on the topic of reservation and the need for placing a time cap on quota benefits. Justice Bhat said, “Reservation, at least in regard to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and most backward classes is essential and we cannot put a time limit on it.”Expressing his personal view, he said, “I would say it is not possible that we should do away with it (reservation) as long as society is unequal and people are socially and educationally backward. So long as the society is unwilling to cast off the shackles of caste, these quotas are needed because they underline empowerment.”Justice Bhat emphasized that in a democratic way of governance, citizens should be prepared for imperfections. That’s where the role of courts come in. “The rule of law through democracy is a continuing work-in-progress where people’s scrutiny is paramount and courts are part of the dialogue,” the Supreme Court judge said, giving an illustration that a person may have a fundamental right to get a ration card or change his date of birth. But if people don’t get justice internally, there is no other way than to go to court.Even on the limits of freedom that legislature or executive places on its citizens, Justice Bhat highlighted the need for laws to clearly define limits and not sound vague. Giving instances of what constitutes an obscene publication, an incitement that is likely to affect communal harmony, or the extent of regulation permissible at any given point of time, the judge said, “These are very important in governance, because unless you know what you can speak and what you cannot speak, it is very easy for the state to criminalize any content.”The broad role played by the judiciary in governance operates in two ways. First, by protecting people’s fundamental rights and constitutional ethos by ensuring transparency and accountability to the rule of law. And secondly, interpreting new-age laws and filling policy gaps in existing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/question-authorities-don-t-be-complacent-about-encroachment-of-rights-says-sc-judge-101629649518636.html
22-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chinese provincial capital bars unvaccinated people from public areas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Provincial Chinese capital bans unvaccinated from entering public areasInner Mongolia’s push to boost vaccination rates comes as the ruling Communist Party of China stresses on achieving herd immunity - which puts an end to community transmission - by December this year. Read morePalm-oil plan for Andamans came after many steps to skirt legal hurdlesIndia’s quest to increase oil palm isn’t new. A broad policy push came with the Special Programme on Oil Palm Area Expansion between 2011-12 and 2014-15. Read more'No': Eknath Shinde replies to Narayan Rane's 'fed up with Sena' claimMaharashtra minister Shinde said that he is happy in the Shiv Sena and that Rane’s comments were aimed at creating confusion in the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition. Read moreIn Assam, police foil bank heist; 3 suspected robbers killed in encounterAccording to Kokrajhar police, the incident took place around 2:30 am at Bhotgaon when a group of alleged bank robbers were on their way to rob a branch of Indian Bank. Read more‘He’s preparing ready material & sending it to Team India’: Former Pak captain backs Dravid’s reapplication for NCA postThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has invited applications for the post of Head of Cricket at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) as Rahul Dravid’s two-year contract is about to end. Read moreDia Mirza shares photos of son Avyaan’s first Raksha Bandhan, twins with stepdaughter SamairaDia Mirza posted pictures from the Raksha Bandhan celebrations at her home. She, her husband Vaibhav Rekhi and his daughter Samaira were seen in matching outfits. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chinese-provincial-capital-bars-unvaccinated-people-from-public-areas-and-all-the-latest-news-101629642064923.html
22-08-2021||India||In Assam, police foil bank heist; 3 suspected robbers killed in encounter||Three suspected robbers were killed in an encounter in the early hours of Sunday after police in Assam’s Kokrajhar district foiled an alleged bank heist. According to Kokrajhar police, the incident took place around 2:30 am at Bhotgaon when a group of alleged bank robbers were on their way to rob a branch of Indian Bank. “There was a failed attempt at robbing the bank branch three months ago and since then we had activated our information network. On Sunday, we got information that a team of robbers were on their way to rob the Indian Bank branch,” said Thube Prateek Vijay Kumar, superintendent of police, Kokrajhar. “When our personnel intercepted the robbers around 800 m away from the bank before the robbery was committed, they started firing at us. Our team also fired at them in retaliation in which three of their members were injured. They were taken to RNB CiviL Hospital in Kokrajhar where they later succumbed,” he added. The deceased robbers have been identified as Sirajudaulah Sheikh from Mankachar district and Aminul Haque and Manowar Hussan from Goalpara district. Police have launched an operation to nab the other robbers who managed to escape from the scene. According to director general of police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, police recovered two pistols, several rounds of used bullets, oxygen cylinders, gas cutters and other materials from the scene of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-police-foil-bank-heist-3-suspected-robbers-killed-in-encounter-101629643157977.html
22-08-2021||India||Don't speak on issues you don't know: Amarinder Singh's message to Sidhu's advisors||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has taken strong exception to the recent comments made by two of Navjot Sidhu's advisors on Kashmir and Pakistan. Slamming the statements as "totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress", Singh has urged them to stick to only giving advice to the Punjab Congress president and not speak on matters on which they "clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments", a press release issued by the Captain's office said.Sidhu's advisor Pyare Lal Garg, who is the former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, has recently questioned Captain's criticism of Pakistan. He said any criticism of Pakistan by Captain was not in the interest of Punjab.Thaw in Capt-Sidhu ties, agree to set up strategic policy group"Garg may have forgotten the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism of the 1980s and 1990s, but I have not. Nor have the people of Punjab. And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan’s dangerous games,” asserted Captain Amarinder, urging Garg not to undermine the sacrifices of Punjabis with his outrageous, irresponsible, and politically motivated statements," the CM said, slamming the comment.But this was not the only case. Before Garg's statement, Sidhu's other advisor Malvinder Singh Mali, a former government teacher, said that Kashmir is a "separate country". "Kashmir belongs to Kashmiris. Going against the tenets of the UNO resolutions, India and Pakistan have illegally usurped Kashmir. If Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35-A. What was the special agreement with King Hari Singh? Tell people what were the terms of the agreement," he wrote on Facebook.Even after severe criticism, Mali did not withdraw the statement and stood by what he said. This is "totally anti-national", the CM said adding that Mali had effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad's line.Sidhu has recently appointed former DGP Mohammed Mustafa as his principal strategic advisor. Previously, Mustafa had declined the offer. The Punjab president of Congress has four adviors including Mohammed Mustafa. Apart from the two at the centre of the controversy, and Mustafa, Lok Sabha MP Amar Singh is Sidhu's advisor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-speak-on-issues-you-don-t-know-amarinder-singh-s-message-to-sidhu-s-advisers-101629641326143.html
22-08-2021||India||Want to check whether Aadhaar card is genuine or fake? Here's how to do it||The importance of Aadhaar card today is such that it is needed to open a bank account or to get vaccinated against Covid-19, filing income tax returns etc. Given its importance, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) recently warned that "not all 12-digit numbers are Aadhaar." Also, in recent days, several cases of fraud, involving the Aadhaar, have been busted in different parts of the country.Therefore, it has become important to determine whether an Aadhaar card is genuine or not. Here's how to do it:(1.) Visit the official UIDAI portal. Once there, click on "My Aadhaar," and then, from the drop down menu, click on "Verify an Aadhaar number" under "Aadhaar Services."(2.) Next, enter the 12-digit Aadhaar number, followed by captcha verification. Then, click on "Proceed to Verify."(3.) If the number entered by you is valid, you will be redirected to a new page that will show your Aadhaar card number, along with details such as age, gender and state.(4.) The page will mention if it was even issued in the first place. If the card was never issued, it is obvious that the card for which the verification is being sought is fake.About Aadhaar:Aadhaar is a unique identity number that was launched in January 2009. The data for Aadhaar is collected by the UIDAI, which is statutory authority body established by the Government of India. The body comes under the jurisdiction of the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-check-whether-aadhaar-card-is-genuine-or-fake-here-s-how-to-do-it-101629638964861.html
22-08-2021||India||Palm-oil plan for Andamans came after many steps to skirt legal hurdles||The Modi Cabinet’s decision last week to promote environmentally ruinous oil-palm plantations in the Andamans has been a long time in the making and came on the heels of a go-ahead contained in a scientific body’s report, which environmentalists have disputed. The ₹11000-crore “National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) plan seeks to renew and expand oil-palm plantations in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a fragile archipelago of 572 untrammeled islands, of which only 38 are inhabited. Palm oil, which is cheap, is used in most food items, from chocolate to pizza. India’s quest to increase oil palm isn’t new. A broad policy push came with the Special Programme on Oil Palm Area Expansion between 2011-12 and 2014-15. During the erstwhile 10th and 11th plan periods, the government also ran a programme called ISOPOM, or the “Integrated Scheme of Oilseeds, Pulses, Oil Palm and Maize”. India’s gluttonous demand has made it the world’s largest importer of vegetable oils, a base ingredient for cooking most common dishes. The country meets up to two-thirds of its domestic demand through imports. During 2020-21, India imported both crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. Edible oil is the country’s third most high-value import, after petroleum crude and gold. Edible-oil plantations tend to replace natural tropical forests, depleting biodiversity. Environmental case studies in forested belts of Sumatra, Borne and the Malay Peninsula -- which produce 90% of global palm oil – have found cultivation had eliminated pristine forests, pushing out wildlife, from orangutans to birds. The new push will likely require additional clearances from the Supreme Court, which had on May 7 2002 ordered phasing out all “exotic plantations” to conserve the islands’ ecology, an official with the knowledge of the matter said. “Exotic” in this context refers to all species of flora and fauna not native to the islands. The new scheme seeks to bring additional 0.65 million hectare under oil palm by 2025-26 to reach a targeted one million hectare, up from 0.3 million hectare at present. This would result in crude palm oil output to rise to 1.1 million tonne by 2025-26 and up to 2.8 million tonne by 2029-30 The scheme follows a long series of steps to steer clear of legal and procedural hurdles, HT has learnt. In January 2019, the administration of Andamans and Nicobar Islands had moved the Supreme Court seeking a review of its strict conservation orders for the Andamans, the official said. The chief secretary of Andamans and Nicobar Islands, Jitendra Narain, did not respond to a request for comments till the time of going to press. A second official said the Union agriculture ministry had deputed a scientific team from the Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research for a report on how to grow oil-palm sustainably at the request of the Andamans and Nicobar Islands administration. The panel’s reported, finalised in end-2018, stated that agro-climatic conditions in the archipelago were congenial for oil palms. Ecologists dispute this. “The report was more about agricultural suitability. It is not an ecological study,” said Manjula Jaitley, an independent ecologist. Most of the oil-palm plantations in the archipelago, including in Little Andaman, are nearing the end of their natural productive shelf life of about 35 years. They now need to be grown anew. Oil-palm can be grown sustainably but only under strict conditions, including total avoidance of Andaman’s rainforests, said. GVRamanjaneyulu of the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. However, there are very little non-forested open belts in ther Andamans, ecologists say. The country’s second-most senior law officer had told the Supreme Court in October 2018, in a case regarding rehabilitating farmers in the islands, that there was hardly any land available for “compensatory afforestation” and “87% of the land mass is a natural notified forest”. According to top ecologist MD Madhusudan, grasslands are officially taken by policy-makers to be waste lands, which “they are not” and so oil palm should not be there. The state-run A&N Islands Forest and Plantation Dev. Corporation Ltd. owned about 1,583 hectares of red oil palm oil plantations in islets, such as Little Andamans. The company had four processing units, whose operations were curtailed when the top court had ordered folding up of monoculture plantations. Deposing before a parliamentary committee in 2009, a senior official of the environment ministry had stated that “as per the recommendation of the Shekhar Singh Commission, the existing plantation of oil palm, rubber etc. are to be phased out and the land so released, in so far as it is forest land, be regenerated. No exotic species of fauna or flora should be introduced into the Islands”. The landmark Shekhar Singh Commission had spelt out a series of recommendation to conserve the islands’ anthropological and ecological heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palmoil-plan-for-andamans-came-after-many-steps-to-skirt-legal-hurdles-101629637037708.html
22-08-2021||India||Are vaccine doses in the offing for children in India?||Here’s the big question: when will children above 12 get their vaccine doses? Last week, India’s national drug regulator approved Zydus Cadila’s anti Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D. This week, discussion around the vaccine for teenagers will start in right earnest. Earlier this month, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had hinted that vaccines for children will begin as early as September. If it indeed does, millions of children and their parents will be queuing up for one.Simultaneously, the Delhi government is likely to draft a plan on vaccination of children against Covid-19. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi had been demanding vaccination of children against Covid-19 at the earliest.Maharashtra, meanwhile, created a record of sorts on Saturday when it inoculated 1.1 million people in a single day. But in several districts dominated by tribal communities, hesitancy is preventing the government from administering more (the state’s capacity is more than 1.5 million a day). This week, therefore, the state government may start an outreach programme to make them aware that the vaccines are safe.The western Indian state has been the worst affected state in India with more than 6.4 million cumulative cases and close to 135,900 deaths.Northwards in Delhi, the capital’s Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) committee will submit a report on the strategy for reopening schools, colleges and educational institutions to the offices of the chief minister (CM) and Lieutenant Governor (LG) on August 25. Based on the report, the government will take a call in the matter, a senior government official said on Saturday.The Capital has also been the decision making centre in response to the astonishing developments in Afghanistan, the most crucial being the safe return of Indian diplomats and citizens. India began accelerating the evacuation of its nationals from Afghanistan amid the further deterioration of the situation at Kabul airport, where there are no signs yet for the resumption of commercial flights. A total of 329 Indians were brought back from Dushanbe, Doha and Kabul in three flights early on Sunday and, officials say, efforts will continue on pulling out the remaining Indians. The government, however, has given no indication of its thinking regarding the possible recognition of any government/regime to be formed by the Taliban.While Covid-19 and Afghanistan have dominated headlines over the last eight days, there might be some news to warm the cockles of Indian hearts, especially farmers. The monsoon revival in the north western parts of the country may result in the cumulative rainfall crossing the Long Period Average level this year. As per IMD’s gridded dataset there was a deficit of 5% from LPA as of 8:30 am on August 21.Regional politics may also throw up a few headlines. On Monday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and leaders of some other opposition parties are expected to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand a caste census along with general census next year. They are also likely to demand a removal of the 50% cap on reservations in the country, a demand being made by smaller OBC parties in election bound Uttar Pradesh and several other states.After resignations by two sitting Congress MLAs and switching sides to ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, another opposition legislator, Phanidhar Talukdar, All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur, is all set to join the saffron party. With this development, six assembly seats in the state would go for by-polls in coming weeks. Schools in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are scheduled to open from today for the first time since end of March, when the second wave started. Both the states will resume secondary and higher secondary classes. Will children be excited at the prospect of meeting their friends once again?Not that the sporting world is going to be less exciting. India will go into their third Test against England at Leeds with a confident 1-0 lead. After a debilitating blow at Lord’s, England will have to find something special not to get routed again.The Tokyo Paralympics begin on August 24. India has a strong 50-member contingent, its largest ever. Will we win medals? If the confidence after the Tokyo Olympics is any indicator, we just might!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-vaccine-doses-in-the-offing-for-children-in-india-101629633917664.html
22-08-2021||India||Former TMC minister arrested on corruption charges in Bengal district||Former Trinamool Congress (TMC) minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee was arrested by the Bankura district police on Saturday night on charges of corruption involving the Bishnupur municipality where he served as chairman till 2020. It has been alleged that he was involved in financial irregularities to the tune of ₹9.91 crore. A Bankura court remanded the accused to police custody for five days on Sunday afternoon. “I have no idea why I was arrested,” Mukherjee said while he was being taken to court. Mukherjee joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on December 19, 2020 when Suvendu Adhikari and a host of TMC leaders left the ruling party and switched sides. He was however, never seen at any BJP event nor was he given any post in the state committee. The former legislator from Bishnupur assembly constituency was a minister in the first TMC government but was later dropped by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He was not fielded in the March-April state polls. The police arrested him following a probe into irregularities in tenders floated by the Bishnupur municipality. The complaint was lodged by the sub-divisional officer of Bishnupur. “Mukherjee was arrested after he failed to explain the irregularities,” said Bankura superintendent of police Dhritiman Sarkar. “Irregularities were found in as many as 50 tenders. These were all related to development projects launched by the chief minister,” said Shyamal Santra, a former minister and TMC legislator for Kotulpur in Bankura. “Mukherjee was never active in our party. The alleged crime took place when he was in the TMC. BJP has nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tmc-minister-arrested-on-corruption-charges-in-bengal-district-101629632237297.html
22-08-2021||India||Rajnath to felicitate Army personnel who participated in Tokyo Olympics||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Monday felicitate the Army personnel who participated at the Olympics at Tokyo at the Army Sports Institute in Pune on Monday."All the armed forces personnel, who represented India in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, including gold medallist javelin thrower Subedar Neeraj Chopra, are likely to be present on the occasion," a statement released by defence ministry read, according to news agency PTI.Neeraj Chopra was appointed as Junior Commissioned Officer in the Rajputana Rifles regiment in 2016 following his stellar performance at the South Asian GamesSingh is also expected to interact with sportsperson of the Army Sports Institute and troops during his visit.The defence minister is also scheduled to visit the headquarters of Southern Command along with Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Command Lieutenant General JS Nain.The Army Sports Institute has produced 34 Olympians, 22 Commonwealth Games medallists, 21 Asian Games medallists, six Youth Games medallists and 13 Arjuna Awardees till date, according to PTI."Indian Army has always been the backbone of Indian sports — from Major Dhyan Chand to Subedar Neeraj Chopra who etched their names in golden letters in the history of Indian sports," the statement by the Army read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-to-felicitate-army-personnel-who-participated-in-tokyo-olympics-101629628316667.html
22-08-2021||India||UAE to approve tourist visas for Indian passport holders as Covid cases fall||In the wake of a fall in coronavirus cases, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has decided to allow Indian passport holders, who have not been to the country in the last 14 days, to obtain tourist visas.Besides India, the facility has been extended to Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Uganda, according to a media report on Sunday.At present, only citizens of the UAE and transit passengers are allowed to fly to the UAE, a measure the administration took earlier this year to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The country is now slowly opening up its arrivals as the situation improves.However, all flyers would have to undergo a Polymerase Chain Reaction test on the day of arrival and on the ninth day after arrival in the UAE.Meanwhile, the UAE has said it will accept passengers from Pakistani airports Islamabad, Karachi and Lahore. Earlier, arrivals from Pakistan were only allowed to transit passengers.The coronavirus has claimed 2,018 lives along with 708,302 confirmed infections in the UAE, according to Johns Hopkins University.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-to-approve-tourist-visas-for-indian-passport-holders-as-covid-cases-fall-101629627767268.html
22-08-2021||India||Why states that can't control population get more seats in Parliament: Madras high court||The Madras high court has recently passed an order asking the Centre why southern states like Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh which have successfully controlled population will have a fewer number of seats in Parliament than states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, which have high population. The bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice B Pugalendhi passed the order on August 17, before Justice Kirubakaran retired, Bar and Bench reported. The order said that Tamil Nadu should be monetarily compensated for the past 14 elections and the amount, according to the court's estimate, will be around ₹5,600 crore.The high court said Tamil Nadu had 41 representatives in the Lok Sabha until 1962. Owing to a reduction in population, the number of Tamil Nadu Lok Sabha constituencies was reduced to 39. It is not about two seats as every vote matters, the court said referring to the 1999 no-confidence motion against the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.The state had no fault as the number of political representatives was reduced based on the population count, the court said, adding that its quota of Rajya Sabha seats should be increased in that case. That way, it will also become an acknowledgement of Tamil Nadhu's successful birth control programme."Population control cannot be a factor to decide the number of political representatives of the States in the Parliament. Those States which failed to implement the birth control programmes were benefited with more political representatives in Parliament whereas States, especially, southern States, namely Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, which successfully implemented the birth control programmes stood to lose 2 seats in each Parliament ... States have been reorganised on linguistic basis as per the States Reorganisation Act, 1956. India is a multi-religious, multi-racial and multi-linguistic country. Therefore, the powers should be distributed equally and there should be a balance of powers", the Court said.The court made these observations as it rejected a plea to de-serve the Tenkasi Parliamentary constituency, presently reserved for SC candidates. The court said it would remain reserved till the next delimitation exercise, which will be carried out in 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-states-that-can-t-control-population-get-more-seats-in-parliament-madras-high-court-101629625390156.html
22-08-2021||India||'This is why CAA was necessary': Hardeep Singh Puri as India evacuates people from Afghanistan||Amid India's ongoing evacuation from Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of the country, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday said this shows how necessary it was to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act. "Recent developments in our volatile neighbourhood & the way Sikhs & Hindus are going through a harrowing time are precisely why it was necessary to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act," the minister tweeted.A special evacuation flight by the Indian Air Force reached the Hindon airbase on Sunday carrying 168 passengers, including former Afghanistan parliamentarians who thanked the Indian government for the evacuation. Arindam Bagchi, the official spokesperson of the external affairs ministry, posted a video of the evacuation where the evacuees can be seen chanting 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' inside the aircraft.Jubilant evacuees on their journey home ! pic.twitter.com/3sfvSaEVK7The crisis in Afghanistan has brought the controversial CAA again into discourse as the Citizenship Amendment Act aims to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, who arrived in India before the end of December 2014. The rules under the act are yet to be notified.The Union home ministry said it is committed to repatriating all Indians and Afghan Sikhs and Hindus. The ministry of home affairs has recently reviewed the visa provisions and created a new e-visa category for Afghan nationals -- mainly Hindus and Sikhs -- to apply online.Prime Minister Narendra Modi early this week chaired a high-level meeting on the Afghan situation and directed officials to ensure the safe evacuation of all Indian citizens and also to provide refuge to Sikhs and Hindus wanting to come to India.The Taliban on Saturday reportedly stopped a group of 70 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, which included Sikh members of parliament Anarkali Kaur Honaryar and Narender Pal Singh claiming that the Taliban said that they were Afghan nationals and the flight was meant for Indians.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-why-caa-was-necessary-hardeep-singh-puri-as-india-evacuates-people-from-afghanistan-101629623135635.html
22-08-2021||India||Infant without passport amongst passengers evacuated from Kabul by IAF||An infant who was onboard the C-17 transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force from Kabul that landed at Hindon air base on Sunday morning, reported news agency ANI, adding that the toddler travelled without a passport. "An infant has also landed in a special IAF flight to India without a passport," an evacuation co-ordinating official told ANI.A video uploaded on the news agency's Twitter showed the child in their mother’s arms, as another young girl embraced the child out of joy. Several other children were also evacuated from Kabul by the IAF. "Situation was deteriorating in Afghanistan, so I came here with my daughter and two grandchildren. Our Indian brothers and sisters came to our rescue. They (Taliban) burnt down my house. I thank India for helping us," one of the evacuees told news agency ANI. During Friday prayers in Kabul an imam said those trying to flee a Taliban rule do not possess strong religious convictions, reported AFP.Also Read: India to inoculate all Afghanistan returnees with free polio vaccinesThe IAF evacuated more than 168 individuals, including 107 Indians, 23 Afghans, Sikhs and Hindus, out of the war-torn nation on Sunday. The news agency did not mention the infant’s nationality. Two more flights carrying evacuees from Kabul, including a special Air India flight carrying 87 Indians and two Nepalese citizens, landed on Saturday. India has been allowed to operate two flights a day, by the American and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces, to evacuate nationals stranded in Afghanistan, reported news agency ANI.Most roads in the capital city Kabul are deserted, but the roads which lead to Kabul airport are choked with traffic, reported news agency AFP on Sunday. The US military sent a helicopter to rescue more than 150 Americans who were unable to reach the airport. The US and its allies have been trying to evacuate all of their citizens as the official withdrawal date of the troops on August 31 looms on the horizon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-without-passport-amongst-passengers-evacuated-from-kabul-by-iaf-101629621453505.html
22-08-2021||India||Petrol prices cut marginally for first time after remaining at all-time high for 36 days||Petrol on Sunday become cheaper by 20 paise per litre for the first time after remaining at record ₹101.84 a litre for 36 days since July 17.State-run oil marketing companies have also reduced diesel rates on Sunday by 20 paise per litre, the fourth price cut in the last five days, making the fuel cheaper by 80 paise per litre since August 18.Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) pumps are now selling petrol at ₹101.64 per litre in Delhi and diesel at ₹89.07 a litre.While fuel rates of IOC in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Domestic rates of petrol and diesel have been slashed after international crude oil plunged sharply by 7.66% last week. Benchmark Brent crude that closed at $69.51 per barrel on Monday (August 16) with a 1.5% fall, maintained a downward trend for the entire week.Brent closed at $65.18 on Friday, the lowest level since May 21 amid worries of surging Covid-19 cases, increased supplies of crude oil in the market from large producers, and demand concerns.After mid-July, state-run fuel retailers kept auto fuel rates frozen at record levels in a departure from the policy of aligning petrol and diesel rates daily by tactically using minor gains of falling international oil prices to offset the need of raising pump rates.Ahead of the Monsoon session of the Parliament, the retail price of diesel was frozen first on July 15 at ₹89.87 per litre in Delhi. Petrol followed the suit after two days at ₹101.84 a litre, even as international oil prices saw wide fluctuations. The Monsoon session that started on July 19 ended two days ahead of the schedule on August 11.Post-session, oil companies first reduced diesel rates on August 18 by 20 paise a litre after it remained frozen at the historical high of ₹89.87 a litre for 34 days. There was some delay in petrol price reduction due to smaller revenue margin on it, an executive working for one of the state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) said requesting anonymity.Three public sector OMCs – IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) – enjoy a monopoly in the fuel retail business with about 90% market share. While international oil prices impact pump rates of auto fuels because India imports more than 80% of crude it processes, steep taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel. In Delhi, central levies account for 32.3% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to official data of August 1. On diesel, Central taxes are over 35.38% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit, with revenues hit on account of the pandemic. According to official data, petroleum sector contributed ₹3,71,726 crore central excise revenue in 2020-21, and ₹2,02,937 crore state levies or value added tax (VAT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-cut-marginally-for-first-time-after-remaining-at-all-time-high-for-36-days-101629620178097.html
22-08-2021||India||La Ganesan, ex-RSS pracharak and Tamil Nadu BJP chief, made Manipur governor||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tamil Nadu unit president La Ganesan became the new governor of Manipur on Sunday. The office of President Ram Nath Kovind said Ganesan said Ganesan’s appointment would be with effect from the date he assumed charge of his office. A former pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Ganesan replaced Najma Heptulla, who retired earlier this month, as the 17 governor of Manipur."The President has been pleased to appoint Shri La. Ganesan to be the Governor of Manipur with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office," said Ajay Kumar Singh, press secretary to the President.Heptulla had demitted office on August 10 and on the same day the charge was given to Sikkim Governor Ganga Prasad.I feel very elated because my services have been recognised. I am prepared to work at any place in India. With my experience, I will feel that entire India is one: La Ganesan, on being appointed as the Governor of Manipur pic.twitter.com/QUw2gyxgTjExpressing his gratitude, Ganesan said he was prepared to work at any place in the country. “I feel very elated because my services have been recognised. I am prepared to work at any place in India. With my experience, I will feel that the entire India is one,” he said.The former Rajya Sabha MP had once reportedly courted controversy while commenting on protests launched by locals against extraction of hydrocarbons at Neduvasal village in Tamil Nadu’s Pudukkottai district. He had said, “There is nothing wrong in sacrificing Tamil Nadu for the welfare of India."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-ganesan-ex-rss-pracharak-and-tamil-nadu-bjp-chief-made-manipur-governor-101629618621280.html
22-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi, JP Nadda in Lucknow to pay last respects to Kalyan Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Modi, Nadda arrive in Lucknow to pay last respects to Kalyan SinghPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda reached Lucknow on Sunday morning to pay their last respects to veteran leader Kalyan Singh who passed away on Saturday evening. Read MoreManipur extends night curfew for 15 days till September 6The Manipur government has extended the night curfew imposed in the North Eastern border state from 6 pm to 5 am by another fifteen days till September 6 while lifting certain restrictions, officials said. Read MoreIndia to vaccinate all Afghanistan returnees with free polio vaccinesUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday that the central government will be vaccinating returnees from Afghanistan with a free polio shot as a preventive measure against the Wild Polio Virus. Read More'Excited and honoured': Wanindu Hasaranga on being part of RCB squad for IPL 2021The latest addition to the Royal Challengers Bangalore squad, Wanindu Hasaranga on Sunday said that he is excited to join the franchise. Read MoreUnrecognisable Salman Khan spotted filming Tiger 3 in Russia, is joined by nephew Nirvaan. See picsActor Salman Khan was spotted on the Russia sets of the upcoming action film tentatively called Tiger 3. Read MoreThe Rock pulls up beside a tour bus to surprise people. Watch how they reactA video of Dwayne Johnson surprising a few unsuspecting tourists has now created a buzz online. Read MoreShilpa Shetty's ₹58k sequin saree for Dance Deewane 3 comeback is the perfect Rakhi lookBollywood actor Shilpa Shetty returned to the sets of Dance Deewane 3 recently and took to Instagram to reveal her look for the episode. Read MoreWatch: Modi govt reacts to Taliban example by ex-J&K CM Mehbooba MuftiAfter a controversial speech by former Jammu & Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti in Kulgam, Union Minister Anurag Thakur said that she is a habitual deliverer of statements which are not in national interest. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-jp-nadda-in-lucknow-to-pay-last-respects-to-kalyan-singh-and-all-the-latest-news-101629615414736.html
22-08-2021||India||12% of Madhya Pradesh residents completely jabbed against Covid: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday his government had administered the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus to 60 per cent people in the state of whom 12 per cent have received both the doses.Chouhan said a mega inoculation drive would be organised across the state on August 25 and 26. “Both doses will be administered on the first day, while August 26 will be only for those awaiting their second doses,” the chief minister said, adding the second day has specifically reserved for second dose because it was essential to remind people who have taken their first dose to complete their course."Vaccine is most effective when its second dose is taken within the stipulated time. The effect of the first dose would wear off if one does not take their second dose," he added.Also read | Madhya Pradesh CM says Covid under control, announces reopening of schoolsFurther, the CM appealed to the people of the state to ensure that everyone takes their vaccine jab. "The risk of COVID-19 infection drops by 93 per cent for those who are fully vaccinated against it. Therefore, I request the people of my state to get their vaccine jab at the soonest; for those who have not received their first dose, please take it...also, remember that it is very important to take the second dose of the vaccine too."According to the latest updates, Madhya Pradesh has administered a total of 4,01,36,448 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Of these, 3,35,53,099 have received the first dose and 65,83,349 have received both the doses. As far as the nationwide tally is concerned, MP is only behind Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra in inoculating its citizens.Chouhan further said the pandemic situation in the state was under control even as he urged people to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour. “With the support of people, Covid infections are under control. However, Covid-19 has not been eradicated. We should not panic, but it is important to maintain precautions,” the CM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Students return to classes in more states following ebbing of COVID-19 casesThe state registered seven new cases on Saturday taking the total caseload to 7,92,096. There was no fatality during the same period and the death toll remained unchanged at 10,515.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-of-madhya-pradesh-residents-completely-jabbed-against-covid-cm-chouhan-101629616151405.html
22-08-2021||India||India to inoculate all Afghanistan returnees with free polio vaccines||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday that the central government will be vaccinating returnees from Afghanistan with a free polio shot as a preventive measure against the Wild Polio Virus. The announcement comes on the day a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) landed at the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad from the Afghan capital of Kabul with 168 passengers, including more than 100 Indians and some 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus. Two more flights ferrying Indians from Afghanistan's Kabul landed earlier on Sunday, including a special Air India flight carrying 87 Indians."We have decided to vaccinate Afghanistan returnees with free Polio Vaccine - OPV & fIPV, as a preventive measure against Wild Polio Virus," Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted. "Congratulations to the health team for their efforts to ensure public health."The Union minister also attached a photo of the vaccine drive, which is already underway at the Delhi international airport.We have decided to vaccinate Afghanistan returnees with free Polio Vaccine - OPV & fIPV, as a preventive measure against Wild Polio VirusCongratulations to the Health Team for their efforts to ensure public healthTake a look at the vaccine drive at Delhi International Airport pic.twitter.com/jPVF1lVmRuMeanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) on Saturday raised an alarm over the healthcare situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover, noting that the conflict in the country has left countless people vulnerable to hunger and illnesses. The public health body estimates that around half of Afghanistan's population, which includes more than four million women and nearly 10 million children, are in dire need of humanitarian assistance. The WHO said that countries must continue to provide health services to the people in Afghanistan, lest the current drought worsens to even dire situation.The United Kingdom has said that it will administer vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to Afghan refugees coming to the country on fleeing the Taliban. The UK is also looking to resettle around 20,000 vulnerable Afghans under a new resettlement programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-vaccinate-all-afghanistan-returnees-with-free-polio-vaccines-101629611968427.html
22-08-2021||India||‘Indian brothers, sisters came to rescue’: Afghan woman after fleeing Taliban||An Afghan woman on Sunday thanked India for helping her escape the Taliban as she was evacuated from Kabul in a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) along with several others. “The situation was deteriorating in Afghanistan, so I came here with my daughter and two grandchildren. Our Indian brothers and sisters came to our rescue. They (Taliban) burnt down my house. I thank India for helping us," the woman said after landing at the Hindon Air Force Station in Ghaziabad, according to news agency ANI.She was among the 168 people evacuated from Kabul by the IAF as the Indian government continued its efforts to bring back people from the war-torn country overtaken by the Taliban. Around 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus also travelled in the flight, which took off from Kabul earlier in the day.Also read | India allowed two flights daily to evacuate people from Kabul: ReportTens of thousands of Afghans are trying to flee the country after the Taliban seized control on August 15 even as the United States warned of security threats at Kabul's chaotic airport. Reuters reported citing witnesses that the Taliban are ensuring that people formed orderly queues outside the main gates of the airport and not allowing crowds to gather at the perimeter. The witnesses told Reuters that there was no violence or confusion at the airport but there were long lines forming.Also read | Afghan Sikh MP expresses his gratitude to India for Kabul evacuationSeveral videos on social media have shown Afghan families crowding, people hanging onto departing planes and even lifting a baby over a wall at the airport as more jostled pleading with American and British soldiers manning the area to help them.Also watch: Indians on evacuation flight shout 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'The Taliban have assured that they will bring in a softer version of their brutal rule from 1996-2001 and will take steps towards forming a government. However, terrified Afghans have been hoping against hope to escape the hardline Islamist group since they took back power in Afghanistan. Some of them fear reprisals and others say the Taliban will enforce the rules under Islamic law, which included a ban on women stepping out of their homes without a male relative and a prohibition on girls.Meanwhile, more Indians were brought out of Kabul in two more flights earlier on Sunday. They included a special Air India flight with 87 Indians, who were first taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday.Another 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, were also brought back home. These Indians evacuated to Doha by US and Nato aircraft from Kabul worked with foreign companies operating in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-brothers-sisters-came-to-rescue-afghan-woman-after-fleeing-taliban-101629612103709.html
22-08-2021||India||Modi, Nadda arrive in Lucknow to pay last respects to Kalyan Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda reached Lucknow on Sunday morning to pay their last respects to veteran leader Kalyan Singh who passed away on Saturday evening. He was 89.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh were present at the Lucknow airport to receive Modi and Nadda.The leaders went to Mall Avenue in the city where the mortal remains of Kalyan Singh have been kept at the residence of his grandson Sandip Singh. A former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and a former governor of Rajasthan, Kalyan Singh died at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) at 9.15 pm on Saturday after battling prolonged illness.On Saturday, Modi took to microblogging platform Twitter to condole the death of Kalyan Singh. “Generations to come will remain forever grateful to Kalyan Singh Ji for his contributions towards India’s cultural regeneration. He was firmly rooted in Indian values and took pride in our centuries old traditions,” the prime minister posted.Modi had described Kalyan Singh as a "statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots level leader and great human" in his condolence message.Addressing the media in Lucknow, Modi said, "Kalyan Singh always gave priority to public welfare. He lived up to his name. We have lost a big leader. I pray to Lord Ram to bless him. We will strive to fulfill his dreams."Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and home minister Amit Shah are also expected to reach Lucknow to pay their tribute to the leader.On Saturday, the chief minister had said announced a three-day mourning will be observed and the veteran leader would be put to rest on the banks of Ganga river at Narora in Bulandshahr district on Monday, which will be a public holiday every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-nadda-arrive-in-lucknow-to-pay-last-respects-to-kalyan-singh-101629610438888.html
22-08-2021||India||IAF's C-17 aircraft with 168 people from Kabul lands at Hindon airbase||More than 100 Indians and some 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were brought back from Afghanistan's Kabul on Sunday in a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF), which landed the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad around 10am, according to people familiar with the matter. The flight took off from Kabul earlier in the day, the spokesperson for the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, tweeted earlier in the day.Also Read | Amid deteriorating situation in Kabul, India evacuates nearly 400 people"Evacuation continues!" Bagchi tweeted on Sunday. "IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers on board, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul."The passengers on the IAF repatriation flight were not immediately allowed to leave the aircraft, news agency ANI reported, as they are to first undergo the RT-PCR test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).#WATCH | 168 passengers, including 107 Indian nationals, arrive at Hindon IAF base in Ghaziabad from Kabul, onboard Indian Air Force's C-17 aircraftPassengers are yet to come out of the airport as they will first undergo the #COVID19 RT-PCR test.#Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/x7At7oB8YKTwo more flights ferrying Indians from Afghanistan's Kabul landed earlier on Sunday, including a special Air India flight carrying 87 Indians. The Indians were taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on board a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday.Also Read | Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihadThe Indian embassy in Qatar said late on Saturday that 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, were also sent to India. People familiar with the matter have said that Indians evacuated to Doha by US and Nato aircraft from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies operating in Afghanistan.The latest evacuations are part of the central government's efforts to bring back hundreds of Indian nationals to the country from Afghanistan, as the situation deteriorated from Kabul following the lightning-fast Taliban offensive.The Taliban seized Kabul last Sunday after sweeping across Afghanistan amid the withdrawal of the US forces from Afghanistan. The forces will leave the country by the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafs-c-17-aircraft-with-168-people-from-kabul-lands-at-hindon-airbase-101629607996764.html
22-08-2021||India||Amid deteriorating situation in Kabul, India evacuates nearly 400 people||India evacuated nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals, who were in Afghanistan on three flights from different destinations on Sunday as the government accelerated efforts to bring back all citizens after the situation at Kabul airport deteriorated further. A total of 87 Indians and two Nepalese citizens were flown from the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe to Delhi in a special Air India flight that arrived shortly after 5 am. They were earlier evacuated from Kabul to Dushanbe in a C-130 Hercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday. Another 168 people, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown out of Kabul in a C-17 heavy lift aircraft and they are expected to reach Hindon airbase later on Sunday. Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families were among the Sikhs and Hindus. They were escorted into Kabul airport by international forces after the Taliban prevent a group of more than 70 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from entering the airport on Saturday.Another group of 135 Indians, most of them employees of firms from Western countries that were active in Afghanistan, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight. These Indians had been flown out to Qatar on US and NATO flights over the past few days. As reports emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire and using harsh methods to control thousands of people who have been converging on Kabul airport, the US embassy issued a security alert on Saturday advising American citizens to avoid travelling to the airport because of “potential security threats outside the gates”. The alert asked Americans to “avoid airport gates at this time unless you receive individual instructions from a US government representative to do so”. The alert was issued following intelligence reports that the Islamic State could target Americans in the Afghan capital. Earlier on Saturday, there was confusion for several hours about the status of some 150 Indians who were to be evacuated following reports that they were rounded up by the Taliban near Kabul airport. Also read: Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihadThe development was first reported on the website of the Afghan media outlet Etilaatroz and its sister publication Kabul Now, which cited a source as saying that more than 150 people, most of them Indians, had been “abducted”. The outlets subsequently quoted a Taliban spokesman as rejecting the allegations of abduction. Etilaatroz also reported the Indians were safe and their passports were checked before they were sent to the airport. There was no official word from the Indian side on this incident. The government has kept all details of the evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan under tight wraps because of operational and security reasons. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there were problems when a group of more than 200 people, including around 70 Afghan nationals and the remainder Indians, came to Kabul airport in a convoy late on Friday. The Taliban, who are outside the airport, stopped the group, following which most of the Afghans reportedly escaped. The Afghan nationals included Sikhs and Hindus, and reports said the Taliban had said they would not be allowed to leave the country. The Indians were rounded up by the Taliban and taken to an unknown location close to the airport for further checks, the people said. Following inquiries and checking of documents such as passports, the group was sent back to the airport on Saturday afternoon, the people added. The people said the biggest problem in the evacuation of Indians is the journey from different parts of the city to the airport as Kabul has been taken over by the Taliban, who have set up check posts across the capital. Adding to the worries of the Indian side are reports that terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network are also present among the Taliban. With the civilian side of Kabul airport still closed, all evacuations are being done from the military side, outside which thousands of Afghans have gathered in the hope of getting on board the flights being operated by countries such as the US and the UK. Numerous videos have emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire outside the airport to drive back crowds. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-deteriorating-situation-in-kabul-india-evacuates-nearly-400-people-101629608476030.html
22-08-2021||India||PM Modi sends message on World Sanskrit Day. All you need to know about the language||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter on Sunday to mark the occasion of World Sanskrit Day. Sanskrit is an ancient Indian language and belongs to the Indo-European group of languages. Sanskrit is often referred to as the language of the gods and is made of the words sáṃ, meaning together, good, well, perfected, and kṛta, meaning made, formed and work. When used together connotes something that is well-formed or perfected.एषा भाषा प्राचीना चेदपि आधुनिकी,यस्यां गहनं तत्त्वज्ञानम् अस्ति तरुणं काव्यम् अपि अस्ति,या सरलतया अभ्यासयोग्या परं श्रेष्ठदर्शनयुक्ता च,तां संस्कृतभाषाम् अधिकाधिकं जनाः पठेयुः।सर्वेभ्यः संस्कृतदिवसस्य शुभाशयाः।World Sanskrit Day is celebrated on Shravana Poornima every year, and this year it falls on August 22.Read on to find out more about World Sanskrit Day:1. World Sanskrit Day was celebrated for the first time in the year 1969 after the Union ministry of education issued notifications to state and central governments.2. The day is marked by seminars, lectures and meets all over the country. The Rajasthan Sanskrit Academy and Sanskrit University have jointly organised a week-long celebration starting Sunday, in which various Sanskrit scholars, poets, critics and senior officers of the state government will take part and deliver lectures on different topics.3. The central and various state governments have been celebrating Sanskrit Day with renewed vigour to help revitalise the language.4. The New Education Policy (NEP) laid an ambitious path for “mainstreaming” the language. Sanskrit was to be offered in schools, including as one of the language options in the three-language formula, as well as in higher education. This was a point which Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha reiterated on August 20 while laying the foundation stone for the new building of Chudamani Sanskrit Sansthan, at Basohli, Kathua district.5. NEP also stated that Sanskrit universities will be turned into multi-disciplinary institutions of higher learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sends-message-on-world-sanskrit-day-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-language-101629606416445.html
22-08-2021||India||Afghan Sikh MP expresses his gratitude to India for Kabul evacuation||Afghanistan’s Sikh parliamentarian Narender Singh Khalsa has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Indian government and the Indian Air Force for rescuing him and other members of his community from the war-torn nation following its takeover by the Taliban and fall of the elected government, led by Ashraf Ghani, last week.In a message recorded at the airport ahead of his evacuation to India late on Saturday or early Sunday, Khalsa expressed his gratitude to the Indian government for extending help to him and others belonging to the minority community in Afghanistan.Khalsa was among 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus along with several stranded Indians who were onboard the C-17 Globemaster that landed at the Hindon IAF base in Ghaziabad on Sunday. The flight took off from Kabul airport earlier in the day and flew directly to India.He later broke down while speaking to reporters at Hindon. "Everything that was built in the last 20 years is now finished. It's zero now," he said.#WATCH | Afghanistan's MP Narender Singh Khalsa breaks down as he reaches India from Kabul. "I feel like crying...Everything that was built in the last 20 years is now finished. It's zero now," he says. pic.twitter.com/R4Cti5MCMvAlso read | Crossing dozens of check posts, relaying messages: Inside India’s evacuation plan in KabulThere have been repeated pleas from Sikhs in India about bringing back members of the minority community from Afghanistan after the Islamic militants took over Kabul. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had earlier urged external affairs minister S Jaishankar to arrange for the immediate evacuation of all Indians, including around 200 Sikhs, stranded in a gurdwara in the turmoil-gripped nation.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), which has been sharing regular updates on evacuation of Indians and others in need from Afghanistan ever since the Taliban came to power, also wrote the latest flights.Also read | Will make all arrangements to evacuate Indians from Afghanistan: HS PuriEarlier in the day, a special Air India flight from Kabul ferrying 87 Indians landed in Delhi. The Indians were taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on board a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday.MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi shared early morning tweets in this regard. "Evacuation continues! IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers onboard, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul," Bagchi wrote."Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated. Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," he tweeted at around 1:20am.The Indian embassy in Qatar said 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, were being sent to India.India has already evacuated 200 of its citizens, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul, in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. The first evacuation flight brought back more than 40 people, mostly staff at the Indian embassy, on Monday. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people, including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel, journalists and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-sikh-mp-expresses-his-gratitude-to-india-for-kabul-evacuation-101629605691378.html
22-08-2021||India||Raksha Bandhan 2021: India celebrates Rakhi, leaders extend greetings||As India is celebrating Raksha Bandhan on Sunday, August 22, political leaders and several others wished people on the auspicious occasion which marks the love between siblings. The festival of Raksha Bandhan is observed with great pomp and show in India. Also known as Rakhi or Raksha Bandhan, the festival is quite similar in its essence and sentiment to Bhai Dooj except that on Raksha Bandhan, the ceremonial Rakhi is tied to the siblings’ wrists.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his greetings to the people on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. "Many best wishes to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Raksha Bandhan," the Prime Minister tweeted in Hindi.सभी देशवासियों को रक्षाबंधन के पावन पर्व पर ढेरों शुभकामनाएं।Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu also greeted the nation on Raksha Bandhan and urged people to ensure a safe environment for the women. “On this auspicious day, let us resolve to uphold the dignity of women and ensure a safe environment for them at all times," the vice president’s office tweeted.Happy Rakshabandhan!#Rakshabandhan is a celebration of the special and deep-rooted bond of love and respect between brothers and sisters. On this auspicious day, let us resolve to uphold the dignity of women and ensure a safe environment for them at all times. #Rakhi #Rakhi2021Union home minister Amit Shah also greeted the nation on the festival. "Warm wishes to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Rakshabandhan," Shah tweeted.समस्त देशवासियों को रक्षाबंधन के पावन पर्व की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएँ।Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla posted a video statement on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan and said, "Hearty congratulations to the countrymen, this holy festival of virtuous affection between brother and sister is a symbol of our rich religious-cultural heritage." He added, "On this day it is wished that the love and brotherhood in the society become stronger. Let us come closer to each other, contribute to the new construction of India."#रक्षाबंधन की देशवासियों को हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। भाई-बहन के पुनीत स्नेह का यह पावन पर्व हमारी समृद्ध धार्मिक-सांस्कृतिक विरासत का परिचायक है। आज के दिन कामना है कि समाज में प्रेम तथा भाईचारे डोर और मजबूत हो। हम एक-दूसरे के और निकट आएं, भारत के नवनिर्माण में अपना योगदान दें।#Rakhi pic.twitter.com/d4IkPkIyDMSince Rakhi is celebrated annually on the full moon in the Hindu month of Shravan, each year there is a particular time that is considered optimal for carrying out the ritual. This year, Rakha Bandhan falls on August 22 and the ‘shubh muhurta or the best time to tie the rakhi on your sibling is between 1:42pm to 4:18pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raksha-bandhan-2021-india-celebrates-rakhi-leaders-extend-greetings-101629601530968.html
22-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Flight with 87 Indians on-board from Kabul lands in Delhi||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air India flight with 87 Indians from Kabul lands in Delhi, another enrouteA special Air India flight ferrying 87 Indians from Afghanistan’s Kabul landed in Delhi early on Sunday. Read MoreGanga Expressway: UP govt gets approval letter for ₹ 5100 crore loan from PNBThe Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday received the sanction letter of ₹ 5100 crore loan for the 594-kilometre-long Ganga Expressway project from the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in the presence of Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and chief minister Yogi Adityanath at an event in Lucknow. Read MoreUS state department hit by cyber attack, perpetrators unknown: ReportThe US state department was hit by a cyberattack this month, local media reported on Saturday, adding that the United States department of defense cyber command has notified of a possible "serious breach". Read More'Good decision': Saba Karim explains how BCCI not allowing players to compete in overseas T20 leagues has helped IndiaFormer India cricketer Saba Karim expressed his views over the BCCI not allowing its players to participate in the overseas T20 leagues. Read MoreBellBottom box office day 3: Akshay Kumar-starrer sees uptick in numbers, expected to close weekend with ₹12 crAfter failing to cross the ₹3 crore mark in its first two days of release, the Akshay Kumar-starrer BellBottom is expected to have made around ₹3.25 crore on Saturday. Read MoreNora Fatehi in a sexy yellow figure-hugging dress poses for sun-kissed shoot in TorontoDancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi has been creating waves with her performance in the latest release Bhuj: The Pride of India, also starring Ajay Devgn, Sanjay Dutt and Sonakshi Sinha. Apart from her movie roles and impeccable dance moves, the star is also known for her head-turning fashion choices. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-flight-with-87-indians-on-board-from-kabul-lands-in-delhi-101629600799587.html
22-08-2021||India||Bihar: Floods leave people displaced in Hajipur, damage crops in Saran||People in flood-affected areas of Bihar's Hajipur and Saran are facing a lot of problems as their houses and agricultural fields have been inundated by the floodwaters.While in Hajipur people have moved to higher altitudes along with their cattle and family making it difficult for them to survive, floodwaters have damaged crops in Saran leaving farmers in huge losses and debts.Indu Devi, a local in Hajipur, told ANI, "We had to leave our houses because floods inundated them. We came up with family, children and cattle but survival is tough. Sometimes we get food, many times we have to go hungry.""Floods in the Ganga river have inundated our homes till waist level. So we came at a high altitude along with family and cattle. The government provides us with food between 12 to 2 pm. We are facing difficulty in feeding our cattle," said another flood victim.Another local said, "It is very difficult for us to survive. We have been staying here for the past 9-10 days because floods have inundated our homes. We get meals very late in the day and hardly get any fodder for the cattle.""Since the time floods inundated our homes, we have received no help from the government. Earlier the level of floodwater was much higher. Now it has gone a bit down. But the situation is very bad. We are struggling to perform our daily chores. Our daily lives have been affected very badly," added another flood victim.Satish Kumar Singh, a local of Saran said, "There was a lot of water initially. Schools, hospitals, temples were completed immersed in floodwater. Now the water levels have gone down. But the situation is bad. All the crops we had sown have been destroyed by the floodwater. We have received no help from the government yet. We were told that the government will sent aid to the flood victims but have received no help as yet.""These floods have left the farmers devastated. Whatever crops they had sown after taking loans, have been destroyed. Farmers are facing huge losses due to crop damage," said Kundan Patel," another Saran local."We have been facing a lot of difficulties due to floods. All my crops have been damaged. Survival has become very difficult. We are facing problems in feeding family and cattle," added Ravinder Mahato, a flood victim in Saran.On August 18, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar took stock of flood-affected regions of Khagaria and Bhagalpur, in an aerial survey.Nearly 26 districts in Bihar have been affected by floods due to incessant rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-floods-leave-people-displaced-in-hajipur-damage-crops-in-saran-101629599366932.html
22-08-2021||India||Air India flight with 87 Indians from Kabul lands in Delhi, another enroute||A special Air India flight ferrying 87 Indians from Afghanistan’s Kabul landed in Delhi early on Sunday. The Indians were taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on board a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday. A C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) also took off from Kabul with another 168 people, including 107 Indians and some 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, onboard earlier on Sunday. Afghanistan lawmaker Narender Singh Khalsa is among the 23 Afghan Sikhs on the C-17 aircraft. It will land at the Hindon IAF base in Ghaziabad later in the day."Evacuation continues! IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers onboard, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul," the spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, tweeted on Sunday.Evacuation continues!IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers onboard, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul. pic.twitter.com/ysACxClVdXBagchi posted earlier that two Nepalese citizens are also coming to India on board the Air India flight from Kabul, which are overtaken by the Taliban last Sunday. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated. Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," he tweeted at around 1:20am.Also watch | Indians on evacuation flight shout 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' | AfghanistanThe MEA spokesperson said the passengers were earlier evacuated from Kabul by an IAF aircraft.Also read | Afghanistan vulnerable to hunger, illness after Taliban takeover: WHOSeparately, the Indian embassy in Qatar said 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, are being sent to India. "1st batch of 135 Indians who were evacuated 4m Kabul to Doha over past days being repatriated tonight to India," the embassy said in a post-midnight tweet.It said embassy officials provided consular and logistics assistance to ensure the safe return of the Indians. "We thank Qatar authorities n all concerned for making this possible," it added.Also read | Taliban don’t allow 70 Afghan Sikhs, Hindus to board flight to IndiaPeople familiar with the matter have said that Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan. The Indians were flown into Doha by US and Nato aircraft.India has already evacuated 200 of its citizens, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul, in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. The first evacuation flight brought back more than 40 people, mostly staff at the Indian embassy, on Monday. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people, including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel, journalists and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday.Also read | Taliban release propaganda video showing fighters in US army uniform, gearThe Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.After the initial evacuations, the MEA has said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. It has also said that the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested Indians as well as their employers to urgently share details with the special Afghanistan cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-with-87-indians-from-kabul-lands-in-delhi-another-enroute-101629598713347.html
22-08-2021||India||Hundreds of Indian evacuees from Kabul expected to return home today||Hundreds of Indian nationals are expected to return home on Sunday in Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft as part of the government’s efforts to bring back people from Afghanistan as the situation has deteriorated at Kabul airport. The Indian Embassy in Qatar said on Sunday that the first batch of 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha over the past few days, are being repatriated to India."1st batch of 135 Indians who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha over past days being repatriated tonight to India. Embassy officials provided consular and logistics assistance to ensure their safe return. We thank Qatar authorities and all concerned for making this possible," the embassy tweeted.Wishing everyone safe journey home. pic.twitter.com/QNtwLkeLzWMore than 80 Indians, who were flown in an IAF transport aircraft from Kabul to Tajikistan’s Dushanbe on Saturday, will also reach New Delhi on Sunday in a special Air India flight. More than 100 Indians are also expected to reach home by Sunday. They were set to be flown out of Kabul to New Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift aircraft.The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, tweeted that an Air India flight carrying 87 Indians has departed from Tajikistan for New Delhi. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated. Assisted and supported by our Embassy in Dushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," Bagchi posted.Also read | Taliban don’t allow 70 Afghan Sikhs, Hindus to board flight to IndiaNews agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the matter that India has been allowed to operate two flights every day from Kabul to evacuate its nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The permission has been granted by the American and Nato forces, which are controlling operations of the Hamid Karzai International Airport after the Afghan capital was taken over by the Taliban on August 15.Also read | Taliban release propaganda video showing fighters in US army uniform, gearThe government has evacuated hundreds of Indian nationals from Kabul, which is now under the Taliban's control. India is airlifting its citizens through Dushanbe in Tajikistan and Qatar. The IAF has already evacuated around 180 passengers, including India’s ambassador to Afghanistan and all other diplomats.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting and instructed all officials to undertake all necessary measures to ensure the safe evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan.Also read | Taliban block govt staff from returning to workTaliban swept across the country and entered Kabul last Sunday and ever since hundreds of thousands of Afghans have been crowding the Kabul airport to escape. Several countries, including the United States, are also evacuating thousands of their diplomats and civilians as well as numerous Afghans.Meanwhile, the Taliban's co-founder, Mullah Baradar, arrived in the Afghan capital for talks with other leaders as the hardline Islamist group is trying to hammer out a new government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-indian-evacuees-from-kabul-expected-to-return-home-today-101629594235269.html
22-08-2021||India||Gujarat suspends vaccination drive today so healthcare workers can celebrate Raksha Bandhan||Gujarat government has suspended the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state on Sunday, on account of Raksha Bandhan, reported news agency PTI. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who also heads the ministry of health, said in a statement that the decision was taken so that the women healthcare workers involved in the vaccination drive could stay home and celebrate the festival with their families.Gujarat inoculated as many as 397,524 people against Covid-19 on Saturday and the state has administered 42,666,652 doses of the vaccine to date, news agency PTI stated citing a government press release. On Saturday, the state reported 15 new cases of Covid-19 and one fatality, taking the total number of cases to 825,287 and the death toll to 10,079, according to a bulletin released by the health department.Gujarat is all slated to get a new Covaxin manufacturing facility in Ankleshwar, the Union minister of health and family welfare, Mansukh Mandaviya, announced on August 10. The Ankleshwar-based manufacturing facility is expected to supply another 200 million doses to the vaccine’s overall production, Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer, said in a press release.Mandaviya, who is on a ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ of Gujarat, told reporters in Botad that Covid-19 vaccines will soon be administered to children above the ages of 12. He talked to reporters about the emergency use approval accorded to Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), and said it is the world's first plasmid DNA vaccine for Covid-19 which will be administered in three shots and "those above the age of 12 can take the vaccine shot".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-suspends-vaccination-drive-today-so-healthcare-workers-can-celebrate-raksha-bandhan-101629592566105.html
22-08-2021||NA||Highlights: Punjab CM asks Sidhu's advisors to stick to their roles||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:ITBP personnel assisted Ladakh Police in rescuing 17 people missing after a cloudburstITBP personnel from North West Frontier, Leh (special response & rescue team) today assisted Ladakh Police in rescuing 17 villagers who were missing following a cloudburst in Rumbok village area in Ladakh pic.twitter.com/0DOet9xSEtDon't speak on issues you don't know: Captain's message to Sidhu's advisorsPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has taken strong exception to the recent comments made by two of Navjot Sidhu's advisors on Kashmir and Pakistan. Slamming the statements as "totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress", Singh has urged them to stick to only giving advice to the Punjab Congress president and not speak on matters on which they "clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments", a press release issued by the Captain's office said. Read more.Punjab CM approves renaming 10 govt schools after 11 players of Olympics Bronze medallist Indian men's hockey teamPunjab School Education & PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla said that the CM has given the approval to rename 10 government schools after 11 players of the state, who were part of the Tokyo Olympics bronze medalist Indian men's hockey team: State GovernmentWill convene G7 leaders on Tuesday to discuss Afghanistan situation: UK PM#BREAKING G7 leaders to discuss Afghanistan crisis on Tuesday: UK PM Johnson pic.twitter.com/jJr2D8d4a7Goa extends Covid-19-induced curfew till August 30Goa Government extends COVID-induced curfew till August 30 pic.twitter.com/hRbEEjrNoM20-yr-old Samaniya Bhat from Baramulla has become the youngest female RJ of north KashmirJ&K: 20-yr-old Samaniya Bhat from Baramulla has become the youngest female RJ of North Kashmir "I've completed graduation in Mass Communication from Govt Degree College, Baramulla. I applied for an RJ job among 250 others. I along with 3 male participants got selected,"she says pic.twitter.com/JApVHPq3c1Henri downgraded to tropical storm as it nears US east coast#BREAKING Henri downgraded to tropical storm as it nears US east coast pic.twitter.com/NDQMQXck2hDelhi reports 24 new Covid-19 cases and zero fatalitiesDelhi reports 24 fresh COVID cases and 56 recoveries todayActive cases: 398Total recoveries: 14,11,840Death toll: 25,079 (no new deaths) pic.twitter.com/NXqqLIkNTvSwedish PM Stefan Lofven says to step down in November#BREAKING Swedish PM Stefan Lofven says to step down in November pic.twitter.com/uH62A0XDqnHaryana extends Covid-19-induced restrictions till September 6Haryana Government extends COVID-induced restrictions till September 6 pic.twitter.com/4aSLUvjQlhFinance ministry calls Infosys MD to explain delay in resolving e-filing portal glitches: Income Tax IndiaMinistry of Finance summons Salil Parekh, MD & CEO Infosys on 23rd August to explain to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as to why even after 2.5 months since launch of new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved: Income Tax India pic.twitter.com/024YvYa4o6Rakhis with face of WB CM Mamata Banerjee on them tied to Afghan nationals in stateRakhis with the face of West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and "Dilli Chalo" written on it, tied to the Afghan nationals and others living in Dum Dum area of North 24 Parganas district.#Rakshbandhan pic.twitter.com/7eu4Zdy0iiINS Shivalik and Kadmatt arrive at GuamINS Shivalik and Kadmatt arrived at Guam on Sunday. These two ships are scheduled to participate in the annual Exercise MALABAR-21 between the navies of Australia, India, Japan, and USA, reported ANI.DMK announces MM Abdullah's candidacy for Rajya Sabha seatTamil Nadu CM and DMK chief MK Stalin announces the name of MM Abdullah as the party's candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat.Afghan special cell established by MEA received more than 2000 calls for 5 daysThe Afghan special cell established by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has so far received more than 2,000 calls for more than 5 days, answered around 6000 queries over WhatsApp, and replied to over 1,200 mails for 5 days, sources told news agency ANI on Sunday. La Ganesan appointed Governor of ManipurPresident Ram Nath Kovind appoints La Ganesan as the Governor of Manipur.PM Modi arrives in Lucknow, to be received by Yogi AdityanathPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Lucknow airport on Sunday. The Prime Minister will be visiting the residence of late Kalyan Singh, former chief minister, to pay his last respects. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was at the airport to receive him.IAF's C-17 aircraft with 168 people from Kabul lands at Hindon airbase IAF's C-17 aircraft carrying 168 passengers, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, landed at Hindon air base on Sunday morning. India reports 30,948 new Covid-19 cases, 403 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia reported 30,948 new Covid-19 cases and 403 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases in the country now stands at 32,424,234 and the death toll has exceeded the 4-lakh mark, according to the ministry of health's bulletin.PM Modi to pay his last respects to Kalyan Singh todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting Lucknow today to pay his last respects to former chief minister Kalyan Singh at his Mall Avenue residence. Singh breathed his last on Saturday night.Kalyan Singh's mortal remains to be taken to AligarhThe mortal remains of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who breathed his last on Saturday night, will be taken to Aligarh today so people can pay their respects. From there mortal remains will be taken to Atrauli, and will be cremated on August 23 at banks of river Ganga in Narora, Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, told news agency ANI.168 people on C-17 en route to Hindon airbase from KabulAnother 168 people, including 107 Indians + some 20 Afghan Sikhs, on C-17 that's taken off from Kabul & en route to Hindon airbasehttps://t.co/t4zl4DJvOnUS, Germany ask nationals in Afghanistan to not travel to Kabul airportThe U.S. and Germany advised their nationals in Afghanistan to avoid traveling to Kabul airport, citing security risks after the Taliban's takeover of the capital https://t.co/TBiytK86WJ pic.twitter.com/NaRApVcEDB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-22-2021-101629589210110.html
22-08-2021||India||Air India to operate Kochi-London direct flights thrice a week from today||Air India is set to operate direct flights from Kerala's Cochin International Airport to the United Kingdom’s capital of London thrice a week, starting from Sunday, August 22. This comes as a first for the airport as well as for the state, where the Kochi airport is now the only one to operate direct flights to London.Also Read | As UK relaxes curbs, 19 per cent increase in admission of Indian studentsThe UK moved India from its red list to the amber list of countries earlier this month, and soon after, Air India on August 18 launched direct flights from the Heathrow airport in London to the Kochi airport. Considering the positive response from the expat community, the Kochi airport has now announced that the London-Kochi-London air services are being extended to thrice a week -- on Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays.According to a statement issued by Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL), the three direct flights from London being hosted per week "is the highest number of flight services that have been scheduled in this sector in the history of CIAL."Also Read | Why India-UK flight tickets have become so costlyAir India is deploying a Dreamliner category of aircraft to operate the three direct Kochi-London flights, as per reports quoting a statement issued by CIAL managing director S Suhas. The flights are part of an ongoing effort by the Kochi airport and the Kerala government to establish frequent air connectivity to Europe, Suhas said, adding that the airport will also be waiving off parking and landing fees to attract more European carriers.The Kochi-London direct flight from Air India will take 10 hours, according to the statement issued by the Kochi airport. On Wednesdays and Fridays, the arrival and departure operations are scheduled at 3:45 and 1:20pm. The move is expected to further extend a hand to the thousands of stranded expats in the UK, who can now return to the country with a bit more ease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-operate-kochi-london-direct-flights-thrice-a-week-from-today-101629589183284.html
22-08-2021||India||Teen raped in Bihar, 2 booked||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two people in Bihar’s East Champaran district, police said on Saturday.According to the first information report lodged by the survivor’s mother, the incident took place on August 17. “Around 11 pm, one of the classmates of the survivor called her outside the house, where two men were waiting,” said the complaint.The two men allegedly dragged the girl to an orchard nearby and raped her, it added. The complainant said that a search operation was launched at 11.30pm when the girl did not return.She was found in the orchard. Sub Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Chakia Sanjay Kumar said that it is matter of investigation and refused to divulge more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-raped-in-bihar-2-booked-101629573057803.html
22-08-2021||India||Union minister launches 7 indigenous Manipuri food items as part of Make in India||Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries and Jal Shakti Prahlad Singh Patel on Saturday launched seven indigenous food products of Manipur in Imphal, as part of the Make in India initiative.The indigenous food products are Black Rice Laddoo, Black Rice Fruit & Nut Cookies, Hot and Spicy Bhujia, Kabok (puffed rice) Mixture, Manipuri Casava Burfi, Bamboo Shoot Muraba and Fig Laddoo.These products were developed under the Incubation Lab project of Manipur Food Industries Corporation Limited (MFICL) in collaboration with TQS Global, Ghaziabad with a budget provision of ₹10 lakh.Prahlad Singh said that food processing is a focus area of the Prime Minister, and added that materials available in the North East are mostly from the hills and forests and products from these materials are in high demand in the country and abroad.However, these products still need certain requirements, like inscription of scientific and detailed information on the products, branding and marketing and transportation, he said.Manipur Textiles, Commerce and Industries minister Th Biswajit Singh, who is also chairman of the MFICL, attended the launch and said that unemployment is a big challenge in the state. He also expressed the need to provide jobs to youngsters.The labelling and packaging of the products are being done at Imphal, Delhi and Mumbai to achieve fine branding and attractive display, an official said. For marketing and distribution, MFICIL is taking steps to market locally and outside the state, with outlets at metropolitan cities.Last week, for the first time, one metric tonne of organic Manipuri black rice, popularly known as Chakhao, was exported to Europe from Imphal. The well-known aromatic rice got a Geographical Indication tag in May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-launches-7-indigenous-manipuri-food-items-as-part-of-make-in-india-101629572231544.html
22-08-2021||India||CBI likely to divide post-poll violence probe into four zones in Bengal||The Central Bureau of Investigation, which has been mandated by the Calcutta high court to probe the allegations of post-poll murder and rape in West Bengal, is likely to divide the state into four zones based on some of the districts from where the maximum complaints were received. The top five districts, from where the seven-member enquiry committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission received the maximum number of complaints were Cooch Behar, Birbhum, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and East Burdwan and South 24 Parganas. From Cooch Behar and Birbhum, more than 300 complaints each were received. “Four special teams, each headed by a joint director, are likely to take up the investigations in each zone. For each allegation of rape and murder a separate FIR would be lodged instead of clubbing them into one complaint,” said an official, adding that the teams are likely to arrive next week. The four zones are north, south, west and Kolkata. The NHRC team had received at least 172 complaints from Kolkata. While Birbhum and East Burdwan, located in the western part of the state, received 314 and 113 complaints respectively, Cooch Behar in north Bengal topped the list with 322 complaints. North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas in south Bengal received 196 and 203 complaints. The Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot under the court’s supervision. While speculations are rife that the West Bengal government may appeal before the Supreme Court against the high court order of a CBI probe, two caveats have already been filed in the Supreme Court by advocate Anindya Sundar Das and advocate Priyanka Tibrewal. Biswajit Sarkar, brother of Abhijit Sarkar, the only BJP worker allegedly murdered by TMC workers in Kolkata on May 2, the same day on which the results were declared, said: “The attackers had used wires to drag my brother. They had assaulted me too but my brother was their primary target. Hopefully I will get justice now.” In South 24 Parganas, Sankar Adhikari, still recounts the horror of how his brother Haran Adhikari was battered to death near their house on the same night. “The TMC had been threatening my brother for many days as he was a BJP supporter and used to chant Jai Shri Ram. He was attacked after the results were declared. He was battered to death and his face was almost unrecognizable. Hopefully all these incidents will be probed, and the culprits would be hanged,” said Sankar, a resident of Sonarpur. The BJP has already released the names of 42 party workers, including Sarkar and Adhikari, who were allegedly killed in post poll violence. The TMC while brushing aside such allegations has maintained that there has hardly been any post poll incident after May 5, when Mamata Banerjee took charge.“We have been saying right from the beginning that there has been massive post-poll violence. The NHRC report also said this. Now the HC has said the same thing. The state has been denying this from the very beginning,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. The NHRC had told the high court that it had received around 1979 complaints covering around 15,000 victims. In its report the committee also stated that at least 1934 complaints were lodged with various police stations between May 2 and June 20 out of which 29 related to murder and 12 were related attempt to rape and sexual assault. At Nanoor in Birbhum where allegations of a gang rape had surfaced after a section of some BJP leaders posted pictures of a victim, the police had said that it was fake news and no such incident had taken place. “There is absolute peace in the district. There has been no violence. The BJP is bringing false allegations. Let the CBI come and investigate,” said Anubrata Mondol, TMC’s Birbhum district president. But it is not that only the BJP has allegedly come under attack. A day after taking charge as the chief minister Mamata Banerjee had claimed that at least 16 people were killed from both the BJP and the TMC. At least three TMC workers – Shahjahan Shah, Srinaiban Ghosh and Bibhas Bag – were killed on May 3 at Jamalpur in East Burdwan. “Bag was attacked with a sharp weapon by BJP workers when they found him alone on a desolate village road a day after the results were declared. He has a six-year-old daughter and a two-year-old son. I hope the CBI also takes into account all these and doesn’t only target a particular political party” While BJP has welcomed the HC decision and has been targeting the TMC over the NHRC committee report, senior TMC leaders have been claiming that the NHRC committee report was politically motivated. But while the CBI would be probing allegations of murder, rape and crime and against women, a court monitored SIT comprising three senior officers from the state police would look into the other crimes such as loot and arson. “I am lucky to be alive. But TMC men had beaten me up, ransacked my house, set the haystack on fire and damaged all the crops. I hope these are also looked into and I get justice,” said Bidyut Roy, a resident of Jalangi in Murshidabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-likely-to-divide-post-poll-violence-probe-into-four-zones-in-bengal-101629571270924.html
22-08-2021||India||2 labs which held fake tests during Kumbh still on ICMR approved list||Two laboratories that allegedly made fake entries for Covid-19 tests during the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district in April continue to be on the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) list of approved labs released on Thursday.Allegations of fake testing at the Kumbh surfaced in late April after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Three firms – Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs, Hisar-based Nalwa Labs and Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services – were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act last week. Days later, all three firms approached the high court separately to quash the FIR and denied the charges.At present, three separate probes are looking into the allegations — one by the police, one by the district administration and one by the mela administration.Max Corporate Services, which was recruited by the Uttarakhand government and outsourced the testing to the accused labs, is not a laboratory and was never recognised by the ICMR.No laboratory can conduct Covid-19 testing without being recognised by the ICMR, which provides the login ID and password to all approved labs for the national portal, where all test results have to be mandatorily uploaded. The data is then used by local health teams to carry out control measures such as creating containment zones, tracing and testing contacts, and isolating those who test positive.“ICMR is not a regulatory authority and does not have much control over the private laboratories. ICMR just gives approval to labs for conducting Covid-19 tests based on the kind of facilities that they have and ensures that they upload the test reports to the portal. Other than that, ICMR has no control over how the labs operate,” said a senior official from the country’s apex medical research body, which has assumed the role of an additional regulator for approving Covid-19 test kits and laboratories.The ICMR’s approval to laboratories for conducting Covid-19 tests is conditional to them having a certification from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), which is a constituent board of the Quality Council of India.According to people aware of the developments, the NABL, too, has not yet acted against the accused laboratories. The certification of Dr Lalchandani lab is valid till July 2022, whereas that of Nalwa Labs was valid till August 2020 and was extended for another year till the end of the month.HT didn’t receive a comment from NABL CEO Venkateswaran despite several attempts.Director and CEO of Dr Lalchandani laboratory, Mohit Lalchandani, said 12,000 of the 100,000 tests conducted by his lab during the Kumbh are being verified.“We had signed an MoU with Max Corporate Services and accordingly deployed people at testing sites between April 1 and 28. We had no direct contract with the Uttarakhand government. We deployed sufficient manpower there. We have submitted bills for the kits, the tents, and the details of the health department and police personnel posted at the testing sites to all investigating agencies,” he said.So far, the laboratory has received no payments from Max Corporate Services for the tests conducted, he added.Director of Nalwa labs, Dr JPS Nalwa, said, “We did get into an MoU with the Max Corporate Services, but they have not communicated with us since... We never sent anyone to conduct tests and got the first hint of a problem when a person contacted us saying that he received a message about the test but wasn’t even in Haridwar. My son, Navtej, immediately wrote a letter cancelling the MoU.”Asked how the lab’s ID appeared on the report, he said that his data entry operators were not tech-savvy and did not know how this could have happened. “The government officials generated the SRF ID locally from Haridwar,” he said.An SRF ID refers to a specimen referral ID generated by the sample collector, who eventually selects a laboratory from the ICMR’s list. However, according to at least two pathology lab owners who conduct RT-PCR tests in Delhi, once a lab is selected, the SRF ID will reflect on its dashboard. A test report, carrying a laboratory’s ID, cannot be generated without entering their login and password, one of the pathology lab owners added.Cabinet minister and Uttarakhand government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said, “A probe is already on in the matter by a special investigation team (SIT) of Haridwar district police. Strict action would be taken against anyone found involved of the irregularities.”The main accused in the case and owners of Max Corporate Services agency, are on the run. Their counsel could not be connected for a comment despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-labs-which-held-fake-tests-during-kumbh-still-on-icmr-approved-list-101629570731452.html
22-08-2021||India||Zydus to roll out its vaccine by end of September||Zydus Cadila, the Ahmedabad-based company whose coronavirus vaccine was granted emergency approval for use in India on Friday, has said that it expects to begin the supply of the shots by mid-to-end September and is aiming to increase production capacity by October.The Zydus shot is the world’s first DNA-based vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to be approved for use within a population. The three-shot vaccine is also the first to be cleared for use in children aged 12 and above and is the sixth addition to India’s arsenal in the fight against the pandemic.The company plans to scale up production to 10 million doses a month by October after it presses a new manufacturing plant into action, said managing director Dr Sharvil Patel. They did not elaborate on the location or details about the new plant.The current production capacity at their existing Ahmedabad plant wasn’t immediately known, but officials said they were readying a stockpile of three to five million doses in the next few days.“We were producing vaccines at a very small scale; now our new plant has been commissioned. We expect for the vaccine supply to start from mid-September or end-September. We expect to reach the target of 1 crore doses in October,” said Dr Patel at a digital press briefing on Saturday.The latest timeline given by the company means the vaccine maker will miss the deadline of supplying 50 million doses by the end of the year. The central government told the Supreme Court in June that 1.35 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be made available in the country between August and December this year. This included 50 million doses of Zydus’s ZyCoV-D shot, and 300 million doses of BiologicalE’s jab that is still under trial.Patel said on Saturday that there will be a delay of 45 days and that the firm will reach the 50-million target by January. He added that the delivery delay is because of a delay in commissioning the company’s new plant as the second wave of Covid-19 infections prevented the travel of experts from other countries. The managing director also said that two to three other manufacturers have expressed interest in producing the vaccine, but such a technology transfer can take another three to four months.Since the country’s drive began in January, daily vaccinations have been patchy, but are now on the rise.A record 8.8 million shots were administered on August 16, the highest one-day figure for the country so far. The seven-day average for daily shots is presently below the peak capacity reached in the past, but has been rising in recent days. About 6.1 million daily doses were given on average in the last seven days, against a crescendo of 6.3 million daily doses for the week ended June 26, data shows.The Union government has set a target of vaccinating India’s entire adult population by December 31. Till now, nearly half of India’s adult population has received one shot of the vaccine. Another half is still to go.Additionally, Patel said there is no clarity on the price of the Zydus shot to be made available but hinted that it may not be very different from the other jabs currently available. “We are yet to have a discussion with the government on procurement; our understanding is that just like the other vaccines a major proportion will go to the government programme. The pricing will depend on the number of doses purchased and the applicator used, however, there isn’t likely to be a huge difference in cost as compared to the other available vaccines,” said Dr Patel.The mainstays of India’s inoculation drive -- Covishield (Oxford-Astrazeneca) and Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) are provided to the government for ₹215 and ₹225, respectively. Private hospitals can charge people up to ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin.The approval by the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) to ZyCoV-D was given based on interim results of its Phase 3 trial data. The company says its vaccine has proven an efficacy of 66.6%, and is potent against the more transmissible and infectious Delta variant of the virus as the study was conducted during the second wave of the pandemic. “All the breakthrough infections investigated by us show that the infection was caused by the Delta variant,” said Patel.The company, however, will still take four to six months to publish its phase-3 data as the trial hasn’t been completed yet, Patel added.ZyCoV-D is now the sixth vaccine approved in India for emergency use after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Russian-made Sputnik V, and the American vaccines — Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).The vaccine is the only one approved for use in adolescents in India as its phase-3 trial included the age group. But around 145.4 million people between the ages of 12 and 18 in the country will be eligible to get the jab only after a final nod by the government’s expert committees on vaccination, a government official told HT earlier this week.There are two vaccine candidates which have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, both indigenous.(Covaxin trial data for children is yet to be released).Apart from the world’s first vaccine based on a plasmid DNA platform, the shot is administered needle-free using an intra-dermal jet. This painless administration, the company said, is an added benefit for children and those afraid of the needle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-to-roll-out-its-vaccine-by-end-of-september-101629569830014.html
22-08-2021||India||Row over Mehbooba Mufti’s comments on Afghan crisis||Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti drew flak on Saturday for asking the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and demanded the restoration of J&K’s special status.Referring to the Afghanistan crisis, the former CM said: “America, a superpower, had to pack their bags and flee. You (the Centre) still have the opportunity to start a dialogue process in J-K like (former PM) Vajpayee had and mend your mistake of snatching the J-K’s identity illegally and unconstitutionally and splitting of J-K, otherwise it will be too late.”The remarks triggered sharp reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party which accused her of indulging in “politics of hatred” after losing ground in the Union Territory and said anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed.“The PDP president has committed a great sin against the country. People of Jammu and Kashmir are patriots who love their nation and are keeping the national flag flying high. They are helping the police, Army and paramilitary forces in combating terrorism,” said BJP president Ravinder Raina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-mehbooba-mufti-s-comments-on-afghan-crisis-101629569535232.html
22-08-2021||India||Tripura Congress president quits post, later withdraws resignation||Tripura Congress chief Pijush Kanti Biswas on Saturday resigned from the party post citing “lack of support from the state unit” but withdrew the resignation later in the day after speaking to the party’s state incharge.Biswas’s resignation triggered speculation that he could join the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which has been trying to make inroads in the state. Earlier in the week, 48-year-old Sushmita Dev quit the Congress to join the Mamata Banerjee-led party.“Cooperation and unity are necessary to make Congress strong. Though I got support from the Congress high command, the expected cooperation was not in Tripura. Even a section of leaders from the party tried to spoil my efforts for the betterment of the party. If I failed to deliver proper results due to lack of cooperation, I did not want to be blamed and that is why I have resigned,” Biswas said earlier on Saturday.However, later in the day, he took back his resignation after holding talks with former Lok Sabha MP and Congress state incharge Ajoy Kumar, who Biswas said assured to resolve his concerns.“Tripura Congress incharge Ajoy Kumar assured to meet me and solve all the issues that I have mentioned earlier. I had resigned from the party president post and not from the Congress. If the party incharge solves all the issues, then I have no problem. Based on his assurances, I withdrew my resignation letter,” said Biswas.Biswas, a lawyer, helped a team of 23 members of the Indian Political Action Committee secure bail after they were booked for violating Covid-19 norms. The team was in Agartala as part of TMC’s poll preparations ahead of the 2023 elections.In an official statement, Kumar’s office said: “Tripura Congress president Pijush Kanti Biswas, after being assured by Tripura Congress prabhari Dr. Ajoy Kumar , has taken his resignation back. Dr. Ajoy Kumar talked to Pijush Kanti Biswas and assured to take all the issues into serious concern and solve them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-congress-president-quits-post-later-withdraws-resignation-101629568631509.html
22-08-2021||India||MSMEs can now access 9,000 factors to monetise their pending bills: Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the recently enacted factoring regulations have raised the number of factors from nine to 9,000 as micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) can now approach several non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to monetise their pending receivables. Referring to the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill that was passed in the monsoon session of Parliament, Sitharaman said the legislation aimed to benefit several MSMEs supplying goods and services to large companies and wait for months to get payments.She was speaking at the launch of the ‘Ubharte Sitaare’ Fund in Lucknow, an initiative of India Exim Bank and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) for export-oriented firms and start-ups. She said MSMEs have options to encash their pending bills through factoring – either with a discount or without any discount. Factoring is a business of acquisition of receivables of assignor by accepting assignment of such receivables or financing, whether by way of making loans or advances or in any other manner against the security interest over any receivables.‘Ubharte Sitaare’ programme includes a mix of structured support, both financial and advisory services through investments in equity, debt, and technical assistance to Indian companies. Sitaraman also released a study by India Exim Bank on “Indian Sports Goods Industry: Strategies for Tapping the Export Potential” that highlighted an untapped export potential of $227.4 million in the sports goods industry.Another study on “Exports From Uttar Pradesh: Trends, Opportunities And Policy Perspective” said while exports from UP have registered robust growth during the recent period, there remains an untapped merchandise export potential of nearly $12.2 billion.UP reported over 36% jump in exports to ₹1.21 lakh crore in 2020-21, compared to ₹88,967 crores in 2017-18 because of the state government’s policies such as One-District-One-Product (ODOP) and robustness of its small industries.Sitharaman said UP has the highest number of MSMEs, and the state government’s ODOP initiative will unlock their true potential for both domestic and export markets.She also hailed Adityanath for creating an investment-friendly atmosphere in Uttar Pradesh.“ I am very proud of the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath who understands the larger national interest, translates that into state’s policies and takes it at the execution level to the last mile.Speaking at the event, the MSMEs minister of UP Sidharth Nath Singh said the Yogi Adityanath government has taken several policy measures to boost MSMEs. As a result, in the last four-and-a-half years, the state has disbursed over ₹2.5 lakh crore loans to small entrepreneurs and generated 26 million additional employments.MSMEs received over ₹73,000 crores of loans last year alone, despite the Covid-19 pandemic, which is significantly higher than ₹28,000 crores disbursed in 2016-17, he said. He gave credit to chief minister Yogi Adityanath for rapid development in the state’s industrial activities. In new Uttar Pradesh, businesses can be started in 72 hours, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msmes-can-now-access-9-000-factors-to-monetise-their-pending-bills-sitaraman-101629568390566.html
22-08-2021||India||Freed of murder charge after 13 years, MP couple looks to pick up pieces||For 13 years, 61-year-old Raju Yadav and his 58-year-old wife Sahodra Bai lived with the taint of murdering a family member, in and out of jail, serving a term of life imprisonment. But when the couple walked out of Sagar central jail on August 19 after being acquitted by the Supreme Court, the regret was less for themselves and more for their three children.“When other kids were making childhood memories, my children were arranging for food to eat,” Sahodra told HT.At 10:30 pm on May 13, 2008, Moti Nagar police station in Sagar received a call that a man named Pappu was attacked in his home at Subedar Ward. Sahodra, the victim’s sister-in-law, rushed him to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. In the immediate aftermath, Sohadra and Raju filed a complaint against two persons.However, in the next few days, the two accused were turned into prime witnesses while Raju, Sohadra and Raju’s brother, Madhav, were arrested and jailed for Pappu’s death. The police argued that Raju and Pappu fought over ₹250 rupees, which the latter allegedly owed to the former. In a fit of rage, the couple stabbed Pappu.Booked under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, they were convicted by a sessions court in 2009. While Sohadra received bail in 2015, Raju continued in jail for the entire period. In October 2018, the couple was found guilty by the high court.For Raju, May 13 is a day that he can never forget. “I still remember that black day. My brother Pappu Yadav was attacked with knives and lathis by two persons and my wife Sahodra took him to the district hospital in an auto. When he died, we registered a complaint against them. But after three days, we were asked to come to the police station. We thought that they wanted to register our statement but we were shocked to see that the police had made us the accused,” he said.With the duo in jail, the couple’s three children -- aged 15, 12 and 7 years old -- were left to fend for themselves.“Who will return these 13 years of our lives? My children suffered a great deal. They spent many nights without food. Their enrollments at school were cancelled and for one year, they dropped out because they did not have the money to deposit the fee. They had to cope with the blot of having parents who were killers? Who will compensate for this?,” Sahodra said.To meet ends, the eldest daughter found herself a job in a mobile phone shop and the 12-year-old at a jewellery shop while the 7-year-old cooked and did the household chores.Sahodra said, “More than us in jail, my children bore the brunt. When they should have been creating childhood memories, my kids were making arrangements for food.”Prior to the incident, Raju would work as the caretaker of a horse in a stable in Sagar, earning between ₹5,000 to ₹6,000 per month. The family lived in a two-room rented house.“They were good in studies and we wanted to see them as officers but we didn’t know that something like this would change our lives,” Sahodra said.Sahodra’s eldest daughter, now 28, is currently pursuing MBA from a private college in Sagar and works for a private company. “I didn’t know how to talk to advocates, what the police were or what a case even was, but had to pick up all of this once my parents were sent to jail. We were vilified by people in our locality for being the children of murderers. Our house had broken doors, and every night, with no adults in the house, we slept afraid wondering if we would be attacked. When people saw my brothers, they taunted them saying they would kill each other too, but we learnt not to respond. I had faith in the judiciary,” the daughter said, wishing not to be named.In its judgement on August 18, the Supreme Court bench comprising justice Indira Banerjee and justice V Ramasubramanian said the police had worked on “extraneous considerations” and the investigation was designed to turn the informants into the accused. “We are clearly of the view that the investigation in this case was carried out by police not with the intention of unearthing the truth, but for burying the same fathom deep, for extraneous considerations and that it was designed to turn the informant and her family members as the accused and allow the real culprits named in the FIR to escape,” the judgement read.Dismissing the police claims in the case, the court said the case was “foisted” against the very informant and their family members “due to political pressure”.“It is unbelievable that the accused caused the death of Pappu due to the failure of the victim to return an amount of ₹250 due and payable to one of the main suspects. It is equally unbelievable that one of the persons who killed the victim, in the presence of witnesses, took the body of the victim to the hospital in an autorickshaw. The normal human behaviour in such circumstances will be either to flee the place of occurrence or to go to the police station to surrender, except in cases where they are intelligent and seasoned criminals. Neither did happen,” the judgment said.“In court, we argued that the conviction was based entirely upon surmises and that such a conviction is wholly unsustainable in law. A close scrutiny of the sequence of events that happened from the date of occurrence of the crime, namely showed that the investigation in this case, instead of proceeding in pursuit of truth, had proceeded towards burying the truth,” the couple’s counsel Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad said.On the couple’s acquittal, superintendent of police, Sagar, and retired IPS officer Hari Singh Yadav said, “It was not a high profile case so I don’t remember anything.”The current superintendent of police, Atul Singh, said, “We have not received any instruction from the court yet. If the court instructs us to probe the matter, we will act accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freed-of-murder-charge-after-13-years-mp-couple-looks-to-pick-up-pieces-101629567610348.html
22-08-2021||India||Madras HC to Centre: Use English for official purposes||The Madras high court on Thursday directed the Union government to strictly follow the provisions of the Official Languages Act mandating the use of English for official purposes of the Union and Parliament months after a Tamil Nadu lawmaker filed a petition seeking adherence to the law after a Union ministry responded to his letter in Hindi. Language is a sensitive issue in Tamil Nadu, where anti-Hindi agitations date back to the 1930s.“The Union government must reply in English if you are getting a representation in English,” said Justices N Kirubakaran and M Duraiswamy of the court’s Madurai bench in their order.Su Venkatesan, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Member of Parliament from Madurai, moved the court seeking the use of English in all communications between the Union and the Tamil Nadu government, its lawmakers and the people. This came after the Union home ministry responded in Hindi to his letter in English last year requesting the setting up of exam centres for the recruitments for paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.In protest, Venkatesan first sent another letter saying he does not belong to a Hindu-speaking state and does not know how to read, write and speak the language. He sought action against officials who sent him the reply in Hindi without an English translation, saying it violated the rights guaranteed under the Constitution as well as the Official Languages Act.Officials from the home ministry were not available for a comment.In 1938, protests first erupted against the alleged imposition of Hindi in now what is Tamil Nadu when then Madras Presidency premier C Rajagopalachari sought to make the language compulsory in schools. Protests erupted against Hindi again in 1965. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) rose to power first riding on this wave of protests in the 1967 assembly elections. No national political party has since emerged as an alternative to the regional parties.The language issue has gained more importance since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) returned to power at the Centre in 2014. The ruling DMK has accused the BJP, which is known for its emphasis on Hindi, of trying to impose Hindi and Sanskrit.The Centre informed the court the Union home ministry’s response in Hindi to Venkatesan was inadvertent and not intentional. The court said the Centre should use English along with Hindi citing Section 3 of the Official Languages Act, which says both Hindi and English should be used for the documents.“They (union government) said that they did it unintentionally, but I wanted them to know that they are violating the law,” Venkatesan said.Venkatesan said that he approached the court only after he and other Tamil Nadu MPs faced repeated incidents of ‘Hindi imperialism’. “We had been complaining to the ministries and the Lok Sabha speaker that we are receiving responses only in Hindi and us MPs from non-Hindi speaking states are clueless,” said Venkatesan. “Even while this case was in the court the education ministry sent a reply to me in Hindi on another representation I sent. We made all these arguments today. .”On the question of whether the MPs can send a representation in their regional languages such as Tamil and if the union government is legally bound to reply in the same language, Venkatesan said that the Act mentions that a reply can be given in regional languages to non-Hindi speaking states. “Morally they can give a response in the regional languages but if they can’t, then it has to be in English. Why should a reply be given in Hindi to a non-Hindi speaking state and that’s what the court has stressed on today.”DMK’s spokesperson A Saravanan said that the order stamps an authority on the usage of official languages. “Ever since the BJP came to power they have tried to impose Hindi, if not directly but indirectly. And we have been able to identify those attempts and swat them,” said Saravanan.Tamil Nadu’s BJP unit denied the accusation. “It’s an individual from any union ministry who replies and they would have just done it unawares. No one is scheming here thinking that by replying in Hindi they can thrust the language,” said state BJP secretary Karu Nagarajan. “We have made learning mother tongue compulsory in the National Education Policy and students can write NEET in Tamil and other regional languages. Our party leaders, the Prime Minister and vice-president have repeatedly stressed on the importance of mother tongue so why would we be against it?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-to-centre-use-english-for-official-purposes-101629418418207.html
22-08-2021||Today's||In Pakistan, the erasure of history||On August 17, a young man vandalised a statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore, the capital city of the Empire ruled by the 19th century Sikh emperor. The statue was gifted to Pakistan in 2019 by the London-based SK Foundation, headed by Sikh historian Bobby Singh Bansal, to promote Sikh heritage and tourism in Pakistan. Since its unveiling in June 2019, however, the statue has been vandalised thrice.Ranjit Singh has a complicated legacy. For certain Punjabi nationalists, he is a hero who built a fledgling empire and held back British advances in India. For those in the Seraiki region and the Pashtun belt, he was a tyrant who imposed violence upon ordinary people in his quest for territorial expansion. These themes have been fiercely debated among historians of Punjab and have invoked much passion in the field.Yet, it would be naïve to suggest that the recent attacks on Ranjit Singh’s statue were induced by the alleged injustices during his rule. If that was the case, one could also attack symbols glorifying Muslim rulers who were accused of committing atrocities, on many occasions against Muslim rebels themselves. In fact, for many of those supporting this vandalism on social media, it was enough that the maharaja was a Sikh ruler who clashed with Muslim armies. A similar backlash is witnessed each year on March 23, when activists gather at the site in Lahore where Bhagat Singh was hanged to demand that the government honour the martyr’s memory. Their requests have always been ignored and invariably lead to counter-mobilisation by religious zealots against recognising a Sikh freedom fighter. Bigotry has never had much space for historical nuances.Such incidents point to a larger crisis of identity in Pakistan. In a desperate attempt to find an ontological origin for the nation-State, the history taught in Pakistani schools almost exclusively focuses on Muslims in the subcontinent. Non-Muslims are either erased from the books or emerge periodically as villains conniving against Muslim rule. This erasure of history in favour of ideology creates an awkwardly woven narrative as a raison d’etre for Pakistan, a narrative that is premised upon repressing key facts from our shared past.Yet, we know repression does not eliminate facts but merely transforms our engagement with the past into a more traumatic experience. As repressed histories make themselves visible, they induce panic since they disrupt the fictions we are forced to tell ourselves. Ranjit Singh’s statue is one such reminder of a history we have long buried into the deep recesses of our unconscious. The appearance of such reminders of a forgotten past result is an endless purge of elements that undermine the “pure” identity we aim to establish, a process that only engenders more paranoia about ourselves. In recent years, there have even been debates on whether festivals such as Basant and Holi or more syncretic religious practices at shrines constitute “our” culture or need to be discarded. The constant construct of an “other” against which we measure our identity has only fuelled a politics of fear and suspicion since one can never formulate a fixed measure for one’s identity.This repression is not only directed at religious minorities but also aims to undermine the linguistic/ethnic diversity of Pakistan. Different ethnic groups have historically imagined conceptions of cultural and spatial belonging that do not conform to the insular narrative of the nation-State. Over the past 74 years, the State has viewed these disparate histories as a challenge to its homogenising narrative of a Muslim past, suppressing challenges by ethno-nationalist groups. The violence exercised against marginalised nationalities stems from this desire to discipline their memories in order to sustain a myopic and punishing form of nationalism.There are, however, some positive signs. Punjab’s provincial government immediately ordered the arrest of the individual responsible for vandalising the statue in Lahore. A few weeks ago, Prime Minister Imran Khan forcefully intervened to condemn an attack on a mandir at Rahim Yar Khan, and ordered its reconstruction. Moreover, many young people voice their disgust on such incidents that undermine the rights of minorities in Pakistan.The struggle over identity is at the heart of Pakistani society today. Either we will accept the pluralism of our past to develop a coherent narrative that acknowledges the diverse cultures that shape our present. Or we will repress history (and historians) that diverges from the official narrative in favour of an uncomplicated and insular version of history. The manner in which we are able to grapple with our past will determine how we manage to imagine a future for our country and for our region.Ammar Ali jan is a historian of colonial India, based in Lahore. He is a member of the Haqooq-e-Khalq Movement and a cabinet member of the Progressive International The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-pakistan-the-erasure-of-history-101629642678889.html
22-08-2021||Today's||The misuse of India’s investigative agencies||The dead cannot cry out for justice. It is the duty of the living to do so for them.This proverb has been on my mind, triggered by the court’s decision to exonerate a person involved in a high-profile case for want of evidence. Does this mean that the police, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and other investigating agencies did not properly discharge their duties? Were they “managed”? Did they act at the behest of someone, perhaps as tools of political revenge?I am speaking of Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Shashi Tharoor. On January 17, 2014, his wife, Sunanda Pushkar, was found dead in a five-star hotel room in Delhi. A case of murder was registered against unknown persons on January 1, 2015, after a preliminary investigation by the police. After further investigation, a case was registered against Tharoor. He was accused of abetment to suicide. Given Tharoor’s public profile, the case came under the public scanner and he was vilified by many. He remained steadfast.One can only imagine what kind of mental torture he must have endured during this period. However, after examining 97 witnesses, Delhi special judge, Geetanjali Goel, found that none of the charges against him had any basis, and acquitted him. Did the police file a charge-sheet in the hope that the court would find evidence of guilt during the examination of witnesses? The recent verdict exonerating him raises questions about the working of the Delhi police and investigative agencies in India.Let us look at the 2G case. At that time, it seemed as if the leaders of the Congress and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) had crossed all the limits of corruption. The then Union minister, D Raja, and MP, P Kanimozhi, were put behind bars for months. Kanimozhi is the daughter of the late chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M Karunanidhi. The issue had an impact on the Lok Sabha and assembly elections. The DMK lost power and the Congress was defeated in an unprecedented manner. And then, a special CBI court acquitted all the accused. Who will compensate for the humiliation that they had to endure during this time?The Bofors case was a similar story. Rajiv Gandhi was in power at that time with a majority. He was also the youngest prime minister at that time and India’s youth had high expectations of him. In 1989, he was defeated in an election because of the Bofors case. Since then, the Bofors case has gone out of the public eye, but what about those who had hoped for a new dawn with Rajiv Gandhi?I say, with regret, that during the long years since Independence, successive governments have misused the country’s investigative agencies. That is why the Madras High Court last week sternly asked CBI to get released itself from the cage. The moniker of a caged parrot was given to India’s investigative agency by the Supreme Court itself.In my 40-year career, when it comes to compliance with the law, I think of two people. One was a rickshaw puller, Jumman Khan, who was to be sentenced to death in Agra jail for murdering a teenage girl . A few days before the execution, a reporter met him. Bereft of all hope, he kept saying, “Babuji, I did not kill the girl”. There is an old saying that a dying man never lies.Similarly, in the 1980s, a man imprisoned for a long time without being proved to have committed any crime, was released, thanks to media reports. The man, Deepchand, was arrested by the police during the British raj on suspicion of disturbing the peace. He could have got bail, but he did not have the means to do so. No one in his family knew that he was sent to Naini jail from Kanpur. Decades passed and he remained in jail. The court and officials took cognisance of the matter only after news about this was published in a newspaper. By then, it was too late. Deepchand no longer remembered his home address or had any memory of his family. The prison was his only refuge. Even after his release, he was found wandering around the prison in a deranged state. He later died, banging his head against the walls of the room where he was incarcerated.What do the stories of Deepchand and the rickshaw puller tell us? The inhuman rules created during the British era remain. Those in power can use State agencies to pursue their interest. But now is the time for change. Citizens of a sovereign and democratic country have a fundamental right to live a life without discrimination. When will that happen? I await that day.Shashi Shekhar is the editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are persona||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-misuse-of-india-s-investigative-agencies-101629642677449.html
22-08-2021||Today's||New Delhi must use its clout in the UNSC to put pressure on the Taliban||Developments in Afghanistan are of critical importance to India from a national security perspective. This is not only on account of geography, but also witnessed in the recent history of dastardly terrorist attacks targeting India when the Taliban was in control of Afghanistan. Matters are now complicated by possible Chinese domination of Afghanistan with geo-strategic implications for India.India must, therefore, remain vigilant, irrespective of the signals emanating from the Taliban seeking to showcase its changed spots. There is, however, unease about the lack of options available to India. This is not the case.Having taken over Afghanistan, the key quest for the Taliban is legitimacy and recognition. This is also important to its handlers, Pakistan, and its patron, China. Interestingly, the United States (US), which has been in the tent with the Taliban in Doha, would also like to see movement on this front, under some conditions, as it provides a fig-leaf to cover its disorderly pull-out.For India, herein lies a key opportunity to use its leverage to engage with the major stakeholders around the Taliban, other than those who are, by design, inimical to us. While this certainly includes the US, with which we are in close consultations, our ambit must encompass Russia, Iran, the Gulf, and central Asian countries. India has often spoken of multi-alignment — Afghanistan is the best case in point to practise it.With regard to the Taliban, while diplomatic recognition would have to take time, given the terrorism-laden history that can’t be washed away, engaging it has to be part of the equation given the ground realities. Indeed, in international affairs, one must deal with those governing other countries, particularly in the neighbourhood, even if you are not comfortable with their hue. And, here, let us not forget our leverage in economics, with India accounting for nearly half of Afghanistan’s legitimate exports.Afghanistan has been on the UN Security Council (UNSC) agenda since 1996 after the Taliban overthrew the Soviets. In 1988, it adopted a seminal resolution, UNSCR 1267, sanctioning individuals and entities connected with the Taliban and al-Qaeda. In 2011, UNSCR 1267 was replaced by UNSCR 1988 and 1989, separating the targeting of the Taliban and al-Qaeda. The latter was, by then, of concern to the West; the Taliban was, perhaps, no longer viewed as an enemy with even European human rights groups pushing for blanket delisting of the Taliban. Such blanket delisting was not agreed upon, and the case-by-case provisions of 1267 retained, on the insistence of India, which was on the UNSC.Coincidentally, India is presently on the UNSC and will remain so till the end of 2022. It also chairs the committee that oversees implementation of UNSCR 1988 through 2021 and holds the presidency of the UNSC this month. The first serious discussion on Afghanistan was held in the UNSC on August 6 under India’s presidency of the UNSC, followed by another meeting on August 16, after which a statement was issued.External affairs minister S Jaishankar conveyed India’s concerns and the need for the UN to remain involved with and in Afghanistan to the UN chief. A similar message has also been passed on to the foreign minister of Estonia, the UNSC member-country that is the penholder (ie the country in-charge for drafting resolutions) on Afghanistan.The UN is an indispensable platform for keeping Afghanistan and its government under the global gaze, and India must use its membership of the UNSC and chair of the 1988 committee to ensure this happens. This is not only critical for peace, tranquillity, and globally accepted governance norms in Afghanistan, but also imperative to ensure that there is no threat to international peace and security and spread of terrorism emanating from the regime change in Afghanistan. Interestingly, the foreign service officer heading the UN vertical in the ministry of external affairs was a key member on India’s UNSC team a decade ago and, till recently, India’s ambassador to Afghanistan.Manjeev Singh Puri is a retired diplomat who served as India’s deputy permanent representative to the United Nations The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/new-delhi-must-use-its-clout-in-the-unsc-to-put-pressure-on-the-taliban-101629642558124.html
22-08-2021||Today's||Empires slay, publics pay: The global refugee crisis unfolding in Afghanistan||If Americans falling off the Twin Towers in New York City on September 11, 2001 is the iconic image that inaugurated the 21st Century, Afghans falling off a US evacuation plane on August 15, 2021 serve as the saddest iconic bookend to a twenty-year war. Violence begat violence, a war fought on grounds of religious fanaticism led to a war fought on the pretext of wiping global terrorism from the face of the planet.Twenty years, 83 billion US dollars, hundreds of thousands of dead Afghan civilians and allied soldiers later, we stand where the twenty-first century began: a global refugee crisis in the making.We are living once again in the age of refugees. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) currently estimates a total of 82.4 million forcibly displaced people around the world, including internally displaced persons, stateless individuals, and refugees. Afghanistan is the third largest source-nation for refugees, with Syria and Venezuela leading the list. Most of the refugees from Afghanistan do not end up in Europe or the United States. They are absorbed by neighboring countries such as Pakistan, Iran, and India. Many of them make their way to Turkey, which leads the list of host countries. Germany, which during the Nazi regime turned its Jewish citizens into refugees, became the top European nation in 2015-16 to accept over one million Muslim refugees from Syria and Afghanistan in 2015.Millions of Afghans have fled over the last fifty years because of continued military interventions: the first by the former Soviet Union (1979-1989), an empire run under the guise of communism, and now the end of a two-decade long war in which former European colonial empires such as UK and France collaborated with the US, which emerged as a global superpower after the Second World War.2021 is not only the twentieth anniversary of the war on Afghanistan. It’s been 10 years since the beginning of a bloody armed conflict in Syria in 2011, and more than 6 million Syrians have fled to find refuge in Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey, and those who could afford, in Germany. The year also marks the 70th anniversary of the signing of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees (1951) in Geneva, a watershed event in global history which shifted the discourse of refugees from charity to rights, from the arbitrary goodwill of nations to a legal obligation of signatories, the US being one of them.India and Pakistan were not among the signatories of the Convention. Following the Partition they considered the movement of peoples across the borders of the newly carved nation-states an internal exchange of populations. Nonetheless, the word refugee, or Sharnarthi, Panahgeer, or Muhajir is etched into the history and cultural memory of millions of South Asians. Given the blood-smudged birth-certificates of India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, the term carries a special resonance for all of us, whether we live on the subcontinent, or not. Which is why the unfolding humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan carries special significance for all South Asians.US evacuation from Afghanistan and the Taliban’s return to power have unleashed a new season of soundbite political punditry and rushed post-mortems of the so-called “Global War on Terror.” Discussions over the last week have revolved around the legitimacy and efficacy of a sudden withdrawal and the astounding alacrity with which the Taliban recaptured power by force. The question of refugees is now quickly emerging as a test-case for US and its allies’ international credibility, as well a hot-button topic for domestic politics.While the Biden-Harris administration is busy justifying its decision of sudden pullout without any contingency plan in place, it has made a gesture toward evacuating refugees from Kabul. It’s a different story altogether if in an ironic moment the Secretary of State Anthony Blinken desperately attempted to prevent the comparison of Afghanistan with Vietnam: “manifestly not Saigon.” That very reference takes us back to 1979, when the end of the war in Vietnam finally led to US’s evacuation of 130,000 refugees following the collapse of South Vietnam.The Republicans and conservative right wing are taking a tried and tested stance. The Trump election campaign was built on politics of hate and anti-immigrant sentiments, symbolized in the promise of a wall to hold off migrants from entering the United States. Describing migrants and refugees in violent vocabularies of alien hordes, rapists, and terrorists—unless of course they were White Europeans—was central to Trump’s agenda. Tucker Carlson of Fox news has restoked these sentiments, casting Afghan refugees as an enemy force: “so first we invade, then we are invaded.” The scapegoating of refugees—which haven’t even arrived yet, as one can see through chaotic scenes at the Kabul airport—has already begun and will continue to be the basis of another “culture war” in the US until the next elections.Such fear mongering, presenting refugees as a threat to majoritarian national culture and security resonates across the Atlantic Ocean. Germany’s far-right political party Alternative für Deutschland (AfD) has declared it will not allow the “repetition of 2015,” referring to the arrival of Syrian refugees. The French President Emmanuel Macron believes that Europe must “protect itself” from a wave of “irregular migrants.” UK’s Boris Johnson, a Brexiter whose slogan was “Take back control” (from migrants), has allowed the acceptance of 5,000 refugees in the first year, a drop in the ocean compared to the hundreds of thousands fearing for their lives, who helped these former colonial empires and their armies as translators, mediators, guides, cooks, custodial staff and much more.The UNHCR has issued a non-refoulement (non-return) advisory for Afghanistan. In addition, UN’s Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) on Afghanistan has issued a joint letter urging “Governments to keep borders open to receive Afghan refugees fleeing from violence and persecution and refrain from deportations.” It would be a mistake to think that such advisories and appeals just pertain to Europe and the US. Pakistan, which has traditionally hosted Afghan refugees has fenced itself off. Turkey is building a border wall. Iran, home to a very large Afghan community is accepting refugees, but Iranian Afghanis are protesting for fear of surreptitious entry of Taliban.With its geographical proximity to Afghanistan, India as an emerging superpower does have a major regional and global role to play. Along with a long history of peaceful relations with Afghanistan and acceptance of refugees, a thriving Afghan community in New Delhi and students in major national and regional universities, India also has the intellectual and diplomatic wherewithal to lead the world out of this mess. However, the ruling BJP’s anti-Muslim stance and the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (2019), which favors only Hindu and Sikh refugees will impact India’s political will.I am neither an international legal expert nor a political pundit. But given the utter loss of credibility of armies of political analysts and intelligence agencies around the world, the necessity of humanistic inquiry in the current global political text becomes extremely important. Lost in the din of so-called expert voices and the relentless rain of 280 characters on Twitter this week is the human cost of the war which goes well beyond the eighty-three billion US dollars spent over the last two decades. Absent from self-justified positions of Twitterati and think-tank experts—some even revisiting their pro-war positions after being “embedded” in Afghanistan—are voices of human beings who paid and will continue to pay the price of the war and now their abandonment for generations to come. Pilfered from debates about implications of invasion are the voices of the people of Afghanistan, not all of whom are Taliban, nor all fans of US or Britain either, but everyday people with hopes, dreams, and ambitions, struggling for survival, who have now been thrown into another descending spiral of history.One cannot ever excuse the Taliban, or any other religious fundamentalist group for their heinous crimes against humanity, anti-democratic and totalitarian characteristics, or rampant misogyny. But it is unclear who, if anyone, won against global terrorism: the US, its NATO allies, or Taliban who are busy rebranding themselves as an “Emirate.” One thing is for sure: the people lost, as they always do. The people paid with their lives then, they are paying with their lives now.New York and Kabul, this catastrophic tale of two cities, can neither be bracketed between 2001 and 2021, nor will it stay contained within the political boundaries of Afghanistan and the US. Our fellow human beings fleeing Afghanistan will carry the tale in their hearts forever. There’s a global humanitarian crisis unfolding, and the world simply cannot afford to ignore the flight and plight of refugees.The author is Professor of German and World Literature, former director of Center for South Asia, and a Senior Research Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Ideas expressed in this essay are his own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/empires-slay-publics-pay-the-global-refugee-crisis-unfolding-in-afghanistan-101629631940164.html
22-08-2021||Editorials||The quest for a united front||On Friday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi convened a meeting of Opposition parties with a single message — it was time to mount a united offensive against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government. The meeting built on the coordination that was visible among non-National Democratic Alliance forces in Parliament during the monsoon session. It also saw the participation of a range of other leaders, from Mamata Banerjee whose success in Bengal has emboldened the Opposition and whose national ambitions are now quite apparent to Sharad Pawar, considered the grand old man of the Opposition with the resources, networks and skills to reach across party lines. The meeting ended with a statement critiquing the Centre’s governance — with a focus on Covid-19 and the vaccine policy, economic management, Pegasus, farm laws, the planned privatisation of public sector units, and erosion of fundamental rights, among other issues.It is clear that the most serious attempt at Opposition unity since 2014 is underway. To be sure, there have been attempts to bring disparate parties together — the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress alliance in Karnataka was motivated by a desire to keep the BJP out but lasted just over a year; in Uttar Pradesh, both the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party, and the SP and the Congress, have allied against the BJP with little success. But there appears to be a deeper recognition of the scale of challenge posed by the BJP’s dominance. It is organisationally and financially way ahead of the rest; in Narendra Modi, it has the most popular leader in the country; it has shown a remarkable ability to weave welfare, religion, nationalism and caste together; and it has the ability to cripple the Opposition.All of this has made Opposition leaders realise that preparations to mount a challenge in 2024 must begin now. Last-minute alliances and rushed campaigns aren’t enough to defeat the BJP. But three problems persist. Leadership will remain a point of acrimony — leaving the question till after elections will give the BJP an advantage; resolving it and narrowing down on a leader is difficult and can divide the Opposition even before any formal unity is achieved. Issues are hard to identify — attacking the government primarily on the economy and ignoring the politics of culture leaves the BJP in a position to appropriate nationalism while attacking Hindutva may not be electorally appealing anymore. And the Congress remains the weak link, especially in bipolar states. Until these challenges are navigated, shows of unity won’t suffice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-quest-for-a-united-front-101629642378630.html
22-08-2021||Editorials||The mixed legacy of Kalyan Singh||The politics of Hindutva has succeeded when Hindu political mobilisation has acquired social depth. This is the primary factor behind Narendra Modi’s electoral success in the past seven years — the party’s ideological worldview has gained traction among all Hindu castes, in varying degrees. But before him, even as Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s most popular face and LK Advani was its most formidable organiser, there was Kalyan Singh who succeeded in using the same formula.Singh, from the Lodh community, an Other Backward Class sub-group, combined his social roots with his commitment to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worldview. And it was this combination that enabled the BJP to come to power for the first time in the critical state of Uttar Pradesh (UP) under his leadership. It also helped expand support for the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. As chief minister, Singh left a rare bright governance legacy — seeking to tackle various syndicates in the state, from education to the crime mafia. But this was tarnished by the Babri Masjid demolition — a criminal act, as per the same Supreme Court verdict that enabled the construction of the Ram Temple. Singh was UP’s chief minister in 1992, and either due to complicity or incompetence, failed to prevent the demolition of the mosque.For a range of reasons — including the traditional upper caste orientation of the party, Singh’s own personal errors, and his difficult relationship with Vajpayee — Singh failed to retain his political power. He flirted with the Samajwadi Party but returned home to the BJP, became a governor even as his son carried on his electoral legacy. The BJP’s tributes to Singh are a recognition of his role in expanding Hindutva’s appeal, and an attempt to ensure that his support base stays with the party in the UP elections next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-mixed-legacy-of-kalyan-singh-101629642258061.html
