24-08-2021||Gurugram||Three illegal under-construction colonies demolished on Gurugram outskirts||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Tuesday demolished three illegal under-construction colonies in Khwaspur and Babra Bakipur of Farrukhnagar block, on the outskirts of the city.DTCP officials said that two colonies were being developed in Khwaspur and one in the other village, across seven to eight acres in total, without seeking permission from the authorities concerned.The demolition drive started around 11.30am but faced strong resistance from villagers, as the majority of buyers in the three colonies were locals.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that they received complaints on the CM Window and also directly from locals that illegal development, sale and purchase of plots was taking place in these colonies. “The villagers opposed the drive and said that they had been duped by property dealers. We told them clearly that illegal constructions would not be allowed and with the help of a large police team, carried out the drive. We will also take action against property dealers,” he said.Bhath also said that they have started taking action against violators at the early stage of construction to ensure minimal losses to buyers.DTCP officials said that two earthmoving machines were pressed into service for the drives. “Road network and boundary walls were demolished in these colonies. One structure, which appeared to be an office of property dealers, was also demolished. We have also asked people not to invest in such illegal colonies,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-illegal-under-construction-colonies-demolished-on-gurugram-outskirts-101629829744546.html
24-08-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy as PAC head violates convention, BJP tells HC||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ambika Roy on Tuesday told the Calcutta high court that appointment of Mukul Roy as chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal assembly violated a five-decade-old convention of an opposition party MLA getting the post.Mukul Roy, who left the BJP and returned to the Trinamool Congress on June 11, was appointed PAC chairman by speaker Biman Banerjee on July 9.On June 18, leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, submitted a petition before the speaker saying Mukul Roy, the legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law as he didn’t resign from the BJP before switching sides.Hearing the petition on Tuesday, a division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said the appeal for Roy’s disqualification as an MLA is lying before the speaker and not the court.Senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, appearing for Ambika Roy, told the HC that the speaker incorrectly assumed that Mukul Roy was in the BJP when he filed his papers on June 25. “Power exercised by the speaker must not be arbitrary,” he said.He said the Supreme Court last year ruled that speakers of assemblies and Parliament must declare their decisions on disqualification petitions within three months.The matter will be heard again on September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-as-pac-head-violates-convention-bjp-tells-hc-101629829593923.html
24-08-2021||Gurugram||MCG allows diesel, CNG autos to ply in electric zone||A week after the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) decided to allow only electric three-wheelers in a dedicated zone inaugurated on August 16, the civic body on Tuesday said that diesel and CNG autorickshaws will not be barred from plying in the zone.MCG launched an electric three-wheeler zone (ETWZ), covering Cyber City, Golf Course Road, DLF Phases 1, 2, 3 and 4, DLF-5, and the Mall Mile, allowing only e-rickshaws and e-autorickshaws to operate in these areas, while autorickshaws running on compressed natural gas (CNG) and diesel were barred.However, following several protests by drivers of diesel and CNG autorickshaws, including one on Tuesday at the Leisure Valley Park, the MCG issued a clarification stating that the main objective of the e-zone project was to convert old diesel autorickshaws into e-three wheelers.“Normal autos, including diesel and CNG powered autos, have not been stopped from plying in the e-three wheeler zone. It has been made mandatory for such auto drivers to carry other relevant documents, including fitness certificates, with them,” Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, the MCG commissioner, said in the civic body’s official release.However, Ahuja, in the release, said that diesel autorickshaws that are older than 10 years will not be allowed to operate, as per the current norms.While launching the ETWZ project, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said that diesel and CNG autorickshaws will not be allowed to ply in the zone. Later that day, while describing the ETWZ, an official release issued by the district administration also stated that CNG and diesel autorickshaws are barred in the zone.The MCG commissioner could not be reached for comment in this regard.A senior MCG official privy to the matter said that the confusion, miscommunication, heavy protests led to the civic body backtracking on its decision.“Since April, autorickshaw union leaders, diesel autorickshaw drivers, and owners were regularly apprised about phasing out diesel vehicles with e-three wheelers. Due to a miscommunication, CNG autorickshaws were inadvertently added to the list. This mistake created distrust among the autorickshaw drivers, their unions and the MCG, as a result of which things got out of hand rapidly. We, hence, had to backtrack on the entire project,” said the official, not wishing to be named.Members of autorickshaw unions expressed relief over the MCG’s decision to allow CNG and diesel autorickshaws. On Tuesday, thousands of CNG and diesel autorickshaw drivers and union members held a meeting at the Leisure Valley Park in Sector 29, where they decided to stage another protest in the evening if their demands were not met.“The MCG has issued a completely contradictory statement and has gone back on their statement due to the protests. Regardless, the development is a massive relief for all autorickshaw drivers and owners as the e-zone project had affected their daily earnings massively. We will now be returning to business as usual,” said Yogesh Sharma, state general secretary, Haryana Auto Chalak Sanghatan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-allows-diesel-cng-autos-to-ply-in-electric-zone-101629829705369.html
24-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram murder spree: Hard to believe suspect killed four, say neighbours||Neighbours of a 59-year-old retired army subedar, who allegedly murdered his daughter-in-law and three tenants over suspicions of an illicit relationship, said that they are shocked by the incident. A neighbour who did not wish to be quoted said that the accused, Rao Rai Singh, while exiting the building in the morning told them that he killed the children as there was no one to take care of them. He allegedly told them that his revenge was “justified” as his daughter-in-law was having illicit relations with a tenant.Mahesh Kumar, a neighbour, said that residents of the locality started calling one other to check the authenticity of the murder reports. “We believed it only after the news channels started gathering outside the building and police officers confirmed the news on camera. No one can believe he has murdered four,” he said.Residents of the area said that upon spotting police in the area, they initially thought that the house had been ransacked in a robbery.A second neighbour, who did not want to be named, said that Singh might be taking the blame for a family member. A shopkeeper in the neighbourhood said, “He wanted the tenants to vacate the house but it is unbelievable that he could kill them over this. He is a god-fearing person.”However, a relative of the tenants who were murdered, said that he always troubled his tenants. “He has a questionable character,” Varendra Shukla, a relative of the deceased and a neighbour, said.Singh took early retirement from the Kumao regiment in 2001 and settled in Gururgam along with his family members, following which he started a real estate business. He was also the vice-president of the residents’ welfare association and took an active role to organise programmes on special occasions.Sushila Devi, a neighbour, said, “He used to teach underprivileged children in an open school and took one-hour classes every morning between 7am and 8am.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-murder-spree-hard-to-believe-suspect-killed-four-say-neighbours-101629829704293.html
24-08-2021||Gurugram||60K Covid vaccines to be administered in mega drive on August 27||Officials of the Gurugram health department said that they are planning to administer 60,000 Covid-19 vaccines on August 27, when around half a million people are set to be vaccinated across the state in a mega drive. The focus would be on people aged 18-45 years who are awaiting their second vaccine shot.“As directed by the state health department, a mega vaccination drive day will be observed in the district. As per the target, about 60,000 doses will be administered. Of these, 60% will be given as the second dose and 40% as the first dose. Roughly about 80,000 doses of Covishield have been earmarked by the state for the mega drive, whereas the second dose of Covaxin will be administered only at specific locations,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram. According to Yadav, there will be more than 100 vaccination centres under different health centres. “Both online and offline slots will be made available. Drive-through will be held at multiple locations to cover the target population of 18-45 years waiting for their second dose,” Yadav said. The highest vaccination count in a single day till now is 104,178, recorded on June 21, when the health department covered house helps, drivers, security staff, labourers and daily wage workers. Currently, over 2,228,139 vaccine doses have been administered in Gurugram since January 1, as per the data available on the Co-WIN portal. According to the Co-WIN portal, nearly 1.6 million people have taken the first jab, which indicates that 76% of the population has been inoculated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine if the eligible population count is taken as 2.1 million, as per a health department estimate. On Tuesday, at least 19,485 vaccine doses were administered in the city, including 13,573 doses at government health centres and 5,912 at private hospitals. For Wednesday, the district has allotted 16, 350 slots, of which 7,700 are for the first dose and 8,650 are for the second dose through direct walk-in. To increase the coverage among government school teachers, special vaccination camps will also be held at nine schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/60k-covid-vaccines-to-be-administered-in-mega-drive-on-august-27-101629829694828.html
24-08-2021||Gurugram||Iffco Chowk flyover to remain shut till Friday for repairs||The Iffco Chowk flyover on the Delhi to Jaipur side is likely to remain shut till later this week for repairs after a retaining wall of the flyover collapsed on Monday due to water damage.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that a sewage pipeline passing under the structure was repaired by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority on Tuesday. The sewage pipeline was damaged due to the heavy flow of rainwater over the weekend and led to water accumulation that subsequently caused the collapse of the retaining wall.Officials said that the repair of the flyover would start from Wednesday morning.“The traffic on the flyover will remain closed for the next three to four days and during this time, we will build a raft on the drain below and construct concrete pillars to support the retaining wall to prevent such incidents in the future. Given the condition of the pipeline, we have also decided to pour concrete at the spot,” Saurabh Singhal, an NHAI consultant, said.NHAI officials said that they expect the traffic flow to resume on the flyover by Saturday.The flyover, which runs parallel to the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, was completed in 2019. It was part of a larger project launched in 2016 to build underpasses and flyovers at Rajiv Chowk, Signature Chowk and Iffco Chowk, important intersections on the expressway.On Monday, officials of Gawar Constructions, the contractor for the flyover, had said that they will start the repair on the flyover once the sewage line was repaired by the local authorities.The L-shaped underpass at Iffco Chowk was also constructed by the same contractor. In 2019, the roads on both sides of the L-shaped underpass had caved in after sewage pipelines overflowed following heavy rains in the National Capital Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/iffco-chowk-flyover-to-remain-shut-till-friday-for-repairs-101629829692328.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||Love for Muslim vote stopped you from paying tributes to Kalyan: BJP to Akhilesh||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Tuesday attacked Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, asking if the "love" for the Muslim vote bank prevented him from paying tributes to former state CM Kalyan Singh, who died after prolonged illness.A Hindutva icon and an OBC Lodh caste leader, Kalyan Singh was the chief minister of the state when the Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished by "Kar Sevaks" in 1992.He had died on Saturday after prolonged illness at a Lucknow hospital, after which his body was kept here for some time before the BJP leader's cremation with full state honours at Bansi Ghat in Bulandshahr's Narora town on Monday.Attacking the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief, Swatantra Dev Singh in a Hindi tweet said Yadav could not come barely one kilometre from his residence to Mall Avenue in Lucknow to pay tributes to Kalyan Singh."Has the love for the Muslim vote bank stopped him from paying tributes to the biggest leader of the backward class," he asked taking a swipe at Yadav.On the night of Kalyan Singh's death, Akhilesh Yadav had condoled his death in a tweet but neither he nor any other SP leaders went personally to pay respects to the former UP CM like some other opposition leaders.BSP chief Mayawati had gone to pay homage to Kalyan Singh. Kalyan Singh had earlier allied with SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav after quitting the BJP and launching his own outfit.The bonhomie, however, lasted for a brief period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/love-for-muslim-vote-stopped-you-from-paying-tributes-to-kalyan-bjp-to-akhilesh-101629828251180.html
24-08-2021||Other||Odisha’s capital to allow only vaccinated people to enter religious places||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said all religious institutions under its jurisdiction can allow entry of devotees who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 as the active cases in the capital city doubled to what it was about a month ago.With the city still reporting cases in three digits, the BMC officials said that enforcement teams will conduct frequent checks to ensure adherence of the guidelines across all religious places. “Considering the current pandemic situation and vaccination coverage, it is hereby decided that people who are fully vaccinated will only be allowed inside any religious institutions. A person producing hard copy or soft copy in their mobile phones will be allowed inside the institutions,” the BMC order said, a day after all the religious places, barring the Lingaraj temple, were allowed to open their doors to the devotees.The insistence on Covid vaccination certificate in religious institutions of Bhubaneswar is the second instance when the authorities have made such certificates mandatory. The Jagannath temple in Puri, which opened its doors to devotees on August 16, also made it mandatory for devotees to have either a Covid vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR certificate.But barring Puri’s Jagannath temple and religious places of Bhubaneswar, there is no insistence by the local administration on the Covid vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative report before allowing the devotees. After the state government last month gave the liberty to the district administrations to decide on the date of opening of the religious places and protocols, most district administrations have only laid stress on Covid appropriate behaviours like wearing of masks, regular sanitisation and social distancing.In Balasore’s famous Khirachora Gopinath temple, the opening of the shrine on Tuesday saw around 100 people coming to the temple though at least 1,000 people visit the temple to see the idols of Krishna and partake the sweet kheer. Manager of the temple, Mukund Das, said while Covid vaccination certificate has not been made mandatory, they are not allowing pregnant women, people above the age of 60 and children below the age of 10 years.“My biggest worry now is how to handle the crowd on Janmasthami on August 30, at least 5,000 people are likely to visit. Last year, we had no such worries as the temple remained closed and Janmasthami celebration was a tame affair. But this year, maintaining social distancing would be a tough task,” said Das.In Koraput’s Jagannath temple, Sambalpur’s Samaleswari temple and Kalahandi’s Manikeswari temple too, Covid vaccination certificate has not been made mandatory.Director of Public Health, Dr Niranjan Mishra said it would be inappropriate to comment on the decision of the respective district administrations on the opening of temples. “The Covid cases are on a decline in the state. The district collectors are the best people on the ground to take appropriate decisions,” he said.But Dr Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division of the ICMR, said mere social distancing and wearing masks would not work in religious places where the congregation is a reality.“Covid vaccination, social distancing and masking should be made mandatory in all religious places. Either this or that would not do. The vaccines are disease-modifying and do not prevent infections as we are seeing vaccinated people getting infected. In religious places, the authorities should allow only a particular number of people at any given time and there should be proper marking for each devotees,” said Dr Panda.Several Indian states have made it mandatory for devotees to produce a Covid-19 vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR test report. In Ujjain’s Mahakaleshwar, temple devotees need a vaccination certificate or RT-PCR report while in Kamakhya temple of Guwahati, only 20 fully vaccinated persons are allowed to enter the temple in an hour as per the Assam government’s order.However, the famous Balaji temple in Tirupati of Andhra Pradesh does not insist on a Covid vaccination certificate but allows only 6,000 devotees per day as against the normal rush of over 60,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-capital-to-allow-only-vaccinated-people-to-enter-religious-places-101629828725451.html
24-08-2021||Kolkata||Female contractual teachers allegedly consumed poison in Kolkata over job woes||Five female contractual teachers of primary schools allegedly consumed poison on Tuesday while demonstrating before the state education department headquarters in Kolkata, seeking immediate fulfilment of their job-related demands, a senior police officer said. Four of them "drank some liquid from bottles" as soon as they were arrested for forcefully entering the premises of Bikash Bhavan and shouting slogans in violation of the disaster management act, the officer said. The fifth woman, who tried to follow suit, was stopped by a woman constable before she could gulp down much of the liquid, he said. "All five were taken to a state-run hospital, where the condition of four was stated to be serious. The fifth woman is out of danger," the officer stated. The agitating teachers, all members of a platform for contractual school teachers, 'Sikshak Oikyo Mancha', had been seeking regularisation of services and revocation of transfer orders that have forced some of them to move to places that are far from their homes. The five teachers had earlier this month demonstrated before the residence of education minister Bratya Basu seeking to know why their demands were not being met with. Strongly reacting to the incident, BJP state vice president Jaiprakash Majumdar said, "Lack of concern on the part of the education minister prompted the teachers to consume poison." Kunal Ghosh, the ruling TMC's spokesperson, wished the teachers a speedy recovery. "It has to be looked into if there was any provocation from any quarter. A proper investigation will reveal the details," he added. The education minister and his department officials were not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/female-contractual-teachers-allegedly-consumed-poison-in-kolkata-over-job-woes-101629825822543.html
24-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Resident group creating awareness on lane driving||The 7X welfare team, along with the traffic police department, has launched a campaign to educate people about the importance of lane driving to ensure smooth flow of traffic on the city roads.Established in 2018, the team has over 15 volunteers who work with police to create awareness about various social issues in the city, traffic discipline being one of them.“On earlier occasions, we ran awareness campaigns regarding basic traffic regulations. For the next two months, we will keep conducting interactions with the public regarding proper lane driving,” said Brajesh Sharma, a member of 7X welfare team.The members are also creating awareness about leaving the left turns free and allowing pedestrians to use the zebra crossings.“All the moves are aimed at ensuring smooth flow of traffic in the city. Single lane driving and not changing lanes suddenly help prevent road accidents. Similarly, vehicles stopping on zebra crossings create inconvenience for both pedestrians and other vehicles. We interacted with commuters and other people near Spice mall over the weekend to create awareness about these issues. We plan to do the same near the Rajnigandha crossing this weekend. Single lane driving concept is missing in our city and people need to be educated about this,” said Sharma.Traffic police officials said they will support the campaign of the 7X welfare team. “Wrong side driving and not wearing helmets/seat belts have been in focus for a long time. Efforts will continue to discourage commuters against these traffic violations. But for the next two months, we will keep working with the team to focus on lane driving. This will help reduce accidents and also ensure smooth traffic movement in the city,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-resident-group-creating-awareness-on-lane-driving-101629828183681.html
24-08-2021||Noida||Man arrested for rape of minor girl in Greater Noida||A 20-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for the alleged rape of a 10-year-old girl in a farm in Dankaur. Arvind Pathak, Dankaur police station house officer (SHO), said that the victim had gone to the farm with her six-year-old sister on Monday evening. “The suspect was roaming in the area when he found the girls, held the elder one and raped her,” he said. The suspect also gagged the victim and threatened her of consequences when she tried to raise an alarm, he added. The victim’s younger sister, meanwhile, managed to escape and informed some farmers working in the neighbouring field who came to rescue the girl, said police. The suspect had escaped by then, they added. The victim’s family filed a complaint with the Dankaur police. Pathak said a case was registered against the suspect under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and section 9 (10) of protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso) Act and section 3(2) of the SC/ST Act. “The suspect was arrested on Tuesday. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-rape-of-minor-girl-in-greater-noida-101629828063701.html
24-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida’s Varun Bhati to jump for glory at Tokyo Paralympics||Para high jumper Varun Bhati, a resident of Greater Noida’s Sector Phi 3, is set to leave for Tokyo Paralympics on August 26. India has high hopes from the 26-year-old para athlete who won bronze medal in the men’s high jump T-42 event at the 2016 Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro. Bhati, a native of Jamalpur village in Gautam Budh Nagar, has been training extensively at his Greater Noida residence where he has made a whole setup for his practice. Apart from this, the para athlete, who won the World Para Athletics Championships in London in 2017, also trains at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Delhi and at SAI complex in Bengaluru.Bhati was afflicted with polio in his left leg when he was just six months old. He completed his schooling from St Joseph School in Greater Noida where his inclination to sports started. “I used to play basketball in the school. But after suggestion by one of my sports teachers, I started practising for high jump. In 2014, I went on to win a gold medal at the Open Athletics Championships in China at the age of 19,” said Bhati, who did his graduation (BSc) from Delhi University.India’s deputy chef de mission Arhan Bagati for Tokyo Paralympics, to be held from August 24-September 5, said that the country has high hopes from Bhati for bringing home a medal. “A total of 53 athletes across nine sports disciplines from India are heading for the Tokyo Paralympics. In the high jump category, we have high hopes from Varun as he has played at the Rio games earlier and also won a medal,” he said.However, Bhati says he doesn’t expect others to have high hopes from him this time as his performance has not been “up to the mark”. “It is good to know that apart from my family, others are also having high expectations from me. But my performance has not been up to the mark in the last two years. People didn’t expect me to clear the trials for Tokyo too, but fortunately I got selected,” said the Arjuna awardee.The reason behind this, he says, has been his back injury which he got during the 2017 World Para Athletics Championships in London. “Though I did get a medal in that game, my back pain got aggravated. Since then, while I have continued to play, the pain did not subside,” said Bhati.However, the one year delay in Tokyo Paralympics due to the Covid-19 pandemic came as a boon for him. “My injury took longer than expected to heal. But the Paralympics also got delayed due to the pandemic, which allowed me one more year to recover. Had the Games been held in 2020, I would not have even been selected,” said Bhati. In April this year, Bhati had to lose one month of his training as he was down with Covid-19. “On April 14, I tested positive for Covid-19 and was in home isolation. I was on complete bed rest for a month and felt like I lost out on precious training time ahead of trials for Tokyo. Thankfully, I recovered from Covid in June and got selected for the games. The trials were held on June 29,” he said.Bhati, who has also won a silver in 2018 Asian Para Games in Indonesia, will be competing in the T42/63 category of men’s high jump at the Tokyo Paralympic Games on August 31. “I am confident of giving my best at the Games and hope I can get a medal for India,” said Bhati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-s-varun-bhati-to-jump-for-glory-at-tokyo-paralympics-101629828007235.html
24-08-2021||Noida||13-year-old girl murdered as two families clash in Greater Noida||A 13-year-old girl died after two families clashed over a suspected theft in Greater Noida’s Kasna area on Monday, said police. Police identified the victim as Rekha, daughter of 40-year-old Ramu Mali. Police registered a case and arrested five suspects. Both the victim’s family and the suspects are natives of Bulandshahr and live in Ladpura village in Kasna, said police. Kasna police station house officer Sudhir Kumar said that Mali worked as a caretaker of a mango garden in Ladpura village and lived with family in a makeshift house there. The suspect 45-year-old Dhara Singh was a gardener who worked in a different plot and lived with his family in the neighbourhood, he added.On August 16, said police, Mali had noticed some goods missing from the garden and he suspected that Singh’s family stole them. “On Monday, Singh and Mali argued over the issue and soon other family members also reached the spot and assaulted each other,” said Kumar.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said Rekha attempted to pull her father from the melee. “In the process, she too was roughed up and she suffered critical injuries. She was rushed to the Greater Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) where she died,” he said. The victim’s father filed a complaint against Singh and four of his family members – Ravi, Gaurav, Saurav and Rani – in the incident.Pandey said a case was registered against them under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “All the five suspects have been arrested. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/13yearold-girl-murdered-as-two-families-clash-in-greater-noida-101629828006589.html
24-08-2021||Noida||‘Leopard spotted’ near Greater Noida village, forest dept launches search operation||The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department has launched a search and rescue operation after residents claimed to have spotted a leopard on Monday night near a village in Greater Noida, officials said on Tuesday. The leopard was allegedly spotted near Sadullapur village after which officials from the Ecotech 3 police station reached the spot while the forest department was also alerted. The forest officials said that while a leopard had been rescued about four years ago from the same area, they have not this time found any trace or pug marks of the feline yet.“A search operation was carried out but the leopard could not be found. The forest department team was joined by the local police in the search. No leopard pug marks were found in the area. The search operation was continued till about 3am today. Another search operation will be initiated tonight,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.The forest officials also said that they will be setting up camera traps to confirm the presence of a leopard in the area. “We will set up around four to five camera traps in the region to confirm the presence of the animal. It will also confirm if it’s a leopard or not,” said Srivastava.Meanwhile, police officials said that they have cautioned the villagers to stay alert.“We are aiding the forest department with the search operation. A leopard or any wild predator can pose a threat to the villagers or their livestock, so we have suggested that they should not wander around alone,” said Bhuvnesh Kumar, SHO, Ecotech 3 police station.In the past also, leopards have been spotted in human settlements of Greater Noida, which is surrounded by natural habitats and urban forests suitable for a stealthy species like a leopard, the officials said.The big cat has been spotted twice on the Gautam Buddh University campus in February and May, the officials said, adding that the animal was also spotted twice on the NTPC campus -- in October 2020 and in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/leopard-spotted-near-greater-noida-village-forest-dept-launches-search-operation-101629828005061.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Second Mumbai varsity merit list to be out today; very few seats left, say colleges||The second merit list for colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) is scheduled to be released today (Wednesday). However, the popular city colleges said they have very few seats left to offer, even though the number of seats across colleges is higher than the number of students registered for admissions this year.“Due to the fear of not getting another seat, most students allotted seats in the first round, have confirmed admissions. We will have very few seats left for the second list,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate. The first merit list for undergraduate degree courses was announced on August 17 and students whose names appeared in the list have time until August 25 to confirm their seats. By evening, the university will announce the second merit list.“Since the entire process is taking place online again this year, many students are worried as they can’t clear doubts face-to-face. We get calls all day from anxious students, and try our best to help everyone,” said the principal of a suburban college. She added that while students are confirming admissions, for now, there’s a chance of seats in BSc courses going vacant once admissions to medical, dental and paramedical courses begin.Earlier this month, the state government released circular addressing it to state universities and the respective affiliated colleges, stating that due to a higher number of students clearing class 12 exams this year, automatically increasing the number of candidates applying for admissions, colleges have been given the option to add an extra division to certain popular courses to accommodate all students.“Adding a new division will not be an easy task for colleges. While this can be managed while classes are online, soon colleges will reopen and then colleges will grapple with infrastructure constraints,” said TA Shiware, speaking for the management of Wilson College. He is also the chairman of the Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-mumbai-varsity-merit-list-to-be-out-today-very-few-seats-left-say-colleges-101629828004647.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Despite complaints destructed mangroves await restoration, say experts||Since its inception in 2018, the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee (MPCC) has received an estimated 142 complaints regarding the destruction of mangroves in the state’s coastal districts. Of these, about 88 complaints have been ‘resolved’, with a few have been transferred to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for their consideration. Another 54 odd complaints are pending resolution, according to committee members. However, committee members (including officials in the forest department’s mangrove cell) confirmed to Hindustan Times that not a single complaint has so far resulted in the restoration of damaged mangroves, which is part of the mandate given to the committee by the HC in its final judgement from September 2018.At the time, the HC had emphasised, “One...important issue is to restore mangroves areas which are illegally reclaimed. The said areas have to be restored to their original condition. That is the legal obligation of the state. In what manner restoration should be done, should be decided by the committee headed by the divisional commissioner after consulting experts in the field.”Commenting on the matter, Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell, said, “I do not think any of the complaints have so far resulted in the restoration of the area. That is something we have kept funds for but cannot proceed with until the various municipal corporations or land-owning agencies clean up the debris first. The restoration will be done by the forest department but cleaning up the area is their responsibility.”Of the total number of complaints received by the committee, only nine have so far been shortlisted for restoration activities — which are still pending. Though environmentalists say there are likely to be several complaints where the committee has overlooked the need for the restoration itself. Navi Mumbai-based activist BN Kumar gave the example of mangrove destruction along the Sion-Panvel Highway, allegedly done by a contractor of the Public Works Department (PWD).“The damage on sight warrants restoration. Even the debris has not been cleaned, but the complaint came up for resolution in the agenda of the last Mangrove Committee meeting,” Kumar added. Giving a second example of mangrove destruction at Pagote in Uran, within the erstwhile Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone, he added, “In that matter, an FIR has been registered against unknown persons, but there seems to be no effort taken to restore acres of buried mangroves.”Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forests (mangrove cell), said that the committee’s work is an ongoing process and that all complaints will be duly reviewed. “Many cases are open and shut cases where collectors have conducted sight visits and filed inspection reports. In these matters, FIRs have been filed as per protocol and small debris dumps have also been cleaned up. In some complaints, the scale of damage is larger, and those will take a little longer to restore. Those cases have not been closed.”Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti and an independent member appointed to the MPCC, emphasised that lack of restoration amounts to non-compliance of HC’s orders. “Not only are smaller violations being let off, but the committee has also not yet sent any show-cause notices to municipalities asking them to address the biggest violators. In Thane, for example, long stretches of cement roads have been made over mangroves and cement mixers have come up in the forest patches. The committee needs to act sooner and pull up the municipalities, otherwise, small complaints will keep getting resolved without serious investigation, and bigger complaints will lie unaddressed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaidespite-complaints-destructed-mangroves-await-restoration-say-experts-101629827884225.html
24-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin to dedicate three days a week for second dose of Covid vaccines||To increase the number of individuals fully vaccinated against Covid-19, Gautam Budh Nagar will dedicate three days a week for administering the second dose of Covishield and Covaxin, and reserve five booths exclusively administering the second doses on all days from Tuesday. On these exclusive days, which are yet to be decided, and at the five exclusive booths — primary health centres in Dadri, Jewar, Dankaur and Sector 22, and Mihirbhoj Inter College in Dadri — all adults would be allowed to walk-in for the jabs, apart from bookings through Co-Win, said officials.The district has so far administered 1.9 million doses, of which only 426,439 are second doses, according to Co-WIN on Tuesday till 8pm. On Tuesday, the district administered 13,960 doses. It was only from May 1 that the vaccination coverage was expanded to cover all adults. Covshield has a waiting period of a 12 to 16 weeks for the second shot, while Covaxin’s wait is a month.Most people have been vaccinated with Covishield due to more supply of the vaccine over the last few months, so the number of people scheduled to get their second dose is likely to increase in the coming days and months.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said, “We aim to cover 2,000 people a day in all these five exclusive booths. The low coverage of the second dose has meant that we need to focus more on it. We’ll soon decide the days on which only second doses will be administered.” District immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that as many as 9,758 doses of vaccines were administered in 32 government inoculation booths on Tuesday. “Out of it, 5,224 persons received their first dose, while the remaining 4,534 beneficiaries took their second jab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-to-dedicate-three-days-a-week-for-second-dose-of-covid-vaccines-101629827764196.html
24-08-2021||Other||Unemployed, farmers protest against minister Singla in Sangrur||SANGRUR Unemployed youth and farmers opposed Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla at three places in the district on Tuesday. The minister addressed students and parents of four schools on higher education and careers at Government Senior Secondary Smart School (Girls) Sangrur, where members of BEd TET Pass union and New PTI Unemployed Teachers’ union held a protest. The police stopped the protesters and took them away.The protesters are demanding the creation of more posts of BEd and PTI teachers in the state; they have also announced the gherao of Moti Mahal in Patiala on August 25 (Wednesday).In the second incident, aspiring teachers protested near Government Senior Secondary Smart School (Boys) in the town. When the minister moved to GSSS School Changal, over hundreds of farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) gathered in front of the school building and raised slogans against Singla and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Bhagwant Singh, a farmer, said the Capt Amarinder Singh government had failed to provide jobs and debt waiver for farmers. “On top of this, when jobless youth protest, the police lathi-charged them,” he claimed. Singla claimed that the government gave jobs to youths and is also working on the demands of unions. “Jobs can be given only on the basis of vacant posts. Today, I distributed results of the ‘Psychometric Test’ conducted to identify the aptitude of the students at four schools. Keeping the results in mind, students are being encourage to choose courses for higher education, based on merit,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unemployed-farmers-protest-against-minister-singla-in-sangrur-101629826984254.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||OBC reservation in Maharashtra: Centre to file its reply in three weeks||The petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking caste-based census data for OBC reservation will be heard by the Supreme Court (SC) on September 23. The Central government told the Apex court on Tuesday that they would file their reply on the petition in the next three weeks, the officials said.To restore political reservation for the OBC in local bodies, the state government has sought Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) data of Maharashtra from the Central government by filing a writ petition in the Apex court last month.The petition was heard by the bench of justice AM Khanwilkar and justice Sanjiv Khanna on Tuesday.OBCs are on the verge of losing their political reservation in local bodies across Maharashtra as it was quashed by the Apex court in March and its review petition in May. The Apex court has ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota determined by it. It has further directed the state government to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation quota of the community is fixed.“The Apex court also asked the state government to pursue the Centre for SECC data of Maharashtra that was conducted in 2011. Following the directives, the state government pursued the matter with them. Since there was no response, the state government decided to file the petition before SC seeking its directives to the registrar general and census commissioner, ministry of social justice and empowerment and rural development to provide the caste-based data of Maharashtra,” said a senior official from law and judiciary department.On July 5, the state legislature passed a resolution seeking empirical data by the Centre, collected under Socio-Economic Caste Census 2011, for restoration of the political reservation to OBCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-reservation-in-maharashtra-centre-to-file-its-reply-in-three-weeks-101629826384154.html
24-08-2021||Other||‘Assam officer arrested for amassing ₹100 crore in nearly two decades’: Police||An Assam civil services (ACS) officer was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly amassing property valued at over ₹100 crore by illegal means over a period of around two decades, according to a police statement.Saibar Rahman, an ACS officer of 2002 batch, is alleged to have 89 land plots worth over ₹100 crore in his name and in the names of his two wives along with movable and immovable assets valued at ₹6.38 crore.According to the statement, investigation against the 48-year-old was initiated by the chief minister’s special vigilance cell following complaints that Rahman had amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.“He was unable to satisfactorily account for how he could amass the pecuniary resources/assets or properties disproportionate to his known sources of income,” the statement read.Police have registered a case under sections 420, 406 and 409 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) read with Section 13(1)(b)/2 (c) of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2019. Further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-officer-arrested-for-amassing-rs-100-cr-in-nearly-two-decades-police-101629826265402.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to take waste pickers’ group on board for waste segregation at Deonar||Almost five years after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) disallowed waste pickers from entering the Deonar dumping ground, following a series of fires to garbage mounds in the dumping ground in 2016, it will take them on board for waste segregation at Deonar, and at four refuse transfer stations — Mahalaxmi, Kurla, Gorai, and Versova.At least 50 waste pickers will be identified and verified to officially segregate waste at the Deonar dumping ground, and 25 waste pickers will be identified for segregate waste at each of the four refuse transfer stations. BMC is tying up with non-commercial organisations working with waste pickers to facilitate this. It recently invited an expression of interest inviting registered waste picker organisations, to tie up with BMC on a non-commercial basis for the project.A senior official from the civic solid waste management department said, “With this, we want to create a form of employment opportunity for this informal sector workforce. We will not be paying the organisations any money. It will be the task of the organisations to transport the segregated waste to recyclers.”Presently, waste is supposed to be segregated at the ward level. BMC has a waste to energy plant at the Kanjurmarg dumping ground. About 600-700 metric tons (MT) of municipal solid waste (MSW) is received at the Deonar dumping ground, 600 MT of MSW is received at the Mahalaxmi and Kurla refuse transfer stations, 400 MT of MSW is received at the Gorai refuse transfer station, and 300 MT of MSW is received at the Versova Lagoon refuse transfer station.The waste picker organisations which will come on board with BMC will be responsible for removing and transporting segregated dry or non-biodegradable waste daily to recyclers and providing safety gear to the waste pickers.Between January and March 2016, a series of large fires were reported inside the Deonar dumping grounds, prompting BMC to take up several security measures included fortifying the entire periphery of the dumping ground premises with high concrete fencing, installing CCTV cameras, and disallowing waste pickers from entering the dumping grounds for segregation and collection of waste.Over the course of one year after the fires, BMC decided to issue id-cards to waste pickers to allow them entry into the dumping ground premises, but the decision did not materialise at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-to-take-waste-pickers-group-on-board-for-waste-segregation-at-deonar-101629826024195.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||BrahMos Aerospace proposes facility in Lucknow for next-gen missile project||LUCKNOW BrahMos Aerospace has proposed to set up a state-of-the-art production facility in the Lucknow node of UP’s Defence Corridor for its next generation missile project, the state government said on Tuesday.Sudhir Kumar Mishra, CEO and MD, BrahMos Aerospace, met chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday for the allotment of 200 acres land in the state capital. The company produces one of the world’s best supersonic cruise missile system BrahMos, it said.The facility comes under the aerospace firm’s expansion for the BrahMos Next Generation (BrahMos-NG) Missile project. The establishment of the facility will make UP an aerospace and defence hub of India as it will bring in niche technologies. It will also put Lucknow prominently on the world map as a manufacturing hub for top-notch technologies, the statement said.The plant would come up with an approximate investment of ₹300 crore and provide direct employment to 500 engineers and technical staff. Besides, around 10,000 people will get indirect employment. In three years, the plant will have the capacity to manufacture 100 BrahMos missiles. According to government sources, Yogi Adityanath gave his consent to the project and directed officials to allocate land to BrahMos Aerospace. The company was likely to start production within three months of getting possession of land. Mishra also sent a letter to Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home) and CEO of UPEIDA, for allotment of land in Lucknow. According to BrahMos Aerospace, the company has a production facility in Hyderabad, Nagpur and Pilani. It was formed on February 12, 1998, as a joint venture between DRDO and joint stock company ‘Military Industrial Consortium’ of Russia. According to government officials, the proposal also mentioned about the order of 400 BrahMos missiles (worth ₹8000 crore) by the Indian Air Force. The company wants to execute this order at its proposed manufacturing unit in Lucknow. At the Lucknow unit, BrahMos Aerospace will also execute its export orders in future. Over 200 small, medium and large Indian public and private sector defence enterprises, institutions and laboratories have been associated with the prestigious BrahMos missile programme, said the state government. The Defence Corridor has six nodes, including Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. On February 21, 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the ₹20,000 crore Defence Industrial Corridor in Bundelkhand region, which was considered as one of the most backward regions of UP. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/brahmos-aerospace-proposes-facility-in-lucknow-for-next-gen-missile-project-101629825664326.html
24-08-2021||Other||Afghan crisis: Dry fruit import through ICP continues as usual||Amritsar With the situation in Afghanistan in a flux, import from the war-torn country to India via the Attari-Wagah border continues to be stable and remains unaffected. On Tuesday, 20 trucks carrying dry fruit from Afghanistan arrived at the Attari Integrated Check Post (ICP), which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan.  “On Monday, 21 trucks arrived at the ICP, with 20 on Tuesday. To date, There is no indication of any halt in import from the war-torn country,” said a senior official of the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI), which manages the ICP’s affairs.ICP manager Sukhdev Singh said trade has not seen a dip due to the happenings in Afghanistan; sources added that 20 trucks with dry fruit has arrived at the ICP on Saturday as well, but Customs officials had to send back some of these due to inadequate space. An official posted at the ICP said, “The Customs has also increased its security since Taliban seized control of Afghanistan. Officials have been conducting 100% search of items being imported.”Indian and Afghan traders, however, are worried over trade prospects and hope that the regime change, enforced through bloodshed, does not cast a shadow on trade. “We hope that the trade between the countries will continue as usual, as has been the case till today. There was some speculation that the Taliban had sealed both Chaman and Torkham borders with Pakistan. We are in touch with our counterparts in Afghanistan. They are also worried, but are hope like us that the crises does not affect trade,” said Anil Mehra, president, Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association.He added, “The festival season is approaching and there will be high demand for dry fruit in India. If dry fruit import to India continues, prices will come down. There is a bumper crop of dry fruit in Afghanistan this year. Afghan traders are sending their items uninterrupted, even though there has been an issue kin sending them payments due to closure of banks there.”In 2019-20, the ICP had recorded a business of ₹2,767 crore, which dipped to ₹2,500 crore in 2020-21. Prior to this, the ICP had been recording a trade value between ₹4,000 crore and ₹5,000 crore trade a year.Trade at the ICP has been dipping since the Pulwama terror attack of February 2019, in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed. After the attack, India had increased duty on items imported from Pakistan from 5% to 200%. In August 2019, when New Delhi abrogated Article 370 which gave special powers to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan had ceased trade with India. The neighbouring country had also barred India from exporting goods to Afghanistan. Since then, the ICP sees import only from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/afghan-crisis-dry-fruit-import-through-icp-continues-as-usual-101629825604332.html
24-08-2021||Other||MLAs, MLCs to use LAD funds for private societies: State||PUNE: After MLAs (members of legislative assemblies) were allowed to use local area development (LAD) funds for social, cultural, literary, educational, environmental and sports activities in 2017, the state government is now working on a proposal to allow MLAs and members of legislative councils (MLCs) to use LAD funds for developing basic infrastructure in private societies based in rural and municipal corporation areas. While societies have welcomed the move, they have warned against politicisation of the same.The state on Monday constituted a planning committee to frame the guidelines and scope of work in private societies. The committee includes the deputy secretary of the planning department, Mumbai and Pune; assistant/deputy municipal commissioner of the Thane municipal corporation; deputy registrar of Thane; deputy commissioner of Konkan, Nashik and Nagpur divisions; district planning officer of Pune, Thane and Mumbai city; chief executive officer of Shahapur, Baramati and Ambernath; joint director of the planning department of the state; and deputy commissioner of the municipal council department of the Konkan division. An order was issued by Debashish Chakraborty, upper secretary of the state planning department, giving a two-month deadline for submission of the report to the government after which the state will take the final decision. This might help the state government ahead of elections in 10 municipal corporations including the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), municipal councils, and 25 zilla parishads.About the development, Chetan Tupe, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA of the Hadapsar assembly constituency, said, “It is a good decision and is needed to tackle the problems of rapid urbanisation in the city and fringe areas. Most of the middle class lives in societies and they are regular and honest taxpayers and MLAs’ LAD funds are nothing but taxpayers’ money. Till date, there were limitations in terms of using funds in private societies but the Mahavikas Aghadi (MVA) government has now decided to use them. Over the last few years, new societies have developed a mechanism to use maintenance charges for the development of the society. However, old societies do not have the financial support to generate funds for development so this decision will help them a lot. We should have new provisions or amendments in old laws or rules for the welfare of the public.”Sunil Tingre, MLA of the Wadgaonsheri constituency, said, “This will help provide better infrastructure to societies including light, internal roads, drainage and water supply. It is the basic things that people want from the government or the local administration. Our funds will be utilised for a good cause. At present, we have limited scope as regards usage of funds and this is true for most local corporators and MLAs. Typically, the funds are used in slum areas or localities not covered under private societies which is unfair to societies.”Suhas Patwardhan, chairman of the Pune District Cooperative Federation, said, “There are around 11,000 housing societies in the Pune city area. The decision is good if the intention is to use MLA funds for the development of societies. However, there should be no politicisation and political agenda. There are old societies which really need help to develop basic infrastructure. Again, these funds cannot be used for things like benches, name plates and garbage bins. They should be put to productive use based on the society’s needs rather than the MLA’s whims. After all, it is public money and should not be wasted on fancy, unproductive things, which is being witnessed at the corporation level.”Back in September 2017, the state decided to allow MLAs to use LAD funds for social, cultural, literary, educational, environmental, and sports activities with prior approval of the government (state finance minister). Thereafter, a total 288 MLAs got the opportunity to use LAD funds for works other than development. While MLAs can spend Rs20 lakh in a year for cultural and social events organised by NGOs, they cannot spend more than Rs5 lakh on each activity. The LAD funds enable each MLA to undertake small developmental works in their constituencies through an allocation of Rs2 crore per year. The works are on a micro scale and fall within the jurisdiction of the MLA’s constituency, and typically include works that may have been overlooked by the local administration in its annual budget. After submission of the proposal by the MLA, the district authority is mandated to implement the same within three months of acceptance of the proposal. The objective of the LAD funds is to strengthen the local community infrastructure, including roads, school buildings, drinking water, public health, sanitation, electricity, health and family welfare, irrigation and so on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mlas-mlcs-to-use-lad-funds-for-private-societies-state-101629824823392.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Rashmi Shukla report: Will try to resolve issue of documents with CBI, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday adjourned the hearing of the application filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) raising a grievance against the state government’s refusal to part with the documents related to its probe in the April 21 first information report (FIR) registered against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. The adjournment was prompted after the counsel for the state informed the bench that they have approached higher officials and will have a meeting with CBI counsel to work out the issue amicably.The CBI approached the HC stating that though the court, through its July 22 order, had permitted the investigating agency to continue its investigations into the allegations made by former commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla in her report, wherein she alleged political interference and corruption in transfers and postings of police officers in the state, the state was not cooperating and was resorting to threatening its officers. On August 20, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the CBI application seeking directions to the state government to provide documents on the FIR lodged against Deshmukh and others, had questioned the state as to why it was not handing over the documents. “In the July 22 ruling (dismissing pleas by Deshmukh and state against CBI FIR), we just said that even if the documents are handed over to CBI, it would not give CBI unfettered powers to use them to investigate every posting. You cannot object to sharing those documents. At this stage, please consider giving them,” the bench had said.On Tuesday, senior advocate Rafiq Dada for the state submitted he along with senior counsel Darius Khambata had approached the higher authorities and would be able to reconcile the situation after which they would hold a meeting with the additional solicitor general Anil Singh who represents the CBI and try to resolve the matter. “We want to put an end to this,” said Dada. The bench accepted the same and granted time to find a solution and posted further hearing to Thursday, August 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rashmi-shukla-report-will-try-to-resolve-issue-of-documents-with-cbi-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-101629824644014.html
24-08-2021||Other||Man murders woman he was in extra-marital affair with, cuts up body to dispose of around Pune||PUNE A 30-year-old married man has been arrested for murdering and cutting up the body of a woman, in order to dispose it in separate locations around Pune.The arrested man was identified as Hanumant Shinde, a resident of Budhwar peth, while the deceased woman was identified as Rojina Razia Pansare, alias Kavita Choudhury (30), according to police.The officials of anti extortion cell -1 of Pune police crime branch, led by inspector Mahendra Jagtap, followed Shinde before bringing him in for questioning, based on information gathered by police naik Rajendra Landge.The man had rented a flat in Narayan peth where the woman used to livem, while Shinde lived with his wife, according to police.“He used to visit the woman from time to time. As Hanumant Shinde was married, he used to go home and that angered the woman. She used to verbally abuse him and ask him to stay back with her and live with her. On August 12, he went to her house where Rajina lias Kavita, asked him why he had not come home in the day and started verbaly abusing him. He then strangled her to death, locked the house, and fled to Akkalkot,” read a police statement.However, Shinde returned one day after fleeing and went to her house with a four-wheeler tempo, cut her body in three parts and stuffed them in two tarpaulin bags. He hauled the bags to the truck and hurled them in different directions and locations between Bhugaon and Lavasa ghat, according to police.Her friends lodged a missing person’s complaint at Faraskhana police station which was under investigation due to her suspicious disappearance, according to the police.The body parts were recovered and sent to Sassoon General Hosptial for post mortem while the missing person’s case at Faraskhana was turned into a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (detruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code registered at Vishrambaug police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-murders-woman-he-was-in-extra-marital-affair-with-cuts-up-body-to-dispose-of-around-pune-101629824343278.html
24-08-2021||Other||Pune district has names of 1,900 minors who have lost one or both parents due to Covid; verification now on||After the devastating second Covid wave, the administration has bee gathering data of all aged below 18 years, who have been orphaned or have lost a parent due to the pandemic. The women and child welfare department (WCD) committee of Pune district has received 1,900 names of children who have lost one or both parents due to Covid. Of this, 53 minors have lost both parents. According to officials, this is preliminary information and the number may vary after the background checks and verifications. “We have taken help of various agencies in the district such as the Pune Municipal Corporation, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, and rural administration, to gather the information. As per official instructions, the data is from March 2020, when the pandemic began. Of these 1,900 minors, information of 1,600 has been updated,” said Param Anand, district child protection officer. Of the 53 minors in the district who have lost both parents to the pandemic Anand said the district has custody of 10 children, who have been relocated to government facilities. “There are 43 living with close relatives,” said Anand. The state government has announced a ₹5 lakh fixed deposit for orphaned children, which will be handed over when they turn 18. Until then, financial aid will be given to the minors under the Balsangopan Yojana. Women and child welfare officials have reached out to families that reported Covid-19 deaths with counseling, legal and financial aid. The process for enrolment of orphaned children, whose extended family members are not able to look after them, is ongoing. “We have received these entries through secondary sources such as PMC, PCMC, and rural administration. So we need to verify the information and collect the appropriate documents so that the children will get the benefit of the schemes. Apart from orphans, we have approached almost 1,200 children who have lost one of their parents to see if they need help of any kind,” said Param Anand. Number of minors who lost parent(s) due to CovidAs of August 24PMC - 407CMC - 325Rural - 748Municipal councils - 158 Source: Pune district women and child welfare department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-has-names-of-1-900-minors-who-have-lost-one-or-both-parents-due-to-covid-verification-now-on-101629823984356.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Body of Nepali woman claimed by family, last rites conducted||The body of a 22-year-old woman from Nepal, which remained unclaimed at Sion hospital for 17 days after succumbing to injuries in a train accident, has finally been claimed by her family.Thanks to the efforts of Vashi GRP, her family members learned about her death in Nepal and came to Mumbai to receive her body.Police said that the woman, Kalu Pariyar, was a native of Dhangadi region of Nepal and had come to work in Mumbai a few years ago. She did various odd jobs in the city. On July 22, she suffered severe injuries on her head after she was hit by a train near Sanpada station and the GRP admitted her to Sion hospital in Mumbai. Vishnu Kesarkar, senior inspector of Vashi GRP, said, “Just after the accident, she told us that she was from Nepal and stayed in Andheri. We then searched for her relatives in Andheri but to no avail. One of her documents also had an address in Bhayandar, but we could not find anyone there either. Meanwhile, her condition deteriorated and she succumbed on August 2.“Around that time, we came across a few members of a Nepali Association in Mumbai and sought their help to find her family members. They then made a video of the incident and sent it to a few news channels in Nepal. A few FM Radio channels also aired the news there. Finally, her family members learned about it and they reached Mumbai last week. We handed over the deceased’s body to her elder brother, Naresh Pariyar, 24, and they conducted the last rites at a Chembur crematorium.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-body-of-nepali-woman-claimed-by-family-last-rites-conducted-101629823983947.html
24-08-2021||Kolkata||At meeting, Bengal BJP leaders told about district leaders, workers staying away after poll defeat||A sizeable section of district leaders and workers are skipping party meetings and events, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state and central leaders were told at an internal meeting held in Kolkata on Monday to review organizational strength after the March-April assembly polls, HT has learnt.The feedback was given by BJP units in South 24 Parganas and Kolkata where the party could not win any seat. A number of mandal committee (local unit) presidents were absent from the closed-door meeting, BJP leaders said on condition of anonymity. This was the first review meeting. It was attended by the BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, Bengal state president Dilip Ghosh and state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty. More meetings will be held in the coming weeks. “The party wants to review its organizational strength since polls in around a hundred civic bodies will be held in the coming months. The feedback we received was not encouraging. While some people did not attend, those who did, said footfall at meetings and public events has gone down after the poll results were announced on May 2,” said a state BJP leader who did not want to be named. “Fear of reprisal from Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers was cited as one of the reasons for absenteeism. The district unit leaders also admitted that many people who left the TMC and switched sides prior to the polls are feeling disillusioned. Mandal committee presidents from South 24 Parganas and Kolkata said workers were unhappy with the selection of candidates in several constituencies. They complained that their opinions were not taken into account,” said a second BJP leader. “Although Shivprakash and the state leaders could not work out an instant solution, the district leaders were told to register their grievances. They were given a phone number and an e-mail address. Shivprakash assured them that the national election committee would be apprised of the situation,” the BJP leader added. Dilip Ghosh said after the meeting that the district leaders were also told to co-operate with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which has been asked by the Calcutta high court to probe the charges of post-poll violence.BJP leader and lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal said she is touring the districts to record more complaints. “On Monday, several complaints were lodged at Dantan, Ghatal and Belda police stations in West Midnapore district,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/at-meeting-bengal-bjp-leaders-told-about-district-leaders-workers-staying-away-after-poll-defeat-101629823864736.html
24-08-2021||Other||PMC denies sanctioning road work on Baner-Pashan hills; area residents claim debris shows otherwise||PUNE: After locals and environmental activists complained about the sudden dumping of rubble and debris to create a road cutting through the Baner-Pashan hills, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Smart City officials on Tuesday visited the area and assured citizens of removing the debris and acting against those responsible for it.Initially, members of Vasundhara Abhiyaan, an NGO working in the field of the environment, and the locals brought the dumping of debris to the notice of the authorities. “We were on our weekly survey of tree plantation on the hills when we noticed that a lot of debris and rubble had been piled high alongside the narrow road from behind the Pan Card club. We climbed up only to see that the rubble had been flattened to look like a kuchcha road and immediately alerted the citizens of the area and called the authorities,” said Deepak Shrotri of Vasundhara Abhiyaan.Meanwhile, officials of both the PMC and Smart City on Tuesday said they had not authorised any work on the road.Arun Godbole, chief engineer, PSPDCL, said, “We stopped work on July 6, 2019 and no work has been allowed since. All excavations were carried out on land excluding the BDP (bio-diversity park) area. Only 40 to 70 metre under the BDP was touched, which is less than 0.5% of the total BDP area. We have decided to reassess and align the road with the existing road, thus protecting the hills. We have not given any permission for this road.”Dinkar Gojare from the PMC road department said, “The PMC has not awarded any tenders or orders for any road to be developed in this area as we do not have the budget. This is not sanctioned by us.”Sandip Khalate, assistant commissioner of the Aundh ward office who was on site with his engineers and surveyed the area along with corporators Ganesh Kalamkar and Prahlad Saikar, said that he would write to the health department to clear the debris and rubble before it caused any harm due to the rains.Following these assurances, the residents then filed a complaint against those responsible and sent letters to the PMC and Smart City to take further action.Back in 2019, the residents had similarly raised an alarm over Smart City’s plan to build a road alongside the tekdi, cutting across its slopes. At the time, Rajendra Jagtap, the then chief executive officer of the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited, had given in to the residents’ demands to protect the Baner-Pashan hills and agreed to reconsider constructing the road and compromising the hills that were part of a BDP area. “We had then too stated that we are not against the road but we need to protect the hills and need to reassess the need for an 18 metre road as against the recommendation of a nine metre one,” said Vaishali Patkar, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-denies-sanctioning-road-work-on-baner-pashan-hills-area-residents-claim-debris-shows-otherwise-101629823563229.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: 15-year-old beaten to death in Kalamboli||A 15-year-old boy from Kharghar was beaten to death by unidentified people in Kalamboli in the early hours of Monday.Police said that the victim was a Class 9 student and was addicted to alcohol and ganja. His family earlier stayed in Kalamboli, hence he had a lot of friends from that area.Sanjay Patil, senior inspector of Kalamboli police station, said, “The teenager had the habit of staying at his friends’ houses. On Sunday night, he left for Kalamboli to meet some friends and did not return home. His body was found near a dairy at Sector 5 the next morning.“We spotted injury marks on his body. Prima facie, it appears that he was beaten to death by the unidentified accused. We are investigating further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-15-year-old-beaten-to-death-in-kalamboli-101629823324071.html
24-08-2021||Other||Yuva Sena’s Pune FIR one of three against Narayan Rane||PUNE Controversial remarks by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Narayan Rane, Union minister of micro, small and medium enterprises, resulted in three FIRs being filed against him on Tuesday, one of which is in Pune.Speaking at a public event in Raigad, Rane criticised Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly forgetting the year in which India gained independence, during a speech Thackeray made on August 15.“I would have given him a tight slap,” Rane said, speaking to journalists during his ongoing Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Raigad on Monday. A case has since been registered against Rane in Pune, while another case was filed by the cybercell of the Nashik Police, ordering for arrest. The third FIR has been registered in Mahad.“Yes, a case has been registered,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police, Pune.The complaint against Rane was lodged by Rohit Kadam of the Pune unit of the Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena, at the Chaturshrungi police station.A case under Sections 153, 153B(1)(c), and 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Chaturshrungi police station. Senior police inspector Rajkumar Vaghchaure is investigating the case.BJP leaders said that despite the cases, Rane’s yatra will continue. The yatra has currently reached Chiplun, where police have increased security considering strong reactions from the Shiv Sena. “Rane has an aggressive style of saying things. His is a style also known as ‘Balasaheb Thackeray’s style’,” said BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam. Another complaint was lodged at the cyber police station of Nashik police by Sudhakar Bhika Badgujar, head of Nashik city unit of Shiv Sena. A case under Sections 500, 505(2), 153B(1)(c) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Cyber police station, Nashik.A case under similar sections and complaint was also registered in Mahad, Raigad.BJP leaders said that despite the cases, Rane’s yatra will continue. The yatra has currently reached Chiplun, where police have increased security considering strong reactions from the Shiv Sena. However, after his anticipatory bail was rejected, the union minister was arrested by the Ratnagiri police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yuva-sena-s-pune-fir-one-of-three-against-narayan-rane-101629823143150.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sachin Vaze moves NIA court for treatment at private hospital||Dismissed encounter specialist Sachin Vaze has moved the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court to allow him to take treatment at a private hospital, claiming that he had three major heart blockages.The NIA had arrested Vaze on March 13 in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden Scorpio found parked near industrialists Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence on February 25 with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a note threatening to kill the Ambani family members.Vaze has been suffering from chest pain since August 12 and is undergoing treatment at Sir JJ Hospital.Special NIA judge Prashant R Sitre was informed about the plea on Saturday when the judicial custody of Vaze and other four accused — dismissed assistant inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, inspector Sunil Mane, Vinayak Shinde and bookie Naresh Gor ended.“When I asked Vaze to be joined on video conference for extension of his judicial custody, I came to know Vaze was being taken to JJ Hospital from the jail since August 12. His lawyers are informed about the treatment, but neither the lawyers, nor NIA officers, nor the jail authorities informed me about it,” judge Sitre told Vaze’s counsel advocate Raunak Naik on Tuesday.Naik informed the court that Vaze had three blockages, including two to the extent of 90% and in the past, he has been advised to undergo bypass surgery.Naik moved separate applications on Tuesday before the court for allowing family members to meet Vaze at JJ Hospital, for home food and for allowing Vaze to take treatment at a private hospital.The court rejected his first application for allowing him to meet his family members after NIA special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves opposed it.The court is likely to decide on other two applications for home food and treatment at a private hospital on August 27, after NIA stated that the agency was waiting for Vaze’s fresh medical reports from JJ Hospital.On Saturday the court had extended the judicial custody of Vaze and four other accused including Kazi, Mane, Shinde and Gor after the NIA made a statement that it will file a charge-sheet against them on September 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sachin-vaze-moves-nia-court-for-treatment-at-private-hospital-101629823023770.html
24-08-2021||Other||Rane arrest: Legal experts don’t see “enough ingredients” in FIR; BJP targets Nashik CP||PUNE From controversial remarks made by Union minister Narayan Rane, to his arrest within a span of 24 hours, high drama unfolded in Maharashtra between Monday and Tuesday. Legal and constitutional experts, however, differed on the action taken against Rane, even as they criticised his remarks. As per Parliamentary privileges, a member of Parliament is not “liable for arrest or detention in prison, under a civil process, during the continuance of a session of the House or meetings of any committees, of which he may be a member, and during forty days before and after such session/meeting.” However, members of parliament are provided no such freedom from arrest in criminal cases. Citing legal provisions, BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said the police can’t “just arrest Rane”. Ulhas Bapat, constitutional expert, said the case is political and he doesn’t see enough material in sections invoked by police. “First of all, Rane should not have made those remarks, which shows how the political discourse has been lowered in Maharashtra. However, If we have to see the sections in the FIR, I don’t see enough ingredients for the police,” said Bapat. Criminal lawyer Milind Pawar said, “Police have discretion to act against persons making such remarks. Since the local court in Ratnagiri has rejected anticipatory bail, the judge has seen some merit in the FIR. At the same time, we should keep in mind that this is a political case and it will have political repercussions.” The action (arrest) against Rane came following three FIRs filed against him, one each in Pune, Nashik and Mahad. However, when Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey ordered Narayan Rane arrested for his “would have slapped the chief minister” remark, by constituting a team under a DCP level officer, it raised eyebrows and drew a strong reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Former chief minister and leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the Nashik police commissioner’s approach seems motivated. “This would have been a non-cognisable offence. However, Nashik CP thinks he is above everyone. The way he has given directions for Rane’s arrest suggests his actions are motivated. The government on its part is misusing the police force,” said Fadnavis. The detailed order by Pandey, who constituted a team under deputy commissioner Sanjay Barkund, was questioned by the BJP, in terms of his powers to arrest Rane, a union minister with privileges. According to Pandey, the Nashik cybercell filed an FIR against Rane under section 500, 505(2), 153 (b) (1) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “Considering the seriousness of the issue, I have asked DCP-level officer Sanjay Barkund to constitute a team and produce Rane before the court after arresting him,” said Pandey in a written order, a copy of which, is with Hindustan Times. The team under Barkund was dispatched to Chiplun where Rane is holding his Jan-Ashirwad yatra. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Rane said he would have “tightly slapped” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly being ignorant of the country’s year of independence. Earlier in the day, when arrest order was questioned by Rane and the BJP, Pandey clarified that rule of law will be followed and police will ensure privileges attached to the union minister will not be breached. “We are following rule of law. Rane is a member of Rajya Sabha. Therefore, the Rajya Sabha president will be informed about Rane after his arrest. We will also inform the local court post our action. The decision to arrest and my order in this regard is based on the facts of the case and I would like to state here that police will ensure no privileges will be breached during our action,” said Pandey. “No state government/authorities can arrest any Union cabinet minister as per the constitutional provisions. If the police go ahead and act, they will face the brunt of the court,” said Patil in Pune. The BJP state unit chief also brought up previous controversial remarks by Thackeray, when no action was taken. “Uddhav Thackeray had used similar language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. His language at the Dussehra rally was equally objectionable,” said Patil. An Indian Police Service officer of the 1999 batch, Pandey took charge as Nashik CP in September 2020. Earlier too, Pandey was in focus when he ordered a probe against Sena minister Anil Parab, under the same DCP Sanjay Barkund, who headed the team to arrest Rane. Pandey had earlier, on May 27, ordered an inquiry into the allegation of corruption in transfers and posting against Parab and others, saying the probe will be completed soon. After the probe, Parab was given clean chit by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rane-arrest-legal-experts-don-t-see-enough-ingredients-in-fir-bjp-targets-nashik-cp-101629822903795.html
24-08-2021||Other||MVA alliance members take to Pune’s streets to protest against Rane||PUNE: Workers of the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) staged a protest in Pune on Tuesday against remarks made by Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, the BJP’s Narayan Rane. The Shiv Sena agitation turned violent when workers pelted stones at a mall in Deccan Gymkhana. The mall is owned by the Rane family. The sainiks shouted slogans against Rane, who on Monday said “he would have slapped” Shiv Sena leader and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray “for his ignorance about the year in which India gained its independence”. Sena workers warned that whenever Rane and his two sons arrive in Pune, the Sena would once again stage a protest. Party workers also agitated in front of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office on Jangli Maharaj road.BJP workers then went to the Shiv Sena office located at Pulachi Wadi near Deccan and also staged a protest. The BJP workers carried a cat along with them, implying that though the Shiv Sena’s political symbol is the tiger, the party’s attitude is best represented by a cat right now. When the Ratnagiri police arrested Rane on Tuesday evening, the BJP’s city unit agitated at the Balgandharva chowk, calling the arrest illegal. BJP’s city unit president Jagdish Mulik led the agitation.Members of the Maha Vikas Agadhi (MVA) also organised a protest at Mandai in front of the statue of Lokmanya Tilak.NCP city president Prashant Jagtap, Congress city unit president Ramesh Bagwe and Sena leaders participated in the agitation. Jagtap said, “Maharashtra’s political culture is different. Though Rane has become minister, he has used foul language against the chief minister. It is wrong that the BJP supports such language.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mva-alliance-members-take-to-pune-s-streets-to-protest-against-rane-101629822903228.html
24-08-2021||Other||Five minor girls drown in pond||Five minor girls drowned in a pond at a village in East Champaran on Tuesday afternoon, the police said.The incident took place at Shivpurvirata village under Ramgarhwa police station limits when one of the girls fell into a pond while catching fish. Others rushed to her rescue and drowned too, police said. “The bodies have been sent for autopsy,” said Santosh Sharma, station house officer (SHO) of Ramgarhwa police station.The deceased have been identified as sisters Seema Kumari (4) and Koshika Kumari (10), Sugi Kumari, Sangeeta Kumari and Shobha Kumari (12). They all were residents of Shivpurvirata village falling under Ahirauliya panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-minor-girls-drown-in-pond-101629822311468.html
24-08-2021||Patna||Patna-Delhi Rajdhani to have Tejas coaches from Sept 1||The East Central Railway (ECR) have introduced newly upgraded Tejas sleeper coaches with enhanced smart features in Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Rajdhani Express train from September 1.According to an ECR press release issued on Tuesday, all main entrance doors are centralized and controlled by guards. All coaches have been provided with automatic fire alarm and detection system. CCTV cameras with day night vision capability, facial recognition even in low light condition and network video recorder are provided have been installed in each coach.Two LCD screens inside each of these coaches will display vital journey related information to the passengers as the next station, distance remaining, expected time of arrival, delay and safety related messages. “Other features include toilet door sensors, panic switch, emergency talk back system for medical or security, bio vacuum toilet system, water level sensor to indicate water availability on real time basis, improved interiors and berth reading lights,” said chief public relation officer of ECR Rajesh Kumar. Seats and berths having fire – resistant silicon foam, provide better comfort and safety to passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnadelhi-rajdhani-to-have-tejas-coaches-from-sept-1-101629822310409.html
24-08-2021||Patna||Bihar: Panchayat polls schedule out, voting begins on Sept 24||The 11-phase election for over 2.55 lakh representatives of the three-tier panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) will begin in Bihar on September 24 and end on December 12, according to the notification announced by state election commissioner (SEC) Deepak Prasad in Patna on Tuesday. Votes will be counted on the following day of polling of each phase of the election during which about 6.39 crore electors are expected to vote.At a press conference on Tuesday, SEC Prasad said electronic voting machines (EVMs) would be used for the first time in the rural bodies elections. “However, elections for panch and sarpanch will be conducted through the ballot papers. Polling for mukhiya, panchayat samiti members, panchayat members and zila parishad members will be held through EVMs,” he said. In the first phase of election on September 24, polling will be held in 2,119 booths in 12 blocks spread across 10 districts of Kaimur, Rohtas, Gaya, Nawada, Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Arwal, Munger, Jamui and Banka. In the last phase of election on December 12, polling will be held in 38 blocks of 20 districts, areas mostly affected currently by floods. The last panchayat elections were held five years ago in 10 phases, which had nearly 6.44 crore electors. “The number of electors and panchayat bodies have been reduced due to reorganisation of urban bodies, in which 315 panchayats lost their existence and 186 panchayats were partially hit,” said the SEC, adding that about 1 lakh polling personnel would be engaged along with nearly 90,000 security personnel. The candidates will have online and physical arrangement for filing their nominations, which has been scheduled phase-wise. “Like in assembly elections, we have decided to appoint micro-observers for the first time in panchayat elections. Any case of poll code violations will be dealt with firmly,” said Prasad, adding that the commission had received around 2.21 lakh EVMs against its requirement of 2.56 lakh.About 2 lakh ballot boxes will be used in the elections to elect sarpanchs and panchs to make up for the absence of EVMs with desired specifications. Of the total representatives for PRIs, there will be 8,072 mukhiyas, 1,13,307 panchayat members, 11,104 panchayat samiti members, 1160 zila parishad members, 8,072 gram kutchery sarpanch and 1,13,307 gram kutchery panchs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-schedule-out-voting-begins-on-sept-24-101629822308399.html
24-08-2021||Patna||Goods train derail, no casualty reported||Thirteen wagons of a goods train carrying coal derailed on the Tilaiya-Rajgir rail section of the Danapur division in East Central railway on Tuesday, affecting the movement of freight trains. No casualty has been reported so far. “The train was on its way to Bihar’s Barh from Tilaiya in Jharkhand when it derailed near Nekpur village of Rajgir,” said CPRO of the East Central Railway. He further said that it might take 10 hours to restore the services on the Tilaiya rail section. When asked about the reason for derailment, he said, “We cannot ascertain the reason as of now. Track parameter was normal and there was no defect in the wagons. We will have to check what happened.” Soon after receiving the information, Railway authorities reached the spot and cleared the track. There was no human presence at the site when the accident took place, CPRO Rajesh Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/goods-train-derail-no-casualty-reported-101629822307294.html
24-08-2021||Patna||Two para athletes from Bihar part of Indian team in Tokyo Paralympics||Two para athletes from Bihar are part of India’s 54- member contingent at the Tokyo Paralympics 2020, which began Tuesday. Sharad Kumar from Muzaffarpur will be participating in the T63 category high jump contest while Pramod Bhagat from Vaishali will be participating in the SL3 category of para badminton at the event. Shivaji Kumar, former disabilities commissioner, who is leading the Indian team at Tokyo Paralympics, said this is for the first time two players from Bihar have qualified for this event. “In 2016 Paralympics also , there was a player from the state who represented the country at the international event held at Rio, “ he said. “We have high hopes from them as both have been ranked number one at the world level. We expect medals,” he said. Sandeep Kumar, director of the para sports association of Bihar, said, “Sharad Kumar and Pramod Bhagat have been staying in other states for the last several months for practice. Though we offered them training in initial years, the space and the infrastructure they needed for practice are not available here. So they had shifted to other states.” Shivaji Kumar said para sports started in the state in 2000. “ It was held at the Moin-ul Haq stadium at Rajendra Nagar in state capital with 200 para sportspersons. I had to motivate persons with disabilities to participate in the event. Families of such persons too could not believe that physically challenged persons could do this. But the event turned out to be a grand success and since then, it is held every year in the city,” he said. These days, the event is held at Patliputra Sports Complex and is attended by nearly 1,000 participants, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-para-athletes-from-bihar-part-of-indian-team-in-tokyo-paralympics-101629822306189.html
24-08-2021||Patna||AIIMS-Patna restores emergency services after one year||Trauma and emergency services resumed on Monday after over a year at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). “As many as 64 patients were examined, of which 24 were admitted, since its reopening after over 13 months on Monday,” said Dr Anil Kumar, additional professor of surgery and head, trauma and emergency department, AIIMS-Patna. Trauma and emergency services were closed for the general public since July 12, 2020, after the state government declared the institute a dedicated Covid-19 hospital on July 10 last year, he added. The institute had to redeploy its manpower and resources to cope with the once burgeoning Covid patient load. It had to suspend many services, including trauma and emergency, outpatient department (OPD) consultation, elective surgeries and admission of non-Covid cases, said officials at the institute. All hospital services have, however, been restored gradually from December 28, last year. Trauma and emergency services are the last among them to be restored now. “We restored our trauma and emergency services from Monday as the number of Covid-19 patients seeking admission at our institute has come down,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh, director, AIIMS-Patna. The AIIMS had only one patient admitted in its Covid-19 ward as on date. There were no new admissions in the Covid ward between August 13 and 19. “We have reduced the number of beds in our Covid ward to 30 while deciding to restore all our services. We restored full OPD services around a month back. As many as 16 operation theatres (OTs) of the available 28 are now functional. Of them, two OTs are dedicated for trauma and emergency,” said Dr Singh. The trauma and emergency department at AIIMS accords priority to the admission of acute trauma cases instead of those transferred from other hospitals and nursing homes. “Given the limited number of beds — there are 60 beds in the trauma and emergency wing — we give priority to acute trauma cases instead of transferred cases from other health facilities. In case of referrals, we expect to have proper communication with the health facility referring its patient to us before they actually send them,” said Dr Kumar. He said the trauma and emergency wing had proactively treated non-Covid cases of hospital staff, their relatives and those brought by the police with gunshot injury or road traffic accident during the 11-month closure period. As many as 5,115 patients were reported to the AIIMS trauma and emergency wing between April 1, 2020, and March 31 this year, added Dr Kumar. The Bihar government had declared AIIMS a centre of excellence for the management of Covid-19 in the state last year. The AIIMS extended treatment to over 5,700 Covid-19 patients, of which around 1,300 succumbed to the virus..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aiimspatna-restores-emergency-services-after-one-year-101629822305066.html
24-08-2021||Patna||North Bihar to receive heavy rain till Aug 27||Most places over the northeast and northwest parts of the state received moderate to heavy during the past 24 hours, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday. The state is likely to experience enhanced rain activities owing to the active monsoon system over Bihar till Friday, said meteorologists here.As per the daily bulletin issued, Motihari received 119mm rain, Kishanganj 112mm, Patahi 72mm, Mehshi 72mm in the past 24 hours.Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted widespread to fairly widespread rain in the northern region in Bihar. According to the weather forecast bulletin, heavy rain is likely to occur at one or two places in Gopalganj, Supaul, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Araria, Katihar, Siwan, West Champaran, Shivhar, Kishanganj on Wednesday and Thursday.Explaining weather mechanism, weatherman CK Singh, “The monsoon trough is passing through Ferozepur, Panipat, Meerut, and Gorakhpur and thence north-eastwards along the foothills of Himalayas. Apart from this, winds carrying moisture from the Bay of Bengal has also entered North Bihar. Under the influence, heavy rain is likely at few places over north Bihar while light to moderate rain at rest of places.” The MeT centre has also issued a yellow-colour alert for lightning and thunderstorm across the state till August 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/north-bihar-to-receive-heavy-rain-till-aug-27-101629822303942.html
24-08-2021||Other||B.Tech student shot dead||A B.Tech third-year student was allegedly shot dead on Tuesday near Majhli Chowk under Madhubani police outpost in Purnia town area, police said.The incident took place when the victim, identified as Harsh Kumar Jha, was going to DAV chowk with his two friends Sanu Singh and Prakash Kumar around 10 am. Three bike-borne criminals intercepted them and allegedly shot dead Harsh. “We took him to Sadar hospital in Purnia where the doctor declared him brought dead,” Sonu said. Purnia superintendent of police (SP) Daya Shankar said, “We have got the names of some suspects and raids are on to nab the killers. Parents and relatives of the deceased have not lodged an FIR yet.” ₹21 lakh lootedIn another incident, six armed men on two bikes allegedly looted ₹21 lakh from cattle merchants near Godiyar High School under Tikapatti police station around 9 am on Tuesday.Purnia SP said, “The merchants have not yet lodged an FIR in this regard. However, police have started probing the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/btech-student-shot-dead-101629822245779.html
24-08-2021||Patna||Two Maoists held for threatening to blow up rly halt||The police have arrested two alleged Maoists who threatened to blow up a railway halt between Jamui-Giddhaur railway stations on July 31. The arrested Maoists have been identified as Bhairav Yadav alias Gehuman and his associate Sunil Yadav, police said. The movement of trains on Howrah-Patna rail section was stopped for two hours due to threat. Jamui superintendent of police Pramod Kumar Mandal the two were recently released from jail. Explosive powder, gel, electric wires, mobile phones, batteries, detonators and Maoist literature were seized from them, he said.“The probe has revealed that the plan was hatched inside Sheikhpura district jail where the two were lodged,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-maoists-held-for-threatening-to-blow-up-rly-halt-101629822244903.html
24-08-2021||Ranchi||Union health minister inaugurates Deoghar AIIMS OPD||The much-awaited outpatient department (OPD) at the newly established AIIMS in Deoghar was inaugurated on Tuesday by the Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, two months after the scheduled opening was cancelled on June 26 following a showdown between the state administration and the local BJP parliamentarian Nishikant Dubey.On Tuesday, the Union health minister inaugurated the OPD virtually from New Delhi while the local MP, the local MLA and other dignitaries were present at the AIIMS campus for the occasion. The Union health minister also inaugurated a night shelter at the facility for the patients and attendants. Chief Minister Hemant Soren was also invited to the virtual inauguration. However, he skipped the event and state tourism minister Hafizul Hassan, also an MLA from Deoghar district attended the event on his behalf at the AIIMS campus.State health minister Banna Gupta also attended the inauguration event virtually. The inauguration came as a big relief for the locals as the facility would bring quality healthcare in the temple town as the controversy surrounding its opening had even reached the Jharkhand High Court after the Hemant Soren government had filed a petition seeking for the OPD to be made operational at the earliest. The court had fixed the next date of hearing on August 26.Addressing the event, the Union health minister said the Narendra Modi government was working in boosting health care facilities across the country. “I am pleased to inaugurate the OPD services and night shelter in temple town Deoghar. The Prime Minister had laid the foundation of this hospital in May 2018. While the OPD would provide health service to the locals, people coming from far off places would have the option of staying back in the night shelter,” he said.The AIIMS campus is coming up in the Devipur area on the outskirts of the temple town. With the inauguration of the OPD services, around 200 patients would be able to avail the services of a dozen specialist doctors of different medical departments every day. A 15-bed daycare facility has been set up for the patients coming to the OPD for treatment at the 4-room complex set up at the institute. Around 20 kinds of pathological test facilities have been arranged at the centre, officials said.Earlier, speaking on the occasion, Member of Parliament Nishikant Dubey hit out at the district administration for not completing some critical aspects of the project. “Installing big cutouts would not be enough. The DC should explain why there has been a delay in the land acquisition and widening of the road near the institute,” Dubey said in his short speech.State tourism minister Hafizul Hassan reminded the contribution made by the state government that has provided land for the institute and also suggested the Centre increase fund allocation as done for AIIMS in other states..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/union-health-minister-inaugurates-deoghar-aiims-opd-101629822243577.html
24-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's new Covid-19 rules offer some respite for flyers from UK, Europe, Middle East||The Karnataka government on Tuesday announced that the passengers arriving from the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East at state’s airports have been exempted from waiting for the results of RT-PCR tests. It also said that the decision has been made based on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state and the spread of Delta variants across the country.“The passengers arriving from the UK, Europe and Middle East on arrival at Kempegowda International Airport and other entry airports in Karnataka, shall provide the sample and leave the airport for further compliance as per the SoP (standard operating procedure),” the government order said.Excempting RT-PCR testing of arrivals from UK, Europe and Middle East in Airports of Karnataka.@CMofKarnataka @mla_sudhakar @hublimandi @Kalaburgivarthe @drmsbc @drmubl @DrmMys @Namducbpura @bellaryvartha pic.twitter.com/udE6SV681GHowever, passengers arriving from Brazil and South Africa would continue to provide their samples at airports in the state and wait for their results. “On testing negative, they shall leave the airport,” the government said about the passengers from the two countries.Also read | 'New Era': Covid-19 vaccination slots can now be booked on WhatsAppMeanwhile, no other changes were announced to the existing standard operating procedure (SOP). The government also said that strict telemonitoring of the passengers should be ensured and this protocol should periodically be reviewed in relevance to the Covid-19 situation in the state.Earlier, the government had mandated a RT-PCR test at the airport for passengers arriving from the UK, Europe and the Middle East irrespective of a negative test report they carried with them. The government had said that the move was aimed at reducing the risk of the entry of variants of the disease into the state.The state has so far reported 155 cases of the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7), first detected in the UK, according to a bulletin from the government. As far as other variants are concerned, seven cases of the Beta (B.1.351), 1,089 cases of the Delta variant (B.1.617.2), four cases of the Delta plus variant (B.1.617.2.1 or AY.1), 159 cases of the Kappa variant (B.1.617.1) and one case of the Eta variant (B.1.525), the bulletin also showed.On Tuesday, 1,259 people tested positive for the disease and 29 lost their lives, taking the total confirmed infections so far to 2,941,026 cases and the death toll to 37,184. So far, 37,810,499 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-new-covid-19-rules-offer-some-respite-for-flyers-from-uk-europe-middle-east-101629820546406.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||Anomalies in Indo-Nepal border road construction hit SSB mobility: CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India in its audit report has claimed that shortcomings in preparatory works, project execution, monitoring and financial management by Uttar Pradesh public works department (UPPWD) in the construction of road along the Indo-Nepal border under Indo-Nepal Border Road Project (INBRP) has led to non-fulfilment of the objective of the project—mobility of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) to dominate sensitive border effectively.The CAG observed that the ministry of home affairs had approved the INBR project in November 2010 to construct roads of strategic importance along the Indo- Nepal border by March 2016. The SSB was to be benefitted from the project with effective mobility of the troops to dominate the sensitive borders. The UPPWD, the executing agency, was responsible to complete the project in its entirety.The CAG report on general and social sector for the year ending March 31, 2019, was tabled by UP parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna in the state legislative assembly on August 19.In Uttar Pradesh, the UPPWD was implementing the project. The initial alignment of 640 km INB road in the state was revised to 574.59 km, including 257.02 km under 12 sanctioned detailed project reports (DPRs), after a survey. The remaining 16 DPRs for 317.57 km road were yet to be sanctioned as of December 2019. During 2012-20 (upto December 2019) , UPPWD incurred an expenditure of ₹834.50 crore on implementation of the project, the CAG report said.The role of the UPPWD in implementation of the scheme was found to be below par. Even after eight years from the commencement of the project, the DPRs of 56% alignment for the INBR in UP was yet to be approved by central government. The UPPWD had not submitted the revised alignment and forest clearances for these stretches of roads were yet to be obtained, the report added.Even for the 252 km stretches sanctioned by the central government, only 132.64 km (52%) of the sanctioned road length could be completed till December 2019, the CAG observed.The failure of UPPWD in getting the site cleared for construction coupled with acquisition of land at a snail’s pace and delays in forest clearance caused massive delays of 16 to 66 months beyond the stipulated dates for completion of contracts. This led to 42% increase in the construction cost and 164% increase in cost of land acquisition. The SSB border outposts (BOPs) situated off the constructed roads were left without connectivity despite central government covenants to provide connectivity through link roads.The CAG noticed that contract management of road construction was opaque and deficient. Financial bids were opened prior to technical sanction. There were inordinate delays in execution of contracts. Execution of the project was marred by delays in recovery of advances and considerable amounts remained pending. Quality control and monitoring were without requisite oversight by the authorities responsible leading to the possibility of sub- standard construction works on a project of strategic importance.The inadmissible expenditure was incurred from funds provided by the central government due to lack of clarity on the terms and conditions for implementation of the scheme since MoU between the centre and the state government was not finalised, the CAG stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anomalies-in-indo-nepal-border-road-construction-hit-ssb-mobility-cag-101629822011906.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||Rehab university to introduce 7 new vocational courses||LUCKNOW Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMNRU) held its board meeting on Tuesday and decided to introduce changes in its syllabi as per the new National Education Policy (NEP-2020).According to the university administration, the institute will introduce seven new courses of vocational training, including visual arts, stock market awareness etc, along with six new co-curricular activities for its students from the upcoming academic year.The college will also introduce credit-based marking system as per NEP-2020 and allow students to opt for subjects from various faculties. As per National Education Policy, students will have to choose two major subjects and a minor subject in first year. Beside regular courses, the students will be motivated to take up vocational courses and participate in co-curricular activities, according to university officials.It was also decided that the university will begin admission to PhD courses from the upcoming session. The university last enrolled PhD students in 2017.Currently, the institution has over 7,000 students, of which around 1,200 are specially-abled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rehab-university-to-introduce-7-new-vocational-courses-101629821464047.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||Across UP, it’s back to school for Classes 6 to 8||Schools across UP resumed classroom teaching for Classes 6 to 8 with thin to moderate attendance, on Tuesday. Wearing a face shield and masks, students walked excitedly into school premises after a prolonged closure of nearly six months, following the outbreak of the pandemic.According to state government directives, teaching in schools for Classes 1 to 5 is scheduled to begin from September 1.In several government schools, staff welcomed the students with flowers and applied tilak on their forehead. Akansha, a teacher of Purva Midhyamik Vidyalaya, Gautam Buddha Nagar, said, “The enthusiasm among students was a welcome sign.”“I missed school because we had a lot of fun with our friends. We met today after such a long time. It was also a joy meeting our teachers in person. I also feel that physical classes are much more effective than online ones,” said Sunaina Agarwal, a Class 6 student of a private school in Lucknow.School administrations across the state had made elaborate arrangements for social distancing, thermal scanning etc as students returned to the campus. Schools did away with refreshment breaks, PT classes and held classes in two shifts, as per state government guidelines.At St Joseph School, a sanitisation tunnel was set up at the entrance to ensure safety of students, said Anil Agarwal of the school, who is also the president of the Unaided Private School Association.“We have vaccinated a majority of our staff and aim to vaccinate all by the end of this month. We are also urging parents to get vaccinated. Besides, we are also following all Covid-19 protocols as mandated by the government,” said Meenakshi Bahadur, principal, Study Hall.At City Montessori School (CMS) 10,121 out of 12,690 students attended physical classes on Tuesday. CMS founder Jagdish Gandhi welcomed the government’s decision to reopen schools. “The decision to reopen schools for classes 6 to 8 is a welcome move. The students looked excited. We ensured strict Covid-19 protocols on our campuses to allay concerns of parents. We are also holding classes in two shifts to avoid crowding as per government’s orders,” said Gandhi.At Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial School, Lucknow, nearly 75% students attended school. The attendance in Classes 7 and 8 was near 90%, according to the school management.In sharp contrast, attendance was quite thin at La Martiniere College. Principal Carlyle McFarland said that only 62 students of 1,100 from classes 6 to 8 reached the school for classes.While most school administrations are hopeful that attendance of students will pick up in the coming days, a few city schools have not resumed physical classes at all due to concerns of parents. La Martiniere Girls’ College remained closed for physical classes as most parents declined to send their wards to school.Delhi Public School Shaheedpath also remained closed. “We have not started physical classes for classes for 6 to 8 as most parents refused to send their children. We are going ahead with online classes,” said Principal Manju Lakhanpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/across-up-it-s-back-to-school-for-classes-6-to-8-101629821224855.html
24-08-2021||Other||63-year-old Assam music teacher arrested for molesting minor student||A 63-year-old music teacher has been arrested under the POCSO Act for allegedly molesting a 9-year-old student in Assam’s Silchar. The teacher was arrested after the mother of the victim lodged a complaint in Rongpur Police Patrol Post which operates under Silchar Sadar police station, officials said. According to the mother, her child was molested for several days by the teacher at his home. The child was also threatened by the teacher not to speak about it with anybody at home. “Suddenly my daughter refused to go to music class and when we pressurised her, she started crying. She was also crying while urinating recently. I talked to her and she opened up and informed me about the entire episode. We decided to lodge a complaint against the music teacher. But before that, we wanted to talk to the teacher who admitted his crime. He offered us money and asked to keep this a secret,” the mother said. “We trusted the person because he is an aged man and also a music teacher. He not only physically assaulted my child but also traumatized her mentally by constantly threatening her. As a mother, I don’t want this to happen to any other child, we demand strong action against the person,” she added.Officer in-charge of Rongpur Police Patrol Post, Barsha Borgohain, confirmed receiving an FIR lodged by the mother and immediately arrested the accused from his home. “This is a sensitive matter and we are investigating it thoroughly. The accused will be produced before the court tomorrow,” he said. People privy to the development from the police department have informed that some other students have also alleged facing similar treatment from this music teacher but nobody has lodged an official complaint yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/63yearold-assam-music-teacher-arrested-for-molesting-minor-student-101629820264327.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi reviews preparations for Prez’s Gorakhpur visit||President Ram Nath Kovind will lay the foundation of Ayush University and inaugurate Mahayogi Guru Gorakshanath University at Gorakhpur on August 28. On Tuesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath inspected the spot and reviewed the preparations for President’s visit. The helicopter carrying CM landed at the helipad construction at the programme spot in Bhathat area of Gorakhpur.After inspecting the spot, Yogi directed the officers to maintain sanitation, security, adequate seating arrangements for the invitees besides ensuring that common people did not face any problems during the programme. He also directed the officers to prepare a list of all the invitees.Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath University, a private institution, has been established by Gorakhnath Temple Trust. It has been named after Guru Gorakhnath—the founder of Nath Panth. With two new universities, Gorakhpur will now have four. Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University and Madan Mohan Malviya Technological University are enrolling the students inspiring for higher education.The state government plans to spend ₹815 crore on the construction of Ayush University. The state government has acquired 52-acre land for the university near Pipri and Tarkulhi villages. The PWD has earmarked ₹299.87 crore for the construction work for the university. The Ayush University will be run according to the guidelines of the Central Council of Indian Medicine, regarding the establishment of Ayurveda, Unani, homeopathy, yoga and naturopathy educational institutions in the university, a state government officer said. The state government has decided to affiliate all the 98 Ayurveda, Unani, homeopathy, yoga and naturopathy colleges in the state with the Ayush University. The state government has planned to complete the construction of the administrative building, information and evaluation centre, hospital building, residential block by December 2021, construction of academic block and hostel by June 2022. Guest house, auditorium and other structures are scheduled to be constructed in the third phase. The academic session in the university is likely to commence in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-yogi-reviews-preparations-for-prez-s-gorakhpur-visit-101629820143646.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||Sultanpur family agrees to cremate son after second autopsy of body||LUCKNOW Three weeks after a man from Sultanpur refused to cremate the body of his son, who died in Delhi allegedly under suspicious circumstances and kept it in a deep freezer at home, a panel of doctors conducted a second post-mortem investigation in Sultanpur on Tuesday, following orders from the district administration.SP (Sultanpur) Vipin Kumar Mishra said, “The second post-mortem examination of the body was conducted at the mortuary of the district hospital here around 2pm by a panel of three doctors under the chief medical officer. The doctors secured the post-mortem report. The family has now agreed to perform the last rites of the body.”Shiv Pratap Pathak, a resident of Majhauan village, had kept the body of his son Shivank Pathak, 32, in a deep freezer at his home for the last 22 days. Shivank died in Delhi on August 1, allegedly under suspicious circumstances. The post-mortem of the body was conducted in Delhi and foul play was ruled out, but the father claimed that his son was murdered and had preserved the body in a deep freezer since August 3.On Saturday, the district administration issued a notice to the father, asking him to cremate the body or face action. But no action was taken, allegedly after political intervention.Shiv Pratap Pathak said that he hoped that the post-mortem report would uncover the truth behind his son’s death, “I am hopeful that the post-mortem investigation conducted here will bring out the truth behind the death of my son. I will continue my fight for justice to my son,” said Pathak.Local representatives of political parties, including the BJP, the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), met Shiv Pratap Pathak last week and assured him of their support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sultanpur-family-agrees-to-cremate-son-after-second-autopsy-of-body-101629819483498.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||BJP to carry on Kalyan’s legacy for OBC-Hindutva connect||LUCKNOW After announcing roads named after Kalyan Singh in various parts of UP, the ruling BJP is now mulling naming various schemes after the party’s tallest OBC leader in the state who formed a heady cocktail of backward politics and Hindutva to head the first BJP government in UP in 1991. The Yogi Adityanath government and the state BJP unit are expected to unveil various initiatives aimed at building on Kalyan’s twin OBC-Hindutva connect ahead of the 2022 UP polls. “OBCs are expected to play a big role in 2022 UP polls. Up against mainly the Samajwadi Party, which also commands loyalty among OBCs, the BJP could well look to play up the party’s association with their own big OBC name - Kalyan Singh,” said Prof Manuka Khanna, head of political science department at Lucknow University. A proposal to name Aligarh airport after the late leader could be put up before chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s cabinet and an ‘Asthi Kalash’ Yatra (a journey with urns containing ashes of the departed soul) across the state is also said to be in the works. It is learnt that preparations were underway to immerse Kalyan’s ashes in major rivers of UP, including Ganga in Varanasi and Saryu in Ayodhya. The ashes would be gathered from the banks of Ganga at Narora, some party leaders indicated. Shraddhanjali sabhas (memorial meetings) too would be organised across the state, they said.Kalyan Singh breathed his last after a long illness at Lucknow’s SGPGI on Saturday at 9.15pm. Since his demise, the BJP’s top leadership at the centre and in the state – from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who escorted Kalyan’s mortal remains everywhere for three days – paid glowing tributes to the departed leader who despite his brief fling with the Samajwadi Party, was a “RSS favourite.” Modi had referred to Kalyan Singh’s name and said the late leader lived up to his name. Kalyan is a Hindi word, meaning ‘welfare’ and in the run up to the 2022 UP polls, several schemes or initiatives with Jan ‘Kalyan’ (people’s welfare) written over them are expected to be announced, party leaders confirmed. “We are working on that (naming schemes and projects after the late leader),” a UP minister admitted, adding that the late leader’s name and the meaning it carried were such that it could fit into “virtually anything that we undertake.” Numerically, OBCs are the biggest voting group in the state and that is why in an election year the BJP is planning to connect with OBCs in Kalyan’s name, opined political experts. Kalyan Singh who belonged to the Lodh sub-caste of OBCs was handpicked by RSS veteran late Bhaurao Deoras to head the UP BJP unit in 1984 and subsequently tasked with countering the ‘Mandal’ (caste) agitation with ‘kamandal’ by taking up the issue of temple at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya. The BJP has only recently promoted young Rajya Sabha MP BL Verma, a protégé of Kalyan as the union minister of state who was tasked with carrying out one of the seven ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatras’ in the state. On Tuesday, the BJP’s OBC leaders targeted Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, an OBC too, for not visiting personally to bid adieu to the “biggest OBC leader.” These included state’s labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya, BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from Unnao, Swami Sachidanand Hari Sakshi Maharaj, better known as just Sakshi Maharaj, a Lodh. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP’s OBC face in UP – who announced plan to name several roads in the state after Kalyan Singh, agreed. “We may have ideological differences in politics but there are some common courtesies which SP and even Congress didn’t care to show. That’s pathetic,” said Maurya. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, who too is an OBC, targeted the SP chief too. “He couldn’t travel barely a kilometer to pay tribute to the biggest backward leader. Is it due to vote bank concerns,” the state BJP chief asked. Akhilesh Yadav had conveyed his condolences on the demise of Kalyan Singh describing him as a “great administrator” who would be missed. BSP chief Mayawati had visited the Mall Avenue residence of Kalyan Singh’s grandson Sandip to pay her last respects to the departed soul. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath and BJP chief JP Nadda flew down to Lucknow to pay respects to the departed leader, union home minister Amit Shah along with other union ministers and chief ministers of various BJP ruled states was present when the last rites of late leader were performed on the banks Ganga at Narora, Bulandshahr on Monday. Kalyan’s mortal remains were placed at the Vidhan Bhawan, UP BJP office and subsequently taken to Aligarh where they were placed in a stadium to let his supporters pay their respects. They were also taken to Atrauli before the last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-carry-on-kalyan-s-legacy-for-obc-hindutva-connect-101629819303899.html
24-08-2021||Other||Khap satraps back Kisan Morcha’s proposed Mahapanchayat on Sept 5||MEERUT The proposed Mahapanchayat of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 has received support of many Thambedar of Gathwala Malik Khap who have assured Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Narresh Tikait that members of this Khap will attend and support the Mahapanchayat. Meanwhile, general secretary of Sarv Khap Panchayat Subhash Baliyan is also extending support to the Mahapanchayat. “BKU chief Naresh Tikait and other leaders are convening panchayats in the area to seek support of people and khaps. I hope they will seek support of all khaps in a meeting of Sarv Khap panchayat expected to be convened ahead of the Mahapanchayat”, said Baliyan. BKU chief Naresh Tikait, his son and president of BKU’s youth wing Gaurav Tikait and other leaders are holding meetings and panchayats in villages to mobilise people to attend the Mahapanchayat in a big number to make it a historic event. “Farmers from across the country, including UP, Haryana and Rajasthan, will come to join the Mahapanchayat and it would be a historic event,” said Gaurav who has visited many villages to interact with people ahead of the Mahapanchayat. Meanwhile, BKU chief Naresh Tikait addressed a panchayat in Sarnawali village of Gathwala Khap in Muzaffarnagar on Monday where he described the forthcoming Mahapanchayat as a ‘Dharmyudh’ (crusade) of the farmers. “Those who will skip it will get a bad name in history,” said Tikait and added, “Farmers from the entire country would participate in the Mahapanchayat and it would rewrite the history of farmers’ movements.” Five thambedars (regional chiefs of khap) of Gathwala Malik Khap also attended the panchayat. Appreciating Gathwala Khap, Tikait said that this Khap always stood with farmers. “They are brave. Land is mother and identity of farmers and they will lose their identity if deprived of their land,” he said. Thambedar of Fugana village Veerpal Malik, Ravinder Singh of Laank village and Baba Shyam Singh of Bahawri village said that their identity was from their clan members and assured of extending their full support to the Mahapanchayat. “We are always with those supporting farmers and their issues,” said the Thambedars who also held a meeting in Kharad village on Sunday to discuss how to support the Mahapanchayat. Similar panchayats of Gathwala Khap will be convened in Kurawa village on August 27 and Kudana village (both in Muzaffarnagar district) on August 30 to discuss and ensure ways to support the Mahapanchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khap-satraps-back-kisan-morcha-s-proposed-mahapanchayat-on-sept-5-101629819063397.html
24-08-2021||Other||Pushpak Exp to sport a new look soon, offer more comfort||LUCKNOW: The Mumbai-bound Pushpak Express, bracketed among the city’s most prestigious trains and the vital link which connects the state capital to the country’s financial capital, would soon be seen in a new look, courtesy the North-Eastern Railway’s (NER) modernisation programme. Under this programme, the NER has decided to give a massive facelift to the train for a better journeying experience to the passengers. “The train is a popular one, especially for the Mumbai -bound passengers. Hence, it has been decided to give a better journeying experience to the passengers by giving it a massive facelift,” said Pankaj Kumar Singh, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NER. Under the modernisation, NER officials said the old conventional coaches of the train would be replaced with plush Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches, based on German technique. The coaches are designed to offer more comfort to the passengers boarding the train. These coaches were earlier only restricted to high-end trains like Swarna Shatabdi, Garib Rath and series of Rajdhanis that were known for comfort. “But now, the passengers travelling in Pushpak Express too can experience the comfort of LHB coaches,” an officer said. Officials also termed the swanky coaches as the most comfortable. “Unlike regular coaches, LHBs are jerk -proof and have high quality build that make them sophisticated and of course comfortable,” an officer said. Singh said there would be one SLDRD coach, two general coaches, five sleeper coaches, four 3rd AC coaches, two 3 tier coaches economy, one coach of second AC and one coach of first AC, one pantry car and one generator car\luggage. There would be 18 coaches in total. He said that the newer version of Pushpak Express Special train (02533/02534) would start from October 30. On this day, the newer version of the Mumbai-bound train would originate from Lucknow, whereas the Lucknow-bound train would ferry passengers from Mumbai on November 1. NER officials said that the train was inducted into NER in 2004 and was over 25-years-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pushpak-exp-to-sport-a-new-look-soon-offer-more-comfort-101629818763347.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Didn’t allow him to eat his lunch: BJP angered over Rane’s arrest||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expressed its anger over the arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane and alleged that he was arrested by the cops midway while he was having his lunch.Videos on social media surfaced where there was widespread commotion among police personnel and BJP workers who were present at Sangameshwar, from where Rane was arrested. In the video, Rane’s aides were seen arguing with the police officers present at the spot. They were heard asking the police officers to not arrest as Rane was eating.BJP leader Prasad Lad alleged that the Union minister was also manhandled. “Rane was arrested while he was having lunch. He was also manhandled.”Rane was at his Jan Ashirwad Yatra rally when he allegedly said that he would “slap” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for not knowing the year of India’s independence.The BJP expressed its anger over the former chief minister’s arrest. Party MPs from Maharashtra will meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and submit a memorandum over the ‘violation’ of rights. The state party president also alleged that Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab asked police officers to use ‘force’ while arresting Rane, according to a report by news agency PTI.“As an MP, Narayan Rane's special rights were violated (due to the police action). BJP MPs from Maharashtra will approach the Lok Sabha speaker and submit a memorandum,” Patil said. The remark by Rane also set off fights between BJP and Shiv Sena cadres across Maharashtra as well as Mumbai. Rane was transferred to Mahad in the Raigad district where he will be produced in front of a court later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/didnt-allow-him-to-eat-his-lunch-bjp-angered-over-rane-s-arrest-101629818061414.html
24-08-2021||Dehradun||Poster war rages between AAP, BJP govt in Uttarakhand||Aggrieved over filing of a case against its party worker and subsequent removal of posters, hoardings, display boards put up by the Aam Aadmi Party across Haridwar, AAP activists are staging protests and sit-in against the action, which they alleged is mere political vendetta Alleging deliberate targeting, AAP volunteers and leaders claimed police and the municipal corporation were acting on directives of the BJP-led government as they are only removing the hoardings of AAP while refraining to do so in the case of other political parties. A case was registered on Monday at the city police station under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act on the complaint of Assistant Town Commissioner Municipal Commissioner Mahendra Kumar Yadav against AAP volunteers for putting up hoardings and banners without permission on government property. Later, police arrested AAP auto cell district president Rakesh Kumar who accepted that without permission from concerned authorities, he had put up posters and banners of the party within the municipal limits. Aggrieved by this action, AAP activists led by women wing state vice president Hema Bhandari have been staging sit-in agitation, gherao the city police station and carrying out protest marches across the city. On Tuesday, Hema Bhandari, along with party workers, warned of intensifying their protest if such curbing tactics are further carried out by the administration. “Posters of BJP leaders were put across the city from Raiwala to Haridwar when last week their national president JP Nadda arrived. BJP hoardings were seen at hundreds of electricity poles, trees, dividers, intersections and marketplaces. Even flyovers were not left by BJP workers but neither the municipal corporation nor the police took any action. Similarly, Congress and other political parties, social organizations and even individuals have put up their hoardings and banners at public places and same sites where AAP has put them up, but no action was taken against them,” said Hema Bhandari. Sub-inspector, City Police Station, Sunil Rawat said that as the case was registered, Rakesh Kumar, currently a resident of Hari-Pur-Kalan was arrested and confessed to putting up banners and hoardings without the required permission at public places. Municipal Town Commissioner Dayanand Saraswati said that if illegal hoardings without permission have been put up by anyone, then action will be taken against such violators. BJP district general secretary Vikas Tiwari said that due permission has been taken by the party district unit whenever they put up hoardings and banners, ensuring maximum are put up at authorised display sites. While Congress leader Satpal Brahmachari said that many times party workers from their own side put hoardings having faces of senior leaders but they should also ensure proper permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/poster-war-rages-between-aap-bjp-govt-in-uttarakhand-101629815885202.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Nadda calls Rane’s arrest ‘unconstitutional’; Sena expresses faith in police||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Tuesday condemned the arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane. Rane was arrested in Ratnagiri’s Sangameshwar for allegedly insulting Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Rane claimed that Thackeray forgot the year of India’s independence during his speech on August 15. Rane made the remarks on Monday during his Jan Ashirwad Yatra rally.Meanwhile, BJP chief JP Nadda condemned the arrest of the minister and called it ‘unconstitutional’. He said that the BJP will not be scared despite the arrest and called it a reaction to the ‘support the newly inducted Cabinet ministers were getting in the Jan Ashirwad Yatra’.“The arrest of Union Minister Narayan Rane ji by the Maharashtra government is a violation of constitutional values. We will neither be scared nor be suppressed by any such action. These people are troubled by the immense support the BJP is getting in the Jan-Aashirvad Yatra. We will continue to fight democratically. The journey will continue,” Nadda said on Twitter.BJP leader Prasad Lad alleged that the minister was ‘manhandled’ by the police. Another BJP leader Pramod Jathar earlier claimed that the Ratnagiri police officials were ‘under tremendous pressure’ to arrest Rane. “Rane was arrested while he was having lunch. The arrest is illegal. We are afraid that he may be harassed by the police if kept inside the police station overnight. He was manhandled by police while he was having his lunch. The cops did not even allow doctors to complete his check up,” Lad said.The Shiv Sena defended the action of the cops. Sena MP Vinayak Raut said that Rane’s actions would have caused unrest and disrupt the law-and-order situation in the state. “We have faith in the Maharashtra police and they have arrested Rane as he was trying to disrupt the law-and-order situation in the state,” Raut said.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar also condemned the statement made by Rane and held a protest against the minister. She said that Rane should not have made such remarks as Rane himself was the chief minister of Maharashtra once. Rane’s comments also led to fights between the cadres of the BJP and the Shiv Sena in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nadda-calls-rane-s-arrest-unconstitutional-sena-expresses-faith-in-police-101629808524615.html
24-08-2021||Dehradun||Chaos in Uttarakhand assembly over issuing of caste certificates||The second day of the ongoing monsoon session in Uttarakhand Assembly witnessed chaos following a heated debate on the issue of irregularities in issuing caste certificates by the revenue department to people belonging to scheduled caste (SC), scheduled tribe (ST) and Other Backward Class (OBC) in the state. The issue was raised by Opposition MLAs Mamta Rakesh and Qazi Nizamuddin from Haridwar after the Question Hour in the House. Raising the issue, Rakesh alleged that the people of the state “are facing practical issues in getting their caste certificates from the revenue department as the authorities concerned are asking for documents to prove their permanent residency dated 1985 or before that.” “It is a totally impractical demand as many people don’t have those documents dated 1985 or before that. Due to this, they are not able to get their caste certificates and thus failing to avail the benefit of at least 14 welfare programmes being run by the social welfare department of state,” said Rakesh, demanding the government to simplify the process. Continuing the attack on the government, MLA Nizamuddin said the “government has made 1985 as the base year for documents of permanent residency in the state which should be changed to November 9, 2000, when the state was formed out of Uttar Pradesh.” “The base should be made November 9, 2000, as it was the date of state’s formation and before that, we were in Uttar Pradesh. Hence, asking the people to show documents dating 1985 makes absolutely no sense. The government should simplify the process by making the base year 2000 and not 1985,” said Nizamuddin. Speaking on the issue, he also cited a committee formed in the issue under former parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik a few years ago which “too said that the base year should be 2000 for getting the caste certificates.” “But even after the committee’s recommendation, people are asked to show documents dating 1985 or older to prove their permanent residency,” Nizamuddin said. The two MLAs were soon joined by the Leader of Opposition Pritam Singh who, while terming the issue a “very serious one”, said the demand for documents dating 1985 or older is unnecessary making the process difficult for a large section of people in the state. Because of that, they are not able to get their caste certificates. Government should immediately make 2000 as the base year.” Replying in the House, revenue minister Subodh Uniyal, while citing the reason behind making 1985 as the base year for caste certificates, turned the gun at the Opposition and said, “The definition of permanent residency in Uttarakhand was decided by your (Congress) government in 2013 which said any person living in Uttarakhand for at least 15 years before the formation of the state in 2000 would be considered a permanent resident who is eligible for getting caste certificate.” “We are just following that definition on permanent residency on issuing caste certificates. So blaming us for the issue won’t help,” said Uniyal. Amid the heated debate between the Opposition MLAs and the minister, ruling party MLA from Haridwar Deshraj Karnwal said that the Uttarakhand high court, in an order in 2013 on the issue, had already said that, “Those born after 2000 or before that in the state would be included in the definition of a permanent resident to get caste certificate.” “The governments in all these years didn’t take any action even after the high court order. The concerned department official passed an order on the same in 2020, but it is stuck in the department of revenue with no implementation till date,” said Karnwal. With his statement, the Opposition became aggressive, saying their own MLA “exposed” them on the issue. Led by the Leader of Opposition Singh, they also resorted to raising slogans against the government amid requests by the Speaker to get back to their place, which they did after some time. Later, minister of parliamentary affairs Bansidhar Bhagat said, “The government will take necessary action on the same to simplify the process for people.” During the day, the Opposition also raised the issue of the formation of four new districts citing the announcement made by the BJP government in 2011 with no action on it to date. Opposition MLA from Ranikhet constituency, Karan Mahara raised the issue saying, “The BJP government in 2011 had announced four new districts in the state namely Ranikhet, Kotdwar, Didihat and Yamunotri but nothing has been happening on the issue since then.” “Almost after a decade, the government did nothing to implement the announcement on the ground which would have helped in the development of those areas. This just proves that it was just a political move to affect the 2012 polls which they lost. But after coming back to power in 2017, they haven’t done anything yet because they don’t have any intentions for it,” said Mahara. “The government should now decide on the district headquarters and other aspects of the four proposed districts which would help the development of those areas,” he added. Minister Bhagat, while replying to the House on the issue, blamed the Opposition for not taking any step on the same when it was in power from 2012-2017. “We had made a committee to decide on the area marking and other required processes in 2011 after the announcement but unfortunately, we lost the elections in 2012. But the question is what did they do in five years of being in power from 2012-17? Nothing. And now they are blaming us or making hollow political promises which, in fact, they themselves are doing with months left for the next assembly elections,” said Bhagat while adding, “However, we are a responsible government and will take necessary actions on it.” Earlier, when the day commenced, the Opposition demanded a debate on the Covid-19 pandemic, saying “the pandemic isn’t over yet with new cases coming daily and no visible preparation by the government to handle the expected third wave.” Speaker Premchand Aggarwal then assured a debate post-lunch session during which the government informed the House on the preparations for the third wave including additional ICU beds in hospitals and speeding up inoculation drive against Covid-19 in the state. .....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chaos-in-uttarakhand-assembly-over-issuing-of-caste-certificates-101629807582987.html
24-08-2021||Jaipur||Jan Ashirwad Yatra being undertaken to misguide people: Sachin Pilot||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Tuesday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra across the country and said it was being untaken to misguide people. “What blessings are they seeking when the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed ₹100 and gas cylinder ₹850?” he asked. He criticised the central government over poor Covid-19 management and China and Pakistan’s aggression along India’s borders.“...they are seeking blessings of people in such a situation; this is beyond comprehension,” he said.Also Read | Maharashtra: NCP drive to counter ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’Pilot, who was addressing journalists in Jodhpur, referred to the agitation against the three farm laws passed last year and added there have been attempts to threaten, muzzle and arrest the agitating farmers. “But you will never talk of justice. This is sheer stubbornness, and such things are not a good sign for democracy.”He reiterated Congress’s stand that these farm laws must be scrapped in the interest of the farmers and the country. He asked the central government to listen to the voices on the ground. Pilot said the BJP never gave an impression of being “a positive opposition” in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jan-ashirwad-yatra-being-undertaken-to-misguide-people-sachin-pilot-101629805781519.html
24-08-2021||Pune||Rainfall deficiency prevails in Pune as third monsoon break begins; cloudy weather, light rain likely till August 27||As the country witnesses the third dry of the southwest monsoon this season, total rainfall across the country is deficient by eight per cent concerning the normal rainfall.After June this year, the southwest monsoon has seen two major breaks so far which has caused a deficiency in rainfall in many regions including Madhya Maharashtra and Pune district.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), in Maharashtra, Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Konkan and Goa have had less than normal rainfall so far. The drought-prone region, Marathwada, has reported also reported normal rainfall between June to August.On Monday, Pune city reported no rainfall along with other regions in the state. However, the day temperature in Pune city was on the higher side. The maximum temperature on Monday was 31.1 degrees Celsius which was 3.4 degrees warmer more than normal. The night temperature was 19.4 degrees Celsius which was 2.1 cooler than normal.Due to the deficiency in rainfall, between June 1 to August 23, rainfall deficiency in the city has increased to 31.9mm. The actual rainfall reported is 383.4 millimetres whereas the normal rainfall during this time is expected to be 415.3 mm.Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that weather in Pune city will continue to remain cloudy with just very light to light rainfall in the city.“Day temperature is likely to see a rise with the mercury touching 31 degrees Celsius and night temperature will be around 21 degrees Celsius till August 27. The afternoon may turn cloudy in the city and there can be isolated rainfall associated with thunderstorms and lightning in the city,” said Kashyapi.He added that all four subdivisions of Maharashtra may receive very light to light rainfall in isolated areas.“Konkan and Goa may receive rainfall at many places. Whereas Marathwada, Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha may receive isolated light rainfall until August 27,” said Kashyapi.Day temperature across the state has seen a rise. The highest maximum temperature reported on Monday across the State was 34.8 degrees Celsius at Bramhapuri. And the lowest minimum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Monday was at 16 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rainfall-deficiency-prevails-in-pune-as-third-monsoon-break-begins-cloudy-weather-light-rain-likely-till-august-27-101629802711859.html
24-08-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Is Pune ready for a citizens’ assembly on climate change?||Government leaders will meet in Glasgow, UK in November for the 26th UN Climate Change Conference. They have been meeting regularly since 1995. Several solutions have been developed and implemented. Yet, the IPCC has signalled a Code Red for Humanity.What if it was not only political leaders who were making the decisions? What if ordinary citizens like us had a chance to address our climate and ecological emergency?This is happening through a “Global Citizens’ Assembly” of people from around the world to deliberate about responses to climate change and to inform the UN talks in Glasgow. The citizens’ assembly aims to accelerate action to address the climate and ecological emergency in ways that citizens see fit. The premise of the Global Assembly (https://globalassembly.org/) is simple: everyone on earth has a role to play in addressing the climate and ecological emergency. At the heart of the Global Assembly will be 100 participants, a snapshot of the world’s population broken down by gender, age and socio-economic background, and chosen by lottery.The first step in selecting these 100 participants was identifying 100 points on the earth by lottery, based on the distribution of human population density across the globe. Eighteen points were identified in India, in J&K, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.In the next three to four weeks, one individual from each of these 18 locations would be identified through another lottery process to participate in the core Global Citizens’ Assembly. Local support organisations at, or close to these locations, would support the 100 citizen delegates in their participation in the Global Assembly by providing stable internet connectivity, a computer and translation facilities. The hosts will also provide an information pack on climate change and key questions and issues of deliberation in the participants’ local language and social context in text and audio forms.Such citizens’ assemblies with ordinary people as delegates have been organised on various civic issues in other countries for some years now. Topics have included waste management in Brazil, constitutional reform in Ireland, climate policies in UK and France, municipal budgets in Australia, flood and management in Poland, among others. Since the participants are ordinary citizens, they do not have the compulsions that politicians might have and co-could generate more ambitious action plans.Raashi Saxena, a young person from Bengaluru and part of the Global Assembly organisers’ international team at i4Policy, says, “the Global Assembly provides a unique opportunity to harness our collective intelligence by synthesising the best knowledge evidence into effective action, creating a global picture of local action plans. Through collaborations, we want to overcome polarisation by creating deep respect between people who disagree, creating a new movement of people with a shared desire to work together to tackle climate change.”The Global Assembly on Climate Change will convene from September to December. It will make recommendations to COP26 and get an official response from the UN’s COP26 process. This Global Assembly is also directly supported by the Scottish government. The design of the assembly is an ongoing collaborative effort between citizens, institutions, climate scientists, social movements and citizen participation practitioners.The GA process is encouraging and connecting with citizens groups, artists and media for multiple local community or global events that anyone can run or join, to explore the scale of the climate emergency and respond effectively. The hope is that large numbers of people would join globally to take action on climate emergency. Is Pune ready for a citizens’ assembly on climate change with delegates selected by lottery?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-is-pune-ready-for-a-citizens-assembly-on-climate-change-101629801632050.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||People, places and libraries open to world of goodness||The library is an arena of possibilities; it opens both a window into the soul and a door onto the world. –Rita Dove, American poet Public libraries are not the spots on the itinerary while visiting tourist destinations. But whenever I go on a trip, I make it a point to check on the public library of the place. Often it reveals much more and tells many stories than the shining malls and magnificent buildings. One of the most charming and rich libraries that I visited was in Agatti, an island spread over 3.2sqkm, in Lakshadweep. It was situated in a quaint building around the street corner. One has to leave one’s footwear outside on the street to enter the library. I went there to spend some time before heading for the hotel, thinking that it would be a tiny official collection but soon I realised that I could spend hours in this paradise of books on the tiny slice of land in the midst of the Arabian Sea. It was a treasure trove of books, new and old, classics and contemporary. Common citizens of all ages were busy reading books, magazines and newspapers which have travelled a long way across the sea to open for them a window to the world from which they were geographically cut off. That such a small community of 8,000 individuals invested in a library was a telling comment on Agatti’s residents. Thornhill Mayne Memorial Library at Alfred Park in Allahabad is another library that I cherished visiting, not only because of its Scottish Baronial Revival architecture, but because of the hordes of readers sitting inside and even outside the library building, deeply immersed in their studies. It suited the epithet, Temple of Knowledge, as there was a sombre air of purpose all around, with thousands of books standing guard for the precious wealth that they were holding inside, and students poring over them as dedicated devotees. Allahabad, a city of educated people, is known for producing civil servants; the library, I could see was an extension of its desires and aspirations. But the library for which I have a special place in my heart is the library of my childhood, the District Library at Chamba in Himachal Pradesh, located in the Akhand Chandi Palace, once the abode of the royalty. The library is in a huge pillar-less Darbar Hall with large windows with grand views of the valley. The majestic architecture enhanced the settings and provided dignity to rows of glass panel cabinets containing books of all forms and sizes. I remember the feeling of awe I felt every time I entered its portals after signing the register at the entrance. The librarian, a beautiful and kind lady, sat under a stained-glass window. With her large key ring holding keys to all bookshelves, to my child’s eyes, she was the embodiment of splendour and power, the queen of the library. The grandest part of the palace was made to house a public library instead of the office of some important government official. It was an indicator of what the community thought was important for its welfare: Investment in ideas, collected wisdom and access to the goodness of the world. jayantiduttaroy@yahoo.co.in The writer is a faculty member at Panjab University, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/people-places-and-libraries-open-to-world-of-goodness-101629801391858.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||4 Punjab ministers rebel against Capt Amarinder||Four cabinet ministers and several MLAs on Tuesday declared open rebellion against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, expressing their total “lack of faith” in him. Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Punjab Congress general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh and around two dozen legislators, who met at Bajwa’s official residence in Chandigarh, declared that they do not have faith in the chief minister’s ability to fulfil the pending election promises, indirectly pushing for his replacement. Also read: Modi, Putin hold ‘detailed conversation’ on situation in Afghanistan“We have lost faith in him (Amarinder), but changing the CM is the prerogative of the party high command,” Randhawa told reporters after the meeting. Five-member delegation to meet Sonia The disgruntled leaders also authorised a five-member delegation, including four cabinet ministers and Pargat, all known detractors of Amarinder, to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and apprise her of their sentiment at the earliest. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, the most strident critic of the chief minister, was not present at the meeting. However, the four ministers and Pargat, who declined to disclose the number of MLAs at the meeting, will have a discussion with him before leaving for Delhi to meet the central leaders. The detractors’ meeting came as Sidhu was feeling the heat over his advisers’ controversial remarks over Kashmir and Pakistan. The Congress has 80 MLAs in Punjab. After the meeting, Channi told reporters that the MLAs who assembled in Chandigarh were worried over the unfulfilled poll promises made by the Congress before the 2017 assembly elections. “A lot of promises have been fulfilled, but those promises (the implementation of) which may lead to friction with the opposition remain unfulfilled,” he said. He said that the issues were not getting resolved the way the Congress wanted, and they had been promised. “We no longer trust that these issues will be resolved. Therefore, we are seeking time from the party high command for a meeting, and we will meet them and put forth our issues so that Punjab’s issues can be resolved,” said Channi, flanked by Randhawa, Bajwa and Pargat. Capt camp hits back, wants action against Sidhu advisers Amid rebellion by four ministers and several MLAs who have been supporting Sidhu, a group of cabinet ministers and MLAs called for strong action against the state Congress president’s advisers Malwinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg for their “patently anti-national and pro-Pak comments”. “The statements of both these newly appointed advisers of Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu were clearly against India’s interests, and detrimental to national security,” said cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, along with MLA Raj Kumar Verka in a statement. Besides stringent legal action against Mali and Garg, they also urged the Congress national leadership to direct Sidhu to immediately rein in his aides in the interest of the party, and the country. “The Congress has made many sacrifices for the protection of the nation’s security and peace, as have our soldiers at the borders. Nobody can or should be allowed to undermine these sacrifices and jeopardise the safety of our country and its people,” they emphasised, citing, in particular, the grave implications such statements could have for the border state of Punjab. The Congress leaders also questioned Sidhu’s failure to put his foot down on such “anti-national and pro-Pak diatribe” by his aides, despite the justified uproar it has triggered across party lines. Sidhu’s omission in this regard had given ammunition to the opposition parties, which were quick to recall the PPCC president’s own bonhomie with the Pakistan Prime Minister and army chief, they pointed out, warning against the massive damage this could cause to the Congress in the run-up to the 2022 Punjab elections, which are due in less than six months. They termed Mali’s statement on Kashmir a dangerous and unacceptable deviation from India’s stated position on J&K. By questioning the unanimous 1994 resolution of Parliament, declaring Jammu & Kashmir an integral of India (which was reiterated in 2012), Mali had blatantly toed the line of Pakistan, which had been trying to stake claim to the region and was in illegal occupation of certain areas, such as PoK, they added. Even Garg’s statement countering chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s criticism of Pakistan reflected his pro-Pak leanings, they said, adding that anyone not condemning the continuous efforts from across the border to destabilise Punjab and India was playing into the hands of the enemy. “Drones from Pakistan are dumping arms and drugs into Punjab almost every day. Our soldiers are dying at the border. How can any patriotic Indian not condemn Pak actions in the circumstances?” they asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-punjab-ministers-rebel-against-capt-amarinder-101629800131350.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi drains need design change, says CM Kejriwal at review meeting||Drains in Delhi will have to undergo design changes in accordance with suggestions of an expert team from IIT-Delhi to ensure smooth flow of water during and after heavy rains, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal after chairing a review meeting on Delhi Drainage Masterplan on Tuesday.“Today CM Arvind Kejriwal chaired a review meeting on Delhi’s drainage masterplan. Design changes will be introduced in drains in accordance with recommendations of IIT. The focus will be to enable smooth flow of water during and after heavy rains. Waterlogging issues be resolved,” said a tweet from the CM’s office after the meeting.The meeting was attended by water minister Satyendar Jain, vice-chairperson of Delhi Jal Board Raghav Chadha and chief secretary Vijay Dev.Also Read | DU decides to implement NEP from 2022-23, triggers rowCiting presentations made during the meeting, a senior government official who attended the meeting said, “The problems were broadly summarised as stormwater drains being used for sewage; most of these stormwater drains not letting water flow freely because they are blocked with waste; Network of streams, natural and seasonal water bodies, and urban stormwater channels have either disappeared, encroached or blocked severely with waste; Delhi’s groundwater recharging area reducing drastically; and engineering flaws in current models.”The review meeting was held three days after the national Capital was brought to its knees by six hours of rainfall, throwing traffic into disarray and inundating several key stretches and underpasses, exposing how badly it needs a comprehensive drainage plan as well as one to ensure that local drains are cleaned ahead of monsoon.On July 19,Kejriwal announced that the Delhi administration will redesign the city’s drainage system and identify waterlogging hot spots so that area-specific interventions can be made to ensure smooth flow of traffic. The announcement came the day a man drowned in the submerged Pul Prahladpur underpass -- one of the perennial problem points -- and at least 39 key road stretches were flooded after heavy rain. The last drainage master plan was drafted by the Delhi administration in 1976. To be sure, Delhi was administered by a metropolitan council between 1966 and 1990. In 2016, the Delhi government commissioned a study of the city’s drainage system by IIT-Delhi. Following the study, a drainage master plan was compiled which also pointed out that the city had no single agency to manage and maintain drainage. However, the plan could not be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-drains-need-design-change-says-cm-kejriwal-at-review-meeting-101629796891059.html
24-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram man allegedly kills four including daughter-in-law, surrenders||A retired army personnel residing in Gurgram’s Rajendra Park in sector 105 allegedly killed four persons including his daughter-in-law, suspecting her to be in an illicit relationship with the tenant, said police. He later surrendered to the police.Those killed also included the tenant, his wife and one of his two minor daughters. The other girl was injured but survived the murderous assault, and her account was likely to be critical to police’s reconstruction of the incident in the building, owned by the suspect, between 2 am and 5 am on Tuesday.“Prima facie evidence suggests the suspect bolted all the doors of the house and murdered four people with a knife while they were sleeping on different floors of the building, owned by the suspect,” said Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police, adding that a probe is underway to establish if anyone else was involved in the gruesome murders.The suspect lived in a three-storey building with his wife, son, and daughter-in-law.Saharan said a team from Rajendra Park police station reached the spot and recovered bodies. “One minor girl, who had suffered grave injuries, was sent to hospital and is reported to be critical. Other bodies have been sent for post-mortem. We are questioning Singh, his wife, and son who were present in the building at the time of the incident,” he said.Singh surrendered himself before the Rajendra Park police station around 6 am on Tuesday and confessed to the killings, said police.Saharan said preliminary investigation revealed that Singh suspected his daughter-in-law of having an illicit relationship with the tenant. “First, he murdered Sunita Yadav who was sleeping on the first floor and then went to the second floor and killed three tenants with a sharp weapon. A minor daughter of the tenant who was also attacked, survived,” he said.The neighbours claimed that Singh was depressed for the last few months owing to issues related to his daughter-in-law.“Initial inquiry suggests there was no trouble within the family apart from the issue of the daughter-in-law and the tenant,” said Saharan.A case under section 302 (murder) will be registered once the initial investigation is over, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-allegedly-kills-four-including-daughter-in-law-surrenders-101629796711378.html
24-08-2021||Jaipur||Muslim beggars beaten, asked to go to Pakistan; 4 arrested||Five people were arrested in Rajasthan’s Ajmer for beating up two Muslim beggars including a young boy and asking them to go to Pakistan, police said.The arrests were made following a video clip of the incident going viral in which the men were seen humiliating the beggars. One of the accused in the video kicks the young boy on his head and slaps the other beggar while asking him to go to Pakistan.Rajasthan Police said they were unable to trace the victims so far.Deputy SP Mukesh Soni said the incident happened under Ramganj police station in Ajmer on an unspecified date following which the video clip reached police on August 20, resulting in “prompt” action leading to arrest of the five accused under Section 151 (assembly of five or more to disturb peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused were granted bail by the court.Soni said constant efforts were being made to trace the victims.Following another incident of purported hate crime in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh, police arrested two people on Monday and booked 12 others for allegedly thrashing a 25-year-old Muslim bangle seller on Sunday.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra claimed that the victim was using a fake identity to pass himself as a Hindu. He also alleged that he was in possession of two Aadhar cards. However, he added that it didn’t give anyone a right to beat him up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/muslim-beggars-beaten-asked-to-go-to-pakistan-4-arrested-101629794431050.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Union minister Rane arrested over his Thackeray slap comment||Union minister Narayan Rane was arrested on Tuesday after three cases were filed against him for his comments a day earlier that he wanted to “give a tight slap” to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly forgetting the year of India’s independence during a speech. The arrest came as ruling Shiv Sena workers took to the streets across the state, put up posters against Rane, and slapped them at Pune’s Deccan Gymkhana area with footwear. Sena workers vandalised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office In Amravati and set the party’s posters on fire. Security was enhanced outside Rane’s residence in Mumbai even as BJP workers gathered there in his support.Rane was taken into custody in Ratnagiri district, where he was travelling as part of tours the ministers inducted into the Union council ministers in July are conducting across the country. The tours were announced after Prime Minister Narendra Modi could not introduce the ministers in Parliament last month due to Opposition protests. Rane, who was taken to a police station, complained of high blood pressure and sugar levels and a doctor was called to examine him, PTI reported.The Bombay high court earlier on Tuesday rejected a plea for an urgent hearing of Rane’s anticipatory bail application as he faced arrest for his comments.Rane moved the court as Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday said he has ordered the formation of a team to arrest the minister and to produce him before a court. Three cases, including under India Penal Code’s sections 500 (defamation), 505(2) (mischief), 153-B (1)(c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill will), have been filed against Rane for the comments.A sessions court in Ratnagiri earlier refused to hear Rane’s anticipatory bail plea.A high court bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar directed Rane’s lawyer, Aniket Nikam, to follow due procedure before approaching it. A separate application has also been filed for quashing the three cases registered against Rane in Nashik, Pune and Mahad.Nikam approached the court after its lunch break concluded at 2.30 pm and mentioned the two applications seeking anticipatory bail and quashing of the cases. The court asked Nikam to follow the procedure under the law by filing a praecipe to get the matter listed for hearing. Nikam also sought protection from coercive action including arrest pending hearing of the plea.Nikam said for arrest for any offence which involves punishment of under 7 years, police have to issue a notice. He added this has not been issued in Rane’s case and hence the order for his arrest is illegal. Pandey said they were following the rule book and the arrest order was issued as per the legal provisions. “We have followed legal provisions and will ensure that privileges of the parliamentarian are protected. Since, the Union minister is member of Rajya Sabha, we are bound to intimate chairman of the upper House in due course after the arrest.”Hours before his arrest, Rane, who has been a bitter critic of Thackeray since he was expelled from Shiv Sena in 2005, maintained he has not violated any law. “I said had I been there, I would have slapped him for his ignorance of the year of Independence. I did not say that I would slap him. I know the legal provisions. I have not received any legal notice for the arrest and would not speak on the basis of media report. In fact, I will take action against media for false reports,” he said. Rane questioned why action was not taken against Thackeray for his similar statements. He did not elaborate.Rane’s son, Nitesh, threatened a “befitting reply” if any action was taken against his father.Maharashtra’s BJP chief, Chandrakant Patil, said they would not justify Rane’s remarks and added that the Union minister’s style is similar to the Thackerays and other Shiv Sena leaders. He added arrest cannot be the response to his comments. Patil said Union ministers, president, vice president and prime minister have protection from arrest. “The state authorities which have been given the arrest orders should be aware of it. We do not justify the statement by Rane. He should have been given warning for his statement.”Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis criticised Pandey for issuing the arrest order while accusing the government of “misusing” the police force. “This would have been a non-cognisable offence. However, Nashik CP (Pandey) thinks he is above everyone. The way he has given directions of Rane’s arrest suggest his actions are motivated.”Rane on Monday claimed Thackeray checked the year with his aides midway during the speech and called it shameful the chief minister “does not know” the year of independence. “He leaned back to inquire...during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given him a tight slap,” Rane told reporters in Raigad.The Shiv Sena on Monday hit out at Rane for his comments saying he has lost his mental balance. “Rane was inducted in the (Union) Cabinet just to attack the Shiv Sena, and while doing his job, he stooped to a new low,” said Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Vinayak Raut. Raut has written to Modi seeking Rane’s removal from his Cabinet. “The Jan Ashirwad Yatra was meant to take the blessing of the people and it was a brainchild of Prime Minister. Rane has given a wrong turn to it. He has used derogatory and objectionable language against Thackery who holds a constitutional post. I have requested the removal of Rane from his Cabinet to uphold the sanctity of constitutional structure.”Shiv Sena parted ways with its three-decade old ally, BJP, and formed the government in Maharashtra with Nationalist Congress Party and Congress in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nashik-police-chief-orders-formation-of-team-to-arrest-rane-over-slap-comment-101629789031282.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Sena-BJP clashes break out in Maharashtra over Narayan Rane's 'slap CM' remark||Activists of the ruling Shiv Sena and its youth outfit Yuva Sena and supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) indulged in clashes at several places in Maharashtra on Monday as the former launched multiple protests over a comment of Union minister Narayan Rane saying he would have “tightly slapped” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly being ignorant of the country’s year of independence.Meanwhile, a police team has been sent to arrest Rane, against whom at least three FIRs have been lodged so far over the issue. The Union minister, has, however, defended his statement.While some Sena workers pelted stones at a party office of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Nashik, a few others gathered outside Rane’s Juhu residence in Mumbai and shouted slogans against him. Also read | Not committed any offence: Narayan Rane on 'would have slapped Thackeray' remarkThe situation soon turned tense as BJP activists also gathered in support of the Union minister. Later, police had to act against and prevent a few Sena supporters from running towards Rane’s house, even as BJP workers tried to force themselves in. Reports of vandalism have also started pouring in.#WATCH | Maharashtra: A clash breaks out amid Shiv Sena workers, BJP workers and Police in Mumbai as Shiv Sena workers marched towards Union Minister Narayan Rane's residence. Union Minister Narayan Rane had given a statement against CM Uddhav Thackeray yesterday. pic.twitter.com/TezjDGGqAbIn Chiplun, Sena activists tore posters of Rane and said they would not allow him to hold any programme. Rane has been addressing multiple Jan Ashirvad Yatra events being organised by central BJP leadership for new inductees of the Narendra Modi cabinet.Rane had sparked a row while speaking at one such event in Raigad district on Monday. The former Shiv Sena chief minister, who was made a Union minister recently, hit out at Thackeray claiming the latter forgot the year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state and had he been present at the spot, he would have slapped him.A Yuva Sena leader said the protests were happening on their own and the “angry” activists were not asked to come to the agitation sites.“We did not call anyone but Yuva Sena activists are angry over insulting remarks made by Narayan Sena and came on their own. We will show our strength to him,” said Yuva Sena functionary Varun Sardesai.Speaking to reporters later, Sardesai said Yuva Sena activists were ready to face the baton for the Sena supremo. “Uddhav Thackeray is our god and if anyone dares to insult him, we will not care about the law and order,” said Sardesai.“We have come at his (Narayan Rane’s) house and if he has guts let him face us,” he added.In Thane, youth wing activists staged an agitation against Rane near Mantel Hospital following which workers of the two camps indulged in stone pelting.Activists also vandalised a two-wheeler of Rane’s supporter. The bike had the picture of the Union minister's son Nitesh Rane.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-activists-stage-stir-across-maha-against-narayan-rane-s-slap-cm-remark-101629785799653.html
24-08-2021||Patna||2 Maoists held for threatening to blow up railway station in Bihar||Bihar police late on Monday evening arrested two alleged Maoists who had threatened to blow up Chaura railway halt between Jamui and Giddhaur railway stations under Danapur rail division on July 31. The movement of trains between the Howrah-Patna rail section had to be stopped that day for two hours due to the threat, leaving several trains on the busy route stranded at different stations. The suspected Maoists, arrested in this case, have been identified as Bhairav Yadav alias Gehuman and his associates Sunil Yadav. Jamui superintendent of police (SP) Pramod Kumar Mandal said a police team led by sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Dr Rakesh Kumar raided Chhedlahi village under Giddhaur police station in the district and arrested Bhairav following a tip-off about the presence of Maoists.During interrogation, Bhairav led police to Sunil, who was arrested from Ramakuraon village in the same district apart from recovery of explosives, bomb making material including gel, electric wires, mobile phones, batteries, detonators and Maoist literature. Police later found that Sunil and Bhairav were recently released from Sheikhpura jail after serving time as convicted Maoists. “It came to light that the plan to [blow up the railway halt] was hatched inside the Sheikhpura district jail by Sunil, Bhairav and former Maoist commander Surang Yadav. Surang Yadav had surrendered on July 16, 2017 at Charka Patthar police station in Jamui and was shifted to Sheikhpura jail in 2019 for security reasons,” said Jamui police chief. He added that Sunil paid ₹5000 to Bhairav asking him to issue the threat to the station master of Chaura Halt. Following Bhairav’s threat to blow up the station on July 31, the station master reported it to higher authorities, leading to suspension of train services on the route between 3:45 am to 5:15 am. Authorities had then registered a case against an unknown person, but no arrests had been made till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2-maoists-held-for-threatening-to-blow-up-railway-station-in-bihar-101629784891136.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai morning walkers’ cars broken-into, cash, phone, debit cards stolen||Thieves broke into several cars parked along the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) at Vikhroli in Mumbai and stole valuables including cash and mobile phones on Sunday morning, while owners took a morning walk on the service road, thinking their vehicles parked near a police post were safe. One of the morning walkers ended up losing ₹9.5 lakh, which the thieves withdrew from his bank account in 68 transactions within an hour of stealing his debit and credit cards along with his mobile phone from his car.“I had parked my car on the service road near Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR) junction at Vikhroli East, near a police chowki [post], which is considered as the safest place [to park],” said Dr Aparna Govind, a Powai resident, whose car was among those broken into.Several other residents from Mulund, Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli and Powai park their cars on the service road and go for a morning walk while leaving their valuables in the car.“We keep our phones and wallets in cars as it’s impossible to walk or run while carrying them,” said Sudhir Shenoy, a senior corporate executive.“While we were returning, a walker asked me to rush towards the car and when I reached the spot after a walk to Nahur, I saw many car windows were broken and wallets, clothes and mobile phones had been stolen,” said Govind.She said she lost her Aadhar, PAN and identity cards apart from a sizable amount of cash. “Luckily, I wasn’t carrying my mobile phone that day,” she said.But several others weren’t that lucky. Rajesh Aerat, a Bhandup resident, initially thought he had lost his mobile phone, ₹6500 in cash, four credit cards and two debit cards.“While I was sitting at the police station and trying to block all my cards that were stolen, I learnt that the thieves had changed the PIN code of my debit cards using my cell phone and withdrew ₹9.5 lakh from my bank account,” said Aerat.The money in his bank account was from a fixed deposit he claimed to have closed recently to pay for his son’s education. Vikhroli police said the accused carried out 68 withdrawals in an hour’s time after the theft to siphon off ₹ 9.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-morning-walkers-cars-broken-into-cash-phone-debit-cards-stolen-101629782310750.html
24-08-2021||Other||Two Maoists killed in gunfight in Bastar’s Sukma: C’garh police||Two suspected Maoists were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Sukma district of Bastar region on Tuesday. Police said the exchange of fire took place at around 8am during a joint area domination operation by District Reserve Guard ( DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force ( CRPF) near Gompad and Kanhaiguda jungles under Konta police station. Also Read | 3 robbers killed outside Assam bank “Two bodies of Maoists have been recovered till now. We have also recovered arms and ammunition from the spot,” said Inspector General of Police, Bastar range , Sundarraj P. The IG added that a search for other Maoists is going on. “One of the deceased, Kawasi Hunga, was a Maoist commander. The other body is yet to be identified,” said the IG. More details of gunfight are awaited as the team is still in the jungle, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-maoists-killed-in-gunfight-in-bastar-s-sukma-c-garh-police-101629779611283.html
24-08-2021||Patna||Auto lubricant thrown on LJP’s Pashupati Kumar Paras during Hajipur visit||Union minister for food processing industries and Lok Janshakti Party president Pashupati Kumar Paras faced protests while visiting his parliamentary constituency of Hajipur for the first time after becoming a Central minister last month, as some unidentified people threw automobile engine lubricant at him and waived black flags on Monday.The incident took place near Chaurasia Chowk under Industrial police station area, where a group of political activists stopped Paras’ cavalcade, showed him black flags, raised slogans and threw auto lubricant on his person. At his next public programme, the minister was seen in fresh clothes. He did not name anyone involved in the protest.Paras avoided questions about the possibility of the protests being a fallout of his ongoing power tussle with his nephew and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan for control over the LJP, following death of party founder and his elder brother Ram Vilas Paswan. The Election Commission of India is currently considering claims by both factions on the party symbol.Both Chirag and Paras claim to be true inheritors of Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy. During his public programme, Paras said conferring Bharat Ratna would be the fittest tribute to the departed leader.Paras was also shown black flags for delaying a visit to his constituency when people were facing hardship due to floods. A woman was also roughed up by security guards of the Union minister when she approached his cavalcade.Paras’ representative Pramod Kumar Singh alleged that Bihar police and the district administration could not make proper security arrangements despite being aware of his visit. Meanwhile, the station house officer (SHO) of Industrial police station lodged a complaint about the incident and Vaishali police chief Maneesh has ordered a probe into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/auto-lubricant-thrown-on-ljp-s-pashupati-kumar-paras-during-hajipur-visit-101629779310304.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||MP calls for meeting to expedite land allotment for central schools in Delhi||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Manoj Tiwari has written to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan requesting him to call a meeting of officials to discuss the pending land allotment for seven Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in New Delhi.“…. There have been plans of setting up the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in 7 districts of Delhi… for which Union government had requested the Delhi government in 2016-2017 to provide land and other facilities... But the Delhi government has not provided any land yet… citing inadequacies in the process of allotment…,” Tiwari said in a letter dated August 23.Also Read | Ambiguous definition means oil-palm plantations will count as forest coverUnder the Navodaya Vidyalaya Scheme, the Centre seeks to have one Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in each district of the country. As many as 661 such schools have been sanctioned, out of which 580 are functional while construction work is in progress for 64. Construction of 17 of such central schools is pending due to lack of land allotment including in Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and West Bengal.Vinayak Garg, commissioner of the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, wrote to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on July 15 requesting it to expedite the allocation of the land. He wrote the schools were sanctioned in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mp-calls-for-meeting-to-expedite-land-allotment-for-central-schools-in-delhi-101629778050559.html
24-08-2021||Bangalore||Allow WFH till Dec 2022 to help Bengaluru Metro work: K’taka govt to IT firms||The Karnataka government has requested large corporations with offices on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) or Bengaluru’s IT corridors to extend work from home (WFH) to their employees till the end of December 2022. The department of information technology, biotechnology, science & technology has made this request for the soon-to-be initiated Metro rail construction on the stretch from Silk Board to KR Puram and from there to the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). “We would like to bring to your notice, that BMRCL (Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited) is starting metro construction works on outer Ring Road (ORR) from Central Silk Board to KR Puram and the construction of the same could extend to about 1.5 to 2 years. The ORR houses many large Tech Parks and IT company campuses and carries large amount of traffic throughout the day. The ORR, despite having 6 lanes and service roads, is infamous for its perennial traffic congestion,” EV Ramanna Reddy, the additional chief secretary, IT/BT, S&T department said in his letter to the regional director of NASSCOM. Bengaluru’s IT companies were among the first to extend WFH which allowed the multi-billion dollar industry to continue operations despite the Covid- 19 pandemic-induced lockdown. The department said that it would be beneficial if “the IT companies especially located in ORR, would extend the work from home option for most of the employees till December 2022, and/or the IT parks/companies may be advised to stagger the working hours for those employees working physically at office.” The department added that the companies which wish to resume operations encourage their workers to use company or public buses to reduce congestion. “We request you to circulate this advisory to IT companies located on ORR so that infrastructure development activities are carried out smoothly, which would also ease out traffic congestion in future,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/allow-wfh-till-dec-2022-to-help-bengaluru-metro-work-k-taka-govt-to-it-firms-101629777570297.html
24-08-2021||Patna||Bihar to push for reopening of JP Setu over Ganga to heavy vehicles||The Bihar government will soon request railways to allow reopening of JP Setu, the rail-cum-road bridge on the river Ganga to heavy vehicles citing traffic congestion in the capital city. A few months after the inauguration of the 11-km long elevated corridor from AIIMS, Patna to Digha, the railway ministry ordered suspension of trucks’ movement on the bridge, citing the possibility of its structure getting damaged by heavy load. Additional chief secretary (ACS), road, Amrit Lal Meena said that the road construction department (RCD) will again formally request the railway ministry to allow movement of heavy vehicles once the formalities for naming the AIIMS-Digha elevated corridor as Patli Path is over. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar has consented to naming the elevated corridor Patli Path, which signifies the rich historical legacy of the town. There was a village called Patli, situated on the confluence of Ganga and Sone. The then emperor of Magadh, Ajatsatru built a clay castle near the village and the emperor’s son later built the city named Patliputra, which later came to be known as Patna,” said Meena. Citing the ban of heavy vehicles on JP Setu as the major reason for sparse traffic on the corridor, a senior officer of the RCD said they will again request the ministry of railways to reopen the Ganga bridge to heavy vehicles. “Almost all major roads of the capital city are witnessing traffic congestions as only the under-construction Gandhi Setu in Patna is available for heavy vehicles to cross the river,” said the officer. Meena said the state could propose that one-way traffic of trucks, from north to south, is allowed on the JP bridge as the trucks generally return empty or without heavy loads. “Generally, trucks, which go from south to north Bihar are loaded with construction materials like sand, quarry, etc, and hence they weigh heavier. Study shows that trucks from north to south Bihar generally return empty or with foodgrains, which are lighter in weight,” said the ACS. The elevated corridor was inaugurated by Nitish Kumar on November 30, 2019 during his first official programme as the chief minister of the newly-elected government. The same month, the ministry of railways banned traffic of heavy vehicles on the bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-push-for-reopening-of-jp-setu-over-ganga-to-heavy-vehicles-101629776250125.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Parts of city to receive light rains today||Parts of Delhi are likely to receive light, isolated rains on Tuesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Officials said that from Wednesday, the city will see another dry spell, which is likely to last till August 28. A senior IMD official said that there are no signs of intense showers on Tuesday, but light, isolated showers are possible in some parts. “From tomorrow, the rainfall activity will reduce again. Such conditions will continue till Saturday,” the official said.Also Read | Change in Chhattisgarh? Bhupesh Baghel, TS Singh Deo in Delhi todayIMD recordings showed that as on Monday evening, the Safdarjung weather station, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a monthly rainfall surplus of 11% and Lodi Road station recorded a surplus of 5%. The Palam observatory still stands at a deficit of 19%.This means that the intense rains that Delhi received on Saturday’s rainfall recordings from 63.7mm (as on Friday) to 211.2mm, as against the normal 190.2 mm. The rainfall recording of 138.8mm was the highest single-day rainfall to be recorded in August over the last 14 years and the ninth highest since 1961, IMD records confirmed.IMD officials said this excess rainfall that Delhi has recorded is a result of short and intense showers that was spread over a span of around five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-parts-of-city-to-receive-light-rains-today-101629774450215.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Delta Plus cases in Maharashtra rise to 103. These districts have new infections||The number of Delta Plus cases of the coronavirus, considered highly transmissible, in Maharashtra has risen to 103 after 27 new infections were reported in the state, according to the health department. The department said that of the new 27 Delta Plus cases, six each were detected in Gadchiroli and Amravati, five in Nagpur, four in Ahmednagar, three in Yavatmal, two in Nashik and one in Bhandara district.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release that the Delta variant, which according to the Union health ministry fuelled the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in India, has been detected in 128 swab samples in Mumbai. The BMC said in the release that 128 out of 188 samples sent for genome sequencing at one of its facilities were found to have the Delta variant of the coronavirus. Among other samples, two were found positive for the Alpha variant and 24 for the Kappa variant and the rest were of other strains of Covid-19, it said.Also read | 'Delta, Alpha variants behind breakthrough Covid cases in India; no new strain'The BMC has set up a new genome sequencing facility at the civic-run Kasturba Hospital in the Chinchpokli area. The civic body tested the first batch of samples at this facility inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 4. The civic body said it has received two genome sequencing machines donated by an American organisation. At least 384 samples can be tested at the genome sequencing lab at a time and results can be made available within four days, it added.Also read | Do Covid-19 vaccine boosters help? This Israeli study has answersMaharashtra on Monday recorded 3,643 new cases of Covid-19, which have taken the state's tally to 6,428,294. Mumbai saw 225 new Covid-19 cases and four fatalities, taking the city's death toll to 15,951. Maharashtra has seen 136,067 deaths so far and the number of active cases of Covid-19 currently stands at 49,924.State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday all preparations are being undertaken to face the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. “We have taken steps to fill the vacancies (of medical staff), ensure the maximum level of oxygen, additional budget as well as making available the medicines to face the surge in cases,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delta-plus-cases-in-maharashtra-rise-to-103-these-districts-have-new-infections-101629771025731.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 days after Malerkotla man’s death, Ludhiana cops book wife, in-laws||Three days after the death of a 25-year-old Malerkotla resident, police have booked his wife and in-laws for abetment to suicide. The victim had died at the house of his in-laws on Friday. However, before ending his life, he had called one of his friends alleging that he was being harassed by his wife and in-laws. The Haibowal police have lodged an FIR against his wife, father-in-law and mother-in-law. Earlier, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The man had married the accused in March.In his complaint, the victim’s father had said that his son had gone to his in-laws’ house in Netaji Nagar of Haibowal on August 19 and ended his life the very next day by consuming poison. “Initially, I was baffled as to why he had chosen to end his life and therefore did not lodge a complaint. However, on August 22, one of his friends told me that my son had called him saying that his in-laws were trying to sell the jewellery that had been gifted during the wedding. When my son objected, they humiliated and threatened him.” The victim had also said that he was considering ending his life. The victim’s friend had recorded the conversation. The complainant said that his daughter-in-law had cleared the International English Language Testing System (IELTS, an international standardised test of English language proficiency for non-native English language speakers) and wanted to go abroad. “ We spent around ₹30 lakh to send her to Canada. She was supposed to call her husband to Canada after reaching there.” Assistant sub-inspector Narinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been lodged under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-days-after-malerkotla-man-s-death-ludhiana-cops-book-wife-inlaws-101629753927957.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Transfer orders of 2 police officers rolled back in Ludhiana||Three days after senior police officers were reshuffled, the transfer orders of joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa were rolled back on Monday. The decision was taken after a controversy erupted over the new postings, Elanchezhian had been made DCP (law and order, Ludhiana), while Ashwani Kapoor who was DCP Ludhiana was made the Batala senior superintendent of police. Several eyebrows were raised over this reshuffling as JCP is one rank senior than DCP, which is why Elanchezhian did not join his new post. The post of DCP law and order is yet to be filled.Dhindhsa who was DCP (investigation, Ludhiana), who had been transferred as DCP (detective and operations), Ludhiana, has been transferred back to his original post. No directions have been issued for Varinder Pal Singh Brar, who was transferred as DCP (investigation, Ludhiana). Brar had not joined his new posting yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/transfer-orders-of-2-police-officers-rolled-back-in-ludhiana-101629753688076.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mini-truck driver mows down 2 pedestrians in Ludhiana||In a freak accident, two labourers were mowed down by a mini truck as the driver tried to avoid hitting a jay walker near Jawaddi Canal Bridge on Monday. One of the victims has been identified as Ram Chander, 45, of Jawaddi Bridge, while the other victim is yet to be identified. Assistant sub-inspector Sanjiv Kumar, who is investigating the case, said the mini truck was heading towards Doraha from Ferozepur, when the driver took a sharp turn to avoid running over a pedestrian who was crossing the road, but ended up mowing down two other men who were also crossing the road. Both men were killed on the spot. The ASI said that the unidentified driver fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind. A case of reckless driving and causing death due to negligence has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minitruck-driver-mows-down-2-pedestrians-in-ludhiana-101629753388622.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||CP calling: Ludhiana cops on their toes for 3 am meetings||Getting a new top boss is usually enough to give subordinates a few sleepless nights. However, for station house officers and police post in-charges in Ludhiana, this is no hyperbole as the sleepless nights are officially mandated, with meetings being convened at ungodly hours and at a short notice for the last two days. After taking reins as police commissioner Naunihal Singh has been shaking things up and rousing police personnel from their purported stupor. Officers say meetings are being convened as early as 3am to improve cops’ reporting time.The new police commissioner has checked all offices and branches under his charge and asked police personnel to maintain cleanliness and meticulous records. An officer, who requested anonymity, said, “Most of us have started sleeping with our phones under the pillow as we are expected to report to the police control room or a police station within 30 to 40 minutes of receiving the call. That’s not all! We are also expected to be dressed sharply in crisp uniforms and gleaming shoes.” “The commissioner checked our weapons, vehicles, and uniforms and asked us to maintain things properly,” the SHO said. On Monday, cops received a message from the police control room around 3am asking them to report at the Guru Nanak Stadium within 30 minutes. “We all managed to reach the stadium at around 4am. A flag march was carried out through the Sarabha Nagar Main market to the Guru Nanak Stadium after being briefed by the commissioner,” said an SHO, requesting anonymity. A similar exercise was carried out a day on Saturday night, a day after the commissioner assumed charge. Naunihal Singh summoned all the SHOs of 28 police stations, 31 police post in-charges, unit in-charges and gazetted officers to the Bharat Nagar roundabout in the wee hours.While the flag march was carried out at 5 am on Monday, the meeting had been called at 4am on Sunday. The 300 odd cops who gathered at the designated spot, were instructed to brush up their skills such as preparedness, alertness, public dealing, responsibility and the like.To check their emergency responses, cops were split into two teams and directed to march towards the Sarabha Nagar market through separate routes.While one route marched from the Arti Chowk side, the second team took the Pakhowal- Hero Bakery route to reach the Sarabha Nagar market.“The cops’ emergency response time and preparedness were checked. Such practices will be carried out on a routine basis to sharpen the skills of the police officers holding key posts,” said Naunihal.Meanwhile, a disgruntled officer, said, “We are already overworked and have to work till late in the night. Now, we have also taken to sleeping with one eye open!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cp-calling-ludhiana-cops-on-their-toes-for-3-am-meetings-101629752728532.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Harassed by daughter-in-law, her parents 60-year-old sets himself on fire||A 60-year-old retired banker succumbed to burn injuries on Monday, two days after he set himself on fire at his house in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar at Noorwala Road on Saturday. The victim was allegedly being harassed by his daughter-in-law and her parents, who are absconding.The victim’s wife said that the retired banker had taken the extreme step after being humiliated and beaten up by their son’s in-laws at their house on Saturday. She alleged that the accused had also threatened to implicate them in a case of dowry harassment.“After the accused left the house, my husband poured kerosene on himself and set himself on fire,” she said. The man was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to his injures.The complainant said that her 29-year-old son had married the accused one-and-a-half years ago and have a six-month-old daughter.“Three months ago, my husband and I suffered injuries in a mishap, after which our daughter-in-law and her parents started abusing us. Our daughter-in-law wanted to move in a separate accommodation, but when my husband refused, she assaulted him. She had started harassing me soon after her marriage,” she said.Basti Jodhewal station house officer inspector Mohammad Jamil said a case had been registered under Sections 306 (suicide) and 34 ( acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harassed-by-daughter-in-law-her-parents-60-year-old-sets-himself-on-fire-101629752247916.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Day after launch, project to clean Buddha Nullah hits roadblock||With the Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority asserting that the move to release 200 cusecs of freshwater into the Buddha Nullah each day may lead to an ecological disaster and disturb the fragile biodiversity of the Sutlej River, the Ludhiana municipal corporation on Monday found itself embroiled in yet another controversy merely a day after it launched the ₹9.8-crore project.Nixing the corporation’s hypothesis that releasing water in the Buddha Nullah will increase oxygenation, PWRDA member SS Kukal said, “How can mixing polluted effluents in fresh water increase oxygenation? Oxygenation will not take place until effluent discharge is treated.” Kukal, who was formerly the dean of Punjab Agricultural University’s college of agriculture and has guided research work in soil physics, irrigation and water management, and environmental science, said, “Heavy metals discharged from the industry in the form of untreated effluents cover a distance of approximately 15km before finally mixing with the Sutlej’s waters. The process takes some time. However, releasing fresh water into the rivulet has sped up the pollution of the Sutlej River. The increased water pressure will poison the river on a larger scale and adversely affect the ecosystem within and around the waterbody.” The PWRDA will raise the issue with the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPBC) and the Ludhiana civic body. “We will seek an explanation as to why they decided to release fresh water into the polluted rivulet and also ask them to stop the project until such time that the common effluent treatment plant (CETP), sewage treatment plants (STPs) and other projects that pertain to water treatment are completed,” said Kukal.Urging stakeholders to not take a hit-and-trial approach, the former professor, said, “Cleaning the polluted rivulet is not as easy as cleaning pigeon droppings, which can be removed by pouring a bucketful of water. A permanent solution needs to be found.” A sound move, contends activist However, social activist Rahul Verma, who was involved in building an escape regulator channel from the Sirhind feeder canal near Neelon village, rebutted Kukal’s theory. “Firstly, only 50 cusecs of water is being released in the initial stages of the project. Secondly, the chemical oxygen demand, and biochemical oxygen demand (COD and BOD) levels showed improvement a day after the water was released into the nullah. Thirdly, rain water is already entering the rivulet from different sources. If Kukal’s theory is to be believed then the rain water should also be stopped from entering the nullah!” Verma said. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu also reiterated that only 50 cusecs of water was being released from the channel. The mayor said work had already started on two new sewage treatment plants (STPs) with a combined capacity of 285 MLD – Jamalpur 225 MLD and Balloke 60 MLD; the rehabilitation of existing STPs with a treatment capacity of 418 MLD; two effluent treatment plants (ETPs) for the treatment of 6 MLD wastewater from two dairy complexes in Tajpur and Haibowal; six intermediate pumping stations; and the laying of a 10-km pipeline under the ₹650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project. “The project will be completed by December 2022,” he maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-launch-project-to-clean-buddha-nullah-hits-roadblock-101629752128452.html
24-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 66-yr-old gets Bluetooth-enabled pacemaker||Doctors at Deep hospital performed a cardiac intervention on Monday, wherein they implanted a Bluetooth-enabled pacemaker in a 66-year-old patient’s heart.The woman, suffering from a slow heart rate, underwent a corrective intervention, wherein a Bluetooth-enabled ‘Cardiac resynchronization therapy device’ (CRT-D), was implanted in her.Speaking about the case, Dr JS Grewal, cardiologist, said, “During this intervention, we have implanted an extremely advanced pacemaker which is not only beneficial for people with low heart rate but also the ones who suffer from frequent cardiac short circuits.”“The pacemaker improves the heart’s pumping function through shocks. Additionally, it is a Bluetooth-enabled device, owing to which the patient’s ECG can be easily accessed through a smartphone. In the occurrence of any short circuit, the device will prompt the patient - enabling us to take immediate corrective actions,” he added.Currently, the patient’s condition is progressive. She is under observation at the hospital’s Critical Care Unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-66-yr-old-gets-bluetooth-enabled-pacemaker-101629751051990.html
24-08-2021||Other||PAU commences counselling for UG courses||Punjab Agricultural University commenced the counselling for admissions to undergraduate courses on Monday. There were few takers for the five-year integrated MSc courses like physics chemistry, zoology and botany, and BSc community sciences. While all 38 seats of BSc (honours) agriculture, 30 of horticulture, 19 of agri-business, 30 of food technology, and 30 of BSc bio-technology, were filled.The counselling for admissions under the general quota will continue on Tuesday while, counselling for the reserved quota will be held on Wednesday.Seminar on crop residue management heldThe department of extension education of PAU organised a travelling seminar on crop residue management under the project funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD).A total of 30 farmers from different villages of the Moga district attended presentations of scientists to get the latest information on crop residue management.Kuldeep Singh, head of the department of extension education, sensitized the farmers about the ill effects of crop residue burning and advised them to adopt crop residue management technologies in their farms.RS Gill, the principal rice breeder, urged the farmers to adopt short-duration varieties of paddy for better paddy straw management in their fields.Dharminder Singh, the senior extension scientist, shared project activities and suggested the farmers purchase farm machinery in groups and use these on a cooperative basis.Arshdeep Singh, scientist, department of farm machinery and power engineering, provided in-depth knowledge about crop residue management technologies like happy seeder, super seeder, PAU super SMS system, mulcher, mould board plough, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-commences-counselling-for-ug-courses-101629751050642.html
24-08-2021||Other||Watercolour workshop held in Ludhiana||Jaswant Singh Zafar, deputy chief engineer, PSPCL, who is also a poet and prose writer, organised a watercolour painting workshop at Vivek Sath community and art centre in Ghelewal village on Sunday, in memory of his late son Vivek Singh Pandher.World-renowned painter Parvinder Kikku led the workshop, which was attended by 50 persons aged 14 and above, including students and artists. He spoke about the techniques and nuances of watercolour painting and demonstrated it.Vivek Singh Pandher, 22, was studying at the engineering school at the University of British Columbia and had died after attending the Paradiso Festival in Washington state in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/watercolour-workshop-held-in-ludhiana-101629751049682.html
24-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Work on developing market launched||Mayor Balkar Sandhu inaugurated the beautification and development works at Gian Singh Rarewala market on Monday.The market, which was among the first to be built on the pattern of Chandigarh’s commercial market concept, is in a dilapidated condition due to the absence of basic amenities. Sandhu said that it was a long pending demand of the businessmen of the market to get washrooms built, the market beautified, the parking lot improved, and road carpeted.The mayor added that it was necessary to develop the market, which is four decades old, as it is located adjacent to the Regional Passport Office.Senior Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal said that the state government is focusing on developing road infrastructure and providing basic amenities to the citizens of Ludhiana.Punjab medium industrial development board chairman Amarjeet Singh Tikka expressed his gratitude towards the cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for allocating ₹70 lakh for this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-work-on-developing-market-launched-101629751047741.html
24-08-2021||Other||SCD Govt College, Ludhiana holds 100th prize distribution function||SCD Government College held its 100th annual prize distribution function at Sahir Auditorium on Monday.Ashwani Bhalla, dean, academic affairs, said that because of the Covid situation, only the most important prizes were given away to about 150 students.Kanwar Gurbaaz Singh was felicitated with the Jagdev Singh Olympian Award for Excellence in Sports for his achievements in basketball.Sahir Order of Merit was bestowed upon Tejas, Amarjeet Chawdhury, Akshay, Gurtejinder Singh, Jaswinder Singh, and Manjinder Singh for exceptional achievements in co-curricular activities.Roll of honour (academics) for the session 2019 -20 was conferred upon 14 students for clinching the first three positions in the university, for sports was conferred upon seven students, for NCC was conferred upon six students and for cultural activities was conferred upon 10 students.As many as 15 students got special awards and 31 got merit certificates. In addition, members of the students’ council and college magazine student editors were also honoured.Tejas was declared the student of the year 2019- 20 and Udit Saggar was declared student of the year 2020- 21.Mamta Ashu, who was the chief guest, congratulated the students for their achievements in these testing times.The function concluded with the National Anthem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scd-govt-college-ludhiana-holds-100th-prize-distribution-function-101629750990907.html
24-08-2021||Other||Katoch Shield: Ludhiana-Mohali match ends in a draw||The second encounter between host Ludhiana and Mohali during the inter-district cricket championship for Katoch Shield ended in a draw. Even though it was a draw, the match was dominated by the Mohali team.The match was played at Hara Cricket Ground in Baddowal here on Monday.While rain played spoilsport on the first day, Ludhiana suffered an early blow as the match resumed on Monday. The host team lost four wickets for merely 26 runs.While Sunny Panday scored five runs, Nihal Wadhera, who scored a double ton in the previous match against Fatehgarh Sahib in the previous encounter, was trapped LBW for three runs. Tanroop managed to score only six runs in 31 balls.Senior Ranji Trophy player Gitanash Khera was out for a duck. However, Vaibhav Kalra shone with his blistering 101 run knock that helped the host to post a face-saving target of 215 runs in 64.4 overs. Vaibhav smashed eight boundaries and four towering sixes and faced 164 balls to complete his century.For Mohali, Barinder Sran and Jassinder Jassi were the picks of bowlers taking three wickets each.In response, Mohali scored 100 runs in eight overs for the loss of two wickets. Harpreet Brar scored a quickfire 85 in 35 balls, smashing eight sixes and seven boundaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/katoch-shield-ludhiana-mohali-match-ends-in-a-draw-101629750989961.html
24-08-2021||Other||Two week dairy farming training course concludes at GADVASU||The department of veterinary and animal husbandry extension education of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University organised a two-week training course on dairy farming for rural youth of the state.A total of 16 trainees, including one farm woman, participated in the programme. The trainees were given basic theoretical as well as practical knowledge about starting a new venture in dairy farming. The important topics included selection and identification of dairy breeds and breeding strategies, shelter management, feeding management, reproductive management, and, marketing and value addition of dairy produce.Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of the varsity, interacted with the trainees and shared some success stories of progressive dairy entrepreneurs with them.Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education, told the audience about various activities undertaken by the university. He explained how this directorate helps the livestock farmers of the state in imparting the latest technical knowledge at an affordable price.RK Sharma, professor-cum-head, department of veterinary animal husbandry extension education, advised the trainees to properly plan for suitable land, breeding of high-yielding dairy animals, and balanced feeding.He also delivered a lecture on the identification of sick and healthy animals, appropriate use of antibiotics, and care and management of pregnant animals.Participants were given certificates in the concluding ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-week-dairy-farming-training-course-concludes-at-gadvasu-101629750988985.html
24-08-2021||Other||Eminent agronomist Gurbakhsh Singh Gill passes away||Dr Gurbakhsh Singh Gill, an eminent agronomist, passed away at the age of 96 at Virginia in USA on August 19.MS Bhullar, head of the department of agronomy, PAU, while throwing light on the life and achievements of Dr Gill, said, “He established the department of agronomy as a leading centre of learning at the national level. His research contributions to the Green Revolution to take its roots in Punjab are unparalleled. Dr Gill played a key role in developing the agronomy of newly introduced Mexican wheat varieties regarding their time of sowing, depth of seeding, the timing of first irrigation, and practices for late sown wheat.”Anirudh Tewari, additional chief secretary (development), Punjab and vice-chancellor, PAU; Dr RS Sidhu, registrar; Dr NS Bains, director of research; Dr JS Mahal, director of extension education; Dr TS Riar, additional director communication, PAU; other senior officials, faculty, staff, students, and PAU alumni expressed condolences over his demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eminent-agronomist-gurbakhsh-singh-gill-passes-away-101629750987682.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MP Tewari slams Sidhu’s two advisers as controversy over Kashmir, Pak remarks snowballs; duo remains defiant||The wrangling in Punjab Congress over controversial remarks of the two newly appointed advisers of state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Kashmir and Pakistan snowballed on Monday with party’s Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari coming down heavily on the duo and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat hinting at a strict action against them. The two advisers, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, however, remained defiant, saying their remarks were “final”.Slamming the duo, Tewari tweeted: “I urge Harish Rawat, AICC general secretary and in-charge of Punjab affairs, to seriously introspect that those who don’t consider J&K to be a part of India and also have pro-Pakistan leanings should be a part of Punjab Congress. He said such people mock all those who have shed blood for India. Tewari’s tweet came a day after chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh described the remarks by Sidhu’s advisers as “atrocious, ill-conceived and potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country.” Sidhu on August 11 had appointed Mali, a former government teacher and political analyst, and Garg, a former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health and Sciences, as his advisers to seek their “wise counsel.” In a recent social media post, Mali had reportedly said if Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35A. He had also said, “Kashmir is a country of Kashmiri people.” Garg had reportedly questioned the chief minister’s criticism of Pakistan.Rawat hinted at taking a “strict action” against Mali, saying: “I would like to clarify on behalf of the party that J&K is an integral part of India. Nobody has the right to cast doubt on its status, let alone issuing a statement.” Also, he warned of action over a sketch of Indira Gandhi posted by Mali on Facebook wherein she is seen standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. “She was one of the most popular leaders, a mother figure to us. If somebody insults her, we condemn it. Action will be taken if this is proven”, he added. Amid mounting pressure, Sidhu held a marathon meeting with Mali and Garg at his Patiala residence. “Some political leaders and parties have started issuing ‘fatwa’ against me instead of initiating a dialogue. Dialogue is the best option to resolve issues,” Mali said after the meeting. Garg defended his statements critical of the CM, saying he was not a party worker, and only an adviser to Sidhu, and thus has the liberty to speak in his personal capacity on every issue. “When a government does good work, we appreciate it. But if it performs badly, we criticise it,” he added. Sidhu wasn’t available for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mp-tewari-slams-sidhu-s-two-advisers-as-controversy-over-kashmir-pak-remarks-snowballs-duo-remains-defiant-101629749127534.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Five more die of Covid in HP, 228 test positive||With 228 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, Himachal’s total case tally rose to 2,11,979 while the death toll mounted to 3,558 after five patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 80 were reported in Mandi, 32 in Kangra, 24 each in Hamirpur and Shimla, 20 in Chamba, 16 in Bilaspur, 10 in Kullu, eight in Una, six in Kinnaur, five in Lahaul-Spiti and three in Solan. The active cases came down to 2,030 while recoveries reached 2,06,366 after 272 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 46,366, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,392 and 26,386 cases, respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,523 cases, Sirmaur 15,419, Hamirpur 15,095, Una 13,520, Bilaspur 13,319, Chamba 13,306, Kullu 9,416, Kinnaur 3,377 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,860. J&K’s active cases reach 1,054In J&K, 93 people tested positive on Monday while one death related to the disease was reported in Jammu division. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 203 with active positive cases reaching 1,054. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,18,838 prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.31%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,24,295 and the death toll stands at 4,403.Officials said that 40,549 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT . Officials said with 28 cases, Doda had the highest number of new infections followed by 12 in Srinagar. Other 18 districts had no or single-digit cases.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,142 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 834 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-more-die-of-covid-in-hp-228-test-positive-101629748413092.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rail, road blockade in Jalandhar: Farmer unions, agri experts differ on cane SAP; CM to take call today||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will take the final call on the new state assured price (SAP) for the sugarcane crop on Tuesday as the farmer union leaders and agriculture experts failed to reach a consensus on the issue amid an ongoing rail and road blockade in Jalandhar. Amarinder will preside over a meeting with farmer leaders in Chandigarh on Tuesday.Monday’s meeting was attended by Punjab commissioner (agriculture) Balwinder Singh Sidhu, director agriculture Sukhdev Singh, Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and others while farmer union leaders included Balbir Singh Rajewal, Manjit Singh Rai and Jagjit Singh Dallewal. Balwinder Sidhu said the state government was fully committed to the welfare of the cane growers. “All genuine concerns of farmers were heard patiently. A consensus between the government and farmers has evolved on most of the issues but differences remain on some which are expected to be resolved in tomorrow’s meeting. Today’s meeting was a step in the right direction to end the ongoing agitation,” he said. Manjit Singh Rai, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba) chief, said, “We have calculated the cost of crop production at ₹470 per quintal whereas the experts calculated it ₹345 per quintal.” Rai after a meeting with cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday had pegged the production cost at ₹392 per quintal. “Earlier, we had come up with a rough calculation by taking clues from other states,” he said. “We have postponed Tuesday’s Punjab bandh call but will continue to block the national highway and rail tracks,” he added. Railways to refund ₹53 lakh to over 12,000 passengersThe Ferozepur railway division announced to refund money to all the passengers who couldn’t undertake travel due to the farmers’ protest from August 20 to 23. ₹53.65 lakh will be refunded to 12,300 passengers, an railway spokesperson said. Of the 63 trains affected due to the protest on Monday, 27 were cancelled, 11 were diverted and 25 were short-terminated, he added. Hundreds of farmers from across Punjab had on Friday launched the agitation for an indefinite period to press the Punjab government to accept their demands related to pending dues of sugarcane and hike in crops prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rail-road-blockade-in-jalandhar-farmer-unions-agri-experts-differ-on-cane-sap-cm-to-take-call-today-101629748356195.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to set up presses overseas to print saroops of Guru Granth Sahib||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Monday announced to set up presses in foreign countries to print the holy saroops of Guru Granth Sahib there on the long-pending demand of the Sikh diaspora. In a meeting, the SGPC executive committee decided to print the saroops in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and some European countries. “The sangat (devotees) in various countries was demanding holy saroops for the gurdwaras. Keeping this in mind, the decision of setting up printing presses was taken after a thorough discussion,” said SGPC president Jagir Kaur after the meeting.As per an edict issued by the Akal Takht in 1998, the rights of printing the saroops were reserved with the SGPC and any other institution seeking to do so had to take permission of the apex gurdwara body which decided to retain the rights with it only. Recently, printing holy ‘saroops’ in Surrey in Canada in defiance of Akal Takht’s edict had angered the Sikhs who apprehended alterations in the copies. “The decision was taken due to the problems faced while sending the holy saroops abroad. Now, the printing will be carried out under the supervision of the SGPC in different countries,” Kaur added. They will also make arrangements to send the saroops to various states in India by road, she added. The gurdwara body will also install a portrait of slain American Sikh police officer Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal who was shot dead on duty during a traffic stop, in the Central Sikh Museum in the shrine complex, Kaur said. Dhaliwal, 42, was the first Sikh sheriff deputy in Harris county that has a population of over 10,000 Sikhs. He had made national headlines when he was allowed to grow a beard and wear a turban on the job. Portraits of Nankana Sahib massacre martyrs Ishar Singh and jathedar Amar Singh will also installed in the museum, it was decided. The SGPC also announced to grant ₹10 lakh to raise a memorial of Dhaliwal at his native village in Punjab. Welcoming Pakistan’s move to allow the vaccinated pilgrims to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, through the corridor, Jagir kaur said India should also reopen the passage from its side. Offers to rehabilitate evacuated from Afghan Sikhs Extending help to the Sikhs stranded in Afghanistan after the Taliban’s takeover, the SGPC offered to rehabilitate members of the community being evacuated from the war-torn country. “Apart from accommodation and langar in serais, we are committed to provide every possible help to them. Besides, we will make arrangements to provide them employment,” gurdwara body chief Jagir Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-set-up-presses-overseas-to-print-saroops-of-guru-granth-sahib-101629748350121.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD seeks sedition case against Navjot Sidhu, his team over Kashmir remarks||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday said a case of sedition should be registered against Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and his team as “anti-national propaganda” was being unleashed from the office of the cricketer-turned-politician. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Majithia asked Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party MP Rahul Gandhi to clarify their stand on the controversial remarks of Sidhu’s adviser Malvinder Singh Mali on Jammu and Kashmir. “It’s shocking to see that on a day when India was celebrating Independence Day, anti-national statements were issued from the state Congress’s office. The PPCC chief’s adviser claimed that Kashmir was a country of Kashmiris, India had annexed part of it by force and Kashmiris were not part of India,” the Akali MLA said.Majithia linked the statements with Sidhu’s alleged closeness to Pakistan Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. “It seems the state Congress is implementing Gen Bajwa’s agenda with regards to India, particularly Kashmir,” he claimed. These posts are an attempt to belittle sacrifices made by Indian soldiers, particularly Punjabis, he added. “The state Congress unit is conveying a message that it is supporting Pakistan for justifying Taliban’s control over Afghanistan,” he said. Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parambans Singh Romana was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-seeks-sedition-case-against-navjot-sidhu-his-team-over-kashmir-remarks-101629748347286.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||1.6 kg gold seized from passenger at Amritsar airport||The customs (preventive) commissionerate seized gold weighing 1,600 gm from a male passenger who landed at the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar, officials said on Monday.“On Sunday, a passenger aboard the Indigo Airlines flight from Sharjah was intercepted at 8.30pm. Some suspicious material concealed in his trousers and underwear was noticed. On a thorough search, gold in paste form weighing 1,894 gm was found. On melting, gold valued at ₹78 lakh weighed 1,600 gm. The passenger was arrested. Further investigations are on,” said a press release issued by the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-kg-gold-seized-from-passenger-at-amritsar-airport-101629748287587.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Be job givers instead of job seekers: HP guv Arlekar to youths||Himachal governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar on Monday emphasised on innovation through research and technology for development of the agriculture sector and making farmers self-reliant. He was presiding over the 16th convocation of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU), Palampur, where chief minister Jai Ram Thakur was the chief guest. The governor appealed to the young scientists to become job givers instead of job seekers, for which they should move towards self-employment. “Your knowledge should benefit the society and the agricultural community in particular,” said the governor, adding that the youths were the assets of the country. A nation develops only when its youth is focused and disciplined, said Arlekar. He said that last year, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research had ranked HPAU 14th among all agricultural universities and farm institutions of the country. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state government was working to protect the interests of farmers and development of the state was not possible without focusing on the agriculture sector. He said that despite protests, the Centre took decisions to formulate new laws for welfare of farmers and enacted the Kisan Samman Nidhi for small and marginal farmers of the country. He laid stress on promoting natural farming in the state and called on the farmers to give up chemical farming. He further stated the state government was promoting natural farming in Himachal and a provision of ₹25 crore was made to popularise it among the farmers. The CM said that research on agricultural production techniques, different crop varieties, land and water management, use and conservation of biological resources and pest control techniques were vital not only to ensure optimum use of natural resources and increase crop yield, but also strengthen the economy of the farmers. Former HP CM Shanta Kumar said this university has created a special niche for itself among the agriculture universities of the country. A total of 393 students were awarded degrees at the convocation and eight students received gold medals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/be-job-givers-instead-of-job-seekers-hp-guv-arlekar-to-youths-101629748050515.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kathua chopper crash: Search op for co-pilot, wreckage in full swing||The search and rescue operations for the missing co-pilot and ALH WSI MK II Rudra chopper, which crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam on August 3, are going on in full swing, said officials. “The defence forces are employing best of the equipment available in the country to locate the wreckage. Remotely operated underwater vehicles, hand-held navigation system with sonar, side scanner sonar with echo sensor and portable transducer, divers propulsion vehicle, multi-beam sonar and submarine rescue unit of navy have been pressed into service,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.In addition, Special Forces commandos along with Marcos of the Indian Navy are carrying out continuous diving in the areas being identified through the technical means. “To facilitate the same, the Indian Army has also created a large floating platform from where all diving operations along with the launch of special equipment are being executed. Various agencies like NDRF, civilian experts and dam authorities have also been incorporated in the search operations,” said Col Anand.“Indian Navy has been constantly upgrading the equipment being used for this search and salvage operation. The challenge of operating remotely controlled equipment at a depth where human intervention is not feasible and visibility is not more than a few inches is being handled by incorporating electronic multi-beam sonars, he added.“The search operations are being spearheaded by a commodore-rank officer who is expert in naval rescue operations along with an Indian Army brigadier having expertise in civil engineering aspects. In addition, search operations are being monitored round the clock by GOC Gurj Division and GOC Rising Star Corps making regular visits to the crash site,” said Col Anand.The search and rescue operations continue to be executed at a war footing.On August 15, after 12 days of the crash, body of one of the two pilots of the ill-fated Rudra helicopter was recovered from the lake.On August 11, on the ninth day of intense searches since the helicopter crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam in Basohli area of Kathua district, the rescuers had located the wreckage of machine at a depth of nearly 80 metres in the vast lake. The Rudra helicopter had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake near Pathankot on August 3 around 10.43am. Built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), the chopper was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake.The helicopter belonged to the Army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which had earlier lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kathua-chopper-crash-search-op-for-co-pilot-wreckage-in-full-swing-101629748049483.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Blast outside Baramulla sarpanch’s house||A mysterious blast took place outside the house of an Independent sarpanch at Shakarwara village in Baramulla, which left a vehicle parked nearby damaged.The incident took place late on Sunday outside the house of Narendra Kour.Soon after the blast, army and police reached the spot. Deputy sarpanch Ajaz Ahmad said that blast occurred on Sunday around 9pm. Ahmad said that the sarpanch, along with him, had hoisted the tricolour on August 15. “All panchayat members are very perturbed after this attack,” he added. On Friday, two militants belonging to the ‘hit squad’ of Hizbul Mujahideen were killed in an encounter with security forces at Khrew in Pulwama district. The blast also comes at a time when Jammu & Kashmir is witnessing a spike in violence and attacks on political leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blast-outside-baramulla-sarpanch-s-house-101629748048613.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ultras will be welcomed back with open arms if they accept their mistake: Northern army commander||Lieutenant General YK Joshi, Army Commander, Northern Command on Monday said the youths who are on the path of terrorism will be given a second chance to come back and integrate with their families. The army commander said this while interacting with a group of people and their family members, who were rescued by the army 23 years ago from Gurez forests. He said the youth on path of terrorism will be given a second chance to join the mainstream and lead a normal life. Joshi said that parents have an important role to play in ensuring that their children do not follow the path of violence.“Army is steadfast in its resolve of ethical conduct and ensuring full support to those who want to leave the path of violence,” he said while speaking at a function in Mansbal.“On 23 Aug, 1998, 23 young boys were apprehended while attempting to cross the LoC. These boys were being compelled into a path of militancy through false promises Abdul Hamid @ Bambar Khan and were taken to PoK. Over a period of 10 days from 4 Aug to 14 Aug 1998, Bambar Khan, had collected boys, all within 18 years of age, either by force or through radicalization and had kept them in the dense jungles of Ajas. Thereafter the group moved across the Shamsha Bari range into Gurez Tulail Valley, with the aim of going across the LoC, into POK (sic),” said Col Emron Musavi, defence spokesperson. “An operation was launched. The soldiers held fire as the terrorists accompanying these youths had run away taking cover of the thick foliage and vegetation. These young boys on seeing the soldiers, shouted for help and immediately surrendered. The troops helped them to cross the river and escorted them to Gurez, where they were given food, water and beds to sleep and later on reunited with their parents,” he added. He said the rescued boys, are now leading normal, happy lives and are married and have families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ultras-will-be-welcomed-back-with-open-arms-if-they-accept-their-mistake-northern-army-commander-101629748047365.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||HP apple cultivators seek support price on lines of Kashmir||Days after a steep fall in apple prices in Himachal Pradesh, growers across the state have asked the government to provide support prices for the crop on the lines of Jammu and Kashmir. Expressing serious concern over fall in apple prices and ‘exploitation’ of farmers by commission agents in utter disregard of the APMC Act, the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti has asked the state government to fully implement the Market Intervention Scheme. “Open bidding should be done in the markets by strictly implementing the provisions of the law,” said Sanjay Chauhan, general secretary of the samiti, adding that only those who have licences and permits should be allowed to trade. The farmers for long have been demanding the government that it ensures that the commission agents pay the farmers for their produce on the same day of fruit sale .Usually, it’s a trend in the market that the commission agents delay the payments and in some cases, farmers receive their payments months after the sale of fruit. Chauhan said the provision seeking payment to the farmers for their produce on the day of procurement will be strictly implemented and stern action will be taken against those who flout the norms. The continuous nosedive in the apple markets in the last 10 days has once again raised serious concern for the ₹6,000-crore apple economy. If the government fails to meet our demands, the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti will launch a stir by mobilising the farmers, Chauhan said. Farmers also hold the government policies responsible for the low profits in apple cultivation. “The anti-famers policies of the state government have resulted in increase in the input cost of agriculture and horticulture,” Chauhan said, adding that subsidy on fertilisers, seeds, insecticides, fungicides and other cost items has been stopped and the farmers are forced to buy these items at exorbitant prices. The prices for a 20kg apple box in the market varies from ₹300 to ₹1,400, which is the lowest in the last 15 years while the production cost has increase manifold, Chauhan said. So far, the government is procuring only C Grade apples, that too at ₹9.5 per kg, which is much lower than in Kashmir. Farmers are also worried about the government efforts to make the APMC Act more effective . Farmers alleged that the commission agents and wholesaler cartel in the state was so strong that it controlled the day-to-day rates. The Kisan Samiti alleged the farmers were being charged ₹40 - ₹60 per box illegally in the name of labour charge, bank/DD charge and discount. He said the labour charge is fixed ₹8 per box while the farmers were being charged ₹15. Apart from it, 2% is being deducted in the name of bank charge, Chahan said, while demanding the government to immediately intervene to stop this “loot”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-apple-cultivators-seek-support-price-on-lines-of-kashmir-101629747987485.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||HC warns Maharashtra health secretary over malnutrition deaths of tribal children||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra to send specialist doctors to Melghat and other tribal areas, and has put the state health secretary on notice and asked him to be on guard if any more malnutrition deaths were reported in the state’s tribal belts.The warning was issued after HC was informed by petitioners that despite various orders of the court and the constitution of a core committee to oversee the provision of medical facilities in Melghat and other tribal areas to arrest malnutrition deaths of tribal children, the state had done very little to implement HC’s orders, even as malnutrition deaths kept on occurring till date. The petitioners also sought an audit of the funds received from the Centre towards the upliftment of tribal areas and alleviation of the problems faced by them. HC has asked the state and Centre to file affidavits and also asked the petitioners to give the latest update on malnutrition deaths in the tribal areas before the next hearing. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) and civil applications related to them filed by Dr Rajendra Burma, was informed by senior advocate Jugal Kishore Gilda that since 1993 when the first PIL had been filed highlighting the issue of malnutrition, HC had passed several orders and directions to address the issue. Gilda submitted that while some initiatives were taken by the state government and the situation has improved, due to lack of proper medical facilities in Melghat, there was an estimation that 900 children could die due to malnutrition. He added that children and expecting mothers not only from Melghat, but 11 other sensitive tribal areas such as Nandurbar and Palghar, were suffering due to insufficient medical aid. Bandu Sane, an activist who has been working in tribal belts In Melghat region, submitted that between May 2020 to June this year, 70 children have died and there have been 257 child deaths in the past two years and over 11,000 children were underweight. He added that the situation was grave as only doctors with Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine, and Surgery (BAMS) qualifications were assigned to the region by the government and there were no paediatricians or gynaecologists. Sane also sought an audit of the funds received from Centre towards upliftment of tribal areas and alleviation of problems faced by the residents. Advocate Neha Bhide for the state submitted that the government did not consider the PILs as adversarial, and even one death due to malnutrition was of concern. Hence, measures were being taken to address the issue. She added that while the Central government was responsible for disbursing funds to the state under various schemes, the state was cognizant of its responsibility to implement the schemes effectively. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that it seemed there were no paediatrician, gynaecologist or radiologist in the area and such specialists should be posted there immediately. “If your machinery is so well-equipped, why 73 deaths of malnutrition took place and children are dying till date? From tomorrow we want the situation to be monitored by doctors (sic),” said the bench. The court further said that if there was a dearth of doctors, the state could organise regular visits of doctors from civic and civil-run hospitals to these regions and directed advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to appear before it after two weeks. While directing the state to ensure that doctors monitor the tribal areas regularly, the court warned the secretary of health of being held responsible for any more deaths due to malnutrition. The court then directed the Centre to file an affidavit enumerating the funds disbursed by it under various schemes for tribal welfare and how it is monitoring the implementation of the schemes and also asked the petitioners to file an affidavit on the number of deaths and posted the PILs for hearing on September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-warns-maharashtra-health-secretary-over-malnutrition-deaths-of-tribal-children-101629747867375.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||88-year-old Maharashtra man’s skin donated for medical research||Bavtis Lopes, 88, a resident of Shirley Wadi at Agashi, Virar, has left an exemplary mark even after his death. On Saturday, Lopes passed away owing to age-related ailments. His two sons called the National Burn Centre at Airoli to donate the skin of their father. In 2016, Lopes had pledged to donate his organs to the Federation of Organ and Body Donation, Vasai, for medical research. Taking inspiration from him, 80 members of his family and relatives had also pledged to donate their organs.“Lopes had expressed his desire to donate his and his family’s organs. Some of the members are abroad. They all made the organ donation pledge online in 2016. One of Lopes’ sons – Elias, 65 – died of cancer in 2018. We could get only his eyes as the organs of cancer patients cannot be donated,” said Purshottam Pawar, president of the federation, adding that persons who die of natural causes can donate their eyes, heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, intestine, pancreas, and skin.“In Lopes’ case, we could only receive his skin due to the pandemic. We could not take his eyes as he was above 80 years of age. Even bones and bone marrow can be donated only by healthy people,” said Pawar.“Our organisation is reaching out to villages in Vasai-Virar, Palghar and other areas in the state so that people come forward and pledge to donate their organs, tissues and other body parts for research in medical colleges,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/88yearold-maharashtra-man-s-skin-donated-for-medical-research-101629747507348.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Dead fish found floating in Sangrur village pond||A large number of dead fish were found floating in Dehlan village pond near Lehragaga in Sangrur district on Monday. Locals saw two-three dead fish on Sunday, but the number increased rapidly on Monday. Fisheries department chief executive officer Rakesh Kumar said the fish died due to lack of oxygen after rainwater entered the pond. “We have suggested the residents to bury the dead fish. The pond should be used for fishing to avoid such incidents in future as the contractor will keep it clean,” he added.Jaspal Singh, a resident of the village, said the pond, spread over 2 acres, is near a residential area. Foul smell is emanating from the water body due to the decomposed fish, he added. Pillu Singh, husband of village sarpanch, said neither the panchayat said the dead fish will be buried and pond will be cleaned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dead-fish-found-floating-in-sangrur-village-pond-101629747327400.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Submit report on plea against nod to wood-based industries: NGT to Punjab||New DelhiThe National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday directed the Punjab forest department to submit report on a plea challenging a decision allowing wood-based industries to operate without any restriction.A bench headed by NGT chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel sought a factual report in the matter from the principal chief conservator of forest and head of forest force, Punjab, within a month.According to the plea, the forest cover in Punjab is already very low and permitting unlimited number of wood-based industries merely on the condition that the source of wood should be agro forestry species from non-forest land, imported wood and wood from other states will not be adequate safeguards against illegal deforestation.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO Umeed challenging decision of the state-level committee (SLC), Punjab, which allowed wood-based industries to operate. The applicant has stated that to comply with the orders of the Supreme Court, the ministry of environment and forests has issued ‘Wood Based Industries (Establishment & Regulation) Guidelines, 2016’ which require assessment of availability of timber. The plea also referred to Saw Mill Rules, 2017, formulated by Punjab, which permitted establishment of a wood-based industry within 100 metre aerial distance from notified government block forests and demarcated and non-demarcated protected forests.It said without compiling district-wise and species-wise data of timber availability and consumption, Punjab has taken the impugned decision to permit wood-based industries without any restriction of number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/submit-report-on-plea-against-nod-to-wood-based-industries-ngt-to-punjab-101629747207405.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Major reshuffle in Maharashtra Police, nearly 40 IPS officers transferred||In a major reshuffle in the Maharashtra Police department on Monday around 40 senior IPS officers were promoted and transferred by the state government. Among those who were promoted and transferred incudes officers ranging from ranks of addition director general to deputy commissioner of police. In the reshuffling the state crime investigation department (CID) and the prison department got its new chiefs.Additional director general (ADG) Atulchandra Kulkarni, who was heading the state CID, will now be chief of the state prisons and correctional services. ADG Ritesh Kumar will take over his place in CID. Currently, CID is probing some of the important cases and complaints against former Mumbai Police commissioner and DG Home Guards Param Bir Singh, who had levelled serious corruption allegations on former home minister Anil Deshmukh.Special inspector general (IG) of state CID Praveen Salunkhe has been promoted to ADG rank. He is now entrusted with responsibilities of special operations. IG Madhukar Pandey has also been promoted to ADG rank and will now head the state economic offences wing (EOW).The transfers involved reshuffling of officers on some of the key postings in Mumbai too. The city traffic police got Rajvardhan Sinha, who earlier headed Mumbai’s EOW as joint commissioner, as chief. Yashashvi Yadav, who was heading city traffic police, has now been sent back to his previous posting as special IG of state cyber police.Present Mumbai EOW chief Niket Kaushik, who was due for his promotion, has been promoted to ADG rank, but he has been ordered to continue with the present post of joint commissioner of EOW, Mumbai.Additional commissioner in Mumbai Traffic Police Praveen Padwal has been moved to North region as additional commissioner. Additional commissioner of south Mumbai Satya Narayan has replaced Padwal and additional commissioner of north Mumbai Dilip Sawant has replaced Satya Narayan. Mumbai Police’s intelligence wing head Sunil Kolhe has also been shifted to state intelligence department on the same rank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/major-reshuffle-in-maharashtra-police-nearly-40-ips-officers-transferred-101629747147363.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Dr Nirmal Ouesppachan appointed BFUHS registrar||The state government on Monday appointed IAS officer Dr Nirmal Ouesppachan as the registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot. Dr Nirmal Ouseppachan, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kotkapura, took over the additional charge as the registrar of BFUHS on Monday. The post was lying vacant since IAS officer Dr Ruhee Dugg was transferred in the last week of June. Dr Ouseppachan’s father had to drop out of the MBBS halfway as he did not have money to pay the fee. However, Ouesppachan fulfilled his father’s dream by becoming a doctor. He also cracked the civil services examination to become an IAS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dr-nirmal-ouesppachan-appointed-bfuhs-registrar-101629747087506.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Project Sonu Sood, Riteish or Milind Soman as Mumbai’s mayoral face’||A Congress leader has suggested that the party should project actors Sonu Sood, Riteish Deshmukh or model Milind Soman as the mayoral candidate for the ensuing Mumbai civic polls. Ganesh Yadav, secretary of the Mumbai Congress’ strategy committee appointed for the civic polls, has recommended that the party should handpick mayoral candidate ahead of the elections and the face should be among Deshmukh, Sood or Soman who have a connect with the city’s youth. The recommendation by Yadav – who is also senior vice-president of Mumbai Congress – is a part of his presentation to the strategy committee, that comprises of 25 senior leaders. The report was making rounds on social media after getting leaked. When contacted, Yadav refused to comment on the suggestions and said he was not aware how the report submitted to the committee was leaked.The strategy committee is headed by Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole and comprises of Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap and other senior leaders including Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan. Mumbai civic polls are due early next year and the Congress is planning to go solo for the same. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is being ruled by the Shiv Sena for over two decades. Earlier, the Sena and BJP together were in power, but the two parties contested separately in 2017. While Sena somehow managed to retain power in the civic body, BJP finished close second. This time Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has vowed to wrest power from the Sena. Though Sena and Congress are partners in the ruling government in the state, the two parties are likely to contest the next civic polls separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/project-sonu-sood-riteish-or-milind-soman-as-mumbai-s-mayoral-face-101629747027363.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh bodies working on relief efforts for Afghan nationals arriving in India||New DelhiSikh humanitarian organisations in the Delhi-NCR have started working on relief efforts to help out Afghan nationals who have fled their country to arrive in India, following Afghanistan’s takeover by the Taliban.From arranging accommodations to making education provisions for the children of those who have come seeking aid, organisations like the Hemkunt Foundation, Khalsa Aid International, and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) have stepped up to lend a helping hand.“Whatsoever effort is required to rehabilitate the Afghans coming to India, we will do that … whether it is accommodation or any other kind of financial aid,” DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa told PTI.He said the committee’s guest houses across Delhi would be available to all Afghans who were compelled to leave their own country, beginning Monday night.“People will start coming in from today, and arrangements have been made for them to stay at the Bangla Sahib gurdwara,” Sirsa said.Afghanistan has been in a state of panic ever since its former president Ashraf Ghani abdicated his chair earlier this month, leaving large parts of the country to be taken over by the Islamist militant group.What ensued was chaos across several Afghan cities, with thousands of Afghan citizens flooding the Kabul airport in the hope of leaving their homeland for a safer place.Preempting the need for rehabilitating Afghans arriving in India in wake of the current circumstances in their country, the Hemkunt Foundation has recreated their tent city model from the Singhu border, one of the biggest protest sites of the ongoing farmers agitation, in Gurgaon.The facility has a capacity to house 500 individuals and will be functional from Tuesday afternoon, said Harteerath Singh, community development director at the Hemkunt Foundation.“In our tent city, we will be giving food and accommodation to refugees and Afghans who are here legally only. The women will be inside a permanent structure, and the men will be inside waterproof insulated tents. We have coolers, water, food and all kinds of provisions for them to be comfortable,” Singh said.He said that while the foundation will take in all Afghan nationals irrespective of their religion and caste, passports and visas will be checked.“At the moment, we are hoping to reach out to those in need through word of mouth, but we will be rolling out a helpline soon so that those seeking aid can call on that number,” Singh added.Similar efforts are being undertaken by the Khalsa Aid International which will be launching a helpline soon to make help accessible to those flying in from Afghanistan.“While the finer details are yet to be worked out, we will be launching a helpline soon so that Afghans coming in India and in need of help can approach us.“Provisions, including accommodation, as well as education for their children will be made available by us,” said Khalsa Aid director Amarpreet Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-bodies-working-on-relief-efforts-for-afghan-nationals-arriving-in-india-101629746907533.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three copies of Guru Granth Sahib, 46 Sikhs, Hindus being flown in from Kabul||New DelhiThree copies of Guru Granth Sahib and 75 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, are being evacuated from war-ravaged Afghanistan on an IAF plane, people coordinating the evacuation efforts with the Indian government said on Monday.Nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan, said Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum, an organisation coordinating the evacuation efforts with the ministry of external affairs and the Indian Air Force (IAF).“These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport,” he added.Announcing the evacuation flight, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri took to Twitter to say, “Three Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji are being escorted to the IAF aircraft at Kabul Airport. Forty-six Afghan Hindus and Sikhs along with stranded Indian nationals are blessed to return on the same flight.” Referring to those still stranded in Kabul, Chandhok said the 10km drive to the international airport from the gurdwara through various checkpoints is one of the biggest challenges in the rescue efforts.Around 100 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are likely to be evacuated soon, Chandhok added.“The evacuation of these 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus at such a challenging time is a big relief for us,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, which is also coordinating with the Indian government in the evacuation mission.“US security forces escorted these people to the Kabul airport,” he said.India on Monday brought back 146 citizens on four different flights from Qatar’s capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Afghanistan by NATO and American aircraft amid the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country.On Sunday, it had evacuated 392 individuals from Kabul on three flights. Among them were 24 Afghan Sikhs, including two Afghan MPs -- Narinder Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Kaur Honaryar -- and their families.India is carrying out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-copies-of-guru-granth-sahib-46-sikhs-hindus-being-flown-in-from-kabul-101629746787303.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 27 new Delta Plus cases||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 3,643 new cases and 27 Delta Plus cases, even as the state asserted that it is fully prepared to tackle the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, of the 27 Delta Plus cases – six each are from Amravati and Gadchiroli, five from Nagpur, four from Ahmednagar, three from Yavatmal, two from Nashik and one from Bhandara. The total is now 103.The state’s assertion was in reference to the alert issued by the Niti Aayog that daily Covid-19 cases could reach 400,000-500,000 in the third wave. It has asked the Central Government to prepare 200,000 ICU beds. State health minister Rajesh Tope said all preparations are being undertaken to face the third wave. “We have taken steps to fill the vacancies (of medical staff), ensure maximum level of oxygen, additional budget as well as making available the medicines to face the surge in cases,” he said. On the Niti Aayog alert, Tope said, “This is not a recent correspondence.... In June, the Centre had communicated to us saying that there could be 4-5 lakh cases per day (in the third wave). Taking cognisance of the Central government’s alert, we are fully geared up to face the impending third wave.” Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said citizens should follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to beat the third wave. “Citizens should act responsibly like wearing masks, observing social distance and not taking part in mass gatherings,” said Dr Mandot. “The government needs to speed up the vaccination drive as this will mitigate the possibility of the third wave,” he added. Mumbai on Monday saw 225 new cases with 4 deaths, taking the toll to 15,951. The total deaths in Maharashtra since the outbreak reached 136,067. The number of Covid-19 cases is now 6,428,294. The number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 49,924. A total of 153,558 tests were conducted on Monday, while the number of recoveries was 6,795. In terms of active cases, Pune tops with 11,746 patients, followed by Thane with 6,942 active patients and Satara with 5,800. Pune tops the death toll with 18,864 deaths, followed by Mumbai (15,951) and Thane (11,241).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-27-new-delta-plus-cases-101629746681539.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: New portal for solar metering applications||A new unified web portal https://solar.chd.gov.in for processing of solar net/gross metering applications was launched on Monday by the chief executive officer of Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), Debendra Dalai.Net metering is a utility rate structure that allows you to sell the excess solar electricity that your home doesn’t use back to the grid.The portal, developed by CREST in association with the Union ministry of new and renewable energy (MNRE), World Bank and Ernst & Young, will have purely paperless processing in a time-bound manner and will bring transparency in the system, helping in efficient monitoring and ease of doing business.Through this portal, the beneficiary can easily track their solar net/gross metering application, and the portal is linked with the MNRE for faster disbursement of subsidy.The registration process on the previous portal, www.solarchandigarh.com, has been discontinued with immediate effect and new registrations will only be done through the new one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-new-portal-for-solar-metering-applications-101629746680065.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Delay in PU senate polls: Student protest continues||Members of various student bodies of Panjab University (PU) continued their protest outside vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s office for the 10th consecutive day on Monday, demanding the reopening of the campus and the conduct of polling for the registered graduate constituency of PU senate. Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia visited the protest site to show his support to the demands of students. “The attempts to scuttle the voice of students and graduates should be stopped and the polling for the registered graduate constituency should be conducted,” he said. He urged graduates of the university to come together and stand for the democratic structure of the university. In his address, Majithia also mentioned the proposed changes in the territorial jurisdiction of the university recommended by the high-level committee of experts, which was constituted to examine the governance structure of the university.Students associated to Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar), Students For Society (SFS), Youth For Swaraj, Ambedkar Students Association (ASA), National Students Union of India (NSUI) and other bodies were part of the protest. PU has deferred the polling for the graduate constituency citing non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana. However, the university is yet to announce the dates.Student leaders of PU on Monday said that they have been assured by the university that their demand of paying fee in four instalments will be looked into. Nikhil Narmeta, president of NSUI, PU, said, “We had demanded that students be allowed to pay fee in at least four installments and varsity authorities have assured us that the demand will be resolved soon.”Meanwhile, results of the constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges, for which the polling was held last week, will be announced on Tuesday. Eight members will be elected to the senate from this constituency which has 11 candidates in fray. The result was delayed due to an issue over the inclusion of the name of a voter in the list and the result w+as produced in high court on Monday in a sealed cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delay-in-pu-senate-polls-student-protest-continues-101629746610993.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Auto driver robbed of cash, mobile phone||Four men robbed an auto-rickshaw driver of his mobile phone and ₹4,500 at knifepoint on Sunday night. The victim, Vinod Kumar of Dadumajra, said that he was on his way back home after dropping passenger at railway point. Near Kissan Bhawan, four people stopped him and asked him to drop them to Phase 6, Mohali. He said that when he crossed the Sector 40/41 light point, the accused put a knife to his back and robbed ₹4,500 and his mobile phone, which he had bought last month. The police had registered his complaint and are verifying his claims. A DDR in this regard was lodged at the Sector 39 police station. Jewellery stolen from locked houseThieves targeted a locked house of a family that was out to celebrate Raksha Bandhan on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday and stole jewellery. The victim, Hardeep Singh of Sector 51, works as a teacher with a government school in Sector 33. He told the police that he found the lock of the main door broken and the entire house was ransacked. He added that three gold rings, a diamond ring, gold set and gold bangle were stolen. A case was registered under Section 380 (theft) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhauto-driver-robbed-of-cash-mobile-phone-101629746609776.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Forest Hill junior golf training programme starts on August 29||To promote golf among youngsters in the tricity, the Forest Hill Junior Golf Training Programme will be conducted for children on August 29 at the Forest Hill Golf and Country Club Resort. President of the club, Birinder Singh Gill, will launch this programme with the commencement of the first junior golf championship. This tournament will be conducted for children in the age group of five to 17 years in seven different categories. A beginner’s category is also being introduced for kids who are new to the sport and they will be briefly trained on putting and compete amongst themselves.Speaking on the programme, Gill said that it will be divided into phases. “Regular coaching camps for children will be organised starting September. This will be done with the assistance of the most experienced coaches who will teach correct swing fundamentals, so each child can keep improving. Providing high-quality golf course to kids so that they can play and practice is on the agenda,” he said.He added that a number of junior golf tournaments will be held every year to provide exposure and inculcate all rules and etiquettes in children to prepare them for national and international events.Ladies programme to be organisedIn a bid to give a boost to women’s golf, the club has decided to organise the “Ladies learn to play golf” programme. The programme will include training sessions on the practice range, playing on the golf course, competitions and prizes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forest-hill-junior-golf-training-programme-starts-on-august-29-101629746581700.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC gives ₹10L to kin of sewerman who died in mishap||Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Monday handed over a cheque of ₹10 lakh to the family of sewerman Harpal Singh, who had died on July 18 while cleaning a sewer in Sector 62. The deceased’s wife Balwinder Singh received a cheque of ₹5 lakh, while his two minor children received ₹2.5 lakh each. The Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) had earlier announced a grant of ₹10 lakh each to families of two sewermen who were killed in a mishap recently.Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, MC commissioner Kamal Garg, joint commissioner Baldev Singh Dhillon and executive engineer Harpreet Singh were present on the occasion. Sidhu said that even though Harpal was not a direct employee of the MC, but he died while cleaning the sewerage in the city. So, it was the civic body’s duty to provide financial relief to his family. Sidhu also announced on the occasion that the giving a job to a dependent from Harpal’s family was under consideration. He added that financial relief will be given to the family of the second deceased sewerman soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-gives-10l-to-kin-of-sewerman-who-died-in-mishap-101629746579401.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||R-day violence: Delhi court pulls up police for ‘convenient’ investigation||A city court on Monday admonished the city police for arresting common farmers instead of their leaders in connection to the violence during the farmers’ protest rally on Republic Day, saying that they were just following their leaders.Additional sessions judge Gagandeep Singh, during the hearing on the anticipatory bail plea of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, said it appeared that the police investigation into the case was going as per the “convenience of the investigating authority instead of as per the mandate of the law”.“The common farmers who were just following the calls of their leaders are being picked up and it appears that till date none of the leaders have been even asked to join the investigation,” the judge said.Thousands of farmers protesting against three contentious laws that seek to deregulate agricultural trade clashed with the police and damaged public property during a tractor rally on Republic Day.Earlier, on August 9, the court asked the police to file a status report on its investigation with regard to the 35 leaders named in the FIR related to the case.Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Sidhana, told the court that the FIR was registered after 12 hours of the incident, and includes the names of 35 leaders but despite the lapse of eight months, none of them have either been arrested or asked to join the investigation.Additional Public Prosecutor G S Guarya, appearing for the police, admitted that the report filed was cryptic and does not address the issues raised by the court.The court said the report filed by the police was an attempt to sidetrack the issue, and noted that the investigating officer’s “main evidence” against Sidhana was also not up to the mark.It said that there was no audio and it cannot be heard what Sidhana was saying to the other protesters.The court directed that the proper video of the alleged instigating speech given by Sidhana should be submitted.The matter will be heard on August 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-violence-court-pulls-up-police-for-convenient-investigation-101629746417372.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||26-year-old held for murder of 70-year-old in Vashi||The body found in a gunny bag behind Inorbit mall, suspected to be of a woman, has been identified as a 70-year-old from Govandi who was killed by a 26-year-old man when she resisted a rape attempt, officials said. The body of the deceased, identified as Bababbai Shantibai Kamble, was found in a gunny bag on the morning of August 2 while the investigations revealed that she was killed on the night of July 29. She was stabbed with a bottle on her neck and then hit on her head with a stone. Apart from the tattoo on the wrist of the deceased, the police had no primary clue. “While we looked for the missing person’s complaint in the police stations in Mumbai, we found one, of a 70-year-old lady with a description of a similar tattoo. The family of the missing lady was asked to identify the body,” police inspector Pramod Toradmal from Vashi Police Station said. The police interrogated around 250 people and examined around 350 CCTV footage and found the video clip of the victim going towards Inorbit mall with an unidentified man on the day of the incident. Using the sketch of the accused made with the help of CCTV footage, the culprit was nabbed. To hide his identity, he had cut his hair and threw away his bag which was seen in the footage. “The accused is a homeless man who usually slept under Sanpada bridge and loitered around railway stations. On July 29, the deceased lost her way home in Govandi and ended up reaching Vashi wherein the accused saw her. In the pretext of giving her food to eat, he asked her to accompany him. He took her to the isolated area under the flyover, behind Inorbit mall and tried to sexually abuse her, which she resisted. The accused then stabbed her on her neck with a broken glass bottle lying nearby and then hit her head with a stone and then dumped the body in a gunny bag lying in the garbage bin,” senior police inspector Ramesh Chavan from Vashi police station said. The accused was arrested on August 22 from the Vashi Railway station area and is in police custody till August 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/26yearold-held-for-murder-of-70-year-old-in-vashi-101629746546793.html
24-08-2021||Other||Punjab’s Panchayats seek greater financial powers||Panchayats across Punjab are upping the ante against state government over their demand of vesting more financial powers with them. Sarpanchs and panchayat members have started a two-day protest against state government under the panchayat union of the state from Monday.Gurmeet Singh, state president of the union, said villages were the backbone of any state, but the Punjab government had ignored them.He added that under the present financial rules, panchayats are allowed to use funds of only ₹25,000 on their own for development purposes. “For ₹1 lakh, we need panchayat secretary to sign on the cheque. We want this power ,” he said, adding that the union also wants the government to increase monthly the monthly salary of sarpanches to ₹25,000 from the present ₹1,200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabs-panchayats-seek-greater-financial-powers-101629746488609.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Fake TTE nabbed on board train at Ambala Cantt railway station||A 23-year-old man from Bihar’s Rohtas district was arrested by the Government Railway Police (GRP) on-board a train at Ambala Cantt railway station on Monday for allegedly impersonating a travelling ticket examiner (TTE).Police said that several passengers of Kalka-Howrah mail express waiting at platform number 3 of the station had complained to them about the man, identified as Pankaj Kumar, who boarded from Chandigarh station in full uniform, suspecting him to be fake.“Officials concerned were called for verification who said the man had no association with the department. He also presented a government ID and an excess fare ticket (EFT) booklet along with ₹300 collected as fine,” said complainant Namo Narayan Meena of the Railway Police Force.Sub-inspector (SI) Vilayati Ram, station in-charge, RPF post, said, “They were a group of five men who boarded the train together. We managed to apprehend him, while the rest fled. They will be arrested soon.”A case was registered under Sections 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 170 (Personating a public servant), 171 (Wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (Using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code against Pankaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-tte-nabbed-on-board-train-at-ambala-cantt-railway-station-101629746487246.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||E-challans: Traffic cops collect ₹7.9 lakh from 1,005 houses in Chandigarh||In a special door-to-door campaign launched on July 15, the Chandigarh traffic police have collected 1,180 pending e-challans after visiting 1,005 houses in the city.As per the police, two teams were constituted and residents who had multiple challans pending against them were identified. Total ₹7,91,800 has been collected in fines.The cops, however, haven’t been successful in collecting all the challans. In the case of 308 houses, the addresses were found changed, 36 houses were found locked, 27 vehicles were found sold on affidavit, 54 vehicle owners were out of station on the day of the visit and 12 vehicle owners had passed away. As many as 324 people didn’t pay the challans at the time of the visit, but agreed to pay the pending dues in the future.Around 1.05 lakh e-challans were issued between March 2020 and June 2021, and of these, around 71,000 (67%) were pending when the scheme was launched. Further, the cops carry e-challan machines with them and all payments are made through cards to ensure that payments are made transparently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/echallans-traffic-cops-collect-7-9-lakh-from-1-005-houses-in-chandigarh-101629746367294.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Scattered rain to continue in Chandigarh: IMD||After trace rainfall on Monday, the city is likely to experience only scattered showers in the next couple of days as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thereafter, the likelihood of rain is likely to decline in the city till the end of the month.Speaking about this, IMD officials said, “Chances of rain up to 20mm will continue, however, it is unlikely to rain throughout the day as recorded on August 22. Rain for only a couple of hours can be expected.” Temperatures are also likely to soar by 2-3 degrees during this period.The maximum temperature went up from 31.7 degrees on Sunday to 33 degrees on Monday. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature went down from 25.8 degrees on Sunday to 25 degrees on Monday.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 35 degrees to 37 degrees, while the minimum temperature will remain around 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scattered-rain-to-continue-in-chandigarh-imd-101629746308295.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: AAP to contest all seats in MC polls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday declared that it would contest all the seats in the upcoming Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections, which are due in December.The AAP will be contesting the MC polls for the first time. The announcement was made by senior party leader and MLA from Delhi Jarnail Singh, senior Chandigarh leaders Prem Garg, Chander Mukhi Sharma and Pradeep Chhabra.Addressing the media at the party headquarters here, Jarnail Singh alleged that during the tenure of the present Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), corruption was rampant in every department in UT. “AAP will work hard to eradicate it. We had been trying for a long time to set up an organisation in Chandigarh and now it is almost complete,” Singh said.“Despite the BJP government at the Centre and the BJP-affiliated Lok Sabha member in Chandigarh, the Union government had neglected UT and made this beautiful city one full of filth. Long standing demands of the people are being ignored due to which the people now want a change of government,” he added.Speaking on the occasion, Prem Garg, Chander Mukhi Sharma and Pardeep Chhabra said the Congress and the BJP had crossed all the boundaries of corruption and as a result, problems ranging from cleanliness to taxes and shopkeepers had increased.They said that Congress had been occupying the MC for a long time and Pawan Kumar Bansal was also winning in Lok Sabha, but he did not pay any attention to the problems of the common people. The leaders said that the BJP had also been avoiding meeting the people of Chandigarh. They added that Chandigarh will respond to the corruption of Congress and the BJP by voting them out of the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhaap-to-contest-all-seats-in-mc-polls-101629746307284.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two deaths by suicide reported in Chandigarh||Two suicides were reported in the city, the police said on Monday.A 28-year-old woman on Monday afternoon hanged herself in her house in Sector 20. The police received information at about 1pm and the victim was taken to Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16, where she was declared brought dead.No suicide note was found, but the victim’s husband, who works as a cook, told the police that she was mentally upset. Police said that the victim had been visiting relatives and had come back only 20 days ago.Police have initiated inquest proceedings and the body has been kept in the mortuary at GMSH-16.Teenager hangs self in Mauli JagranA 17-year-old hanged himself in his house in Mauli Jagran on August 22 while his mother was visiting her brother in Bapu Dham Colony. No suicide note was found.The teenager was a street vendor and used to sell vegetables, police said, adding that his father is an auto-rickshaw driver. The victim’s cousin saw the body and informed the police.Police have initiated inquest proceedings and the body was handed over to the family after a postmortem at GMCH-32.Kharar man booked for abetment to suicideA Kharar resident was booked for abetment to suicide weeks after a chemist hanged himself in his shop in Burail, the police said on Monday.Acting on a complaint of the son of the deceased, Sanjeev Kumar of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, was booked. The police said that a 53-year-old chemist was found hanging in his shop on the first floor in Burail on August 4. The victim had left a suicide note saying that he was ending his life as he had to pay money to a few wholesalers, who were allegedly threatening him.The note mentioned that he had taken money from one Sanjeev of Kharar and had even paid him back some amount, but he was being harassed and threatened. The police said he owed ₹2 lakh to Sanjeev, but the family are now accusing Sanjeev of abetment to suicide.A case under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code was registered. The police will now be sending the suicide note for handwriting examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-deaths-by-suicide-reported-in-chandigarh-101629746247234.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||AAP asks Cong to clear stand on Sidhu’s advisers’ remarks||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema on Monday asked the Congress top leaders Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to make their stand clear on the controversial remarks made by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisers on Kashmir and Pakistan.Cheema alleged that this unwarranted controversy, which was being created, was a well-thought-out conspiracy of Sidhu to divert the attention of people of Punjab from the unfulfilled election promises of the Congress. “It cannot be possible that Sidhu’s advisers make these statements without consulting him. He is behind all these statements,” he alleged at a press conference, questioning the Punjab Congress chief’s silence. The AAP leader said that despite being in power, Sidhu was acting like a leader of an opposition party when facing questions related to ground realities. Cheema also demanded the state assured price (SAP) of ₹400 per quintal for sugarcane for the 20201-22 season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-asks-cong-to-clear-stand-on-sidhu-s-advisers-remarks-101629746127171.html
24-08-2021||Other||2015 Kotkapura firing: HC seeks Punjab response on ex-IPS’s plea challenging April judgment||Chandigarh The high court on Monday sought response from the Punjab government, among others, on a plea from former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh that challenges the April 9 judgment in Kotkapura firing case of 2015. The plea, which runs into 1,114 pages, demands quashing of the judgment. It had also demanded a stay on the judgment, but the court did not yield, without seeking a response from the government and other parties. The bench of justice AG Masih and justice Ashok Kumar Verma has sought these responses by December 7.The April 9 judgment of a single-judge bench had come on the 2019 plea of Gurdeep Singh Pandher, a former Punjab Police sub-inspector and the then Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) being probed in these FIRs. Pandher had moved the high court, levelling allegations against Singh and had also sought his ouster from the SIT. The high court had ordered the removal of Singh as SIT member and quashed the challan presented in the FIR in its April 9 judgment. The court had also made adverse remarks against Singh. The judgment had led to Singh resigning from service and subsequently joining Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He had also accused the state government’s legal team of putting up a “weak defence”. The plea says the single-judge bench assumed the jurisdiction of trial court and decided a matter which could only have been decided by the trial court. The process of adjudication so “adopted” by the single judge is totally contrary to the procedure of the criminal justice system as envisaged under the CrPC, the plea claims. “ ... Single judge is proceeding with a pre-conceived notion that the appellant was a puppet in the hands of the state government and was furthering political agenda of the state of Punjab. This is absolutely incorrect and amounts to an illegal observation, as the appellant was only performing his duties as a police officer of known integrity,” the petition underlines, adding that Singh’s response to Gurdeep’s plea was not examined or analysed in the judgment. The plea claims that single-judge bench arrived at the decision without even reading the challan report. “The impugned order does not examine the credentials of the petitioners, does not even appreciate as to how and why and what circumstances prompted them to rush to this hon’ble court by engaging the senior-most lawyers with extreme heavy legal fee and who paid those fees as to whether the petitioners in separate petitions were just a front for senior politicians, who do not want to face trial ....,” the plea states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2015-kotkapura-firing-hc-seeks-punjab-response-on-ex-ips-s-plea-challenging-april-judgment-101629745947150.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: GMADA seeks ₹8 crore for land for new civil hospital||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has asked the district health department to pay ₹8 crore for the land allotted to construct a new civil hospital here.Half of the amount, which is ₹4 crore, has to be paid before handing over the possession of the 8.72 acres of land in Sector 66. The present civil hospital in Phase 6 has been converted into a medical college.On June 29 this year, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had announced that GMADA had already allotted 8.72 acre land for the new hospital.The new civil hospital will cater to a large majority of the local population right up to Dera Bassi and will be equipped with all medical facilities and the latest medical equipment, the minister had said.GMADA chief administrator Pradeep Aggarwal said as per government policy, we have to charge 5% of the market value of the land, which comes to around ₹8 crore. Construction of the hospital will be undertaken by the health department, he said.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “GMADA had sought ₹4 crore before possession, but senior officers of the health department are holding talks with the state government to give us the land for free.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-gmada-seeks-8-crore-for-land-for-new-civil-hospital-101629745831549.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong kickstarts new programme, Ashu first to meet people at party office||Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu met Congress workers and people at the party office in Chandigarh on Monday to redress their grievances. The cabinet minister, along with state working president Kuljit Singh Nagra, heard them for more than three hours at the Punjab Congress Bhawan, the party’s office in Chandigarh. Ashu was the first cabinet minister to sit at the state unit headquarters. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had last week, on Punjab Congress chief Najvot Singh Sidhu’s request, deputed the cabinet ministers to be available at the party office by rotation to listen to people’s grievances. As per the roster, local government minister Brahm Mohindra was to meet the party workers on Monday. However, Mohindra, who heads the ministerial group that has been holding talks to redress the state employees’ grievances, had a pre-scheduled meeting with officials on their demands. The minister said he wrote to the CM informing him about his engagement and requested him to assign it to some other minister. The chief minister deputed the food and civil supplies minister. After the meeting, Ashu said there were about 50 people who came with personal work or issues related to police, local government, revenue, food and rural development departments. “I heard each one of them and spoke to officials. I told them to solve their issues and report within 15 days,” he said. While Nagra listened to the Congress workers who came with issues related to the party’s organisational set-up, rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa also visited the party office. As per the programme, one minister each is to be available at the party office for three hours (11am to 2pm), and in case the minister is deputed for a particular day is unable to make it for some reason, he or she will arrange for a substitute. The duty roster has been issued by for next four months. The move is drawing flak from the opposition, particularly the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has raised questions over its timing and the intentions of the ruling party. AAP MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said the cabinet ministers belong to and get paid by the government and not a party. “They should sit in their government offices and listen to everyone and not just the workers of one party,” he said. However, Ashu said the ministers would continue to meet people at their offices and official residences like before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-kickstarts-new-programme-ashu-first-to-meet-people-at-party-office-101629745708453.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Moga ‘Khalistan flag’ hoisting: NIA court chargesheets Pannun, 5 others||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) court in Mohali on Monday framed charges against six men accused of hoisting ‘Khalistan flag’ at the district administrative complex in Moga on August 14 last year. The accused — Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh alias Ampa, Akashdeep Singh alias Munna, Jagwinder Singh alias Jagga, along with Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) promoters Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and Harpreet Singh alias Rana alias Ranjit Singh alias Harmeet Singh — have been charged under sections 153-B, 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (destruction of evidence), 204 (destruction of document or electronic record to prevent its production as evidence), and 212 (harbouring an offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); sections 10,13 of UAPA, and Section 2 of Prevention of Insult to National Honour. The charges have been framed by the court of NIA special judge Karunesh Kumar. On August 14, 2020, Inderjit, Jaspal and Akashdeep had allegedly hoisted a Khalistan flag at the DC Office complex, Moga, and also disrespected the national flag. The incident made headlines after a video of what they did was widely circulated on the social media. The videos were reportedly uploaded by Pannun and Rana on various social media platforms in support of Referendum-2020, reads the charge sheet. Accused Pannun and Rana have also sent money to accused Inderjit and Jaspal after they committed the crime, says the NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-khalistan-flag-hoisting-nia-court-chargesheets-pannun-5-others-101629745707411.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Man stabbed by son’s former employer, held||A 50-year-old man was stabbed to death and his daughter was assaulted at their house in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri area on Sunday night, police said, adding that the suspect, the former employer of the victim’s son, was arrested from the Mandoli area within hours on Monday.Police said the suspect, Mohammad Salam, owed around ₹75,000 in pending salary to the victim’s son, Ijhar Ahmed, and was angry at being constantly hounded about it by the victim’s family. Ahmed had also left his job over the unpaid dues and started his own online kitchen which hurt the suspect’s khamiri roti business.According to police, Salam had gone to the house to allegedly kill Ahmed but ended up stabbing his father, Mohammad Israr. DCP (northeast) Sanjay Sain said that based on the statement of Israr’s daughter, an FIR was registered under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) at Nand Nagari police station.Police said they carried out several raids, including his native place in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi, but to no avail. Later, based on his call data records, Salam’s was arrested near the Mandoli flyover. Police claimed he confessed to the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-stabbed-by-son-s-former-employer-held-101629745540754.html
24-08-2021||Other||Punjab lowers minimum age for constable recruitment||Chandigarh The Punjab government has lowered the minimum age for the recruitment of constables in the state police’s investigation cadre and intelligence wing to 18 years. The information was shared during the hearing of a plea on Monday. Besides, for the convenience of candidates, the last date for submission of applications for the post of intelligence assistant in the intelligence cadre and constables in investigation cadres of the state police has been extended from August 23 to August 28, the Punjab government counsel said. Some candidates were in the high court demanding that minimum age be lowered from 21 years to 18 years in these two categories. The plea was filed on August 18. After Monday’s response, these pleas have been disposed of, said petitioner’s lawyer, Suvir Kumar. The difference in the minimum age limit for the post of sub-inspectors as 18 years on one the hand and the minimum age for the post of constables and sub-constables as 21 years on the other hand is arbitrary and violates Article 14 of Constitution of India, candidates had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-lowers-minimum-age-for-constable-recruitment-101629745647157.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Covid cases dip in Chandigarh tricity||After showing an upward trend for two consecutive weeks, the cumulative Covid-19 cases in the tricity witnessed a dip in the week ending August 22. Only 74 new cases were reported, as compared to 86 the previous week.However, after recording no fatality for two weeks, the tricity reported two deaths in the week gone by, leaving no margin for complacency.Of the 74 new cases between August 16 and 22, 32 surfaced in Chandigarh, followed by 31 in Mohali and only 11 in Panchkula. For three days in the week, Panchkula had reported no case, which helped in the drop in numbers. After the peak in May, the weekly cases in the tricity had started dropping and reached 50 in the week between July 26 and August 1. Then, in the first week of August, 65 cases were reported, followed by 86 cases in the week ending on August 15. So far in August, till Monday, 115 cases have been reported in Mohali, 89 in Chandigarh and 31 in Panchkula, with a death each in the three areas. P’kula logs death after a monthWith a 64-year-old man from Sector 11, Panchkula, succumbing to the virus on Monday, the district recorded its first Covid-19 casualty since July 23. According to the media bulletin shared by the health department, the man was a chronic smoker for the past 10 years.Meanwhile, the tricity reported six new cases during the day, including three in Mohali, two in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula. The active caseload has dipped to 95 on Monday, with 49 patients in Mohali, 36 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula.‘Keep taking precautions’Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh, said: “The daily infection tally in Chandigarh is fluctuating. After a spike for a day, cases dip for the next few days. In August, we have not reported single-day figures in double digits. However, the cases are rising gradually because people are not adhering to Covid-19 safety norms. They think the restrictions have been lifted as the virus has gone, but that is not the case.”Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said: “The number of patients being hospitalised has started to go up after a significant drop in the past one month. People must follow all rules to avoid the third wave.”So far, 65,068 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus, of whom 64,220 have successfully recovered while 812 have succumbed. Of 68,570 positive patients in Mohali, 67,463 have been cured while 1,058 have died. Panchkula’s tally stands at 30,671. While 30,284 patients have been cured, 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekly-covid-cases-dip-in-chandigarh-tricity-101629745587113.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Increase cane SAP to ₹360 per quintal: Bajwa to Amarinder||Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to increase the state assured price(SAP) of sugarcane to ₹360 per quintal for the 2021-22 season and also release the pending payments of ₹118 crore for the previous year. In a letter to the CM, Bajwa said the SAP of ₹360 per quintal would be in the best interest of the cane growers of Punjab. He said this would be a genuine increase to cover the basic costs of cultivation. “It is a matter of great concern that the SAP has not seen an increase during the last four seasons and remains at ₹310 per quintal. The increase of ₹15 declared by your government is not enough because the cost of production has increased over the last four years,” he said. The Congress MP said that neighbouring Haryana had announced ₹358 per quintal for 2021-22. Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, and Sugarfed Punjab had recommended ₹350 per quintal for the coming season keeping in mind the cost of cultivation, he added. He also said that an amount of ₹117.6 crore --- cooperative mills ₹54.96 crore and private mills ₹62.64 crore --- was due to the cane growers as on August 18. “This amount is huge for the struggling cane farmers,” he said, requesting the CM to order its release to ensure payment of all dues for the previous season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/increase-cane-sap-to-rs-360-per-quintal-bajwa-to-amarinder-101629745527166.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||MRTS: Chandigarh admn to go for fresh study||After years in cold storage, the mass rapid transport system (MRTS) plans have been revived with the Chandigarh administration deciding to go in for a fresh study on the comprehensive mobility plan for the city.With a population of over 12 lakh and 15 lakh registered vehicles, Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles per household in the country, leading to traffic congestion and snarls. In addition to these, over two lakh vehicles on interstate routes cross the city daily.Since the metro rail plans were shelved, the administration has not been able to opt for any other alternative, such as monorail, skybus or metrolite.The decision to have a fresh study on the MRTS was taken after UT officials held a meeting with representatives of the Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) here on Monday. The RITES made presentation on its 2009 report.“The RITES had prepared a report on the city’s mobility needs in 2009. But this has been found outdated now. The city’s needs have changed dramatically in the last more than a decade. Also, the guidelines set by the housing and urban affairs ministry for the MRTS project have changed, which necessitates a fresh look at the problem. Therefore, the administration will go in for a new study,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.The RITES had proposed that Metro would cover a distance of 52.4 km, of which 40.4 km will be in Chandigarh and the rest in Mohali. The alignments were proposed both above ground as well as underground. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation had prepared the detailed project report of the first phase of the project.Confirming the development, UT adviser Dharam Pal said: “The 2009 report was prepared on the basis of old guidelines and old data, which are outdated now. So, whole thing has to be planned and prepared as per the latest guidelines if we have to seek funding from the Union government. We have decided for a comprehensive fresh study.”Pal has directed the UT officials to start the process for the framing of a new study, preferably by the RITES as it has already conducted a study in the city.“It will take another month or so before we engage an agency for the study. We have to decide as to whether it would be through nomination or we have to float tenders. I have asked the officials to work on these issues,” said Pal.Study will decide the optionThe metro rail proposal was dropped after opposition from MP Kirron Kher, architects and conservationists. Later, in 2017, the central government had declared Metro was not viable for the city.The monorail proposal is also hanging fire. Recently, another alternative, skybus, was also found to be not viable. The latest option was metrolite. Last year, the administration had sought to be part of the central government’s pilot projects to be developed across the country.“The MRTS option will be decided on the basis of the needs and traffic load of the city. The agency will have to study the peak hour traffic and congested routes. The cost aspects will also need to be studied before the option can be decided,” said Pal.Stating that the administration was ready to go alone on the project if necessary, the UT adviser said: “At this point in time, we have not taken on board the neighbouring governments. However, the administration will seek their cooperation by seeking a meeting of chief secretaries of the neighbouring states under the aegis of the UT administrator.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mrtschandigarhadmn-to-go-for-fresh-study-101629745407226.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||Can’t provide long-term vaccination slots: Maharashtra government to HC||In an affidavit filed in the Bombay high court (HC), the Maharashtra government has expressed its inability to provide long-term vaccination slots. The affidavit has stated that though the Centre has allocated a month-long allocation schedule for vaccine doses, manufacturers do not provide supplies accordingly. Hence, it is not possible to give long term vaccination slots.The affidavit was filed in reply to a public interest litigation (PIL), seeking streamlining of vaccination bookings and awareness of its availability at various centres, especially for the not-so-tech-savvy citizens. It further stated that the personnel at vaccination centres have been trained to help people register for the jabs. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has submitted that a total of 9 million residents of Mumbai have been vaccinated so far and around 50% of bedridden persons were vaccinated through home vaccination drive. BMC further submitted that 133 of the 3,003 victims of fake vaccination scams have been revaccinated at civic facilities, while 130 more took the shots at privately centres. HC was also informed that 127 victims have refused to get vaccinated again. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing the PILs filed by citizens Yogeeta Rajesh Vanzara and Siddharth Chandrashekhar, seeking directions to ease the use of the CoWin app, especially for the elderly, and iron out the problems while booking vaccination slots and provide the jabs to the elderly on priority basis.Advocate Jamsheed Master, who represented the petitioners, informed HC that the state had failed to provide week-long booking slots, though it had assured the bench of doing so in the previous hearing. Master informed the bench that vaccination centres were only posting booking slots a day prior, and they have not had vaccines for the past three days. Responding to the claims of the petitioner, additional government pleader submitted the affidavit by Dr Dilip Narayan Patil, deputy director, state health welfare bureau, Pune. The affidavit stated that while the Centre had allocated vaccine plans in May-July on a fortnightly basis, since the start of August, it had issued a day-to-day allocation plan for the entire month to Maharashtra. However, the delivery of the vaccines was delayed from the manufacturers’ side. The affidavit further stated that as the Centre has insisted on prioritising the administration of second dose, the government was not in a position to allocate vaccines early, especially to BMC. The affidavit, however, stated that 70% of vaccines have been allocated for second dose, while the remaining 30% have been assigned for the first shot. Dr Patil has also submitted that while the CoWin portal now allows rectification of some errors, the changes in batch number and date of dose etc are not yet available, and citizens could access it as soon as the Centre made it possible. The affidavit concluded by stating that sufficient training and sensitisation of personnel manning the vaccination drive has been undertaken to help persons register at the centres itself, if they have not been able to register themselves. After hearing the submissions, HC asked additional solicitor general Anil Singh to file an affidavit stating when the rectification of certification would be available on CoWin, and also asked BMC’s counsel – senior advocate Anil Sakhare – to file an affidavit by Friday, indicating the status on vaccinated people. HC posted hearing of the PILs to August 30 for final hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cant-provide-long-term-vaccination-slots-maharashtra-government-to-hc-101629745347184.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: No service without mask, orders DC||While extending the statewide lockdown in the district up to September 6, Panchkula deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh has ordered a strict “no mask, no service” policy.Under the policy, only people wearing a face cover/mask will be allowed to board public or private transport vehicles and enter any government or private establishment to avail themselves of services/goods. Also, all the shops will be responsible and accountable for making social distancing marks in front of their shops.The DC said that the deputy commissioner of police, subdivisional officers and civil surgeon besides all incident commanders will continuously focus on the five-fold strategy — test, trace, track, vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour — for effective management of the pandemic. Swimming pools have been allowed to open after adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behavioural norms. All swimmers/practitioners/eligible visitors and staff have to preferably get vaccinated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine.Any violation of these instructions is liable to criminal prosecution under Section 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Besides, legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions applicable would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-no-service-without-mask-orders-dc-101629745227152.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Anindita Mitra takes charge as MC commissioner||Building the city’s waste management capacity, humane stray cattle management, optimum utilisation of technology in the delivery of services and development of villages will be some of the top priorities of Anindita Mitra, who took charge as the Chandigarh municipal corporation commissioner on Monday.A 2007-batch Indian Administrative Services officer of the Punjab cadre, she has succeeded KK Yadav, whose term ended on Sunday.“We need to build our capacity of waste management to the extent that whatever waste is produced in a day is managed the same day. We will strive to make the city No. 1 in swachhta rankings,” said Mitra.On stray cattle management, she stressed on the need to strike a balance between citizen’s safety and humane treatment of stray animals. Mitra added that as Chandigarh is already providing a number of municipal services to citizens in an efficient manner, it is time to optimise the use of technology to further improve the system.Also on her priority list is the development of 13 villages recently added to the municipal jurisdiction. “Providing those suburban areas with efficient municipal services will be a top priority,” she said.On the issue of the MC’s financial crunch, Mitra said: “I have to study the details of the MC’s fund status. We can have short-, middle- and long-term plans keeping in mind the funds available. I am sure that with proper financial planning, we will be able to move ahead.” Stating that all stakeholders, including citizens, employees and political parties, will be taken on board, Mitra said: “Every stakeholder is important for us. Every stakeholder has some aspirations and priorities; it is for us to balance all these priorities. Most of the time, these interests are not conflicting in nature.”Besides holding the post of deputy commissioner in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Hoshiarpur, Mitra has remained the director, information and public relations, Punjab, twice. She has also served as the director of department of food and civil supply, Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-anindita-mitra-takes-charge-as-mc-commissioner-101629744927489.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Hand over keys to residential section of Markaz in 2 days: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the Delhi Police to hand over within two days the keys to the residential portion of the Nizamuddin Markaz to Khalida, the mother of Jamaat leader Maulana Saad, after the premises was sealed last year due to a Tablighi Jamaat congregation that reportedly resulted in a number of people who were residing there contracting Covid-19.Justice Yogesh Khanna, while hearing a plea by Khalida seeking access to the residential part of the Markaz building, said entry will not be allowed in the non-residential portion of the property. “In the meantime, let the keys to the residential premises be provided within two days...,” the judge said.Khalida challenged an order of the trial court which had set aside the order of the magistrate’s court directing the handover of keys within five days of that order.The court, while passing the recent order, observed that it cannot allow people to reside in guest houses or any other place other than their own house.Appearing for the prosecution, advocate Amit Ahlawat said the residents were, at the relevant time, living in violation of the Covid-19 protocols.In her petition filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, the petitioner, Khalida, has said that on March 31, 2020, the entire Nizamuddin mosque was locked and, to extend utmost cooperation to the authorities, the keys to the Markaz, including the residential portion, were handed over to the Delhi Police on April 1, 2020.She said the probe is “running at a snail’s pace” and any offence, if at all, was committed in the Markaz premises, was separate from the residential premises. The matter will be heard next on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hand-over-keys-to-residential-section-of-markaz-in-2-days-delhi-hc-101629744750756.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Two bikers killed in separate accidents||A 26-year-old man was killed while his friend suffered injuries after a recklessly driven car hit their motorcycle in Zirakpur late on Sunday evening. In a similar incident, around the same time, a 34-year-old biker was killed in Sohana.Ishu Kumar, a resident of Yamuna Enclave in Zirakpur, and his friend Sahil Chadha were returning home when the accident took place in Zirakpur. The speeding car also dragged Ishu along for a few metres. The two were rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where Kumar was declared brought dead while Chadha is undergoing treatment.Investigating officer Jaswinder Singh said the car driver fled from the scene, but was traced on the basis of the vehicle’s registration number. “A case was registered against Harpreet Singh of Khuda Lahora in Chandigarh. He was arrested, but later released on bail,” he said.In the other accident, Deepak Kumar of Cholta village in Kharar was on his way home when a recklessly driven Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire hit his motorcycle near Kaullan village in Sohana late on Sunday evening.Investigating officer Harish Kumar said the victim’s cousin Hardeep Singh, who was following him on another bike, rushed him to the civil hospital in Kharar, where he was declared brought dead. A case has been registered against the unidentified car driver. Police are trying to trace him on the basis of the registration number.Both victims were working with private firms. Their bodies have been handed over to family members after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalitwo-bikers-killed-in-separate-accidents-101629744746954.html
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ambulance leaves 1 dead, 6 injured in Chandigarh||A 37-year-old man was killed and six people injured after a speeding ambulance hit three scooters, two auto-rickshaws and a car at the busy Piccadilly Chowk in Chandigarh on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Arshad, a tailor who resided in Sector 45 and worked in Sector 17. Those injured are Arshad’s brother Abid, Raj Kumar of Sector 24, Harsimran Kaur of Sector 45, Sarvesh of Burail, Gauri Shankar Bhandari of Zirakpur and Ranvir Singh of Mohali. According to witnesses, the private ambulance, which was ferrying no patient, came from the Zirakpur side in speed and first hit a stationary autorickshaw that was waiting for the green signal at Piccadilly Chowk around 10am. It then hit the other vehicles in an attempt to flee, said police. Arshad, who was on his way to work on an Activa, was thrown up in the air before crashing on to the ground. His brother, who was riding pillion, was injured.Both autos overturned after the collision. Police said only one auto had a passenger, who too was injured besides the two auto drivers. Three people on two other scooters were also injured, while the ambulance just brushed past the car, which got damaged. The injured were rushed to hospitals in private vehicles by the passersby.The ambulance driver fled on foot as he could drive off after an Activa got stuck under it, said police. The ambulance has been impounded, and efforts are on to trace and arrest the driver. Police said the vehicle is registered in Sangrur and was being used in Barnala.A case has been registered under Section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 34. Traffic cop on duty hit by bike, hurtA Chandigarh Police constable was injured after being hit by a motorcycle that was signalled to stop for a traffic violation on Sunday. Constable Krishan Kumar, who is posted at the Sector 31 police station, said that he was deployed in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, when he saw a motorcyclist without helmet and signalled him to stop. Instead of slowing down, the biker allegedly rammed his two-wheeler into the constable, and both fell on the ground.The injured constable had to be hospitalised. The biker, identified as Sunny Kapoor, 36, of Deep Complex, Hallomajra, was arrested and his bike impounded. Police said he works with an air-conditioner mechanic. A case has been registered under Section 179(1) (wilfully disobeys any direction lawfully given by any person or authority) of the Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambulance-leaves-1-dead-6-injured-in-chandigarh-101629744267493.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Nagina walla||Nobody is accusing Muhammed Aaqib of being ungrateful to his adopted city. It’s just that he is too partial to Nagina, his home town in Bijnaur, UP. “It’s a fact, Nagina is far better than Dilli,” the auto rickshaw driver insists, shortly after picking up a passenger in Lakshmi Nagar. The gentleman has been working in the capital as a rickshaw driver for a decade but his heart continues to belong to his native place. “Nagina’s very air, its water, its abo-hawa (atmosphere), the way people interact with each other, their style of speaking….” Plus, Nagina has something unique, he adds with a flourish as if this were to end all the Nagina Vs Delhi arguments—and that is Tularam’s sweet rasgullas.Mr Aaqib is talking of his beloved sweet shop situated outside the town’s railway station. “Those black rasgullas are world-famous.” They tend to be so extra-soft, he claims, that they melt the moment you pop them inside the mouth. The rasgullas must be eaten when piping hot, he says.The auto stops at a traffic light. Mr Aaqib graciously grants that Delhi too has some tolerable culinary landmarks. “Bhima’ Jalebiwale near Pari Chowk makes good jalebis.” He also compliments a chhole bhathure stall in Mayur Vihar. But no place in the entire National Capital Region, he believes, rivals Tularam’s delicacy, even though its standards have lately started to slip — “they have become less soft.”In his mid-20s, Mr Aaqib lives in Mayur Vihar with a fellow Tularam loyalist—wife Nadiya. He frequently goes to his hometown, and each time visits the favoured shop at least once.But if Nagina is such a civilised town and Tularam such a great gift to mankind, why live so far away. “Because there’s no rozgar (employment) in hamare (our) Nagina,” Mr Aaqib says with the logic of a frustrated maths teacher trying to explain why two plus two is four.As he drops the customer at his destination, Mr Aaqib informs that there’s more to his Bijnaur district than Nagina’s rasgullas. “In Noorpur (town) you must try out Hukkawalon ki Manpasand Lassi… you cannot find a lassi as delicious in Dilli,” he declares matter-of-factly, totally unconscious of his home-district patriotism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-nagina-walla-101629744082758.html
24-08-2021||Other||Odisha MLA seeks action against Lokayukta over moving SC with ‘forged’ order||Twelve days after filing a contempt petition against Odisha Lokayukta Ajit Singh before the Orissa High Court, alleging that the head of anti-corruption body committed forgery while approaching SC, former BJD leader and MLA Pradeep Panigrahi on Monday filed a petition before the apex court seeking appropriate proceedings against the officials of Lokayukta for the same, HT has learnt.Early this month, Panigrahi had alleged that Odisha Lokayukta chairperson Ajit Singh and secretary Manas Ranjan Tripathi cited a non-existent order of the Orissa High Court while moving the SC against an earlier order of the Orissa HC. The Orissa High Court in February this year had quashed the Lokayukta’s order for a probe by the state vigilance department against Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Kumar Panigrahy in an alleged case of disproportionate assets. The HC dismissed the Lokayukta order saying it was not legally tenable as the complainant and investigating agency in a quasi-judicial process cannot be the same.After the HC quashed the Lokayukta order, the anti-corruption body had moved a review petition before it which was again dismissed in April 5. The Lokayukta then moved SC through Special Leave Petition against the HC orders in February and review petition orders in April this year calling it unfair.Panigrahy, in his contempt petition filed before the Orissa High Court on August 11, alleged that the Lokayukta, while filing the special leave petition before the SC, have attached a 6-page order on April 5 which is non-existent. The MLA said while HC passed a 2-page order dismissing the review petition by Lokayukta, the bench of chief justice S Muralidhar and justice Biswanath Rath nowhere passed a 6-page judgement that was cited by the Lokayukta while moving the SC.While the contempt of court case against the Lokayukta is pending before the HC, Panigrahy on Monday filed an interlocutory application in the case before the SC seeking dismissal of the Lokayukta’s Special Leave Petition which he alleged was filed in an absolutely unethical and improper manner. In the application, Panigrahy also prayed for appropriate proceedings against Lokayukta and his officials over moving the SC citing a non-existent order.Incidentally, after Panigrahy moved Orissa HC early this month against Lokayukta, the latter filed an application before the HC registrar general seeking withdrawal of his 6-page order. The Chief Justice of Orissa High Court also ordered an in-house inquiry into the matter.Panigrahy in his application before the SC said a non-existent order formed part of the SLP before the highest court of the country.“The Lokayukta is a sacrosanct quasi-judicial body comprising of two retired judges of the High Court and one retired DGP did not bother to verify the authenticity of the order of the Registry of the High Court or from the official website of the Court where orders were being regularly uploaded during the pandemic. The genuine order (passed by the HC on April 5) was duly watermarked while the 6-page order cited by the Lokayukta was not even watermarked but still the same was placed on record before the SC without making any efforts to verify the authenticity of the same. The Lokayukta has shaken the trust of the people in the judicial system. A party, especially a quasi-judicial body, for its own and self cause should not be allowed to escape by simply withdrawing the order from the SLP,” Panigrahy wrote in his application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-mla-seeks-action-against-lokayukta-over-moving-sc-with-forged-order-101629744148849.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Unfair to expect children orphaned by Covid to tackle bureaucracy for some relief, Delhi HC tells state govt||The Delhi high court on Monday observed that it would be unfair to expect children to procure documents for availing of welfare scheme benefits after losing their guardians to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the city government should adopt a proactive approach rather than dealing with such applications in a routine manner as is done during normal (pre-Covid) times when one has to deal with bureaucracy.“It will be unfair to expect children who lost their parents to be able to procure certificates/documents to avail of benefits which they are entitled to on loss of parents. They will find it cumbersome to run around,” the court said, adding that “when you don’t get food, every hour, every day matters”.The observations came while hearing a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking better facilities for people during the pandemic, including medicines such as amphotericin-B (used to treat fungal infection mucormycosis) and antiviral drug remdesveir (used to treat Covid-19).During the proceedings, advocate Prabhsahay Kaur, representing NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, told the court that seven siblings were orphaned by the death of their parents in the months of April and May during the second wave of Covid-19.She said of the seven children, five are minors while the eldest is 23 years old and the youngest is four years old and needs to be admitted to a school. She further submitted that six of them are girls.She said though the children were duly provided for, with all basic rations and schoolbooks by the child welfare committee, they are still in dire need of care and support and it is not practically possible for them to repeatedly approach the committee for their daily needs, rations and medicines.Kaur further said the siblings were given a one-time assistance of ₹10,000 and offered a small job which one of them had to accept to meet their daily needs as no relative came forward to care of them. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that implementation of the scheme for grant of ex gratia is taking time as verification of documents is required to be done. To this, the bench observed, “At the end of the day, they (children) want their rights. It is your policy, why should it take so long? It should come from your side without our nudging. That will be called progress.” It added that the Delhi government should evolve procedures which are simple and easily implementable while ensuring that benefits are not misused by undeserving persons. It asked the chief secretary to file a status report with the procedure involved to deal with welfare schemes under the Juvenile Justice Act.The court also issued a notice to Delhi State Legal Service Authority (DSLSA) saying it was of the view that DSLSA should play an active role in helping Delhi government to streamline the system and to help children with documents.The court was also informed that there are 6,200 children who have lost one parent and 292 children who have lost both parents to Covid; the figures are likely to change as and when new data is collected. The matter will be heard next on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unfair-to-expect-children-orphaned-by-covid-to-tackle-bureaucracy-for-some-relief-delhi-hc-tells-state-govt-101629743487755.html
24-08-2021||Other||Varanasi boatmen demand lifting ban on plying of boats||A delegation of Varanasi boatmen met assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Awadhesh Pandey on Monday and submitted to him a memorandum of their demands, including allowing them to ply boats in the Ganga. The ACP assured them to look into their demands sympathetically. The boatmen demanded that operation of boats should be allowed in Ganga river as the flood water had been receding. According to central water commission, the Ganga was flowing at 64.82 metre in Varanasi on Monday. The boatmen also held a meeting in which they unanimously decided that they should be allowed to operate now as flood water was receding. In the meeting, boatman Shambhu Manjhi said, “The boats’ operation was suspended for over a month due to which boatmen couldn’t earn even a single paisa, and now all of them were facing financial crisis.” Boatman Pradeep Sawhney said that keeping in view their problems; plying of boats should be allowed in the Ganga. There are around 1,200 boats in Varanasi and boatmen ply them in the river to earn their livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-boatmen-demand-lifting-ban-on-plying-of-boats-101629743487252.html
24-08-2021||Other||Aravalli forest land cleared from encroachments in Khori, SC told||The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on Monday told the Supreme Court that it has removed all structures in the Khori Village that came up on 150 acres of Aravalli forest land, along with 10 of the 140 illegal farmhouses “acting without exception while taking action against encroachments”.The Supreme Court on June 7 granted six weeks to the municipal body to clear the Aravalli forest land from all encroachments “without any exception”. The demolition of Khori village began in April this year, the Corporation was unable to complete the task due to resistance from villagers, who even approached the top court for rehabilitation prior to eviction. On July 23, the civic body was given additional four weeks to complete the demolition work and provide food, medicines, and temporary shelter to the needy villagers.Exactly a month later, the corporation filed an affidavit before the top court on Monday stating that the demolition of the Khori village, that began in April this year, was complete and 150 acres of forest land freed from encroachment was now in possession of the municipal body.The affidavit filed by MCF commissioner Yash Pal said that the civic body has received a letter from deputy conservator of forests, Faridabad, providing a list of structures that were situated on forest land and were served notices under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) 1990. “The MCF has carried out demolition of about 10 structures or violations in the shape of farmhouses on the direction of the forest department officials by providing all the necessary support.”Owners of few banquet halls that are also facing demolition appeared before the top court on Monday, seeking stay. Senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal, who appeared for banquet hall owners, said they enjoy protection of their business under earlier orders passed by the Supreme Court. They had moved representations before the Haryana government and sought stay on demolition till then.Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj representing MCF said, “No assurance can be given that demolition will not be carried out.” The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari backed the corporation saying, “We won’t pass such order (of staying demolition). If it is unauthorised, it has to be demolished.”Sources close to the development said that a preliminary list of 140 illegal structures has been identified for demolition. “The MCF has planned demolition drive for August 23 and 24 on the violations/illegal structures in the shape of farmhouses within the municipal limits of Faridabad on land notified under PLPA as per preliminary list communicated by Deputy Conservator of Forests, Faridabad,” the MCF affidavit stated.The list mentions illegal structures situated on revenue land in villages Ankhir, Manger, Mewla Maharajpur Pali, Lakkarpur, Badkhal and Anangpur villages in Faridabad district.Some Khori residents filed an application on July 23 in the apex court alleging discrimination by pointing out a list of 50 properties in Faridabad (mostly farmhouses, ashrams and commercial establishments) and 10 others in Gurugram district that were situated on forest land. The court instructed the corporation to examine the application and ensure that no illegal structure on forest land was spared.The MCF informed that near Surajkund tourist resort, some illegal occupants of six-acre land abutting the 150-acre Khori village has not been removed as the MCF sold this parcel of land to the Department of Tourism, Haryana in 1998, and the residents in this colony approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for consideration of their claims.Regarding rehabilitation of the Khori villagers, the MCF said the “Housing Plan for Rehabilitation of Khori Jhuggi Dwellers” has been drafted after receiving suggestions from evacuees who represented suggestions through a dedicated email id and also through a nodal officer of MCF stationed near the demolished Khori village.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Haryana government sought three weeks to finalise the rehabilitation policy, but the court granted two weeks. The MCF too sought four weeks to clear the rubble from the forest land. The corporation intends to restore the site by planting trees at the demolished site.The court has posted the matter for hearing on September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aravalli-land-cleared-of-encroachments-in-khori-village-faridabad-civic-body-tells-supreme-court-101629743307025.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Case against Umar Khalid based on edited YouTube clip, says his lawyer||The case of sedition against Umar Khalid in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case is based on YouTube clips of his truncated speech tweeted by a BJP leader, his lawyer told a local court on Monday while seeking bail for the former JNU student leader.Umar was arrested in September 2020 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case. Umar, along with several others, has been accused of being the “mastermind” of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.Umar’s counsel Trideep Pais told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that his client was being “framed” and all the allegations against him were “fabricated” and “hollow”. He said that witnesses have been taken selectively and that there were various contradictions in the police’s claims indicating that it was a “cooked up” case.Pais said a 21-minute video clip of Khalid’s speech in Maharashtra, which the prosecution allegedly labelled inflammatory, called for message of unity based on Mahatma Gandhi’s teachings. The lawyer said that the clips provided to the police by two TV channels were copied from a tweet by a BJP leader, instead of the original footage of the speech.The lawyer said that Umar did not give any call for violence in his speech. “A message of unity based on Gandhi ji was given by Umar Khalid that day. It was termed as terror. Content is not seditious. He is talking about democratic power. He referred to Gandhi,” Pais said.Pais claimed that one of the channels deliberately suppressed one sentence from the speech in which Khalid was talking about uniting the country. “It makes it quite clear that he has been framed by the press. Why did you leave this line, unless you deliberately want to paint him as a person who is inciting people to sedition,” he alleged.“These are the kind of lies they are peddling. This is a joke. This FIR is a cooked-up theory. Is it that easy to prosecute people? Do you have no responsibility as a prosecution?” Pais said.He also pointed out another contradiction in the charge sheet, saying according to the police Umar conspired with other accused on January 8 to trigger riots during former US President Donald Trump’’s visit, however, the news about the visit was announced only in February.Pais said that the FIR was so framed that statements can be given to indict people.“The charge sheet is a complete fabrication…selectively witnesses were brought to say this and that against my client…This FIR is a hollow FIR…laughable statements have been made. What will the prosecution achieve from this? The purpose of this FIR is not to bring home guilt, it’s hypocrisy. None of the people in this FIR should be held in custody,” he argued.The police are yet to argue the bail. The case will be heard next on September 3.In April, the Umar was granted bail in one of the riots cases. The court while granting him bail noted that he was not physically present at the scene of the crime on the date of the incident.Besides him, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/case-against-umar-khalid-based-on-edited-youtube-clip-says-his-lawyer-101629742987987.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Blockade call not sedition, says Sharjeel Imam’s lawyer||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, told a Delhi court on Monday that he cannot be booked for sedition because none of his statements directly or indirectly called for violence.Imam, while seeking bail in a case related to speeches he made at two universities in 2019 where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India, through his counsel Tanveer Ahmed Mir contended that the right to protest, the right to blockade, and the right to bring the country to a standstill is not equal to an act of sedition.“The speech did not call for violence. He just called for a road blockade. He did not say that the northeast should become a different state and declare independence. That would have been seditious,” Mir told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat.He added, “What society will be a society if it’s not robust or what doesn’t react. It will be a heap of sheep.”“When Sharjeel Imam says that this piece of legislation is unconstitutional, and seeks to persuade the government to rethink and says if you don’t do it, we will be on the streets, he cannot be hammered by sedition,” Mir contended.The speeches in question were made at Jamia Millia Islamia in Delhi on December 13, 2019, and at the Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, 2019. He has been in judicial custody since January 28, 2020.Imam is accused of offences relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA.Delhi Police filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the central government and instigated the people, which led to the violence outside Jamia Millia Islamia in December 2019.Mir argued that he was ‘astounded’ to see the investigating officer calling his client bigoted just because he seems to criticise the Constitution of India.“We are proud of our unity and not majoritarianism. Critical elements in our society are also necessary because in a society where criticism will die, the society will die. That is why, ultimately, the flag to uphold the Constitution in a democracy securely lies in Your Honour’s hands,” he said.“Fundamentally the right to protest, bring the country to a standstill is not at any point in time equal to an act of sedition. We went together through the contents of the speech. The petitioner at no point of time has said that you should resort to violence,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blockade-call-not-sedition-says-sharjeel-imam-s-lawyer-101629742886252.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||17 fresh Covid cases in Delhi, the lowest since April 15 last year||The city reported only 17 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the fewest cases in a day April 15 last year, when 17 cases were recorded. The last time new cases were below this number was on March 28 last year when the city saw just nine new infections.To be sure, fewer tests are conducted on Sunday (which also coincided with Rakshabandhan) -- 46,251 according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin as against an average of 60,326 tests each day over the previous seven days.The first case of the viral infection in the city was reported on March 2 last year, and there have been four waves in the Capital since then. At the peak of the fourth wave of infections between April and May this year, Delhi added an average of 25,924 fresh infections everyday.Monday’s health bulletin also recorded no fresh deaths of the infection for the fourth straight day.The Capital has added four deaths of the infection over the past seven days.Experts believe that the worst is now over for Delhi.“The numbers have drastically reduced -- not because of anything anybody did. Most of the population has now been exposed to the infection. Some states like Kerala that struggled to block the spread of the infection are now experiencing a longer epidemic. But the benefit is that they lost fewer lives,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/17-fresh-covid-cases-in-delhi-the-lowest-since-april-15-last-year-101629742826250.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||SC seeks response of Centre on plea seeking to stop Dwarka highway work||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre on a petition filed by residents of Dwarka, seeking a halt on the construction of a new national highway close to residential buildings without obtaining a green clearance or permission for removal of trees.The residents of two group housing societies — New Millennium and Sadbhavna Apartments— along with six individuals residing in sectors 22 and 23 of Dwarka approached the top court to stall the ongoing construction of the highway project by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Earlier, the petitioners had approached the Delhi high court, which on July 30 allowed NHAI to carry on with the construction work.With the matter still pending before the Delhi high court, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah of the Supreme Court agreed to examine whether the project fell short of green clearances and required to be stopped on this count.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the Dwarka residents, and the two group housing societies (comprising 280 families) informed the court that NHAI had told the Delhi high court that the road which they sought to rename as a National Highway was an existing road and not a “new highway”.Bhushan said that was not true and submitted a notification of the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) which notified the current road (DDA Road no 226) as a new national highway (NH-248BB or Dwarka Expressway).He submitted that once it was accepted that the said project was a new national highway, the environment impact assessment (EIA) notification of September 4, 2006, became applicable, thereby requiring a green nod from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change.So far, this clearance was not obtained by NHAI, Bhushan argued.The bench noted, “The feasibility report also clearly indicates that the project in question is a greenfield project,” as it agreed to issue notice to the Centre, NHAI, the Delhi government and the Delhi Pollution Control Board. Posting the matter to August 27, the bench further said, “The application for interim relief (to stay the project) will be considered after notice is served on the respondents.”The petition filed through advocate Anand Varma stated that the project will result in air and noise pollution, besides leading to increased traffic in the area. The petitioners said residents will be deprived of vital green cover as the project required the felling of a large number of trees.They pointed to a Delhi high court order of December 18, 2020, which said no removal of trees can take place without the approval of the competent authority under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. The permission under this Act has lapsed and despite that fact, the high court declined to grant interim relief against NHAI, the petitioners said.Declaration of a residential road as a National Highway takes place under Section 2(2) of the National Highways Act, 1956. The petition pointed out an instance in the past, wherein an existing highway in the Capital was made a National Highway (NH-344M) in April 2018 and where NHAI had to obtain environment clearance. Despite submitting this example, the high court exempted NHAI from obtaining a green nod for Dwarka Expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-seeks-response-of-centre-on-plea-seeking-to-stop-dwarka-highway-work-101629742706785.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Portion of Bhalswa landfill collapses, none hurt||A portion of the Bhalswa landfill in northwest Delhi collapsed early Monday morning, damaging nearly eight hutments, police officers said. No casualties or injuries were reported, but some huts and property including private vehicles were inundated with landfill waste, locals said.Residents of the hutments said a portion of the landfill collapsed on the huts around 7am, when most people were out for work or household chores. Some children inside the huts were pulled out on time, said residents.“Local people helped each other but teams from the municipality and government reached here only by afternoon. Till this time, residents could not even eat anything because their houses were covered in landfill waste,” said Shankar, a resident of the area.Residents of the area also alleged that this is not the first time that such an incident has happened in the area. In August last year, a portion of the landscape collapsed, damaging three hutments on the northwest side of the landfill.The Bhalswa landfill site is an open dumping ground near GT-Karnal road. Created in 1984, it is spread over 70 acres. Till October 2019, the landfill hit a height of 65 metres, just eight metres less than the Qutub Minar.It reached its saturation point in 2006 but the landfill still receives about 2,100 metric tonnes of mixed waste every day. More than eight million metric tonnes of legacy waste (old solid waste material) are dumped here.They also alleged that mindless waste dumping and construction has also resulted in the shrinking of access to these residential areas, because of which emergency services such as fire tenders and ambulances are also unable to reach here for the rescue.A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official said earth-moving machines were deployed in the area since afternoon and municipal teams were helping clear out the collapsed section of the landfill from the affected shanties.“The issue is that during monsoon season, especially after heavy rains, waste from the landfill tends to slip off,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/portion-of-bhalswa-landfill-collapses-none-hurt-101629742646246.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||AAP protests against BJP over alleged corruption in Novelty Cinema sale||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday staged demonstrations in all 272 wards in Delhi to protest against the lease sale of the plot of Novelty Cinema in north Delhi by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations (MCD) allegedly at a price much below it’s current value.“AAP workers organised ‘padyatra’ against BJP in all 272 wards of Delhi today. The protests were against the sale of ₹200-crore Novelty Cinema plot by BJP for just ₹34 crore. The BJP leaders have sold the Novelty Cinema land to their own people at throwaway prices so that they can fill their own pockets. The BJP has been committing scam after scam in the MCD and made the MCD completely bankrupt,” said Vikas Total, AAP councillor and leader of Opposition in the North MCD.While the AAP is in charge of Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that North MCD will cancel the sale if AAP can bring an offer for the enhanced price. “AAP can easily make the government buy it at ₹100 crore, which is half the market price quoted by AAP leaders,” he said.Delhi BJP spokesperson further said that the circle rate of the plot is ₹18.98 crore, adding that it was sold at ₹34.70 crore, which is twice the amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aapprotests-against-bjp-over-alleged-corruption-in-novelty-cinema-sale-101629742406837.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Oxygen deaths panel: Delhi govt asks LG to exercise powers ‘judiciously’||The Delhi government on Monday told the Delhi high court that the Lieutenant Governor (LG) should exercise his powers with “judiciousness” and not in an “obstructionist manner” in support of a petition that sought to operationalise the six-member high powered committee to probe into deaths caused by alleged oxygen shortage during the last wave of Covid-19 pandemic in April.In an affidavit filed before a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, the Delhi government said LG Anil Baijal’s decision to reject the constitution of the panel twice was “misconceived” and does not withstand the test laid by the Supreme Court while deciding the powers of the city government and the LG.“….while clarifying the role of the LG and the elected government in the unique constitutional position of the NCT, the Supreme Court was at pains to emphasise that the LG is bound by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with regard to all transferred subjects. It was further noted that though the LG has the power to refer a matter to the President under the proviso to Article 239AA (4), such power cannot be exercised in any and every matter but must be exercised in the interest of the people / residents of Delhi”.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said the AAP dispensation took the decision “for the people but is not being able to implement this”.“The government of the day has taken a decision that a maximum of ₹5 lakh of compensation, depending upon the committee report, wherever there is negligence, shall be granted. What is now taking place in Delhi is… because of this conflict which needs to be decided at the earliest … the citizen is being shortchanged. That can’t be permitted. At least from the point of view of the citizen, there should be an end to it, “ Mehra said.The government’s affidavit came on a plea by Riti Singh Verma who demanded that all Covid-19 deaths be probed by the expert committee, after her 34-year-old husband died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Delhi on May 14. In her petition, Verma said the death summary of her husband issued by the hospital is “doubtful” as her husband was admitted in a “not very severe condition” and had no comorbidities. As per the summary prepared by the hospital, he died of a cardiac arrest.On May 4, the Delhi government told the Delhi high court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital happened because of oxygen shortage. Later, health minister Satyendar Jain said it was a “preliminary report”.In June, the Delhi government proposed another expert committee to ascertain the number of deaths caused by oxygen shortage in the Capital but Baijal did not approve, citing a similar committee set up by the Union government – eventually leading to a tussle between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the LG, who is an appointee of the Centre.On August 16, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia sent a file to Baijal’s office for the second time, seeking approval for setting up the expert committee and sought Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention.On August 20, Sisodia said the LG has once again rejected the Delhi government’s request for approval to set up the expert committee.Responding to the petition, the Delhi government has said that there is “no reasonable and lawful justification for objecting to the constitution of the committee or to prevent its functioning on a war footing at the earliest.It said that in two matters pending in the SC, which has been referred to by the LG while rejecting the committee, none have dealt with the grant of ex-gratia. It said that one of the suo moto matters on compensation was disposed of by the apex court asking the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to form guidelines to compensate for the losses.“There is no gainsaying that the second wave of the pandemic has wreaked havoc in the lives of the residents of Delhi and resulted in large scale casualties. While there can be no reparation for the loss of a loved one, the attempt of the answering respondent (Delhi government), an elected government responsible to the residents of the NCT, is to provide a means to establish accountability for the deaths,” the government said.In its response to the Sisodia’s comments on Friday, the LG office said that the claims were “misleading”, and that setting up another committee will create confusion. “Neither the LG nor the government of India has said that deaths due to oxygen shortage should not be probed. What has been said earlier on July 6, and repeated on August 19 is that a high level committee constituted as per SC directions, where apart from senior and reputed doctors, the ACS (health), the government of national capital territory of Delhi is also a member, is already looking into the matter. It has submitted its interim report and is working on the final report. The LG as well as the Union health minister have reiterated that the said committee should be allowed to do its work. Setting up another committee for the same purpose will only create confusion. The government has also been advised to follow the directions of hon’ble courts in the matter,” a senior officials at the LG’s office said on Friday.On Monday, the court gave two weeks to the LG to file his response to the petition, and posted the matter for hearing on September 21. During the hearing, two lawyers appeared for the LG, following which the court asked them to resolve the confusion among them.On the last date, the court asked the Delhi government to see whether ₹50,000 ex-gratia that the government promised to the family members of those who died of Covid-19 could be given to the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-deaths-panel-delhi-govt-asks-lg-to-exercise-powers-judiciously-101629742167002.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Drugs control dept advisory asks pharmacies to stock up on Covid medicines||The Delhi drugs control department has issued an advisory asking all city pharmacies to have a buffer stock of medicines needed for treating Covid-19, associated fungal infection mucormycosis (black fungus) and multi-inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), in anticipation of another surge in Covid cases.An expert panel, under the ministry of home affairs, has predicted a “third wave” in the country between September and October. If that happens, it would be Delhi’s fifth surge in Covid cases since the city’s first case was reported in March 2020. Currently, Covid-19 cases are at an all-time low, with Delhi reporting just 17 cases and no new death on Monday, according to the state’s daily health bulletin.The drugs control department advisory lists eight medicines of different doses, including the steroid dexamethasone, antiviral medicine remdesivir, immune modulator tocilizumab, and antifungal drugs amphotericin B and posaconazol.“As you are aware, the sudden rise in the number of cases during the recent surge posed a significant challenge in ensuring timely access to essential drugs for Covid-19 and Covid-associated mucormycosis (CAM)… You are hereby advised … maintenance of inventories of sufficient quantities of the drugs used in the management of Covid-19, CAM, and multi inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C),” read the advisory issued by Atul Nasa, head, office of Delhi’s drugs control department.The advisory to the drug manufacturer association and chemist association of Delhi further said, “You are further requested to advise them (the pharmacies) not to indulge in any unhealthy practice of withholding of stocks and overcharging for these items.”There was a severe shortage of medicines such as remdesivir and tocilizumab as well as medical oxygen in April-May, during the second wave (fourth in Delhi) of Covid-19 in the country. Hospitals also started receiving a high number of cases of the rare and deadly fungal infection mucormycosis (black fungus) in (recovered) Covid-19 patients in mid-May leading to a severe shortage of the life-saving antifungal medicine Amphotericin B, which is usually available in the market only in very small quantities.The situation had led to black-marketeers making a killing by offering to sell these medicines off the books, after hooking desperate patients and their kin online, and often supplying them with fake or bogus drugs in exchange for exorbitant amounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-drugs-control-dept-advisory-asks-pharmacies-to-stock-up-on-covid-medicines-101629741808705.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal flags off smog tower to aid Capital's pollution fight||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated a smog tower in Connaught Place as part of the drive to fight air pollution, which leads to a public health emergency in the Capital every winter.The tower, 24-metres high, located on Baba Kharak Singh Marg, has been designed using American technology, and has been put up on a trial basis, Kejriwal said. It is meant to pull in polluted air using suction fans located on the top of the structure, filter out the pollutants, and then release clean air from vents at the bottom.“This is among Delhi government’s many efforts to improve the air quality of the city. We are operating this on a trial basis and teams from Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will be monitoring how effective this is,” Kejriwal said.“If it proves successful, more such towers will be set up all over Delhi. This has been developed under the expert supervision of scientists from IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi, so we are hopeful that it will yield the desired results,” he added.Last January, based on submissions made by the Delhi government and the Centre, the Supreme Court called fot the construction of two smog towers in the Capital on a pilot basis. One, which was inaugurated on Monday, was a Delhi government project; the other, which is coming up in east Delhi’s Anand Vihar, is being installed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). It is likely to be inaugurated by August 31.The smog tower at Connaught Place -- according to a statement issued by the Delhi government -- is based on a “downdraft airflow model”, where 40 huge fans will induct air from the top of a “special type of canopy structure at the height of about 24 metres, and release clean air of the tune of 1,000 metre cube per second filtered using round 5,000 filters through novel geometry filters of two layers”.The area of influence is expected to be about a 1km radius around the tower, Delhi government said.DPCC officials said that the effectiveness of the tower will be studied for the next two years, and the initial findings are likely to come out by the next month. IIT-Delhi and IIT-Bombay will analyse pollution data of the area after the installation of this tower and submit a report on its effectiveness.Experts unconvincedHowever, the inauguration of the smog tower reignited the ongoing debate on the efficacy of such open-air structures in cleaning a city’s air, with some experts calling them “ineffective”.Jyoti Pande Lavakare, author and co-founder of Care for Air India, said that the only way to reduce air pollution is to control emissions at the source; everything else is as good as “treating a bullet wound with a band-aid”.“If these smog towers were so effective, don’t you think countries like China and Mexico would have installed thousands of them and cleaned their air? There is no scientific evidence behind the efficacy of such outdoor structures, and all that this is doing is wasting the taxpayers’ money,” Pande contended.Sarath Guttikunda, director of Urban Emissions, an air pollution information, research and analysis repository, said that “vacuum cleaners are not engineering solutions to counter ambient air pollution”.In a research paper published by Guttikunda and Puja Jawahar, founder and co-director of Urban Emissions last year, the authors highlighted that the Covid-19 lockdown last year resulted in a major decline in pollution levels. This, the paper said, was proof that pollutants have to be plugged at the source.“With no boundaries, it is unscientific to assume that one can trap air, clean it, and release into the same atmosphere simultaneously. Expecting filtering units to provide any noticeable results at the community level is unrealistic,” the paper read.Other experts said the data should be studied assiduously.“While smog towers might come across as a visible solution to air pollution, there is no scientific evidence to support that they can filter outdoor air effectively. Hence, the data on the effectiveness of the newly installed smog tower should be pursued rigorously by the government and be made available publicly,” said Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).Political tussleThe inauguration of the tower, meanwhile, sparked a political tussle, with the Bharatiya Janata Party claiming that the Delhi government was “stealing credit” and “misleading people” by saying this was the first smog tower in the country.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that three smog towers set up by BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, and were operational in Delhi since last year. “East Delhi MP, Gautam Gambhir with his own effort last year on January 3, installed Delhi’s first smog tower at Lajpat Nagar and later in November 2020 got installed two other smog towers at Gandhi Nagar and Krishna Nagar. The way the Delhi government is claiming to have installed the first smog tower therefore clearly reflects its lust for publicity,” he said.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-inaugurates-smog-tower-at-connaught-place-environmentalists-sceptical-of-its-efficacy-101629741749150.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||Victims of war: Afghans in India seek resettlement in third country||Armed with posters, placards and their national flag, hundreds of Afghan nationals gathered outside the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) office in Vasant Vihar on Monday to raise their demand for resettlement somewhere other than India.Holding placards reading “We were victims of war, now we are victims of an unclear future”, “Our children have a dark future because they have no access to higher education” and raising slogans like “We want future, we want a support letter”, protesters of all ages said that though they were grateful for being given refuge in India, they pointed out that they were unable to get jobs due to lack of educational qualifications, or study on account of expensive private education, and sought the UNHCR’s support to build a future elsewhere. They said they won’t leave the protest site till their demands are met.Rahila Malikzada (40), who first came to India in 2005, said that she was uncertain about her children’s future, even after 17 years of living here: “We don’t have any rights even after 17 years of living here. We don’t get jobs. Our children are unable to study here. We need a future. With the Taliban coming back, we can no longer return to our country. The UNHCR should give us a referral letter so that we can settle in another country.”Her husband used to work as a translator with hospitals but has been out of work since the last few months. The family withdrew their children from the school last year amid financial constraints. “We can barely make ends meet here. Since there is no clarity about our future in the country, UNHCR should help us resettle in another country,” said Malikzada.Ahmed Zia Ghani, head of the Afghan solidarity committee, an organisation representing the community in India, said that the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan had compounded troubles for Afghans everywhere. “Afghans in India also need support. The refugee agency and the Indian government should take steps to safeguard the human rights of Afghans,” said Ghani.He said the aim of the demonstration was three-fold: seek refugee cards for all Afghans in the country, seek referral letters that would aid resettlement to a third country, and ensure security for Afghans in India.Third country resettlement or refugee resettlement is, according to the UNHCR, one of three durable solutions for refugees who flee their home country. Resettlement under UNHCR, which allows a refugee to leaves his/her country of asylum and legally settle in another country, are determined by participating governments. Resettlement quotas of countries around the world can currently only include a tiny proportion of refugees worldwide (less than 1%), said UNHCR officials.India does not have a formal asylum system or a refugee policy, even though it has played host to refugees from different countries over the years. The country is not a signatory to 1951 UN Convention, a key international treaty establishing the rights of people forced to flee, and the 1967 Protocol, which broadened the scope of those in need of international protection. In the absence of a well-defined refugee law, refugees and asylum seekers are often subjected to inconsistent government policies. HT reached out to officials in the Ministry of Home Affairs for comment but there was no response.Holder a UN refugee card, Ajmal Rahimy (34), a native of Jalalabad in Afghanistan who came to India in 2007, said he has approached the UNHCR multiple times over the last 15 years for resettlement but to no avail.“There are Afghans who have lived in the country for 15-16 years now and hold the UN refugee card. At the same time, there are people whose refugee status has not been ratified and still remain an asylum seeker. Many are waiting endlessly. There is no clarity about our future here but our resettlement requests are turned down without adequate explanation,” said Rahimy.Azeeza Qadri (40), who came to India in 2017 and is currently residing in Malviya Nagar, can attest to the long wait. “We have applied for refugee status multiple times but our case has been closed. We want the UNHCR to open our case so that our children can study and have a future. The uncertainty about our future is causing a heavy mental toll now,” said Qadri, who has five children.Zuhail Hussain Khil (18) came to India along with her family from Afghanistan’s eastern city of Khost in 2017 in the face of Taliban threats aimed at her mother, who worked with the United Nations. “My mother has been constantly crying thinking about our country and our lives here. We need some stability in our lives,” said Khil.Explaining the family’s predicament, she shared how her brothers dropped out of school and have since depended on odd jobs for livelihood. “Since we are foreign citizens, education is extremely expensive for us here. My brothers could not complete their education and have no choice but to work in restaurants or other jobs where no degree is required,” she said.The protesters said that getting admission in government schools is a challenge as they demand a range of documents which are mostly not available with them.Her views are echoed by other Afghan refugees and asylum seekers in the country.Hafiza Nooryar (40), who came to the country in 2015 along with her family, said she has been struggling to make ends meet for the last six years.“My children are young and I cannot get well-paying jobs in the absence of educational qualifications...How will they survive like this?” said Nooryar, who hails from Kabul.Mariyam (19) came to India along with her family members in 2013 amid threats from her brother-in-law, a Taliban sympathiser. “We came to India due to the Taliban’s threat and now they are back in power. Our president left us in the lurch. Our hopes for peace and stability are over,” she said.The 19-year-old shared that the pandemic has worsened the financial crisis for the family and made survival in India more difficult. “Since our parents cannot speak in the regional languages of India, they can’t get jobs. We don’t want to meet a similar fate and desire to live in a country with a policy for refugees,” added Mariyam.While UNHCR officials did not respond to requests seeking comment, a notice issued by the UN agency on Thursday said that it had been receiving many inquiries from Afghans, adding that the resettlement programme will be accessible “only to those who meet eligibility criteria” and through the already established UNHCR procedures for identification and referral. “Resettlement remains a tool for the most vulnerable refugees, and only those most in need in the country of asylum may qualify,” stated the notice.In a separate statement, UNHCR spokesperson Shabia Mantoo said, “In the context of generalised insecurity in many parts of Afghanistan, it is increasingly clear that Afghans outside the country may have international protection needs. UNHCR calls for all states to ensure they are able to seek safety, regardless of their current legal status.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/victims-of-war-afghans-in-india-seek-resettlement-in-third-country-101629741746692.html
24-08-2021||Lucknow||After 9-hr Taliban detention, UP man back home in Ghazipur village||Kanhaiyalal Sharma, a mechanical fitter who hails from Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh, had never thought that he was tough enough to handle the mental trauma and anxiety caused during a 9-hour-long detention under the Taliban in Afghanistan, to which Sharma and hundreds of other stranded Indian’s were subjected to. He finally reached India on Sunday, as part of a special repatriation operation by the Indian Air Force (IAF), bringing in 168 passengers including 107 Indians on its C-17 aircraft that touched down at Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad.“What I and the others underwent cannot be expressed in words. Just thinking about what we all went through is giving me goosebumps. I am thankful to the Indian government that brought us back safely,” an elated Sharma, who was on the way to Mubarakpur village of Ghazipur district, said. Sharma, who was working in a steel plant 5km from Kabul, said that though he managed to handle the trauma and anxiety, the experience has certainly left him traumatised. Sharma joined the factory recently in July. Along with him, there were 18 other UPites, who used to work together in a healthy environment. He said that there was not even the slightest apprehension of a crisis, until the Taliban returned.“The situation had left us clueless. I and the other 18 UPites were left with no option than to lock ourselves in the factory where we stayed for more than 72 hours. But that was no solution as our factory owners told us that they can’t keep them safe for long. But, they were kind enough to transport us to the nearby Gurudwara—Karte Parwan Gurudwara, 10km from Kabul Airport.“We were told that reaching the airport from here would be easy as compared to other locations. Hence, we were transported to the Gurudwara on August 20. We were also in touch with the embassy staff who told us to reach the airport’s north gate,” said Sharma.On August 20 itself, the kind Gurudwara management transported Sharma and the other Indians in five buses to the North Gate of the airport. “We thanked the Gurudwara people for their kindness and thought that it was the end of our struggle. But we were mistaken as it was then that the real struggle began,” he said. Sharma said they were greeted by mayhem at the airport — people running in panic, making futile attempts to enter the airport, while Taliban fighters were firing in the air and sometimes at the panicking crowd. “We were stopped by Taliban fighters 200 metres from the Gate since there was already a huge crowd at the gate. We were surrounded by the fighters and they pointed their guns at us. They said we can’t go further and gave us an option to return but we chose to stay,” recollects Sharma.Sharma said they waited for more than 12 hours at the North Gate of the airport. Following the prolonged waiting hours, he said that they were approached by two Taliban fighters who diverted the buses to an abandoned canteen that was recently captured by Taliban. “We thought it was the end of our journey. There were around 250 Indians there, who started crying, some started begging for life and some, like me, suffered panic attacks. But I tried to stay calm,” he said. He said that though the Taliban kept saying ‘you are safe’ but it was tough for the Indians to believe them, especially after seeing their gruesome videos on social media. “We stayed under their detention for around nine hours.Meanwhile, some of the detainees tweeted to the Indian government about the situation. I think it was after the intervention of the Indian government, they allowed us to go back to the airport,” he said.The five buses again moved to the airport but following some confusion, the buses were brought back again on the canteen premises. However, after a series of tweets to the Indian government, they were eventually guided to the airport. At the airport, which he said is still under the control of the US Army, they were allowed to enter the airport from where they boarded IAF’s C-17 aircraft. “It was an emotional moment when we all eventually boarded the aircraft and all shouted in unison—Bharat mata ki jai and we all broke into tears,” said an emotion-choked Sharma.Sharma reached his village Mubarakpur, Ghazipur, safely on Monday, where he received a warm welcome. Sharma said he has dropped all plans to move abroad and will stay in the village along with his mother, his wife and his three children until he heals from the trauma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-9-hr-taliban-detention-up-man-back-home-in-ghazipur-village-101629741626208.html
24-08-2021||Delhi||DDA receives 12,000 suggestions over Master Plan 2041||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) till Monday received over 12,000 comments and feedback on its draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041), which was put in the public domain in June this year.The last date for submission of comments is August 23, and DDA is expected to notify the plan by the end of the year.According to a senior DDA official, “Around 63,062 people have visited the portal and around 12,099 people have submitted their suggestions/objections. We are in the process of compiling all the comments, as people can submit them till today evening.” The official said 7,699 comments were received offline.A senior DDA official said, “We will hold public hearings most likely in October. It will be held online, but we are yet to work out the details.”The authority is compiling the comments under various categories based on the MPD chapters. DDA officials said that public hearings will be structured as per the issues raised by the people.The draft MPD-2041, which is the vision document for the city’s growth in the next two decades, proposes to make Delhi a 24x7 city with night-time economy, affordable housing, mixed development and Transit-Oriented Development.One of the key focus areas of the new master plan is to address the challenge of environmental pollution. However, the environmentalists say that the MPD has not specified steps on combating air pollution.Environmental activist Diwan Singh said, “They are talking about large-scale vertical development, especially in urban extensions which are currently green spaces. The real causes of air pollution have not been analysed properly by planners. There is no clear strategy given in the MPD to tackle air pollution. New developments, even if it is transit-oriented development, will only result in more traffic.”Singh said the master plan should clearly state that new projects can only be taken up if adequate water can be provided. “DDA should learn from its past experience and avoid a Dwarka-like situation in the future. The arrangement for water supply should be ensured before new development is allowed.”The draft master plan proposes to delineate Zone O based on one in 25 years flood line in the Yamuna. Environmentalist Manoj Misra, convener, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan and petitioner in the Yamuna floodplain restoration case in NGT, said, “Lands in river (Zone O) and the ridge must be declared sacrosanct as eco-sensitive zones to meet the imminent climate challenge. The Yamuna must be rejuvenated as suggested by the National Green Tribunal in its judgment dated January 13, 2015, and the 20-point action plan prepared by the NGT mandated Yamuna Monitoring Committee.”It is for the first time that the master plan talks about providing affordable housing, including rental housing options. While experts have welcomed the DDA’s decision to provide rental housing, they say the plan needs to move beyond the affordable rental housing complexes scheme to think holistically about rentals in the city.Mukta Naik, a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research said, “The current provisions in the draft MPD-2041 might not be adequate to accommodate “vulnerable target groups” like migrant populations, the specially-abled, senior citizens, single women. We have suggested that DDA should set clear numerical targets and specify land reservations for affordable public rental housing based on the population of vulnerable groups in the city.”The resident welfare associations have raised concerns over rampant commercialisation in residential areas, increase in load on existing civic infrastructure and the safety of residents due to mixed land use provisions.Rajiv Kakria, convenor of Save Our City Campaign, said, “The draft MPD-2041 seems to be a document of hope rather than redemption. It fails to address the problems the city is grappling with. Mixed land use has ruined the residential character of neighbourhoods. The draft plan has no provision to incentivise commercial establishments operating from residential areas to move to commercial areas. There should be stringent norms and penalties to discourage commercial and even professional activity in residential areas.”Another issue raised by RWAs is the parking mess in residential colonies. B S Vohra, president of East Delhi Joint RWA Front said that the parking policy, especially for residential areas, needs to be clearly specified. “Parking is a serious concern in most residential colonies. The parking policy, which was introduced a few years back, has failed to address the parking problem in residential areas. Like MPD-2021, this draft plan also doesn’t offer any solution to the parking problem.”The draft MPD-2041 pushes for regeneration, transit-oriented development, planned commercial spaces etc. But the traders said that the draft plan is not in sync with the ground realities.Traders said that neighbourhood markets should be provided higher Floor Area Ratio so that it can cater to a larger population which can just walk or cycle to the market. Vishal Ohri, general secretary, LSCs Federation of Delhi and GK-2 Market Association said, “But this has been ignored in the draft plan. The population of the residential neighbourhood has increased four times since 1962. To meet the growing demand, the FAR of residential units has been doubled over the years. But the FAR of local shopping complexes has been increased from 250 to 350. We have suggested that the FAR of SCs should also be doubled.”He added, “If more local commercial space is created at walking distance from residential areas, then people will prefer to walk or cycle to the market for daily needs which in return means less traffic on the roads, less pollution, less parking chaos, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddareceives-12-000-suggestions-over-master-plan-2041-101629741326051.html
24-08-2021||Other||Joshi to hold show of strength in Amritsar on August 28||Amritsar After joining the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and being appointed senior vice-president of the party, former Punjab minister Anil Joshi, along with his supporters, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and the Durgiana Temple on Monday.The former BJP leader, two-time MLA from Amritsar North, was felicitated by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) at the information office of the shrine. Golden Temple chief manager Gurinder Singh honoured him in the presence of the SAD city president Gurpartap Singh Tikka.“I will be organising a gathering in Amritsar north assembly segment on August 28. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia will address the gathering,” he said. Joshi had raised his voice in favour of farmers agitating against the three farm laws that the BJP-led Union government first brought through an ordinance. He was expelled from the saffron party for six years for criticising the state BJP leadership for “mishandling” the situation. The BJP had termed his conduct as anti-party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/joshi-to-hold-gathering-in-amritsar-on-august-28-101629737426390.html
24-08-2021||Pune||Over 55K duplicate voter entries removed; photos of 92K updated in 6 mths||Pune district election officials have managed to remove more than 55,000 duplicate voter entries and updated the photographs of about 92,000 voters in the last six months. The process of updating and revising the voter list began a month after publication of the final voter list in January 2021. Pune district has a total 7,887,874 voters.On January 15 this year, there were 406,589 voters in the district without photographs, with the number being reduced to 313,939 in August as per the latest figures provided by district election officials.Mrinalini Sawant, deputy district election officer, said, “We undertook this huge task which had been pending for many years. In the non-election period, we keep on updating the voter list. But two waves of covid-19 have proved to be hurdles. Now again we have started revising the voters’ list. During the past few months, we conducted regular meetings and encouraged officials to update voter data.”Updating voters’ photographs in the voters’ list will help booth officers identify genuine voters at the time of elections. District administration also undertook the task of identifying and removing demographically similar entries (DSEs), commonly known as duplicate voters. On January 15, there were 88,724 DSEs or duplicate voters, with the number being reduced by 55,889 to 32,835 in August.Sawant said, “Some people have their names in the voters’ lists of other districts as well, which should not be the case. So by coordinating with other districts, we have identified such voters. It requires field visits to voters where they are asked at which place they would like to keep their name and accordingly, the entry is updated.”Election officials have also approached 119 big industries and corporate houses in the Pune district to start voter awareness forums for their employees. Based on updation of voters’ lists, a draft roll will be published in November and the final number of newly-added voters will be known only at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-55k-duplicate-voter-entries-removed-photos-of-92k-updated-in-6-mths-101629737125607.html
24-08-2021||Pune||DLSA to run “job fair” to connect unskilled labour with MIDC units in Pune||The Principal District Judge of Pune, SA Deshmukh, has announced an initiative by the District legal service authority (DLSA) to provide employment to unskilled labourers who lost jobs during the pandemic, in an effort to bridge the gap between labout and industry in MIDC areas, where there is a dire need for labourers.The forms for registering will be available at the DLSA office on the Shivajinagar court premises, first floor of the new court building, until September 9.“It was suggested to us to take substantial steps for providing employment to those who lost their livelihoods during the lockdown. We are planning a job fair for the labourers who can be hired directly into industries located in Chakan MIDC. This job fair will provide the much-needed opportunity for livelihood for those who need it. This initiative is as per the Mumbai High Court directions to take steps in this direction,” said Judge Deshmukh.The initiative will be launched will help from Symbiosis Law School, Divine Jain Group trust, and Lalita Motilal Sankla Foundation. Credai will also be roped in and asked to raise awareness among labourers and later, choose from those who have applied.DLSA is primarily looking to provide the required 90- day experience certificate to unskilled labourers in order to get benefits of government schemes. The effort is looking to generate an immediately recruitable pool of construction workers, security guards, and housekeeping staff.“The 90-day experience certificate makes the unskilled eligible for 23 government schemes including housing subsidy, health insurance, schooling for children, marriage, higher education for children and labourers. Once they are recruited through this pool that we will create, they will be able to get the 90-day experience certificate which can be provided to them directly by DLSA,” said Pratap Sawant, Secretary, DLSA.Sunny Motilal Sankla, a businessman from Chakan MIDC, said that the need for labourers in Chakan, Talegaon, Ranjangaon MIDC areas is immense.“Right now, we are working in two shifts because of the shortage of labourers. Once we get more labourers, we will be able to function in three shifts like before. The difference will be that the respective companies will take full responsibility of the labourers’ needs like food, shelter. And this will ensure absence of middlemen in the process,” he said.He added that the three MIDC areas collectively have 1,800 companies with major companies like Amazon, Flipkart, and major automobile production units.Dr Shashikala Gurupurji, dean, Symbiosis Law School, said, “We will provide the manpower to handle the legal work. This is necessary for society, where unskilled labourers have suffered a lot.”The awareness and outreach work has been started by 23 volunteer lawyers attached to DLSA and Sanket Shah led Divine Jain Group Trust NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dlsa-to-run-job-fair-to-connect-unskilled-labour-with-midc-units-101629736945621.html
24-08-2021||Pune||Pune civic body to conduct first survey to record non-communicable diseases in city||As Covid-19 put the focus on the health department and health infrastructure, the Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) will soon start its first ever survey to trace and record non-communicable diseases in the city. This would be part of the national health programme which surveys pregnant women for antenatal care, post-delivery care for mother and child and fertile couples. This is the first of its kind survey in the city following the central government guidelines in view of the role of comorbidities in Covid-19 deaths. The survey would begin from Tuesday and would continue till October 14. As per the Pune district health office information, of the 18,538 deaths reported due to Covid-19, 67.9% reported to have an associated risk factor, which is 12,593 deaths and 32.1%, while 5,945 did not report any risk factor. A high number of deaths were reported in people who also reported other comorbidities especially diabetes, high blood pressure and hypertension. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer said, “This is the first time the PMC is conducting this survey and it would help us record all non-communicable diseases like diabetes, cancer, blood pressure, hypertension, cardio-vascular diseases, blood pressure and also body mass Index. We have received a proper format from the government as to how to conduct this survey and which ailments would be covered. This would be part of the other surveys under the national health programme which are usually conducted in April-May, however, due to the pandemic we postponed it.” Earlier the state government had conducted a statewide ‘My family, My responsibility’ survey under which a health survey was conducted to look out for comorbidities in people. However, it was based on oral responses and mostly looked for flu- like symptoms for detecting Covid-19 cases. “We would also have NCD consultants who would make sure that we implement the survey properly and the NCD clinics are also in place effectively. The survey would be conducted by about 300 nurses who would do this everyday, except on days of Covid-19 vaccination, starting from Tuesday till October 14,” added Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-conduct-first-survey-to-record-non-communicable-diseases-in-city-residents-101629736406027.html
24-08-2021||Pune||Anticipating third wave, Maharashtra govt ensuring enough medicines, beds available||With the NITI Aayog’s latest report predicting a third Covid-19 wave in September, with a surge in cases and an eventual load on health infrastructure, the state government has started preparing for the anticipated surge by instructing district administrations to prepare for 1.5 times the number of active cases at the peak of the second wave. The Pune Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) officials said they have been asked to monitor medicine stock available in Pune market right now, which seems to be surplus as demand is low. According to Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, the state government has started preparing for increased oxygen supply, and medicines for children. “We are fully prepared to tackle next wave based on the directions given by centre,” said Tope in Jalna. Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer said, “The NITI Aayog report might have come now, but we have been preparing for the anticipated third wave right after the second wave started to ebb. There are regular financial approvals being made by the state. We have asked every district to prepare for the third wave with respect to the number of patients that could be reported. We are preparing for about 1.5 times the number of patients that the state saw during the peak of the second wave. For example if we reported a 100 active cases on a particular day during the second wave peak, then this time we have asked the districts to prepare for150 active cases in a day. Of this we anticipate that 65% would require home isolation and remaining 35% would require hospitalisation divided into ICU care, ventilators and also oxygenation. So we have asked district’s to ramp up their infrastructure as per this requirement.” The state saw its peak of the second wave on April 22, with 699,858 active cases. The anticipation would be that the state would see 1,049,787 at the peak of a third wave, if it ever comes, with a much higher severity. He further added, “Also this time we have reserved some beds for paediatric Covid-19 cases since the anticipation is that the third wave would affect children the most. So we have asked districts to reserve 15% beds in the Covid care centre for paediatric cases, which is anyone below 18 years of age; 10% for those with moderate symptoms and 5% for severe paediatric Covid-19 cases.” S V Pratapwar, assistant commissioner of FDA said, “As of now there are no restrictions on the purchase of Covid-19 or mucormycosis drugs and so it is freely available with private chemists and stockists. If we talk about Pune district we have about 40,000 remdesivir vials and the demand has fallen down to single digits number in a week. We have about 25,000 tocilizumab vials and we have demand of about 10-15 vials in a month. For mucormycosis we have about 2,000 amphotericin vials available and the demand has gone down to 8/10 daily. All these drugs have been de-regulated now and remdesivir was also removed as a prescribed treatment drug for Covid-19, however, it is still prescribed by doctors’ as per their discretion.” Pune district saw its highest active case load on April 19 when the number reached 125,096 active cases. As per Pune district’s information, in the second wave alone, from April 12, to August 18, 2021, Pune district saw a supply of 201,113 vials of remdesivir, 258 vials of tocilizumab (400 mg) 2,084 vials of tocilizumab (80 mg) and a total of 57,790 vials of amphotericin B injections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/anticipating-third-wave-state-ensuring-enough-medicines-beds-available-101629736405504.html
24-08-2021||Kolkata||CBI starts probe into Bengal poll violence||Days after a Calcutta high court order, officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Kolkata on Monday began its probe into cases of murder, attempts to murder and rape reported during the post-poll violence in West Bengal as four of its special teams from Delhi were yet to arrive in the state.A team of sleuths belonging to the central agency recorded the statement of Biswajit Sarkar, brother of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijit Sarkar who was allegedly killed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers in Kolkata’s Narkeldanga area, shortly after the assembly election results were announced on May 2. He was the only BJP worker to have been killed in the state capital. “We will definitely get justice,” Biswajit said as he left the CBI office at CGO complex in Salt Lake on Monday afternoon. He was brought to the complex by a team of CBI officials earlier in the day and was questioned for around two hours. “After the poll results were announced, TMC workers tied a television wire around my brother’s neck and dragged him along the road. They smashed his head with a stone. The police did not register a complaint even though we pleaded several times,” Biswajit had said on August 19. The BJP worker’s brother also alleged that his family was threatened by the police who said that they would decide on the names of the accused in the case. “We refused to comply,” he added. Two persons -- Sanjay Dev (26) and Avijit Dev (25) -- were arrested in connection with the murder case on July 24. The accused are residents of Mahesh Barick Lane in Narkeldanga. Seven of the eight persons named in the FIR have been nabbed so far, a senior Kolkata Police officer said on condition of anonymity.On July 13, the Calcutta high court directed the Central Forensic Science Laboratory to conduct a DNA test on the body to identify the victim.Lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal, who represented the petitioner in court, said, “The DNA report has been submitted. It is in the custody of the court. Since the victim’s body is still lying in a morgue, we will appeal for its release for the last rites once the CBI is done with the investigation.” Soon after the TMC swept the assembly elections on May 2, the BJP made allegations of widespread post-poll violence from across the state. Biswajit was among the several petitioners who moved the Supreme Court for a probe into the alleged violence. The apex court allowed the Calcutta high court to look into the matter. Following directions from the high court on June 18, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) carried out an investigation and submitted its final report on July 13, recommending a CBI probe and trials outside the state.After studying the NHRC’s final report, the high court last week ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot under the court’s supervision. Four special teams, comprising seven members each, are slated to arrive in the state this week to take charge of complaints from north, south, west and Kolkata zones, respectively, people familiar with the development said, adding that separate FIRs would be filed for each allegation of rape and murder.The state government has maintained that the NHRC report was biased and prepared with a political motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-records-statement-of-kin-of-bjp-worker-killed-in-kolkata-poll-violence-101629719424983.html
24-08-2021||Bhopal||Row over video’s authenticity after 16 booked for sedition||Days after the police booked 16 people on sedition charges for allegedly shouting “Pakistan zindabad” during a Muharram procession in Ujjain, a debate has broken out over the authenticity of the video clip on the basis of which the police acted.On Monday, the Muharram procession’s organisers released a 2.20-minutevideo in which people can be heard shouting “qazi sahab zindabad”. The Ujjain police then released a 10-minute clip of the same event in which people can be heard shouting “Pakistan zindabad” and “qazi sahab zindabad” .Ujjain superintendent of police Satyendra Shukla said, “We have taken action only on the basis of an authentic video shot by police personnel and officers of the district administration. We have no doubt on the authenticity. The incident happened at 10.12pm and we registered a case on the basis of video within half an hour.”“Earlier too, such incidents have been reported from the area, and this time we recorded the procession,” Shukla added.The video has been forwarded to the state’s home department.The organisers have a different story.“The police morphed the video. No anti-national slogans were shouted by the people present,” said Muzeeb Qazi, an organiser of the Muharram procession in Ujjain’s Geeta Colony.Backing Qazi’s claims, Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh said, “Police took action on a fake video clip. They should have verified the truth first. The case should be withdrawn.”A Congress municipal councillor Maya Trivedi, who was present at the programme, said: “Nobody shouted anti-national slogans and the case was registered on the basis of a fake video.”Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said, “We don’t have any doubt about the video. Such anti-national and people inspired by Taliban mentality should be punished.”Calling Digvijaya Singh a “Pakistani agent”, the state’s medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “Why does Digvijaya Singh always feel offended when it comes to Pakistan and anti-national activities? The Congress is trying to create communal tension, but we won’t allow them.”The Ujjain police on Friday booked 16 residents of Geeta Colony under sections 124 A (sedition), 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) and 188 (violation of order duly promulgated by officer) of the Indian Penal Code; 10 of them have been arrested so far, police said.Reacting to the incident, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan earlier said his government would not tolerate a “Taliban-like” mindset.District collector Ashish Singh on Sunday invoked the National Security Act (NSA) against four of the accused.(With inputs from Anand Nigam from Ujjain)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/pakistan-zindabad-case-cong-says-video-clip-fake-police-refute-claim-101629718947401.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||ED files charge sheet against Anil Deshmukh’s personal assistant, private secy||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday filed a charge sheet against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde in the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court. Deshmukh is the main accused in the money laundering case.The agency arrested Palande and Shinde on June 26, claiming they handled the money laundering linked to Deshmukh’s alleged bribe-cum-extortion business. Both have been charged with relevant sections of PMLA. ED said in the past that the two were not cooperating with the agency.The money laundering case against Deshmukh and his aides was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21.Also Read | Maharashtra registers 4,141 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, Mumbai records 1 deathThe central agency alleged that while serving as the home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that on Deskmukh’s son Hrishikesh’s behest, the two brothers diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs. ED alleged that both Palande and Shinde played an important role in circulating and laundering the unaccounted money. During investigation, ED identified 24 private entities that are controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money were transacted among them without any rationale. “...thus it can be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED said. In mid-July, the anti-money laundering agency has provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties worth ₹4.2 crore. The attached assets include a residential flat in Worli valued at ₹1.54 crore and 25 land parcels of book value ₹2.67 crore at Dhutum village at Uran in the neighbouring Raigad district. Praful Patel visits ED officeSenior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Praful Patel visited the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office on Monday. After visiting the ED office in the afternoon, he said he was called to sign documents in case of a property seizure. “I was there to sign documents as ED had seized a property of Ceejay House building a few years ago, which is owned by someone else. As the building is in our possession I was called to sign some documents. There’s nothing else,” the former aviation minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-files-charge-sheet-against-anil-deshmukh-s-personal-assistant-private-secy-101629711743952.html
24-08-2021||Bhopal||Mob thrashes bangle seller in MP’s Indore; 14 booked||Police arrested two people on Monday for allegedly thrashing a 25-year-old Muslim bangle seller in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore town and later booked the Muslim man for allegedly molesting a minor girl. The thrashing incident, a video of which went viral on social media, took place on Sunday when the complainant, Taslim Ali, was selling bangles in the Govind Nagar area, police added. According to Ali, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, he was accosted by a group of unidentified men who started thrashing him after finding out that he was a Muslim. He added that a First Information Report (FIR) was registered late on Sunday only after a few members belonging to his community staged a protest outside Banganga police station.“After asking my name, they frisked me and abused me. Later, they brutally thrashed me. They also looted ₹10,000 from me. I went to the police station but they did not lodge my complaint till late evening,” Ali alleged. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra claimed that the victim was using a fake identity, passing himself as Hindu. “The man was selling bangles by changing his name. People recovered two Aadhaar cards from his possession with a Hindu name and thrashed him. But they cannot take law into their own hands, so we have registered a case against them.”A total of 14 people were booked in the FIR which was registered under section 141 (unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) 147 (using criminal force), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 294 (using obscene language) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Police have also booked 12 people for creating ruckus at the police station. A police force has been deployed in the area as a precautionary measure. “We registered an FIR only after confirming the incident. We will identify the culprits to nab them soon. We have also registered a case against the protesters for not maintaining peace,” Indore inspector general of police HN Mishra said.Ashutosh Bagri, superintendent of police, Indore east, said: “There was no delay in registering the FIR. After recording the statement of eyewitnesses and the complainant, an FIR was registered.” Late in the evening, police said a 13-year-old girl filed a complaint alleging Ali introduced himself as “Golu, son of Mohan Singh” to sell bangles at her home on Sunday and after describing her as “very beautiful”, he touched her inappropriately.When the girl raised an alarm, her mother rushed out of home and when the bangle seller tried to escape from the spot, neighbours and other local residents caught and thrashed him, police added.Based on the girl’s complaint, a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 471 (using fake documents as real ones), among others, was registered against Ali, the police said.“Cops have found two Aadhaar cards of different names from the carry bag of Ali besides a burnt voter identity card in which his name was not clear. But in the column of father’s name, ‘Mohan Singh’ is printed on it,” said Bagri.The Congress accused the police of harassing the minorities. “Police in Madhya Pradesh are harassing minority community members. They register cases against members of the minor community but not on their complaints. The man was beaten up because he is a Muslim. The police registered the case hours after the incident. Now, they should hold an unbiased investigation and arrest the accused soon,” state Congress Committee spokesperson Ajay Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mob-thrashes-bangle-seller-in-mp-s-indore-14-booked-101629707783773.html
24-08-2021||Mumbai||At Malabar Hill in Mumbai, 700-m walkway with a view of Arabian Sea||In the next nine months, citizens will get a 700-meter-long walkway at Malabar Hill to get a bird’s eye view of the Arabian Sea. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has floated bids for construction of the walkway at a cost of ₹12 crore. According to BMC officials, citizens will be charged a nominal entry fee for using this wooden walkway that will be constructed in lush greenery near Hanging Garden. The walkway will be located near Babulnath Temple and will wind through the hill forest giving unobstructed scenic views of the Arabian Sea and the bustling city. The design for the forest trail at Malabar Hill is expected to be constructed without cutting any tree considering the concept is to build in lush greenery. There are around eight types of trees on the site, including gulmohar, almond (desi badam), copperpod, mango, coconut, rain tree, jamun and jackfruit. The lush greenery is also home to several birds and is expected to be having a lot of visitors who are bird watchers. Mumbai-based architect Rahul Kadri of IMK Architects who has worked on the design of the project said, “The city has several skywalks, but there are no elevated leisure walkways. From the ground, the trail will be raised by at least 2m and is likely to reach an estimated 10m in accordance with the forest’s changing contours. We have incorporated benches, viewing decks and a glass-bottom look-out zone at its widest point to further enhance the experience. Minimal lighting will be incorporated in the handrail to just keep it enough to light the trail without spilling into the forest and disturbing the native animal species.” According to the tender floated by the BMC, a ticket counter and public toilet will also be constructed on the site. A BMC official said, “A nominal entry fee will be levied on the visitors for the upkeep of the walkway and also to ensure that we have genuine visitors. We are expecting that the walkway will easily handle more than 100 visitors at a time.” Considering the landslide in the vicinity a year ago, the BMC officials said during the soil investigations for the project, they have also considered those aspects in order to decide on the construction modalities. The BMC is expected to finalise the contractor for construction by the end of this month and the work for the project is expected to start by the end of September. The BMC has given eight months duration for the contractor to complete the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-malabar-hill-in-mumbai-700-m-walkway-with-a-view-of-arabian-sea-101629314864646.html
24-08-2021||World||In virtual meet, BRICS NSAs review developments in Afghanistan||The national security advisers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) grouping on Tuesday reviewed the regional, global political and security scenario, especially developments in Afghanistan, Iran and West Asia.A virtual meeting of the NSAs, which was chaired by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, also adopted an action plan for combating terrorism and its financing for consideration by the leaders’ summit of the grouping to be held later this year.Meetings of the BRICS’ high representatives responsible for national security have become an important platform for exchanging views on political and security issues among member states. “Today’s meeting reviewed the regional and global political and security scenario with particular reference to current developments in Afghanistan, Iran, West Asia and the Gulf and emerging threats to national security, such as cyber security,” the external affairs ministry said about the meeting that was held a little more than a week after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. “India raised the issue of cross-border terrorism and activities of groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, which enjoy state support and threaten peace and security,” the ministry said.The NSAs also discussed cooperation among law enforcement agencies, health safety and healthcare, and counter-terrorism.As a follow up to the adoption of the BRICS counter-terrorism strategy at the leaders’ summit in 2020, the NSAs adopted the BRICS counter-terrorism action plan to be considered at the next summit to be hosted by India, which currently holds the presidency of the group. The action plan aims to strengthen existing mechanisms to combat terrorism and its financing, prevent misuse of the internet by terrorists, curb travel by terrorists, enhance border controls, protect soft targets, share information, and build capacity.The meeting discussed the heightened risk posed by an increase in illegal drug production and trafficking, and the NSAs agreed to enhance cooperation in this area between the concerned agencies of the BRICS member states. Health safety and healthcare were identified as a priority area of cooperation in light of new challenges linked to the Covid-19 pandemic.The NSAs also agreed to strengthen cooperation in cyber security by sharing information, exchanging best practices and combating cyber-crimes. India had hosted a BRICS workshop on digital forensics in August.The meeting was attended by Gen Augusto Heleno Ribeiro Pereira, head of the institutional security cabinet of Brazil, Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev, Chinese NSA Yang Jiechi, and South Africa’s deputy minister of state security Ncediso Goodenough Kodwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-virtual-meet-brics-nsas-review-developments-in-afghanistan-101629826805077.html
24-08-2021||World||'Every child knows this': Former Afghan mayor on Pakistan's role in ongoing crisis||A former Afghan mayor on Tuesday said the Taliban have a list of people who took a liberal approach during the earlier internationally recognised regimes, reported news agency ANI. Zarifa Ghafari, who was one of Afghanistan’s first female mayors, recalled the Taliban searching for her at her residence in Afghanistan and beating the security guards deployed there. The former mayor of Maidan Shahr that lies west of Kabul asserted that Afghanistan will remain theirs notwithstanding who rules the country.“Afghanistan was ours & it'll remain ours no matter who comes. If women like me are not there now it's because...just like a tiger who takes two steps back to come back with more force...We have to show to the world the real face of Taliban in Afghanistan,” ANI quoted Ghafari as saying.Many former Afghan officials have fled the war-torn region and are seeking refuge in other countries. Ghafari fled to Germany with the help of the German army as they were facilitating the evacuation of Afghan officials, activists and lawyers whose lives were in danger for helping Nato forces.The former Afghan official now wants to draw attention to the plight of Afghans by meeting high ranking officials, politicians and women of different countries. Ghafari is also open for talks with the Taliban leaders.“I want to talk to the Taliban leaders. I am taking responsibility. I am even forgetting the death of my father. I want to negotiate with them on behalf of every unspoken woman,” she added.She also commented on the role of external players like Pakistan in the ongoing crisis. Pakistan has long been accused of helping the Taliban in their offensive against the government forces. “The role of Pakistan is very clear, every child of Afghanistan knows this,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/every-child-knows-this-former-afghan-mayor-on-pakistan-s-role-in-ongoing-crisis-101629825756143.html
24-08-2021||World||Indians vaccinated in Saudi Arabia won’t be required to quarantine on return||Saudi Arabia on Tuesday lifted the quarantine rule for Indians who have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the Gulf nation. The Indian embassy in Riyadh announced on Twitter that Indian citizens fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country can enter the Middle Eastern country directly without quarantining in a third country.“Embassy is pleased to inform that Saudi Authorities have announced that Indian nationals who have travelled to India after receiving both doses of the vaccine in Saudi Arabia will be able to return to the Kingdom directly without need for quarantine in a third country,” the embassy tweeted from its official handle @IndianEmbRiyadh.Earlier in July, Saudi Arabia had said that it would impose a three-year travel ban on citizens travelling to countries which are on Saudi Arabia’s red list. It said that these measures were being taken to curb the spread of Covid-19 and its new variants. The Middle Eastern nation lifted a travel ban imposed on people arriving from 11 countries. The ban remains effective for nine countries which includes India and Pakistan.The United Arab Emirates on Tuesday temporarily suspended issuing visas on arrival for Indian passengers. It said that passengers who have been in India for the past 14 days or who have arrived from India will not be allowed visas on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indians-vaccinated-in-saudi-arabia-won-t-be-required-to-quarantine-on-return-101629823627643.html
24-08-2021||World||After Taliban's ultimatum, Pentagon says no change in plan for Aug 31 withdrawal||Amid speculations around an extension of the August 31 deadline for the final withdrawal of US-led foreign troops from Afghanistan, the department of defense on Tuesday said there hasn’t been any change to the mission timeline. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told a media briefing that the US is still aiming for the current deadline for final pull out and evacuation operation for Afghanistan."We're absolutely still aiming towards the end of the month," Kirby said, adding that the Pentagon believed it has the ability to safely airlift all Americans who want to leave Afghanistan by August 31.According to the Pentagon, the US may need additional bases to house Afghans evacuated from the war-ravaged nation.About 12,700 people have been evacuated by the US from the Kabul airport in the last 24 hours, reported CNN on Tuesday quoting a White House official. Kirby told the media briefing that “several thousand” Americans have been moved out of Afghanistan and they are targeting to move 100,000 people out of Afghanistan by the end of the week.“For all Americans who want to leave ...we are getting them out every day,” Kirby said.Also Read | ‘Taliban with us to free Kashmir from India’: Pak govt leader on TV news debateThe spokesperson claimed that there isn’t much “dissonance” between public statements made by the US and conversations with the Taliban.“The Taliban have been very clear about what their expectations are,” he added.The clarification comes after the Taliban denied any agreement with the US on the extension of the August 31 deadline for troops withdrawal and evacuation operation. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid also assured the Afghans, who are thronging the Kabul airport in a desperate attempt to flee Afghanistan, of safety and urged them to go home.“We have forgotten everything in the past,” Mujahid said, insisting that the group doesn’t have any list for reprisal.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-taliban-s-ultimatum-pentagon-says-no-change-in-plan-for-aug-31-withdrawal-101629820316628.html
24-08-2021||World||Blast kills 10 jihadists at Syria training camp||An explosion at a training camp for jihadist fighters in opposition-held northwest Syria killed at least 10 people and injured a dozen other recruits, residents and opposition sources said.The explosion took place while dozens of fighters from the Hyat Tahrir al Sham (HTS) group were attending a training session on artillery and mortars in the camp near the town of Hasano, in northern Idlib province, two military opposition sources told Reuters."There was a mistake which led to an explosion during a training session on mortars," said Mohamad Rasheed, an opposition activist familiar with the details of the incident.HTS is a jihadist group that controls parts of Syria’s northwest, a rebel-held area still at war with Damascus. Formerly known as the Nusra Front, it has been designated a terrorist group by the United States, Turkey and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-kills-10-jihadists-at-syria-training-camp-101629815978428.html
24-08-2021||World||Taliban asks Afghan government women workers to stay at home||The Taliban on Tuesday said they would not agree to an extension of a looming deadline to evacuate Afghans from Kabul airport, even as Western countries said they were running out of time.European nations have said they would not be able to airlift at-risk Afghans before the August 31 cut-off, and United States President Joe Biden has faced calls from all corners to extend the evacuation window.But speaking at a press conference in the capital Kabul, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the Islamist group would not agree to an extension, and told the US to stop evacuating skilled Afghans.Mujahid also said female Afghan government workers should stay home until security conditions in the country improve.US-led troops have ramped up operations to get thousands of people out of Kabul, after the Taliban warned they would not allow the US to extend the deadline for a complete withdrawal.President Biden has said he would stick to the schedule, but faced growing pressure to negotiate more time for the evacuations.Germany said on Tuesday that Western allies simply cannot fly every Afghan who needs protection out of Kabul before the cut-off date."Even if (the evacuation) goes on until August 31 or even a few days longer, it will not be enough to allow those who we, or the United States, want to fly out," Foreign Minister Heiko Maas told Bild TV.Earlier France said it would have to end evacuations from Kabul's airport on Thursday if the US stuck to the deadline, and Spain said it would not be able to rescue all Afghans who served Spanish missions.Britain, meanwhile, has said it will lobby for an extension at a virtual G7 summit later Tuesday.'They don't accept women'About 50,000 foreigners and Afghans have fled the country from Kabul's airport since the Taliban swept into power nine days ago, according to the US government.Many Afghans fear a repeat of the brutal interpretation of sharia law that the Taliban implemented when first in power from 1996-2001, or retribution for working with the US-backed government over the past two decades.The Taliban, who ended two decades of war with an astonishingly swift rout of government forces, has been publicly tolerant of the evacuation effort.But on Tuesday Mujahid reiterated an earlier Taliban warning against extending the airlift.He also said Americans were taking "Afghan experts" such as engineers out of Afghanistan."We ask them to stop this process," he said.The Taliban achieved their stunning victory thanks to Biden pulling out nearly all American troops from Afghanistan, following through on a deal struck with the movement by then-president Donald Trump.However, Biden was forced to redeploy thousands of troops after the fall of Kabul to oversee the airlift.According to the Washington Post, US Central Intelligence Agency chief William Burns held a secret meeting in Kabul on Monday with Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, although no details were reported and neither the CIA nor the Taliban confirmed it.'Time is running out'The rush to leave Kabul has sparked harrowing scenes and left at least eight people dead.Some have been crushed to death and at least one, a youth football player, died after falling off a plane.The German defence ministry said Monday an Afghan soldier was killed and three others wounded in a firefight with unknown assailants.Margarita Robles, the Spanish defence minister, said the security situation was getting worse."The Taliban are becoming more aggressive, there is gunfire, violence is more obvious," she said in an interview with news radio Cadena Ser."The situation is frankly dramatic and besides, with each passing day, it is worse because people are conscious that time is running out."Door-to-door huntThe Taliban have repeatedly claimed to be different from their 1990s incarnation, and have declared an amnesty for government forces and officials.But an intelligence assessment conducted for the United Nations said militants were going door-to-door hunting former government officials and those who worked with US and NATO forces.In the capital and other cities, the former insurgents have enforced some sense of calm, with their fighters patrolling the streets and manning checkpoints.The Taliban are also intent on quashing the last notable Afghan military resistance to their rule, made up of ex-government forces in the Panjshir Valley, north of the capital.The Panjshir has long been known as an anti-Taliban bastion.One of the leaders of the movement, named the National Resistance Front, is the son of famed anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-issue-new-warning-against-airlift-extension-as-deadline-looms-101629816020209.html
24-08-2021||World||Over 21,000 people evacuated from Afghanistan in 24 hours by US, allies||The United States on Tuesday said that more than 21,000 people have been flown safely out of Afghanistan in the 24 hours. The White House said that close to 21,600 people have been successfully evacuated out of Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover in the 24-hour period from early Monday that ended earlier in the day, the Associated Press reported.Also, 37 US military flights, comprising 32 C-17s and five C-130s, were deployed to carry approximately 12,700 people and another 8,900 people were carried by flights belonging to US allies. This has been the highest number of people flown out by the US in a single day since the operations began, the report further showed.Also read | No agreement on extension of Aug 31 deadline for evacuation, Taliban sayWhile the evacuation has been continuing since the Taliban laid siege on the capital city of Kabul early last week, more than 58,000 people have been evacuated by the US since August 14. Moreover, for the first time, the number of people flown out of the country has exceeded the US projections, the report also showed.The evacuation in Afghanistan continues even as August 31, the deadline agreed by US President Joe Biden for a complete pullout of the US troops, approaches. Diplomats, officials, civilians and Afghan nationals who helped the troops are being evacuated out of the country. Meanwhile, some of the countries that are involved in the operations have expressed concerns about safely removing all their people from the country.Germany on Tuesday said that all Afghan citizens who wish to flee Kabul could not be flown out of the country before August 31. “Even if (the evacuation) goes on until August 31 or even a few days longer, it will not be enough to allow those who we, or the United States, want to fly out,” news agency AFP quoted German foreign minister Heiko Maas as saying, earlier in the day.Watch | India's message to Taliban at special UHRC meet on AfghanistanFurther, the Group of Seven (G7) countries are scheduled to meet on the day to discuss the crisis in Afghanistan, during which UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to push Biden for an extension of the August 31 deadline to complete the operations.However, the Taliban had previously said that the date is a “red line” that the US should not cross and extended American presence in Afghanistan would “provoke a reaction,” the AP reported.Amidst the chaos around the situation, director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) William J Burns had reportedly met with Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar in Kabul on Monday, the Washington Post reported citing US officials familiar with the matter. The report also said that the discussion was likely around the deadline for the US’ evacuation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-21-000-people-evacuated-from-afghanistan-in-24-hours-by-us-allies-101629813220632.html
24-08-2021||World||No agreement on extension of Aug 31 deadline for evacuation, Taliban say||As US President Joe Biden is expected to decide on an extension of the August 31 deadline to airlift Americans and their allies, the Taliban on Tuesday denied agreeing to any such extension. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said the group has not agreed to extend the deadline for evacuation, urging the United States to not fly out skilled Afghans, reported news agencies.Guaranteeing the safety of the desperate Afghans crowding the Kabul airport to flee the country, Mujahid said they can go home. The Taliban also attempted to assuage the fears of reprisal saying there is no list of people for such targeting.“We have forgotten everything in the past,” the spokesperson insisted.Assuring foreign embassies security, Mujahid reiterated that the Taliban do not want them to either close or stop work.A day after the Taliban revealed hundreds of their fighters were heading for the Panjshir Valley, the centre of the resistance in Afghanistan, Mujahid claimed the group wants to resolve the situation through dialogue.Commenting on the reports of meeting between the Taliban and the director of Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Mujahid said he's not aware of any such meeting. The spokesperson, however, didn't explicitly denied that such meeting took place.The safety and freedom of Afghan women have been one of the major rights concerns following the return of the Taliban. During their rule from 1996-2001, girls were banned from attending schools and women weren’t allowed at workplaces. The United Nations has repeatedly raised the concerns regarding rights of girls and women. Mujahid said the Taliban are trying to come up with a procedure so women can return to work.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-agreement-on-extension-of-deadline-for-evacuation-say-taliban-101629812466003.html
24-08-2021||World||'No time to waste': Airbnb to host 20,000 Afghan refugees for free||Amid the worsening humanitarian crisis emanating from the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan, vacation rental company Airbnb pledged to house 20,000 Afghan refugees for free. In a series of tweets, Brian Chesky, co-founder and CEO of Airbnb, announced the company’s decision to host the Afghan refugees, hoping other business leaders get inspiration to do the same.“Starting today, Airbnb will begin housing 20,000 Afghan refugees globally for free,” tweeted Chesky, adding that they could not do this without “the generosity of our Hosts.”“The displacement and resettlement of Afghan refugees in the U.S. and elsewhere is one of the biggest humanitarian crises of our time. We feel a responsibility to step up," he wrote. “I hope this inspires other business leaders to do the same. There's no time to waste."If you’re willing to host a refugee family, reach out and I’ll connect you with the right people here to make it happen!About 270,000 Afghans had been internally displaced since January, according to a UN refugee agency estimate, taking the total uprooted population to over 3.5 million. A spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) told a media briefing last week that Afghans who may be in danger after the Taliban's takeover “have no clear way out.”“While widespread fighting has decreased since the takeover of the country by the Taliban on Sunday, the full impact of the evolving situation is not yet clear. Many Afghans are extremely anxious about what the future holds,” the UN refugee agency said in a statement released after the briefing.The UN agency has also called on the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan to keep their borders open in the wake of the evolving humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-time-to-waste-airbnb-to-host-20-000-afghan-refugees-after-taliban-takeover-101629809011960.html
24-08-2021||World||Only has a week of medical supplies left in Afghanistan: WHO||The World Health Organization warned Tuesday that it has enough medical supplies to last it "one week", following the blistering Taliban takeover of Afghanistan's capital Kabul 10 days ago."WHO now only has enough supplies in-country to last for one week," said Ahmed al-Mandhari, the head of WHO's Eastern Mediterranean region -- stretching from Morocco to Afghanistan."Yesterday, 70 percent of these supplies were released to health facilities," he added.Mandhari said that 500 metric tonnes of medicines and supplies stored in Dubai were unable to be delivered due to the chaotic evacuation efforts at Kabul airport which does not have the capacity to receive commercial flights."Countries sending in empty planes to pick up evacuees do not feel they are able to help," Mandhari said.On Sunday, the WHO and Unicef jointly called for an "immediate establishment of a reliable and robust humanitarian air-bridge to send in supplies"."Even prior to the events of the past weeks, Afghanistan represented the world's third largest humanitarian operation, with over 18 million people requiring assistance," the Sunday statement added.US-led troops have ramped up operations to get thousands of people out of Kabul, after the Taliban warned they would not allow the United States to extend an August 31 deadline for a complete withdrawal.About 50,000 foreigners and Afghans have fled the country from Kabul's airport since the Taliban swept into power 10 days ago, according to the US government.Many Afghans fear a repeat of the brutal interpretation of sharia law that the Taliban implemented when first in power from 1996-2001, or retribution for working with the US-backed government over the past two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/only-has-a-week-of-medical-supplies-left-in-afghanistan-who-101629806484817.html
24-08-2021||World||Taliban name Kabul governor, mayor as part of new regime: Report||A day after appointing the acting head of Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) – Afghan central bank — the Islamist militant group Taliban have announced the names of its officials who will be handling various governmental departments, including the roles of Kabul’s governor and mayor, Afghanistan news agency Pajhwok Afghan News reported.What are new appointments?1. Sakhaullah have been appointed as the acting head of education.2. Abdul Baqi will be the acting head of higher education.3. Sadr Ibrahim has been named the acting interior minister.4. Gul Agha has been appointed as the finance minister.5. Mullah Shirin will be the new Kabul governor.6. Hamdullah Nomani has been appointed as Kabul mayor.7. Najibullah has been appointed as Afghanistan’s intelligence chief.On Monday, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid took to Twitter to announce the appointment of Haji Mohammad Idris as the acting head of DAB. In the post, Mujahid said that Idris will be addressing the “looming banking issues and the problems of the people,” according to the translation by Bloomberg.Also Read | US blocks Taliban access to $9.5 billion Afghan monetary reservesIdris’ appointment came at a time when Afghanistan is in deep economic turmoil with ATMs reportedly running out of cash, Afghani currency hitting a massive low and prices of essential items such as oil and flour spiralling by as high as 35%, Bloomberg reported.Moreover, these appointments come as the deadline for the US troops to withdraw from Afghanistan nears its end, even as thousands of foreign nationals and desperate Afghans await their turn to be flown out of the country and the Taliban’s rule. The insurgents have already cautioned against extending the August 31 deadline, with spokesperson Suhail Shaheen saying that the act would “provoke a reaction” from the group and that there would be “consequences.”Speaking with Sky News in Qatar’s capital Dohan, Shaheen said that the extension is a “red line” and delaying the withdrawal of forces would mean “[US] is extending occupation while there is no need for that.”However, the US President, who is set to meet the G7 leaders today to discuss the mounting signs of worry related to the evacuation from Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport, is mulling over extending the withdrawal deadline. On Sunday, he warned that the evacuation is going to be “hard and painful” and much could still go wrong, according to Reuters.Meanwhile, an official from the Biden Administration told Reuters on Monday that the President can decide within the next 24 hours whether the US is going to extend the deadline to allow the Pentagon to have time to prepare.Also Read | CIA director held secret meeting with Taliban leader Baradar: ReportNotably, the G7 meeting will be taking place between Biden, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, France President Emmanuel Macron and Italy’s Prime Minister Mario Draghi.On Monday, US Army General Hank Taylor told reporters that nearly 16,000 people were evacuated from Kabul airport over the previous 24 hours with American military aircraft flying out 11,000 during the same period of time. He added that as many as 42,000 people have been evacuated from the war-torn Afghanistan since July, of which 37,000 were airlifted since August 14 as the Taliban took over the country after two decades.These evacuees, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said, include “several thousand” US nationals, Afghans who worked with US forces and applied or received Special Immigrant Visas (SIV), other at-risk Afghan nationals who worked in non-governmental agencies, and media, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-name-kabul-guv-mayor-as-part-of-new-regime-afghans-await-evacuation-101629804802284.html
24-08-2021||World||As Women’s Equality Day approaches, here’s all you need to know about its history, significance||The Women’s Equality Day is celebrated every year on August 26 in the United States to mark the American women’s advancements towards equality with men. It is also celebrated in memory of the ratification of the nineteenth amendment of the US constitution, which guaranteed the American women their right to vote.The US Congress officially acknowledged the Women’s Equality Day in 1971 in recognition of the continued efforts of women to achieve equality.HistoryDuring the 50th anniversary of the passage of the nineteenth amendment on August 26, 1970, the National Organization for Women (NOW) called for a “strike for equality,” a nation-wide demonstration by women in favour of equal rights.Richard Nixon, the 37th US President, officially declared the date as women's rights day, becoming the first president to do so. Since then, every US President has issued a proclamation declaring August 26 as Women’s Equality Day.In 2020, Donald Trump, in his proclamation, said, “On Women’s Equality Day, we honor all of the women who inspire and improve our Nation. Their talent and hard work strengthen our economy, our families, and our communities, and sustain our unique American way of life.”Former President Barack Obama in 2016, the last year of his second term, said, “On Women's Equality Day, as we recognize the accomplishments that so many women fought so hard to achieve, we rededicate ourselves to tackling the challenges that remain and expanding opportunity for women and girls everywhere.”The Nineteenth AmendmentThe nineteenth amendment to the US constitution was passed by the US Congress on June 4, 1919 and ratified on August 18, 1920 and guarantees all American women their right to vote.The amendment prevented the right to vote being denied on grounds of gender. “The right of citizens of United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation,” the amendment said.(With inputs from Encyclopedia Britannica)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-women-s-equality-day-approaches-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-its-history-significance-101629806066788.html
24-08-2021||World||Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed after being left behind: Afghan general||As the Taliban's campaign to reconquer Afghanistan was gathering pace in June, hundreds of people were dying in the fighting, and tens of thousands were fleeing. Danish Siddiqui, a 38-year-old star photojournalist for Reuters based in New Delhi, decided he wanted to help cover the story, telling a boss: "If we don't go, who will?"On Sunday, July 11, Siddiqui arrived at a base of the Afghan Special Forces in the southern city of Kandahar. There he embedded with a unit of several hundred elite commandos tasked with flushing out Taliban fighters who in the previous few weeks had been steadily capturing territory.On Tuesday, July 13, Siddiqui joined a successful mission to rescue a policeman who was surrounded by insurgents. His convoy was returning when it came under fire from rocket-propelled grenades.The Humvee he was travelling in was hit by one of the RPGs. Three other vehicles were destroyed. Siddiqui captured on video the flash and jolt as a grenade struck the side of his vehicle and the commandos up front drove through the barrage. His images and report of the mission went on the Reuters wire, and he later shared the action on Twitter."Holy mother of god," one friend responded by WhatsApp. "This is insane."Siddiqui, who had covered wars, mob violence and refugee crises, reassured the friend that Reuters had done a risk assessment before he embedded with the Special Forces. Reuters editors and managers have responsibility for approving or rejecting risky assignments and have the authority to end them. Journalists, too, have the option of withdrawing from the field."Don't worry," Siddiqui wrote. "I know when to pull the plug."Three days later, on July 16, Siddiqui and two Afghan commandos were killed in a Taliban attack while on another mission, a failed attempt to retake the key border town of Spin Boldak. That rout was an early milestone in the collapse of the Afghan military. In the weeks that followed, the Taliban conquered city after city. Its ultimate victory came in mid August, when Kabul was the last to fall.Siddiqui's death underlines the risks faced by journalists, both in the international media and in local outlets, when covering conflict and political strife. Media organizations are grappling with how best to safeguard their staff while publishing vital news in the public interest. Globally, more than 600 journalists have been killed since 2010, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. Afghanistan has been especially dangerous, accounting for 35 of those deaths as of early August, 28 of them local journalists.Also Read | Danish Siddiqui’s work mirrored society’s uncomfortable truthsFamily and colleagues were devastated to learn of Siddiqui's death when grim images of his body began circulating on social media. While some details about his death remain unclear, enough information has emerged to give an outline of events.First reports indicated Siddiqui was killed in crossfire while trying to take photographs in the bazaar at Spin Boldak, a hotly contested Afghan border crossing with Pakistan. But an examination of Siddiqui's communications with Reuters and accounts from an Afghan Special Forces commander show that Siddiqui was first injured by shrapnel from a rocket. He was evacuated to a local mosque for treatment. And he was killed, according to the top Afghan officer, after being abandoned with two soldiers in the confusion of a retreat.Major-General Haibatullah Alizai, who was the commander of Afghanistan's Special Operations Corps when it hosted Siddiqui in Kandahar, told Reuters it was evident now that, in fierce fighting, his soldiers withdrew from Spin Boldak and left behind Siddiqui and two commandos accompanying him, mistakenly thinking they had joined the retreating convoy. His account was corroborated by four soldiers who say they witnessed the attack."They were left there," Alizai said.Other circumstances surrounding Siddiqui's death are still not clear. Afghan security officials and Indian government officials have told Reuters that, based on photos, intelligence and an examination of Siddiqui's body, his body was mutilated while in Taliban custody after his death. The Taliban denies this.A British ballistics expert consulted by Reuters, Philip Boyce of Forensic Equity, reviewed photos posted on social media soon after the attack and compared them with pictures and X-rays taken after Siddiqui's body was recovered from the Taliban. Boyce concluded it was "evident that he was shot multiple further times after he was killed." Some reports also have claimed his body was run over by a vehicle; Boyce said the damage observed in the photos was consistent with gunshots and didn't necessarily imply other kinds of post-mortem injury.A Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, said Siddiqui's injuries occurred prior to the discovery of the body by Taliban fighters.Siddiqui's loss has struck a chord in India and in the global photojournalism community. He shared a Pulitzer Prize for feature photography with colleagues for his iconic images of the Rohingya refugee exodus from Myanmar in 2018. At home, he gained fame, and drew threats, for images that captured penetrating insights into Indian politics and social tensions, including his haunting shots earlier this year of the funeral pyres of COVID-19 victims and last year of a Hindu mob beating a Muslim man in Delhi.Such work made Siddiqui one of India's most important photojournalists, the renowned Magnum photographer Raghu Rai told Reuters. "This is one of those rare guys, for sure, and to be doing this in today's time is hugely, hugely challenging and fearful," said Rai, 79.In a statement, Siddiqui's family said, "Danish was not only an outstanding professional but also a wonderful human being who captured the truth through his lens."Inside Reuters, the death of the distinguished colleague and father of two young children has caused anguish. Some of the news agency's journalists have questioned whether Reuters provided adequate security for Siddiqui on the assignment. This report was prepared and edited by Reuters journalists who weren't involved in managing the photographer or in the decisions to approve his assignment.Krishna N. Das, a correspondent based in Delhi who worked with Siddiqui, said some colleagues have zeroed in on the decision by Reuters editors to allow the photographer to stay embedded with Afghan forces after the July 13 RPG attack that damaged his Humvee."Why was he allowed to go back in the embed?" asked Das. "Why was he not pulled out of the deployment?"Others say an embed with highly trained Afghan forces was an appropriate way to fulfill the assignment Siddiqui undertook in bearing witness to the struggle."If you get a chance to join a mission like this, you take it," Goran Tomašević, a fellow Reuters photographer famed for his images of war, said of Siddiqui's final assignment. "The safest place to be quite often is with a group of soldiers like this."Members of the newsroom familiar with the decision-making say Siddiqui's embed with soldiers in Afghanistan was backed by senior photo editors, vetted by external advisers and newsroom managers who handle security, and reviewed by a group of top editors who regularly meet to consider potentially dangerous assignments.That group, which includes Editor-in-Chief Alessandra Galloni, Executive Editor Gina Chua, who oversees security, and John Pullman, the global managing editor for visuals, signed off on the embed with U.S.-trained Afghan Special Forces. Chua, who declined to comment, later approved the decision to send Siddiqui to Spin Boldak, a person familiar with the matter said.Interviews with Reuters managers and staff, and a review of email communications, indicate that editors in South Asia weren't part of the decision to embed Siddiqui with Afghan commandos and also had no advance notice of the Spin Boldak mission.Reuters, a unit of Thomson Reuters Inc, said in a statement deployment decisions "are made collectively." Galloni, in a written statement, said she agreed to Siddiqui's embed with Afghan Special Forces. "As editor-in-chief, I take full responsibility for the decision," she wrote.Reuters said the events surrounding Siddiqui's death are the subject of internal and external reviews and the company is working hard to verify the facts.In an email to staff on July 23, Galloni called Siddiqui "our brilliant colleague and devoted friend" and praised his unwavering gaze that exposed uncomfortable truths. She continued: "I also know many of you want answers. We do too." The review process that's under way, she said, "includes a detailed examination of our security procedures."Also Read | After Taliban's ultimatum, Pentagon says no change in plan for Aug 31 withdrawalBook of RemembranceReuters was founded in 1851 by an enterprising German named Julius Reuter who sent financial news by carrier pigeon. The agency has a long tradition of covering conflict for its clientele of investors and other media organizations that rely on its worldwide reach.Inside its major newsrooms, Reuters places large handmade books of remembrance containing accounts of the journalists who have died in the line of duty. The first commemorates Francis John Lamplow Roberts, a 25-year-old who died of disease in 1885 covering the British military campaign in the Mahdist War in Sudan. The book contains 33 names. Siddiqui's will be the 34th.Like many major news organizations, Reuters has tightened its security procedures considerably in recent years. In 2011, it appointed an editorial manager to oversee security and created a team of specialists to review, with veto power, potentially risky coverage. Reuters expanded its training for journalists working in hostile environments, helped develop international safety standards for freelance journalists, and distributed mandatory safety equipment for staffers and freelancers operating in conflict zones.The focus on safety intensified after the death in 2013 of Molhem Barakat, an 18-year-old Syrian photographer who freelanced for Reuters. Assessments take into account the skills and experience of the staff involved, with hostile-environment training required; the newsworthiness of covering a conflict; and the dangers the reporter or photographer will face. In the last decade, three Reuters journalists, including Siddiqui, have been killed. In the previous 10 years, 11 died.In her statement, Galloni, the editor-in-chief, said: "As a global news organization operating in 200 locations, we consider the safety of all our journalists our paramount priority, and we have developed a rigorous security program for those in hostile environments."Born in 1983, Siddiqui joined Reuters in 2010 as an intern in Delhi, where he grew up. He soon moved to Mumbai, India's financial capital, where he spent almost a decade, covering stories in India and around the world. He had also covered conflicts. He was trained in how to report in dangerous environments, and his assignments included two embeds with soldiers in Afghanistan and Iraq.Siddiqui was honoured with a sheaf of awards, including the team Pulitzer for covering the Rohingya refugee crisis. In 2019, he returned to Delhi from Mumbai as chief photographer for India, running a group of around a dozen photojournalists. Siddiqui was popular in the newsroom, a mentor to many less experienced photographers. His shirt neatly tucked into his jeans and his hair carefully parted, he would often walk around the office, coffee cup in hand, joking with his colleagues.On long assignments away from family, colleagues recall, he would typically video call with his kids – aged 5 and 3 – before they went to bed, sometimes showing them where he was, telling them about his work and asking them what they had done through the day.It was in Delhi that Siddiqui produced some of his most memorable work, including photographs that documented tensions between India's Hindu majority and its large Muslim minority.Covering his own country involved risks. Early last year, during deadly communal riots in Delhi, Siddiqui, who was Muslim, dodged stones, petrol bombs and smoke grenades, and then managed to take disturbing photographs of a Muslim man being mercilessly thrashed by a Hindu mob. Eventually, the mob cornered Siddiqui, suspecting he was a Muslim. He made a narrow escape. He later came under a long barrage of online abuse from right-wingers angered by his shots, which drew national attention in India.This year, he produced a set of images of the funeral pyres for COVID-19 victims. They were carried worldwide. Shot at a time when the government was saying it was taking adequate measures to fight the virus, the photos showed in stark and undeniable detail how deadly the outbreak had become. The images prompted a backlash, particularly on social media, where Siddiqui was branded a "vulture." Some would later celebrate his death online. But there was also an outpouring of grief and sympathy at his passing.In a TED Talk in 2020, he showed some of his work and described his mission as a photojournalist. "My role is as a mirror and I want to expose you to the raw truth, and make you a witness to it," he said. "You can look away or stand up and act for change."When the pandemic began to ebb slightly, Siddiqui looked for a new assignment. In Afghanistan, the Taliban was on the march. Siddiqui asked his editors if he could cover the story. He knew there were risks, colleagues said.In the past, Siddiqui told a colleague at Reuters, he rarely experienced fear on the job. But now, with young children, he had begun to think much more about his safety. "I have worked in difficult situations and on different assignments," he said, according to the colleague. "I have never felt fear. But since I became a father, I really feel fear."The story was worth it nonetheless, he believed. "If we don't go, who will?" Siddiqui's manager, Asia pictures editor Ahmad Masood, recalled him saying in the weeks preceding his deployment. Masood, a native of Afghanistan himself, now works from Reuters Asia headquarters in Singapore.At the height of the U.S. war in Afghanistan, dozens of news organisations kept offices in Kabul. In the years that followed, the number of foreign correspondents dwindled. Most news organisations, confronted by high costs and rising instability, cut back on coverage.Assessing RiskBefore going to Afghanistan, according to a close friend of Siddiqui's at another news organization, the photographer began considering a so-called embed: attaching himself to a fighting force so that he could receive its protection while observing the conflict up close. It is a common tactic for news organizations operating in war zones.On reaching Kabul at the start of July, Siddiqui and Reuters editors first weighed an embed with an Afghan militia leader, said Rickey Rogers, the Reuters global pictures editor, based in the United States. Reuters sought advice from an external security consultant about this possibility, said a person with direct knowledge of the deliberations. The consultant said the embed should be possible if certain conditions were met, but Rogers said the idea was abandoned when the militia leader backed out.On Saturday, July 10, the opportunity arose for an embed with Afghan Special Forces beginning the next day. A proposal was sent for approval to a group of senior Reuters editors with ultimate say on security matters, Rogers said. The group is chaired by Chua and includes Editor-in-Chief Galloni; Pullman, the global managing editor for visuals, who is Rogers' manager; and members of the company's operations team, which reports to Chua and is responsible for security.The security group approved the embed plan. "We were talking about the Afghan Special Forces, the elite," said Rogers. "They had all the hospitals at their disposal, all the equipment needed to evacuate, including air support." Siddiqui would join their headquarters near Kandahar.The Afghan Special Forces, some of the country's best-trained fighters, were at the centre of the battle with the Taliban. In the weeks before Siddiqui's embed, they sustained heavy casualties. In one incident, on June 16, international media reported more than 20 commandos were killed by the Taliban.Asfandyar Mir, a security analyst specialising in Afghanistan and Pakistan, said the Taliban viewed Special Forces "as their main adversary on the battlefield."Reuters said in a statement it consulted external security experts about the proposed embed with Special Forces, adding: "We work closely with external security specialists, advisors, and local sources – as well as staff in the region and with expertise about the region – to assess conditions on the ground. In rapidly changing environments, we review and adjust our plans."Other news organizations had also placed journalists on the front lines with Afghan forces. As the Taliban advance gathered momentum in July, some began putting more restrictions on deployments. Journalists at three international news outlets said embeds with Special Forces were only considered in certain situations – for example within a defined urban area where frontlines were clear. Such limits, they felt, could make it easier to withdraw from peril.In recent conflicts, such as Libya and Syria, Reuters journalists have usually entered war zones accompanied by a security adviser – typically unarmed former policemen or soldiers with an eye for avoiding trouble. Such advisers, however, are less often deployed by international media when embedding with regular well-trained forces, as those forces are held responsible for the reporters' protection.Unlike some other media organisations, at the time of Siddiqui's death Reuters had no security expert in Kabul, or in South Asia.Reuters previously did employ a full-time global security adviser, a former Northern Ireland policeman with decades-long experience of conflict situations, who was available round-the-clock to advise journalists on their missions. He retired in March after 16 years service and the company has yet to replace him."Reuters does not generally engage external security advisors to supervise operations. Reuters manages and supervises its own security," the news agency said. "News organizations differ in their processes and views, and an outside security advisor would not have the same level of familiarity with our people, protocols or practices."Siddiqui departed for Kandahar on Sunday, July 11, the day India said it had pulled out all nationals from its consulate there due to intense fighting near the city.Kandahar was where the Taliban launched its initial conquest of the country in the early 1990s. The city also lies close to the border with Pakistan, one of the few countries to recognise the Taliban government when the hardline Islamist group ruled until it was toppled in the U.S. invasion of 2001.Siddiqui was ebullient as he joined the Special Forces base in Kandahar that Sunday, colleagues said. His embed began the same evening. Two days later, on July 13, he filed his images and report from the RPG attack on his convoy.After the dispatch was published, Reuters colleagues back in Delhi teased him about his daring missions. He jokingly invited them to visit him in Afghanistan. But he corrected one colleague who said he had been taking "uncalculated risks.""Ahem! You are wrong buddy," he said in a WhatsApp message on the night before his death. "There is a risk assessment done for everything."Special ForcesSiddiqui posted about the RPG attack on Twitter, displaying a picture of himself lying on a patch of grass and writing that he had rested for only 15 minutes after 15 hours of the mission. Asia Pictures Editor Masood said that, at that point, he asked Siddiqui if he wanted to continue."You are the best judge of the situation," Masood said he told Siddiqui. "You can absolutely go back to Kabul, do you want to do that?"Siddiqui gave the matter some thought and then told Masood he wanted to continue. Rogers said a management team discussed his continued involvement with the Special Forces on a daily basis. This team, he said, instructed Siddiqui to remain in safety at the base in Kandahar for 24 hours to see if any more patrols were attacked the following day. Siddiqui did so, and there were no attacks over the next two days.Internally, his reporting was lauded. One senior video editor sent a note to staff praising his "very steady shot" after his vehicle took the direct hit from a grenade.Asked why the news agency didn't pull Siddiqui out of the assignment after the RPG attack, Reuters said "we paused and reviewed the situation on the ground – including monitoring the Kandahar unit's activities – after which we allowed him to continue with the embed."Siddiqui remained at the Special Forces base in Kandahar on Wednesday and Thursday, waiting for updates on the Special Forces' next mission.On July 14, Taliban forces had moved into Spin Boldak, a dusty town on the volatile border with Pakistan with a reputation for opium smuggling. In the past, India has accused Pakistan of harbouring the Taliban's leadership in Balochistan province on the other side of the Spin Boldak crossing. Pakistan has said India uses spies in the border area. Both sides deny the other's accusations – but the area was a high risk for any Indian national to venture into, according to analysts.The Special Forces offered to take Siddiqui along as they attempted to recapture the town. Siddiqui alerted his manager Masood, who emailed Rogers at 6.50 pm, Afghanistan time, on Thursday, July 15, seeking permission for Siddiqui to join the operation.There followed a 43-minute email exchange involving photo editors and a Reuters operations manager, who is based outside Asia. Participants in the exchange noted there had been no attacks on the Special Forces unit since the incident on July 13 when Siddiqui's vehicle was struck."Unless anyone has objections, I think we are good to go with this," wrote the operations manager. A photo editor replied in agreement. It was 7.33 pm. The mission was due to start before midnight. According to a person familiar with the matter, Chua signed off on the decision.Asked whether Reuters weighed security conditions in Spin Boldak, the company said that, when assessing Siddiqui's embed in Kandahar, the possibility of missions similar in type to the one to Spin Boldak were considered. "The locality of Spin Boldak itself was not," it added.In a call with South Asia staff after the photographer's death, Chua said that before deciding to deploy Siddiqui to Kandahar, the Reuters security team "took into account the fact that he was Indian. We understood that was a risk factor as well. And we balanced that off against his experience, his judgment. He was well trained. He was well equipped."Final ConversationsWhile in Afghanistan, Siddiqui kept in contact with friends on social media.On July 11, after India evacuated officials from its consulate in Kandahar, Siddiqui sent his close journalist friend a link to an article on the subject and revealed he was in the city. "Stay safe pls," his friend wrote. "Yes yes, I will pull out if I think it's too bad," Siddiqui replied.Two days later, on July 13, Siddiqui shared a link to a report about the strike on his vehicle, and reassured the same friend that he'd "pull the plug" if needed. On July 15, the evening before his death, Siddiqui shared a Twitter thread describing his experience with the Special Forces with a small group of childhood friends on a private WhatsApp group. The thread included his dramatic footage of the RPG strike."THIS IS BAT SHIT CRAZY!" a friend replied within minutes, according to screenshots of the messages. He asked Siddiqui about his life insurance.That same evening, Siddiqui messaged colleagues in Afghanistan and Pakistan, including Gibran Peshimam, the Pakistan bureau chief who also oversees the Kabul bureau, to tell them he'd be filing reports. "Folks, let me know who will be on the deck tomorrow morning," he wrote. "I will have feed." Siddiqui made no mention of the plan to join a combat mission to Spin Boldak.At 11.04 pm on Thursday, July 15, Siddiqui sent a message to Asia pictures editor Masood in Singapore: 'Leave Base.' That was the signal Siddiqui was off. He was riding with Major Sadiq Karzai, who was commanding the Spin Boldak assault, according to the Special Forces.Dozens of Humvees had left the base with the objective of retaking Spin Boldak, Siddiqui told Peshimam in a message at 5.09 am the following morning. At 6.33 am, Siddiqui called Peshimam from an Afghan number. They spoke for four minutes. Siddiqui told him they were expecting "contact" – to encounter Taliban forces – in the next few minutes.A cache of 350 pictures from Siddiqui's camera, which was recovered by Reuters, record his journey through a dusty, overcast landscape.At 7.03 am, Siddiqui passed an abandoned police truck, its front right tire blown out. He was some 12 kilometres from Spin Boldak, at a pass between two rocky outcrops. Known as Wat Mountain, in peacetime the place is a popular picnic spot.At 7.30 am Siddiqui sent a voice message to Peshimam, reporting heavy fighting. A minute later, his vehicle reached a roadblock. A series of 97 frames over 10 seconds show puffs of smoke from the impact of rockets and gunfire. Orange tracer rounds from a machine gun strike a building on his left.As the commandos take cover, Siddiqui appears to dismount from his vehicle to follow the action. The last picture, at 7.34 am, shows a commando crouching behind a wall and launching an RPG. Analysis of satellite imagery and a map reference provided by Special Forces indicate Siddiqui was 2.1 kilometers from the centre of Spin Boldak. The military identified the spot as the Shanaki petrol station and mosque complex.At 7.41 am, Siddiqui sent a voice message to Masood. There was the sound of heavy gunfire. Siddiqui is heard saying to another person, "What is it, RPG?" A minute later, another voice message. "Masood, I've been hit."The two spoke on the phone three minutes later. Siddiqui told Masood he had been hit by shrapnel on the back of his left arm. He passed the phone to one of the members of the unit, who assured Masood the wound was superficial."We are pulling him out," the man said.At 7.53 am, Siddiqui spoke to a photojournalist colleague in Kabul, telling him he was sheltering in a mosque.At 7.59 am, Siddiqui shared his live location with Masood via a tracking feature on his smartphone. At 8.01 am, in his last message, the photographer replied to a question from Masood asking how his injury was. "Just painful," he said.Over the next hour, Siddiqui's phone signal moved slowly from Spin Boldak along the main road towards Kandahar. Peshimam, Masood and the colleague in Kabul all tried calling Siddiqui at intervals, without any response. Siddiqui's tracking signal stopped at 9.06 am at Wat Mountain.Around 10 am, Masood and the colleague in Kabul separately got through on Siddiqui's phone. But they grew alarmed, because in both cases it wasn't Siddiqui who picked up. It was a stranger who identified himself as a shopkeeper before hanging up.Masood arranged a conference call with editors and operations managers to explain what had happened. During that call, another Reuters photographer in Kabul messaged Masood with pictures circulating on social media. Masood knew immediately the man in the photos was Siddiqui."Oh god, he has been killed," he said. There was silence.Conflicting AccountsAccording to first reports, Siddiqui had been killed in the bazaar at Spin Boldak. But the records of Siddiqui's phone tracker, accounts from the commander of Afghan Special Forces, Taliban, other local security officials, and photos and videos posted on social media give a fuller picture, albeit with many key details still uncertain.Alizai, the Special Forces commander, told Reuters his commandos, supported by other Afghan security forces, had advanced that morning to the petrol-and-mosque complex where Siddiqui took his last pictures. The troops had air support available.Based on communications at the time and interviews with commandos when they returned to base, Alizai said he concluded that Siddiqui took shelter in the mosque where he was treated for his shrapnel injury by a Special Forces medic, and accompanied by Karzai.As Siddiqui was being evacuated, the Taliban launched a new attack and all government units were forced to withdraw. A police commander who was nearby at the time gave Reuters a similar account. At this point, Alizai said, his men lost communication with Karzai, Siddiqui and the medic. They mistakenly thought all three had jumped aboard one of the retreating vehicles.Four other Special Force members interviewed by Reuters confirmed Alizai's account that Siddiqui and the two soldiers had been left behind in a hasty retreat. One senior officer, a deputy commander of the operation, said the Taliban had attacked the location from three sides. "The fighting was so strong that we did not know where Danish was," he said.After a gunner in Karzai's Humvee was hit by a mortar round, everyone started to pull out. A driver of another Humvee said he heard urgent shouts to Karzai to rejoin the vehicles. But at that moment, the driver said, the Taliban closed in and Siddiqui, Karzai and the medic were shot as they tried to run to the retreating vehicles. "I saw it with my own eyes," he said. Believing they were dead, this driver pulled out, too.Alizai said one of his officers then managed to get through to Karzai's phone. He said it was answered by someone identifying himself as a Taliban fighter, who said, "You're bringing Indians to fight against us." The officer replied, "Don't shoot him. He's a journalist." "We already killed that guy," the fighter answered. There was no further contact.Alizai said he believes Taliban fighters may have picked up Siddiqui's phone and taken it with them as they pursued the Special Forces to Wat Mountain, where the Taliban stopped and established defensive lines.Reuters was unable to independently determine if the Taliban deliberately killed Siddiqui or desecrated his body. Siddiqui's family said it believes that he was brutally murdered and his body mutilated."We reiterate our demand that the matter should be pursued to bring the perpetrators of this horrific crime to justice," the statement by the family said.At 9.40 am, 34 minutes after Siddiqui's tracking signal stopped, the first pictures of his body were posted on Twitter. Photos of captured Humvees followed minutes later. At 10.24 am, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid posted on Twitter a video of the same location where Siddiqui's phone tracker stopped – identifiable by the outcrops and three large radio masts – stating Taliban fighters had "crushed" government forces in a clash there.Contacted later for this article, Zabihullah said that after heavy fighting around Spin Boldak town, the Taliban mounted an ambush of Afghan Special Forces on the road back towards Kandahar, capturing three Humvees and destroying two others, plus a pickup truck. That fighting, too, was heavy, he said, involving over 100 armoured cars and pickups. The "largest ambush by us" was in the Wat Mountain area, he said."We don't know exactly where Danish was killed, but we recognised his body when we found three bodies lying by the roadside." He was identified as a journalist by a "PRESS" marking on his jacket. The other two casualties were the Afghan soldiers who were with Siddiqui: Karzai and the medic, identified by the Afghan military only as Abass.Zabihullah denied reports that Siddiqui was captured and executed, as well as claims by the Afghan security forces and Indian government officials that his body was desecrated."It is completely wrong that Danish was first injured then he was captured and then killed, so I reject this information. It is completely wrong," he said."We once again say that this death happened on a battlefield. We can't say whose bullet hit Danish Siddiqui, and we had no prior information about him being in the area."On Sunday, July 18, bureau staff gathered up Siddiqui's possessions in Kabul. His room there was left as any journalist in a hurry might leave it. Clothes and a towel lay on his unmade bed. Nearby were Bounty chocolate bars and cookies, a stab-resistant vest and a small suitcase containing his spare camera. Four weeks later, the Taliban occupied the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-was-killed-after-being-left-behind-afghan-general-101629805832115.html
24-08-2021||World||'I have to apologise': Fauci corrects his prediction on US Covid-19 curve||Top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci corrected his earlier prediction where he had “misspoke” about the United States getting good control over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the fall of 2022. During an interview with NPR, the chief medical advisor to the White House had said if the overwhelming majority of the unvaccinated population get jabbed, the United States could “start to really get some good control over” the pandemic as they get into the fall of 2022.“I have to apologise,” Fauci told CNN’s Anderson Cooper when asked about his prediction. “When I listened to the tape, I meant to say the Spring of 2022, so I did misspeak.”Fauci clarified he wanted to say if the country gets through “this winter” and the overwhelming majority of the 90 million unvaccinated people get vaccinated, the US could start to get some good control in the “Spring of 2022”. The United States is witnessing another Covid-19 wave largely driven by the highly contagious Delta variant as about 90 million eligible people remain unvaccinated.Also Read | Anthony Fauci says US can move quickly to offer 3rd vaccine shotsOn Monday, Fauci told NPR that it is difficult to correctly predict the curve of the pandemic when 90 million people are unvaccinated. He said there is the possibility of the coronavirus continuing to circulate, mutate, form more variants and take the country back to a similar or worse situation caused by the Delta variant.The United States continues to report one of the highest daily new Covid-19 cases, overall as well as per capita. According to the latest epidemiological update by the World Health Organization (WHO), the highest numbers of new cases from August 9 - August 15 were reported by the US, Iran and India. However, the highest numbers of new deaths in the same week were reported by Indonesia, Brazil and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-have-to-apologise-fauci-corrects-his-prediction-on-us-covid-19-curve-101629804867411.html
24-08-2021||World||Imposing sanctions on Taliban will be counterproductive, says China||China on Tuesday said imposing sanctions on the Taliban in Afghanistan will prove counterproductive, and urged the international community to support chances for positive developments in the country.“Afghanistan is an independent and sovereign country. The United States and its allies should learn from the lessons of history, reflect and act prudently on issues related to Afghanistan,” said Wang Wenbin, China’s foreign ministry spokesperson. “Imposing sanctions and pressure at every turn cannot solve the problem and will only be counterproductive.”Wang was responding to reports that said world leaders at the upcoming G7 meeting could consider new sanctions on the Taliban.“The international community should encourage and promote the development of the situation in Afghanistan in a positive direction, support peaceful reconstruction, improve the well-being of the people and enhance its capacity for independent development,” the spokesperson added.“We should not let the tragedy of individual countries making mistakes, only to have the Afghan people and the international community, especially regional countries, foot the bill, be repeated,” Wang said.China, which shares a border with Afghanistan, has sought to maintain friendly ties with the Taliban, and has seized on the US pullback from the country to sharpen its criticism of Washington.China and Russia are among the few countries to have kept their embassies open in Kabul after the Taliban swept to power earlier this month.In Geneva, China’s envoy to the UN in Geneva said on Tuesday that the US army and the militaries of allies should be held accountable for alleged rights violations they committed in Afghanistan.“The US, UK, Australia and other countries must be held accountable for the violation of human rights committed by their military in Afghanistan and the evolution of this current session should cover this issue,” China’s UN envoy Chen Xu said at an emergency session of the UN Human Rights Council on Afghanistan.“Under the banner of democracy and human rights, the US and other countries carry out military interventions in other sovereign states and impose their own model on countries with vastly different history and culture,” he said. This has brought “great suffering”, Chen added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imposing-sanctions-on-taliban-will-be-counterproductive-says-china-101629805121682.html
24-08-2021||World||CIA director held secret meeting with Taliban leader Baradar: Report||The chief of American spy agency CIA William J Burns held a secret meeting with the Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar in Kabul on Monday, according to the Washington Post which quoted unnamed US officials.This was the highest-level face-to-face encounter between the two sides and comes more than a week after the insurgent group seized power in Afghanistan, the Post report said.Also Read: Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in AfghanistanUS President Joe Biden's decision to dispatch his top spy, a veteran of the foreign service, comes amid a frantic effort to evacuate people from Kabul international airport in what the president has called "one of the largest, most difficult airlifts in history," the paper said.Though the CIA has not officially commented on the meeting, the Post quoted officials to report that the discussions likely involved the impending August 31 deadline for the US military to conclude its airlift of US citizens and Afghan allies.The Biden administration is under pressure from some allies to keep US forces in the country beyond August 31 deadline in order to assist the evacuation of tens of thousands of citizens of the US and Western countries as well as Afghan allies desperate to escape Taliban rule. A meeting of G7 countries - Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States - will take place virtually on Tuesday, and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to push for a deadline extension.However, a Taliban spokesman on Monday warned that there will be "consequences" if the US and UK sought an extension to the August 31 deadline for the US-led troop withdrawal from the war-torn country.Baradar, who spent eight years in Pakistani prison before his release in 2018, has served as the Taliban's chief negotiator in peace talks with the US in Qatar that resulted in an agreement with the Trump administration on the withdrawal of US forces.A close friend of the Taliban's founding supreme leader Muhammad Omar, Baradar is believed to hold significant influence over the Taliban rank-and-file, according to Washington Post.It added that Burns made a similar unannounced trip to Afghanistan in April this year amid concerns over the ability to stop the Taliban offensive.As director, Burns oversees a spy agency that trained elite Afghan special forces units who had been viewed as a potent force in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-director-held-secret-meeting-with-taliban-leader-baradar-report-101629804200037.html
24-08-2021||World||Credible reports of executions of civilians by Taliban: UN human rights chief||The top UN human rights officials on Tuesday said she has received “credible reports” of summary executions of civilians by the Taliban as their actions raise fears of a “return to past patterns of human rights violations”.Michelle Bachelet, the UN high commissioner for human rights, told a special session of the UN human rights council that the civilian casualties between January 1 and June 30 rose by nearly 50 per cent compared to the same period in 2020, suggesting the toll further increased over the months of July and August when the Taliban intensified their offensive to take the effective control of Afghanistan.Bachelet said she has received reports of serious violations of international humanitarian law which include summary executions of civilians and restrictions on the rights of women. She didn’t divulge details of the executions during her speech but urged the Council to set up a dedicated mechanism to closely monitor the evolving human rights situation in Afghanistan. The top UN human rights official asserted that the treatment of women and girls by the Taliban would be a “fundamental red line.”“I strongly urge the Taliban to adopt norms of responsive governance and human rights, and to work to re-establish social cohesion and reconciliation – including through respect for the rights of all who have suffered during the decades of conflict,” she said.Also Read | Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in AfghanistanThe Taliban’s return has stoked fears of reprisal and Afghanistan’s return to the era when girls were not allowed in schools and women in workplaces under their harsh version of Islamic law. While the Islamist fundamentalists have promised inclusivity, they have repeatedly underlined that any freedom to women will be in accordance with the “genuine Islamic system”.Bachelet stressed the need for the government to remain inclusive, which means meaningful participation of women, and representation of Afghanistan's diverse communities.“There should be genuine, inclusive dialogue, including women, and including members of Afghanistan's diverse ethnic and religious communities, in order to address the underlying problems that the country faces, the root causes of discrimination, and the enduring legacies of decades of conflict,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/credible-reports-of-executions-of-afghan-civilians-by-taliban-un-human-rights-chief-101629800445123.html
24-08-2021||World||Ukrainian evacuation plane hijacked into Iran from Kabul: Reports||A minister in Ukraine claimed on Tuesday that an evacuation flight was hijacked from Afghanistan on Sunday and taken to Iran. However, the claims have been denied by both Ukraine and Iran.Ukraine's deputy foreign minister Yevgeny Yenin was quoted as saying by Russian news agency Taas that the plane was hijacked by "armed people". He said that the plane was stolen from Ukraine and "flew into Iran with an unidentified group of passengers onboard".He, however, did not divulge more information about what happened to the flight.Hours later, the authorities in Iran denied that any hijacked plane landed in the country. Ukraine too, officially rejected Yenin's claim that the plane was hijacked.Ukrainian foreign ministry spokesman Oleh Nikolenko denied that one the planes of the country had been hijacked in Kabul. He told Interfax agency that Yenin “was explaining in general the unprecedented level of difficulties that diplomats have had to face in order to evacuate Ukrainians.”Many countries have launched evacuation missions to take out their citizens from Afghanistan since the Taliban seized power on August 15. The swift evacuation is being carried out with the help of the forces of United States, which are in control of Hamid Karzai International (HKI) airport in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukrainian-evacuation-plane-hijacked-into-iran-from-kabul-reports-101629793819845.html
24-08-2021||World||UK says Afghanistan withdrawal may not go beyond Aug 31, cites Biden statements||Western nations are unlikely to extend the evacuation window in Afghanistan to allow more citizens and Afghan nationals to fly out of Kabul, British defence minister Ben Wallace said on Tuesday. Britain was reportedly pushing for an extension even though for that to happen the Taliban need to agree to it as well.According to a Reuters report, Wallace cited US President Joe Biden’s public statements as a reason for suggesting the evacuation window may not extend beyond August 31, which is when US troops are scheduled to withdraw from Afghanistan. “Not only because of what the Taliban has said but also if you look at the public statements of President Biden, I think it is unlikely," Wallace told British broadcaster Sky News.Biden had told reporters on August 22 he would not like to extend the timeframe for evacuation beyond month-end, but discussions on the same would be held. “There’s discussion going on among us and the military about extending,” he said, adding, “Our hope is we will not have to extend, but there are going to be discussions, I suspect, on how far along we are in the process”.A meeting of G7 leaders is scheduled to be held during the day where one of the key topics of discussion will revolve around extending the evacuation window in the war-torn nation following its takeover by the Islamic militant group that was overthrown by the US 20 years ago.The G7 meeting will be attended by leaders of the UK, US, Canada, France, Italy, Germany, and Japan and chaired by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Biden’s plan to complete evacuation by August 31 was hampered by the unexpected advance of the Taliban who took over Kabul on August 15 without minimal resistance from Afghan forces. American troops were expecting Kabul to hold strong for at least a month following the final withdrawal.In recent weeks, Biden has come under pressure from his Western allies for over extension of the evacuation window beyond August 31. In a call to his American counterpart, French President Emmanuel Macron “underscored the absolute need for swift, concrete coordination between the allies to ensure the evacuation of our citizens, Afghan men and women who worked for the allies, and those who are in danger”, according to this office.The Taliban have, however, cautioned that presence of US and its allies in Afghanistan beyond August 31 would invite “consequences”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-says-afghanistan-withdrawal-may-not-go-beyond-aug-31-cites-biden-statements-101629794522691.html
24-08-2021||World||Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed says India 'true friend', slams Pakistan||Afghanistan's famous pop star, Aryana Sayeed, who had escaped from Afghanistan after the Taliban took Kabul, has expressed her gratitude towards Indians for extending help to her fellow citizens even, while blaming Pakistan for the mess in the war-torn country and empowering the Islamic militant group."I do blame Pakistan. Over the years, we have seen videos, seen evidence that Pakistan is behind empowering the Taliban. Every time our government touches the Taliban, the identification reveals him to be a Pakistani person. So it is very obvious that I (would) blame them and hope that they would back off and would not interfere in the politics of Afghanistan anymore," Sayeed was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.#WATCH | "...I blame Pakistan. Over the yrs, we've seen videos & evidence that Pak is behind empowering Taliban. Every time our govt would catch a Talib, they'd see identification & it'd be a Pakistani, it's very obvious that it's them," says Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed to ANI pic.twitter.com/eIBAGXvaCPShe further said the Taliban troops were being instructed and trained by Pakistan. "They are being instructed by Pakistan, their bases are in Pakistan where they get their training. I hope the international community first cuts off their funds and doesn't offer funds to Pakistan for funding the Taliban."Also read | Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed leaves Kabul for Istanbul after Taliban take overSpeaking from an undisclosed location, the pop star, who broke multiple taboos in 2015 singing at a stadium, urged the global community to find a lasting solution for peace in the conflict-ridden nation.She also urged the Taliban to treat civilians in a more humane way. "I just hope that they will think about humanity. They should not treat innocent people the way they did 20 years ago," she added.During the Taliban's rule in Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001, brutal floggings, amputations and public executions were commonplace. Women were largely confined to their homes and death penalty was a norm for offences like adultery and homosexuality.Lauding the Indian government's efforts in Afghanistan, Sayeed said India was "true friend". "India has always been good to us. They have been a true friend, they have been very helpful and kind to our people, even refugees. Afghans who have been in India before have always spoken highly of the nation, its people. We are grateful to India," she added."On behalf of Afghanistan, I want to express my utmost gratitude to India and I want to say thank you. Over the years we have realised that the only good friend in the neighborhood we have is India," she said.She also expressed her dismay at the way former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani escaped from the country leading to the fall of the West-backed elected government and smooth seizure of power by Taliban. Calling Ghani a "coward", Sayeed said, “He left Afghanistan in the hands of a bunch of Pakistanis. He let down our people, our country, our armed forces and military. How could we fight without any leaders?""I was very sad and pissed off with him for what he did. The day we were leaving Afghanistan on August 15, he was still giving speeches promising people that everything will be alright. But within the next few hours he disappeared," she added.She further praised the efforts of Afghanistan's "acting" President Amrullah Saleh and Ahmad Massoud, son of legendary resistance leader Ahmad Shah Massoud, for challenging the Taliban regime from the Panjshir valley. "Whatever is happening now in Panjshir, it is very brave of them. Appreciate that but at the same time, I fear Afghanistan will go back to civil war which is scary. We have been through that and I don't want Afghanistan to go through that once again, I am really concerned," said Sayeed.She also took a dig at international powers for leaving Afghanistan in the middle of nowhere. "I mean look at all these superpower countries who initially went there and they said our reason of going there is to get rid of Al Qaeda, get rid of Taliban and then after being there for 20 years and spending millions and millions of dollars, lives of all those soldiers lost there, suddenly they decided to leave Afghanistan and come out and this is something so shocking to me," Sayeed said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-pop-star-aryana-sayeed-says-india-true-friend-slams-pakistan-101629791967387.html
24-08-2021||World||Signs of Delta variant taming in Israel due to vaccine boosters||Israel, which started its vaccine booster drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a few weeks ago, is witnessing indications of an impact on the high infection rate fuelled by the Delta variant of the virus, Reuters reported on Tuesday citing experts. The Delta variant started spreading in Israel in June, with the government reimposing indoor mask wearing, limitations on public gatherings and ramping up testing.On July 30, authorities in Israel started administering the third dose of Pfizer/BioNtech’s Covid-19 vaccine to people above the age of 60. Last Thursday, the government expanded the eligibility for people aged 40 and above who received their second vaccine doses at least five months earlier and pointed out that the age limit might come down further.Also Read| Do Covid-19 vaccine boosters help? This Israeli study has answersThe health ministry on Sunday revealed in its findings that a third dose of the Pfizer vaccine provided significantly improved protection from the infection and serious illness among people aged 60 and above compared to those who received only the first two doses.Israel has so far registered nearly a million cases and 6,856 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. As most of the restrictions to curb the spread of the viral disease have been taken down, Israel saw a massive rise in its infections as it went from single-digit daily tally and zero deaths to 7,500 daily cases, 600 infected patients being admitted to hospitals in serious condition and 150 dying last week, Reuters reported.However, with the beginning of the booster drive, the severity of Covid-19 is weakening among the first age group- which is those above 60 years. According to the country’s health ministry data and scientists interviewed by the news agency, more than a million people in this age group have received their third dose. The rate of Covid spreading among such people, which is also known as the reproduction rate, has been steadily declining since August 13.Also Read| US CDC delays review of Covid booster shots as debate swirls over third jabMeanwhile, scientists also said that besides booster shots, other factors are contributing to the decline in infection.Eran Segal, a data scientist at the Weizmann Institute of Science and an adviser to the government said, “The numbers are still very high but what has changed is that the very high increase in the rate of infections and severe cases has diminished, as has the pace at which the pandemic is spreading,”. “This is likely due to the third booster shot, an uptake in people taking the first dose and the high number of people infected per week, possibly up to 100,000, who now have natural immunity,” he added.(With Reuters inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/signs-of-delta-variant-taming-in-israel-due-to-vaccine-boosters-101629790017475.html
24-08-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccine passports required as TIFF returns to theatres this year||As North America’s most celebrated movie event, the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), returns to theatres this year, those who want to attend it in person will be required to furnish what are being widely called “vaccine passports” or “Covid-19 green passes”.Attendees will have to show either proof of vaccination against the coronavirus disease or a negative Covid-19 test result.The 46th edition of the TIFF will take place from September 9-18. It will open with a feature adaptation of the Tony Award-winning musical Dear Evan Hansen and will close with Chinese director Zhang Yimou’s One Second.The event will take place in Toronto’s theatres even as the Delta variant-driven fourth wave of Covid-19 is underway in the country. The 2020 edition of the film festival was held in an entirely digital format due to the pandemic.TIFF co-heads Joana Vicente and Cameron Bailey said in a statement they have “taken great care and consideration in implementing protocols to mitigate risk to audiences and guests attending TIFF”. They added, “We have relied on municipal and provincial medical direction and advice on rapid testing and we expect this will provide another level of clarity and comfort for all festival goers.”As far as vaccine passports are concerned, five of Canada’s major banks have announced variations of the protocol for allowing employees into their offices and branches. The province of British Columbia announced on Monday that it will implement such a scheme for those wanting to access places such as restaurants, movie theatres and gyms. It will go into effect on September 13, when proof of at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine will be needed, and by October 24, the requirement will be upgraded to fully vaccinated status. Quebec is putting into force such a measure starting on September 1.The TIFF has identified five venues for indoor public screenings, while there will be outdoor screenings at drive-ins, and the films will also be available on a digital platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-passports-required-as-tiff-returns-to-theatres-this-year-101629784290613.html
24-08-2021||World||Will US compensate loss of Kabul by action on China?||The day after the Taliban seized Kabul, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan praised the Sunni Pashtun Islamists for breaking the shackles of slavery, in an obvious reference to the US military-led occupation of Afghanistan post 9/11. The Chinese, Russians, Iranians and Turks also made peace overtures and offered support to the UN-designated Sunni terrorist group in what is euphemistically called the reconstruction of Afghanistan.While the Joe Biden administration has been rightly panned by the democratic world for leaving Afghanistan in the hands of terrorists and killers, the future may not be so kosher for the deal makers in Islamabad, Washington and London. Even though the global credibility of the US has been damaged with the Afghan withdrawal, Washington will have to compensate for this loss by action against rising challenge China if it has any intention of retaining its sole global superpower status. Perhaps this was the signal of vice president Kamala Harris visit to Singapore.Also read | Will September 11 become the new deadline for US to exit Afghanistan?With no military commitments left after August 31 in the Afghan capital, the US and the EU will physically switch off from Kabul and with it will dry billions of dollars of aid and funding that Pakistan was getting for its two-faced role in the war against terror in Afghanistan since 2001. While Joe Biden and Donald Trump are two ends of the political spectrum, there is bipartisan consensus over Trump’s January 1, 2018, tweet where he accused Pakistan of deceit and harbouring terrorists that US forces were hunting in Afghanistan at that time. Pakistan would be living in a fool’s paradise if it thinks that the US with National Security Agency at its disposal does not know where the entire Taliban top leadership is based in Pakistan and their confabulations with Pakistan Army and ISI. After the Afghan withdrawal, neither the US nor the EU needs to fund Pakistan or give them preferential status for supporting military logistics lines to Afghanistan. US has funded Pakistan with over USD 35 billion dollars in aid since 2001 and the EU has given more grants to Islamabad than China has given in loans.Although the Biden administration may go politically dark over the Af-Pak region, the American agencies through spy satellites and communication intercepts will ensure the area is under floodlights and suppress any terror strike being plotted by the Taliban, Al Qaeda and their terror brothers based in Pakistan. In an era of stand-off weapons and missiles, counter-strike against terror plotters in this highly radicalized region can be taken with pinpointed accuracy. Taliban must not forget how their chief Mullah Mansour Akhtar was taken out by a hellfire missile from a US predator drone in 2016 inside Pakistani territory. Also read | Canada's Trudeau leaves door open to Taliban sanctions as G7 meet loomsChina, Russia and Iran are sanguine about the rise of the Taliban and virtually cheered the Deobandi-Islamist force for making the US run for their lives from Kabul on August 15. However, the Sunni Islamist force, weaned on perpetual jihad, has no space for either the Chinese Communists, Christian Russians or Shia Iran as all of them are Kaffirs. With top of the line US weapons at their disposal, a strong Taliban will not only reach out to their Uighur counterparts in Xinjiang but also destabilize both Iran and Central Asian Republics which buffer the Russian Federation. Pakistan will become more radicalized than ever with its Shia minority under threat and the Taliban will put pressure on border settlement as it does not recognise the Durand Line.Also read | The US misread Taliban once. Has it walked into Pakistan’s trap again?The Chinese propaganda machine has gleefully put out narratives in the media questioning the American commitment to ASEAN and Taiwan after the collapse of Kabul. The propaganda media has taunted all the American allies in Indo-Pacific by telling them that Washington under Joe Biden has no stomach for war against the PLA navy in the South China Sea. However, indications from Washington are to the contrary with the Biden administration focusing on China. It is also very much possible that the Biden administration compensation towards China may turn out to be Barack Obama’s Asian pivot, which was never implemented but only talked about in seminars in Singapore. Except for this time the US allies particularly in QUAD will trust only after verification.The rise of the Taliban will also destabilise the Indian sub-continent particularly countries like Nepal, Maldives, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka through Islamic radicalisation. While the Taliban may not be directly involved, their ideological brothers and comrades-in-jihad based in Pakistan will use this opportunity and new US weapons to spread political Islam in the region.Clearly, blood will not dry in Af-Pak battlefields for the time to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-us-compensate-loss-of-kabul-by-action-on-china-101629780276894.html
24-08-2021||World||UNHRC special session on Afghanistan today. Here's all about the meeting||The United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) will hold a special session on Tuesday to address the "serious human rights concerns and situation in Afghanistan" after the Taliban took over on August 15, the global body said in a statement. This session is being convened on the basis of an August 17 request submitted by Pakistan, the coordinator of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), and Afghanistan.The UN can call for special sessions only if a request receives the support of one-third or 16 or more of the 47 members of the Council. This particular request has received support from 89 states so far. Out of these 89 states, 29 states are members of the Council and 60 are observer states.Amongst the member states India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Mexico, UK, Italy amongst others have supported the call for a special session to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. States can become signatories up until the session starts and hence all lists for such sessions are considered provincial.Read More: Will September 11 become the new deadline for US to exit Afghanistan?India has always supported the government of Afghanistan in helping citizens realise the aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future where rights of all sections, especially minorities and women, were guaranteed. India has invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country and facilitated duty-free access to the Indian market.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has spoken in support of the Taliban since they took over Kabul but has urged the international community to stay engaged with Afghanistan to economically support the people of the war-torn nation. However, a cautious Pakistan has taken to fencing a previously open border that it shares with Afghanistan, to prevent cross-border militant attacks, 90 per cent of which has already been completed, and the remaining will be completed in 2021.The 31st special session will be held at Palais des Nations in hybrid format, with the majority of interventions being delivered online due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and is scheduled to start from 10am on Tuesday. The meeting will be webcast live in six official UN languages, Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unhrc-special-session-on-afghanistan-today-here-s-all-about-the-meeting-101629778041862.html
24-08-2021||World||Will September 11 become the new deadline for US to exit Afghanistan?||September 11 could now become the new deadline for the US and its allies to wrap up operations in Afghanistan - chiefly the evacuation of their citizens and Afghan partners - if American President Joe Biden decides to continue the airlift efforts beyond the stated exit date of August 31.An unidentified Biden administration official familiar with developments told The Washington Post that the deadline extension, if it happens, will be brief and is likely to end by September 11 – which happens to be the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks in America that had led to the US-led invasion of Afghanistan back in 2001.The Taliban on Monday had categorically warned of “consequences” if foreign troops stayed on Afghan soil beyond the August 31 deadline to pull out, saying it would be a violation of their agreement.Taliban’s stance, however, won’t be a factor if the US government decides to push back the deadline until September 11.“We are engaging with the Taliban, consulting with the Taliban on every aspect of what’s happening in Kabul right now, on what’s happening at the airport, on how we need to ensure that there is facilitated passage to the airport for American citizens, SIVs (Special Immigration Visas), third-country nationals, and so forth,” said Jake Sullivan, the US National Security Adviser, at a White House news conference when asked if the Taliban group’s nod was needed for the US to extend the deadline.He added, “We’ll continue those conversations with them. Ultimately, it will be the president’s decision how this proceeds, no one else’s.”The new deadline is apparently acceptable to close allies of the US such as the UK and France, who plan to press Biden on it at a G7 virtual meeting on Tuesday to be convened by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.British and French officials told The New York Times that a delay of a few days would allow Biden to still get the US out of Afghanistan before September 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-september-11-become-the-new-deadline-for-us-to-exit-afghanistan-101629779850674.html
24-08-2021||World||Taliban abducting children, elderly in Andarab valley: Amrullah Saleh||The Taliban are not allowing food and fuel to reach the Andarab valley in the northern Baghlan province, Afghanistan's acting president Amrullah Saleh has said amid reports of clashes between the fighters of the hardline Islamist group and resistance forces. "Talibs aren't allowing food and fuel to get into Andarab valley. The humanitarian situation is dire. Thousands of women and children have fled to the mountains. Since the last two days Talibs abduct children and elderly and use them as shields to move around or do house search," Saleh tweeted late on Monday.Saleh also tweeted that the Islamist group's fighters have come near Panjshir, a known anti-Taliban bastion where some ex-government troops and militia have gathered under the National Resistance Front led by Saleh and Ahmed Massoud. Massoud is the son of famed anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud.Talibs aren't allowing food & fuel to get into Andarab valley. The humanitarian situation is dire. Thousands of women & children have fled to mountains. Since the last two days Talibs abduct children & elderly and use them as shields to move around or do house search."Talibs have massed forces near the entrance of Panjshir a day after they got trapped in ambush zones of neighbouring Andarab valley and hardly went out in one piece. Meanwhile, the Salang highway is closed by the forces of the Resistance. 'There are terrains to be avoided'. See you," Saleh tweeted late on Sunday.Also watch | Taliban recapture 3 districts as Panjshir resistance refuses to surrenderSaleh's tweets have come as clashes were reported between the Taliban and resistance forces in the Andarab region. The Taliban's spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid tweeted earlier their fighters are "stationed near Panjshir", and that the group was trying to resolve this issue "peacefully".Also read | Air India flight with 78 people evacuated from Afghanistan to land in Delhi soonOn the other hand, Massoud has also called for negotiations to form an inclusive government in Afghanistan but said they will resist if Taliban forces try to enter the Panjshir Valley.Leaders of the G7 countries will meet later on Tuesday to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and also whether to seek an extension to an August 31 deadline for the evacuation of thousands of people trying to flee the Taliban. The leaders of the United States, Britain, Italy, France, Germany, Canada and Japan will also discuss whether to recognise or sanction a Taliban government.The Taliban have warned against any extension in the August 31 date and said it would not be granted. Since the Taliban took over Kabul on August 15, there has been chaos at the airport in the Afghan capital as tens of thousands of people are desperately trying to escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-abducting-children-elderly-in-andarab-valley-amrullah-saleh-101629777731755.html
24-08-2021||World||New Zealand witnesses highest jump in Covid-19 cases since April 2020||New Zealand on Tuesday recorded its highest increase in Covid-19 cases since April 2020, but authorities said the numbers were not rising exponentially and the majority of the cases were still in centred in Auckland where the recent outbreak started.The South Pacific nation's virus-free run since February ended last week after an outbreak of the highly contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus erupted in Auckland, New Zealand's largest city, and quickly spread to the capital Wellington.Authorities reported 41 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections in the country to 148, the Director General of health chief Ashley Bloomfield said at a news conference. That is the most new cases since April 2020, according to a graphic on the Ministry of Health website.Of the new cases, 38 are in Auckland and three are in Wellington."It is reassuring that we are not seeing an exponential increase," Bloomfield said, adding that with most cases being reported in Auckland, it indicated infections were not widespread.However, the health ministry said in a statement later on Tuesday that it would not be unexpected to see a rise in daily case numbers at this stage of the outbreak and at its peak last year New Zealand had a daily total of 89 new cases.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has garnered global praise for stamping out Covid-19 in the country.But, her reliance on strict border controls and snap lockdowns that have impacted the economy has been called into question amid the latest outbreak, which has occurred while few people have been vaccinated.On Monday, Ardern extended the strict level 4 national lockdown until midnight on August 27 while Auckland will have restrictions in place at least until August 31.Finance Minister Grant Robertson said the government has enough funds to tackle the latest outbreak and the economy has been "incredibly resilient"."A strong public health response is still the best economic response," he said in the news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-has-highest-jump-in-covid-19-cases-since-april-2020-101629775646532.html
24-08-2021||World||Afghan crisis: Around 10 million children across country require humanitarian aid, says UNICEF||Amid the fast-evolving developments in Afghanistan, UNICEF has said around 10 million children across the country need humanitarian assistance to survive."Today, around 10 million children across Afghanistan need humanitarian assistance to survive. An estimated 1 million children are projected to suffer from severe acute malnutrition over the course of this year and could die without treatment," UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta H. Fore said in a statement on Monday.An estimated 4.2 million children are out of school, including more than 2.2 million girls. Since January, the UN has documented over 2,000 grave violations of children's rights. Approximately 435,000 children and women are internally displaced, the statement said."This is the grim reality facing Afghan children and it remains so regardless of ongoing political developments and changes in government," Fore added.This comes as the UN agency anticipates that the humanitarian needs of children and women will increase over the coming months amidst severe drought and consequent water scarcity, the devastating socioeconomic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic and the onset of winter."That is why, after 65 years in Afghanistan striving to improve the lives of children and women, UNICEF will remain on the ground now and in the days to come. We are deeply committed to the country's children and there is far more work to be done on their behalf," Fore said.She said that millions will continue to need essential services, including health, lifesaving vaccination drives against polio and measles, nutrition, protection, shelter, water and sanitation."Right now, UNICEF is scaling up its lifesaving programmes for children and women - including through the delivery of health, nutrition and water services to displaced families. We hope to expand these operations to areas that could not previously be reached because of insecurity," the Henrietta H. Fore Executive Director added.Fore further urged the Taliban and other parties to ensure that UNICEF and other humanitarian partners have safe, timely and unfettered access to reach children in need wherever they are.Afghanistan's situation is deteriorating as people are in a rush to leave the nation after the Taliban seized control last week. Several countries have been evacuating their citizens from the war-torn nation speedily. The Kabul airport is witnessing nowadays a heavy chaos due to instability in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/around-10-million-children-across-afghanistan-require-humanitarian-aid-unicef-101629770122546.html
24-08-2021||World||US President Joe Biden to meet G7 leaders today to discuss Afghanistan||US President Joe Biden is all set to hold a meeting with the Group of Seven (G7) leaders on Tuesday to discuss evacuation efforts in Afghanistan. This virtual gathering will be the first forum where Biden will be speaking to America’s allies about the fall of Kabul to the Taliban and the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan which has caused apprehension and anger amongst some of the allies.The G7 group includes leaders from the US, the UK, Italy, France, Germany, Japan and Canada. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who will chair the meeting, told Reuters that the meet will focus on evacuation efforts in Afghanistan and long term plans for the nation after the US withdraws its troops by August 31.Also Read: Joe Biden mulls staying beyond August 31; Taliban issue threatThe leaders will also be holding discussions on safeguarding gains made in Afghanistan in the last 20 years, especially in regards to girls' education and women's rights. Economic sanctions against the Taliban if they commit human rights abuses, and whether to officially recognise the Taliban as the leaders of the country will also be discussed in the meeting, diplomatic sources in the UK told Reuters.Biden, whose administration has come under fire for the fall of Kabul, said in a press statement that the G7 forum will help the international community to arrive at a joint approach for a longer term. "Our first priority is to complete the evacuation of our citizens and those Afghans who have assisted our efforts over the last 20 years – but as we look ahead to the next phase, it’s vital we come together as an international community and agree a joint approach for the longer term," he said."That’s why I’ve called an emergency meeting of the G7 - to coordinate our response to the immediate crisis, to reaffirm our commitment to the Afghan people, and to ask our international partners to match the UK’s commitments to support those in need," he added.The meeting will build on Biden’s calls this week to Johnson, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, France’s President Emmanuel Macron, and Italy’s Prime Minister Mario Draghi, White House press secretary, Jen Psaki, told reporters on Sunday. There has been no word from the White House on the difference of opinion between America and allies regarding Biden’s decision of a hasty withdrawal. France and the UK both have urged their American counterpart to ensure that the Afghan men and women who acted as their allies in the war in Afghanistan should be evacuated along with their citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-to-meet-g7-leaders-today-to-discuss-afghanistan-101629766414475.html
24-08-2021||World||Joe Biden expected to decide within 24 hours on Afghan evacuation deadline||With thousands of desperate Afghans and foreigners massed at Kabul's airport in the hope of fleeing Afghanistan's new Taliban rulers, U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to decide as soon as Tuesday on whether to extend an Aug. 31 deadline to airlift Americans and their allies to safety.Biden warned on Sunday that the evacuation was going to be "hard and painful" and much could still go wrong. US troops might stay beyond an Aug. 31 deadline to oversee the evacuation, he said.On Monday, an administration official told Reuters that Biden would decide within 24 hours whether to extend the timeline to give the Pentagon time to prepare.Beyond the need to remove thousands of Americans, citizens of allied countries and Afghans who worked with U.S. forces, Department of Defense officials said it would still take days to fly out the 6,000 troops deployed to secure and run the airlift.Some Biden advisers were arguing against extending the self-imposed deadline for security reasons. Biden could signal his intentions at a virtual meeting of the Group of Seven wealthy nations on Tuesday.Two U.S. officials had said the expectation was that the United States would continue evacuations past Aug. 31. A senior State Department official told reporters https://www.reuters.com/world/new-flight-carrying-at-risk-afghans-arriving-us-later-monday-official-2021-08-23 the country's commitment to at-risk Afghans "doesn't end on Aug. 31."Later on Monday, Democratic U.S. Representative Adam Schiff, chairman of the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee, told reporters after a briefing on Afghanistan by intelligence officials that he did not believe the evacuation could be completed in the eight remaining days."I think it's possible but I think it's very unlikely given the number of Americans who still need to be evacuated," Schiff said.A Taliban official said foreign forces had not sought an extension and it would not be granted if they had. Washington said negotiations were continuing.White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said the United States was in daily talks with the Taliban and making "enormous progress" in evacuating Americans and others.Between 3 a.m. and 3 p.m. local time on Monday, some 10,900 people were evacuated from Kabul, meaning the United States had facilitated the removal of 48,000 people since Aug. 14.U.S. defense officials had told Reuters that almost everything would have to go perfectly to extricate every American citizen by Aug. 31, given concerns about reaching the airport, terrorist attacks and complicated processing times.State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters the United States had discussed future control of the airport with the Taliban, as well as with U.S. partners and allies.'DOES IT STILL HURT? YES'The Taliban's swift takeover and ensuing chaos in Afghanistan have roiled U.S. politics, with opposition Republicans piling criticism on Biden for the withdrawal, which was initiated by his Republican predecessor, Donald Trump. Biden's opinion poll numbers have slipped.Biden's fellow Democrats who control Congress have promised to investigate what went wrong in Afghanistan within the past weeks and throughout the 20-year conflict, America's longest war.For its part, the powerful U.S. military has been grappling with the collapse of U.S.-backed Afghan forces after 20 years of training. https://www.reuters.com/world/us/was-it-worth-it-pain-anger-inside-pentagon-after-afghanistan-crumbles-2021-08-23 "Was it worth it? Yes. Does it still hurt? Yes," General David Berger, the commandant of the Marine Corps, wrote in a memo to Marines.The difficulties at the airport were underlined on Monday with a firefight between Afghan guards and unidentified gunmen. German and U.S. forces were also involved, the Germany military said.A local Taliban militant, speaking to a large crowd in Kabul, urged Afghans to remain."Where has our honor gone to? Where has our dignity gone to?" the unidentified militant said. "We will not let the Americans continue to be here. They will have to leave this place. Whether it is a gun or a pen, we will fight to our last breath."WORKING WITH ALLIESThe Taliban seized power last week as the United States and its allies withdrew troops after the war launched after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Panicked Afghans and foreigners have thronged the airport since, clamoring to catch any flight out. Many fear reprisals and a return to a harsh version of Islamic law the Taliban enforced while in power from 1996 to 2001.Twenty people have been killed, most in shootings and stampedes, as international forces try to bring order. One member of the Afghan forces was killed and several wounded in Monday's clash, the U.S. military said.A British government spokesperson said British evacuations could not continue once U.S. troops leave. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian also said more time was needed.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said the virtual G7 summit must agree on whether to extend the deadline and how to improve access to the airport.The airport chaos also disrupted aid shipments. The World Health Organization said tons of medical supplies were stuck because Kabul airport was closed to commercial flights.Leaders of the Taliban, who have sought to show a more moderate face since capturing Kabul, have begun talks on forming a government, while their forces focus on the last pockets of opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-expected-to-decide-within-24-hours-on-afghan-evacuation-deadline-101629764327062.html
24-08-2021||World||Afghanistan's neighbours must keep borders open for refugees: UNHCR||Afghanistan’s neighbour must accept refugees as the security situation in the country remains precarious and tens of thousands of Afghans are trying to flee the Taliban, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said. “At this stage, our primary concern is that Afghans who are seeking safety can reach it, including across borders and into neighbouring countries if needed. UNHCR is calling on countries neighbouring Afghanistan to keep their borders open in light of the intensifying crisis in Afghanistan," Catherine Stubberfield, UNHCR’s regional spokesperson for Asia and the Pacific, said, according to Sputnik.Stubberfield said that the international community has to be ready to step up support for Afghanistan and its neighbours in case of a major influx of Afghan refugees. Her comments come as several countries, including India, the US and the UK, have helped evacuate Afghans. The UN agency has said that 3.5 million people have been internally displaced in Afghanistan, including over 550,000 displaced since January of this year."While UNHCR welcomes the expressions of solidarity made by several countries to either evacuate or resettle Afghans in need of protection, these efforts are unfortunately only able to benefit a tiny proportion of the millions of Afghans already displaced and in need across the country," the spokeswoman said.Also read | Which countries are taking in Afghan refugees and which countries are not?Such initiatives should not impede Afghan asylum seekers from going to other countries directly, or replace the essential aid within Afghanistan itself, Stubberfield said, according to Sputnik.Also watch | Bullets, crowds & chaos: Afghans continue to flood Kabul Airport for evacuationMeanwhile, the United Nations Human Rights Council will hold a special session on Afghanistan on Tuesday to address the "serious human rights concerns" following the Taliban takeover. The meeting is being convened following an official request by the representatives of Pakistan, the coordinator of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, and Afghanistan. The UN's top rights body said in a statement that the joint submission has been supported by 89 countries so far.Also read | Canada's Trudeau leaves door open to Taliban sanctions as G7 meet loomsThe Taliban seized Afghanistan's major cities with lightning speed and walked into Kabul on August 15 when president Ashraf Ghani fled. Since then, tens of thousands of Afghans have tried to escape the country from the hardline Islamist rule expected under the Taliban fearing reprisals for siding with the US-backed government that ruled for the past two decades.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistans-neighbours-must-keep-borders-open-for-refugees-unhcr-101629763542287.html
24-08-2021||World||Canada's Trudeau leaves door open to Taliban sanctions as G7 meet looms||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau left the door open to sanctions on the Taliban Monday, noting that the Islamist group that now controls Afghanistan remains a "terrorist entity.""Canada already recognizes, and has for long, that the Taliban are terrorists, and harbor terrorists. That's why they're on the terrorist list. So, yes, we can talk about sanctions," Trudeau told reporters.On Tuesday leaders of the G7 group of wealthy nations -- Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States -- will meet virtually on Afghanistan.Trudeau said he was "looking forward to" a conversation "shortly with my fellow G7 leaders as we look at what more we can do."Britain, which currently holds the rotating presidency of G7, has said that relief of existing sanctions "will depend on the behavior of the Taliban."The Islamist group swept to power in mid-August, nearly 20 years after its first regime was toppled in 2001 by the US-led invasion of Afghanistan.The United States and its allies are racing to evacuate tens of thousands of people from the country before US President Joe Biden's August 31 deadline for the final withdrawal of all its forces.But with the European Union and Britain saying it would be impossible to get everyone out by then, Biden is under pressure to extend the deadline.Britain said Monday it would urge the United States to extend it, while the Taliban warned any delay would lead to "consequences."Trudeau did not reveal his position on pushing the deadline back.He said Canada's focus remains "on getting as many Afghans out to safety as possible."The situation remains "volatile and chaotic" near the airport in Kabul, where thousands of terrified Afghans fleeing Taliban rule have gathered for days in a bid to make it on to an evacuation flight, senior Canadian government officials said Monday.Canada resumed flights to Kabul on Thursday for the first time since the Taliban seized the Afghan capital.Four flights have taken off from Kabul to Canada, the latest of which carried 436 Canadian citizens and Afghan nationals on Sunday.Nearly 900 Afghans have arrived in Canada under a new special immigration program, the Canadian officials said. Canada recently pledged to take in 20,000 Afghan refugees under the programme.ast/gen/st/ft||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-trudeau-leaves-door-open-to-taliban-sanctions-as-g7-meet-looms-101629752364850.html
24-08-2021||World||16,000 evacuated from Kabul airport in past 24 hours: Pentagon||Around 16,000 people were evacuated over the past 24 hours from Afghanistan through the Kabul airport, the Pentagon said Monday, as the US works toward completing its airlift by an August 31 deadline.General Hank Taylor told reporters that 61 military, commercial and charter flights involving a number of countries flew out from Hamid Karzai International Airport in the 24 hours to 3:00 am Monday (0700 GMT) carrying people fleeing after the Taliban seized power.Of the total evacuated that day, 11,000 were taken out by US military airlift operations, Taylor said.Taylor said the number of people relocated from Afghanistan since July on US flights hit 42,000, with 37,000 of those since the intense airlift operations started on August 14 as the Taliban took Kabul.That includes "several thousand" US citizens, and thousands of Afghans who worked for US forces, who had applied for or received special immigrant visas, and Afghans seen as at risk to Taliban attacks for their work in non-governmental organizations, the media, and other jobs, according to Pentagon spokesman John Kirby.Kirby said the focus remains on getting US evacuation operations done by the August 31 deadline that President Joe Biden has set for completing the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.That would require withdrawing the 5,800 US troops who have essentially run airport operations and maintained security since August 14, as well as large amounts of equipment brought in to support their mission.German, British and French officials said Monday that evacuations on their part could continue after August 31, and said they want the US force to stay in place to help the international airlift.On Tuesday leaders of the G7 group of wealthy nations will meet virtually on Afghanistan."Whether or not the US can be persuaded to stay is a matter for the prime minister (Boris Johnson) tomorrow in the G7 meeting," British armed forces minister James Heappey told Sky News.Britain currently chairs the G7, also comprising Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.Kirby did not categorically rule out Washington extending the deadline, although the Taliban have said they will hold the US to it.For the United States, Kirby said, "The goal is to get as many people out as fast as possible.""The focus is on trying to do this as best we can, by the end of the month," he said.At the White House, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan deferred questions on extending the US pullout deadline to the G7 talks on Tuesday, saying the White House is taking the situation "day by day."He said Biden had already spoke with Johnson on Monday."We remain in close touch with allies and partners to coordinate the evacuation of their own citizens and their priority personnel," Sullivan said.He said that there is enough time to evacuate all the US citizens in the country who have sought to leave."We believe that we have time between now and the 31st to get out any American who wants to get out," he said.pmh/dw||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/16000-evacuated-from-kabul-airport-in-past-24-hours-pentagon-101629752076479.html
24-08-2021||World||Gunfire breaks out at airport, Taliban eye Panjshir capture||A firefight at Kabul’s international airport killed at least one Afghan soldier and injured three others on Monday, officials said, the latest chaos to engulf efforts to evacuate those fleeing the Taliban takeover of the country, a day after seven people died in frantic crowds waiting to leave the country.The airport shooting came as the Taliban sent fighters north of the capital to eliminate pockets of armed resistance to their lightning takeover earlier this month. The Taliban said they retook three districts seized by opponents the day before and had surrounded Panjshir, the last province that remains out of their control.Afghanistan’s security forces collapsed in the face of the Taliban advance. Tens of thousands of Afghans have sought to flee the country since, fearing a return to the brutal rule the Taliban imposed the last time they ran Afghanistan. That has led to chaos at the airport in Kabul, the main route out of the country.Gunfire broke out near an entrance to the airport, where at least seven Afghans died a day earlier in a panicked stampede of thousands of people. The circumstances of the shooting, which occurred around dawn, remained unclear.The German military tweeted that one member of the Afghan army was killed and three others were wounded by “unknown attackers”. An Italian humanitarian organisation that operates hospitals in Afghanistan said it had treated six patients with bullet wounds from the airport.Forces loyal to Ahmad Massoud, son of the anti-Soviet mujahideen commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, have established themselves in the Panjshir valley, a mountainous area northwest of Kabul which resisted the Taliban before 2001.Massoud, whose forces include remnants of regular army and special forces units, has called for negotiations to form an inclusive government for Afghanistan but has promised to resist if Taliban forces try to enter the valley. Several Taliban opponents have gathered there, including Amrullah Saleh, the vice president in the toppled government who claims to be the acting president.Late on Sunday, the Taliban’s Alemarah information service said hundreds of fighters were heading towards Panjshir but there has been no immediate confirmation of any fighting.Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said the Salang Pass, on the main highway running from southern Afghanistan to the north, was open and enemy forces were blockaded in the Panjshir valley. But his statement suggested that there was no fighting for the moment.“The Islamic Emirate is trying to resolve the problems peacefully,” Zabihullah said.The tragic scenes around the Kabul airport have transfixed the world. Afghans poured onto the tarmac last week and some clung to a US military transport plane as it took off, later plunging to their deaths. At least seven people died that day, in addition to the seven killed on Sunday.The Taliban blame the chaotic evacuation on the US military and say there’s no need for any Afghans to flee. They have pledged to bring peace and security after decades of war and say they won’t seek revenge on those who worked with the US, NATO and the toppled Afghan government.Addressing a conference of Muslim clerics, Zabihullah urged them to push back against Western “propaganda” about the Taliban and said the US was undermining their rule by sending planes and offering Afghans asylum.Despite their promises, the Taliban have violently suppressed protests and beat people with batons as they try to control the crowds outside the airport perimeter. There have also been reports in recent days of the Taliban hunting down their former enemies. It’s unclear if Taliban leaders are saying one thing and doing another, or if fighters on the ground are taking matters into their own hands.As the airlift continues, the US government asked for 18 aircraft from American commercial carriers to assist in transporting Afghan refugees to their final destinations after their initial evacuation. The request fell under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet programme, which was born in the wake of the Berlin airlift and can add to the military’s capabilities during crises.US President Joe Biden said on Sunday that he would not rule out extending the evacuation beyond August 31, the date he had set for completing the withdrawal of US forces. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to press Biden for an extension.But Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen, in an interview with Sky News, said August 31 is a “red line” and that extending the American presence would “provoke a reaction”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunfire-breaks-out-at-airport-taliban-eye-panjshir-capture-101629751213515.html
24-08-2021||World||Joe Biden mulls staying beyond August 31; Taliban issue threat||The Taliban warned on Monday there would be “consequences” if the United States and its allies extend their presence in Afghanistan beyond next week, as chaos continued to overwhelm Kabul airport with tens of thousands of people still desperate to flee.Taliban’s warning to America and its allies came as US President Joe Biden on Sunday said discussions were under way on the possibility of extending the US troops’ evacuation deadline beyond August 31 - the last day he has committed himself to for Americans to leave Afghanistan.To oversee a chaotic airlift of foreigners and Afghans desperate to escape the Taliban regime, thousands of troops have poured back into Afghanistan and pressure is growing on Washington to extend the month-end withdrawal deadline.The Taliban on Monday showed no willingness to compromise, with spokesman Suhail Shaheen telling Sky News that staying beyond the agreed deadline would be “extending occupation”. “If the US or UK were to seek additional time to continue evacuations, the answer is no... there would be consequences,” he said.Reacting to the Taliban’s position, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said, “We are well aware of the stated desire by the Taliban to have this mission completed by the 31st of August. I will tell you that we, too, are planning on completing it by the 31st of August. That is the mission we have been assigned by the commander-in-chief... that’s what we’re trying to execute.”Two Taliban sources, meanwhile, told AFP that the group won’t announce the make-up of its government or cabinet until the last US soldier has left Afghanistan.In his remarks, Biden indicated that US forces securing the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul were being expanded to provide “increased rational access” to the site to overcome difficulties.With the EU as well as France, Germany and Britain saying it could be difficult to get everyone out by the end of the month, the American president has been under pressure to extend the troop pull-out deadline.“There’s discussion going on among us and the military about extending,” Biden said. “Our hope is that we will not have to extend, but there are going to be discussions, I suspect, on how far along we are in the process.”On the streets of the capital, the Taliban have enforced a calm, with their armed forces patrolling the streets and manning checkpoints. They have been looking to stamp their authority, ensuring the tricoloured national flag is replaced with their white banner.Vital medical supplies blocked, laments WHOMore than 500 tonnes of medical supplies including surgical equipment and severe malnutrition kits that were due to be delivered to Afghanistan this week are stuck because of Kabul airport restrictions, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday.Aid agencies say it is critical that medical and food supplies reach some 300,000 people displaced in Afghanistan over the past two months.US mobilises commercial airlines for Afghan exitThe dramatic evacuation of people fleeing Afghanistan will involve a US military-civilian alliance that dates back to 1951 but which has been activated only twice before: in 1990-1991 during the Gulf War and in 2003 during the invasion of Iraq.The Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) is a “cooperative, voluntary program” between the government and private airlines that allows the US military to use commercial aircraft in emergency situations when it needs additional capacity.The partnership has its origins in the Berlin airlift of the Cold War, and allows the defence department to “to augment... aircraft capability during a national defence related crisis”. Created on December 15, 1951, the CRAF was not activated until Operation Desert Storm, from August 1990 to May 1991.With inputs from Yashwant Raj in Washington, DC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-mulls-staying-beyond-august-31-taliban-issue-threat-101629749811148.html
24-08-2021||World||FDA gives full approval to Pfizer vaccine||The top US health agency on Monday granted full approval to Pfizer-BioNTech’s two-shot mRNA Covid-19 vaccine, making it the first for the United States. It will now retail as Comirnaty.Janet Woodcock, the acting head of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), called the approval a “milestone”. “While this and other vaccines have met the FDA’s rigorous, scientific standards for emergency-use authorisation (EUA) as the first FDA-approved Covid-19 vaccine, the public can be very confident that this vaccine meets the high standards for safety, effectiveness and manufacturing quality the agency requires of an approved product,” she said.The full authorisation will address reservations harboured by people who refused to be vaccinated citing EUA granted to all Covid-19 vaccines available in the US thus far. The move will allow the company to retail the vaccine more freely, through pharmacies and also advertise it.Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine was the first to be used in the US - it had been rolled out already in the UK and Canada - after the FDA granted it EUA on December 11, 2020 for people 16 years of age and older.Pentagon set to mandate Covid vaccine for militaryThe Pentagon has said that it will require service members to receive the Covid-19 vaccine, now that the Pfizer vaccine has received full approval.Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said on Monday that US defence secretary Lloyd Austin is making good on his vow earlier this month to require the shots once the FDA approved the vaccine. Kirby said guidance is being developed and a timeline will be provided soon.In a memo on August 9, Austin said he’d seek US President Joe Biden’s approval to make the vaccine mandatory no later than mid-September, or immediately after the FDA’s nod, “whichever comes firs.”.Booster dose lowers infection risk: IsraelA third dose of Pfizer’s vaccine has significantly improved protection from infection and serious illness among people aged 60 and older in Israel compared with those who received two shots, findings published by the health ministry showed.The data were presented at a meeting of a ministry panel of vaccination experts on Thursday and uploaded on its website on Sunday. The findings were on par with separate statistics reported last week by Israel’s Maccabi healthcare provider, one of several organisations administering booster shots to try to curb the Delta variant.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fda-gives-full-approval-to-pfizer-vaccine-101629749653977.html
24-08-2021||World||China asks Pakistan to arrest those behind suicide bomb attack||China on Monday called for the swift arrest of the masterminds behind a blast in Pakistan’s southwestern province of Balochistan, which killed two children and injured three others including a Chinese national.China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin urged Pakistan to “severely punish” the perpetrators and “earnestly protect the safety of Chinese nationals, organisations and projects” in the country.“On August 20, a motorcade of the Gwadar East Bay expressway project was attacked by a bomber on the way to construction site. One Chinese national suffered minor injuries and several local personnel were injured or killed,” Wang said. “We are shocked and condemn this incident, mourn the Pakistani personnel killed in the attack and convey sympathy to the bereaved families and injured.”Friday’s attack came a month after a suicide bomber attacked a bus carrying workers in Pakistan, killing 13, including nine Chinese nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asks-pakistan-to-arrest-those-behind-suicide-bomb-attack-101629749520263.html
24-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane gets bail after arrest over 'slap' remark against Uddhav Thackeray||Union minister Narayan Rane was granted bail late on Tuesday night hours after he was arrested over his remarks on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Rane was arrested at Sangameshwar in Ratnagiri earlier in the day by a team of police from Nashik over allegations that he said he wanted to "slap" chief minister Thackeray for "forgetting the year of India's independence" a day earlier when he travelling for the Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Raigad.Rane was granted bail by the court of the first-class judicial magistrate in Mahad, even as the counsel representing the state government appealed for seven-day judicial custody.However, Rane's counsel pleaded with the court to grant bail to the Union minister on various grounds, including his health.The 69-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader would approach the Bombay high court with a quashing petition against multiple FIRs registered against him across the state and seeking urgent protection from arrests. At least three FIRs were registered against Rane — one each in Nashik, Pune and Mahad.Rane's comments and his subsequent arrest sparked a political row in Maharashtra with the BJP state leadership coming out in support of the Union minister, claiming that the action was "political vendetta", even as Shiv Sena demanded his expulsion from the Union Cabinet. The BJP didn’t condone Rane’s remarks, but stood by its leader and said the action taken against him was uncalled for when similar remarks by Sena leaders, including chief minister Thackeray, go unnoticed. BJP chief JP Nadda said the party's Jan Ashirwad Yatra would continue, even in the absence of Rane.A former Shiv Sena leader, Rane was expelled from the party in 2005.ALSO READ | Not committed any offence: Narayan Rane on 'would have slapped Thackeray' remarkThe Union minister also said that the police should understand that the BJP, of which he is a leader, runs the government at the Centre. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena’s Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut said Rane had lost his "mental balance".The BJP, on the other hand, circulated videos on social media to claim that police detained Rane while he was having lunch, and was manhandled.The controversy over Rane's remarks also triggered clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP activists at several places in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-rane-gets-bail-after-arrest-over-slap-remark-against-uddhav-101629827503574.html
24-08-2021||India||Don’t encash Airtel guarantees for 3 weeks: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the government not to encash bank guarantees of Bharti Airtel Ltd for three weeks over the payment of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues to allow the company to approach a telecom appeals tribunal.The department of telecommunications (DoT), in a August 17 letter to Bharti Airtel, demanded payment of ₹1,376 crore as AGR dues within a week, failing which DoT threatened to invoke the bank guarantees furnished by the telecom operator.Airtel then approached the Supreme Court, claiming that the dues were to be paid by the now-defunct Videocon Telecommunications Ltd. Airtel said it agreed to buy the spectrum held by Videocon in March 2016, and according to the agreement, all dues prior to this period were to be settled by the seller.Allowing Airtel to withdraw its application and approach the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal, the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah said: “The department of telecommunications shall not invoke the financial bank guarantees of respondent No.53 (Bharti Airtel) for a period of three weeks from today.”Appearing for Airtel, senior advocate Shyam Divan said DoT had wrongfully fastened the liability of ₹1,376 crore on it, and the fresh demand was based on the September 1, 2020 judgement by the top court.The September 2020 order refused any further reassessment of AGR dues and directed telecom service providers to pay 10% of their dues by March 31 and thereafter pay the rest in 10 yearly installments by March 2031. The existing bank guarantees submitted by telcos regarding the spectrum were to be kept alive until any default in payment.Divan submitted that under the spectrum trading agreement, Airtel will be liable to pay only such dues that were incurred after the date of agreement which came into operation on May 16, 2016. The AGR dues, according to him, pertained to the period prior to the agreement, liable to be paid by Videocon.The firm claimed to have fully complied with the September 2020 order by depositing ₹18,004 crore by March 31, 2021, which was far more than the 10% due payable out of the total AGR dues of ₹43,980 crore calculated by DoT.“The demand notice disrupts my working, and I seek a stay of such precipitative order passed by DoT,” Divan argued. With the bench not keen on entertaining his request, Divan submitted that he should be allowed to raise this dispute before TDSAT, and his bank guarantees should not be invoked till then. On this condition, Divan agreed to withdraw his application. The bench said, “We are not going to revisit our judgement.”Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for DoT, opposed the application saying, “The demand is consistent with the Supreme Court judgement.” The bench wanted to know if the government could hold on for a brief period to enable the firm to approach to TDSAT. Mehta said it was up to the company to approach a forum of its choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dontencashairtel-guarantees-for-3-weeks-supreme-court-101629828821361.html
24-08-2021||India||Doval talks on state-sponsored terrorism at meeting of BRICS NSAs||India's National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Tuesday hosted a virtual meeting of top security officials of the BRICS nations that focused on collectively dealing with regional and global security challenges including the threat of terrorism and drug trafficking.The meeting was attended by Brazilian security official Gen Augusto Helena Ribeiro Pereira, Russian NSA General Nikolai Patrushev, Chinese Politburo member Yang Jeichi and South African deputy minister of state security Ncediso Goodenough Kodwa, according to a statement issued by the government.India holds the chairship of BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) bloc this year which coincides with the 15th anniversary of the grouping. The meeting of the top security advisors took place before the summit of the heads of the state of BRICS nations that India is scheduled to host later this year under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Tuesday's meeting took place over a week after the Taliban seized control of Afghanistan.People familiar with the development said the meeting reviewed the regional and global political and security scenario with particular reference to current developments in Afghanistan, Iran, Middle East and the Gulf nations and emerging threats to national security.India also took a veiled dig at Pakistan over cross-border terrorism and said that activities of state-supported terrorist groups like Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed threaten peace."Other items on the agenda were cooperation among law enforcement agencies, health safety and healthcare and counter-terrorism. India raised the issue of cross-border terrorism and activities of groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed which enjoy state support and threaten peace and security," the statement issued by the Indian government read.ALSO READ | China and BRICS stand with India in its fight against the pandemic: Chinese FMThe representatives adopted and recommended the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Action Plan for consideration by the summit of the heads of the state.The BRICS brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41% of the global population, 24% of the global GDP and 16% of the global trade, according to news agency PTI.India has been strongly pitching for deeper cooperation among the BRICS member countries in dealing with terrorism, extremism and radicalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-doval-attends-virtual-brics-meet-on-national-security-101629823708150.html
24-08-2021||India||‘Taliban with us to free Kashmir from India’: Pak govt leader on TV news debate||A leader of Pakistan’s ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government has said that the Taliban would help the country in ‘liberating’ Kashmir from India. Speaking at a television news debate, PTI leader Neelam Irshad Sheikh said, “Taliban have said that they are with us and they will help us in [liberating] Kashmir.”The clip of the video that was retweeted by Pakistani journalist and former ambassador to US, Hussain Haqqani, has surfaced online and was recirculated by news agency ANI.In the video, the news anchor repeatedly asks Sheikh about the source of her information, even wondering at one point if she read about such a declaration by the Taliban on WhatsApp.“Madam, do you realise what you have said. You have no idea what you just said. This show will air around the world; it will be viewed in India as well,” the news anchor asks the PTI leader.🤦🏽‍♂️ https://t.co/80wjqELqvYHowever, Sheikh emphasises on her statement that Pakistan has the strength of its Army as well as the leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan to help them “free Kashmir from India”.Sheikh further said that the way Pakistan supported the Taliban when the latter was being hounded in Afghanistan, the militants said they would return the favour by helping Pakistan “make Kashmir a part of its country.”Her remarks come at a time when Pakistan has consistently been blamed for fostering the Taliban in Afghanistan, to the point of providing them with medical aids, weapons and logistics.Also Read | Islamist groups in Pakistan distribute sweets to 'celebrate' Taliban siegeSoon after taking over Afghanistan’s capital city Kabul and declaring rule over the country after nearly 20 years, a Taliban official had termed Kashmir to be a “bilateral and internal matter” and stated that the group is unlikely to focus on the Indian Union territory.Another video recently surfaced online that showed students of radical Jamia Hafsa seminary in Pakistan’s capital Islamabad, celebrating the triumph of the insurgents in Afghanistan by reciting poems and displaying the group’s flags.Watch | Pakistani students celebrate Taliban takeover at radical seminaryThe seminary’s chief hailed the students for their support of the Taliban and said that he wants Islamic Emirate to expand beyond Afghan borders. However, Islamabad administration claimed that they have removed Taliban flags from the seminary’s building.Earlier, Pakistan premier Khan had also indirectly likened the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan by saying that the “shackles of slavery” has been broken in the war-gripped nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-with-us-to-free-kashmir-from-india-pak-govt-leader-on-tv-news-debate-101629818453064.html
24-08-2021||India||Delhi HC asks bank to ensure ₹1.8 crore balance in Afghan embassy’s account||The Delhi High Court has directed Kotak Mahindra Bank to ensure that the total minimum balance in three accounts of the Embassy of Afghanistan shall not be less than ₹1.8 crore, the arbitral award passed in favour of a firm, keeping in view the prevalent political situation there.The court said in case of any exigency, judgment debtor, the embassy, is at liberty to approach the court before the next date of hearing on September 13.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait issued notice to the embassy on a plea by decree holder KLA Const Technologies Pvt Ltd seeking attachment of its movable and immovable assets over the apprehension of execution of award due to the collapse of Afghanistan and rapid take-over of the country by Taliban.The high court noted that the arbitral award pertained to 2018 and despite this year's June 18 directions of the high court, the embassy’s counsel was unable to disclose its assets and pleaded he has no instructions.“...the fact that the prevalent political situation in Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is not clear, this court is left with no option but to take on record the details of assets of judgment debtors so furnished on behalf of decree holder in the present application,” the court said in its order passed on Monday.The court said it was conscious of the fact that Special Leave Petition (SLP) against the June 18 judgment is pending before the Supreme Court and to safeguard the interest of decree holder, it directed Kotak Mahindra Bank to ensure that the total minimum balance amount in three accounts of the embassy, shall not be less than ₹1.80 crore.Advocates Amit George and K K Shukla, appearing for the decree holder, submitted that in view of collapse of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and rapid take-over of the country by Taliban, execution of the award has come under clouds and for this reason, the application has been filed seeking attachment of accounts of judgment debtors.Advocates Raghvendra M Bajaj, Ejaz Maqbool and Garima Bajaj, representing the Afghanistan Embassy, submitted that the SLP against the June 18 judgment of the high court came up for hearing before the Supreme Court on August 19 and in view of the fact that judgment debtor has no instructions, the same has been deferred for six weeks.He said he has no instructions in the present case and prayed for two weeks’ time.The submission was opposed by the counsel for decree holder on the ground that in the present scenario prevalent in Afghanistan, the firm may not be able to recover the awarded amount and, therefore, the bank accounts of the embassy be attached so that funds can be utilised for recovery in present proceedings.The high court said by its June 18 judgement, the November 26, 2018 award was held to be maintainable and the respondent was granted four weeks’ time to deposit the arbitral award.Further, a direction was also given to respondent to file affidavit of assets on the date of the cause of action, date of the award as well as on the date of passing of the judgment within 30 days but “none of the directions have been complied with”.The court also asked the counsel for the embassy to obtain instructions to assist it on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-bank-to-ensure-1-8-crore-balance-in-afghan-embassy-s-account-101629819086552.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Privatization for creating monopolies' says Rahul Gandhi on govt's plan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Creating monopolies...’: Rahul Gandhi’s jab on government’s monetization planCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday dubbed the Narendra Modi government’s ambitious monetization scheme of public assets as an attempt to create a monopoly in critical areas that, according to the former party president, would cut down more job opportunities and wipe out the informal sector. Read moreMandatory 14-day quarantine: Centre issues Covid-19 norms for Afghan evacueesThe Centre said on Tuesday that those evacuated from Afghanistan would have to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine at ITBP's Chhawla camp near Delhi. Read moreDidn’t allow him to eat his lunch: BJP angered over Rane’s arrestThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expressed its anger over the arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane and alleged that he was arrested by the cops midway while he was having his lunch. Read moreIn call with Putin, PM Modi emphasises need for peace, stability in AfghanistanPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday backed coordinated efforts to establish peace and stability in Afghanistan in order to ensure security across the region. Read more‘Anything is possible’: Virat Kohli on Ashwin’s inclusion for 3rd Test, says ‘we’ll go in with the right combination’India captain Virat Kohli has hinted that the visitors are likely to go unchanged in the third Test against England which gets underway in Leeds on Wednesday. However, he also added that India might try playing offspinner Ravichandran Ashwin because of the pitch. Read moreDebina Bonnerjee recalls she and her husband Gurmeet Choudhary 'had no work for three years' before RamayanTelevision actor Debina Bonnerjee has recalled that she and her husband and actor Gurmeet Choudhary 'had no work for three years' before they starred in Ramayan. She also said that they didn't have money either. Read moreTroubled by brain fog? Ayurvedic tips to boost your brain powerAre you finding it difficult to concentrate of late or forgetting things? It may be because of brain fog that could affect you post Covid, or due to general anxiety and stress. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-privatization-for-creating-monopolies-says-rahul-gandhi-on-govt-s-plan-and-all-the-latest-news-101629817945087.html
24-08-2021||India||In call with Putin, PM Modi emphasises need for peace, stability in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday backed coordinated efforts to establish peace and stability in Afghanistan in order to ensure security across the region.The two leaders discussed the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban last week during a phone conversation. The two leaders agreed to form a “permanent bilateral channel” for consultations on Afghanistan, according to a readout from the Russian embassy.Russia’s decision to work more closely with Pakistan through the “extended troika” format for Afghanistan has not gone down well with the Indian side. The call between the two leaders marked the first major outreach on Afghanistan from the top Russian leadership in recent months. “Had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against Covid-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues,” the prime minister said in a tweet.The Russian embassy’s readout said, “During the exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan, the sides noted the importance of coordinated efforts which would contribute to the establishment of peace and stability in this country, ensuring security in the region as a whole.”The two leaders expressed their “intention to enhance cooperation on countering the dissemination of the terrorist ideology and the drug threat emanating from the territory of Afghanistan,” the readout said. Modi and Putin further agreed to “form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations” on Afghanistan, it added.The readout said the two leaders touched upon several issues related to the development of the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries, including in trade and economy.Modi expressed gratitude to Putin for Russia’s assistance in combating Covid-19, including the supply and production of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V in India and the shipment of medicines and medical equipment. The schedule for upcoming contacts between the two sides at various levels was also discussed.Russia and China have maintained close contact with the Taliban leadership over the past few months. These contacts have continued after the Taliban marched into Kabul last week following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Russia and China are also among the very few countries that have kept their embassies open in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-call-with-putin-pm-modi-emphasises-need-for-peace-stability-in-afghanistan-101629818165027.html
24-08-2021||India||India’s evacuation mission continues, another 78 people brought back from Afghanistan||India brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Afghanistan on Tuesday and an almost equal number are expected to be evacuated from Kabul by Wednesday, people familiar with developments said.The group was flown out from Kabul to the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe in a C-130 Hercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) late on Monday. From Dushanbe, the group was brought to New Delhi on an Air India flight on Tuesday morning.With the window for evacuation flights from Kabul set to close because of the Taliban’s insistence that the US must withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan by August 31, India and other countries have redoubled their efforts to fly out all their nationals and Afghan citizens.A plan to operate a second flight with an IAF aircraft to Dushanbe on Monday night had to be put off because of certain difficulties, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. More Indians and Afghan nationals, including some who are already at Kabul airport, are expected to be flown out on Wednesday, the people said.The Indian side is also looking out for any Indian nationals who may still be in Afghanistan so that they can be brought into the airport for evacuation. The people said that among of the biggest problems faced by those involved in the evacuation efforts were the failure of Indian citizens to heed four security alerts issued in recent weeks, and their failure to register with the Indian embassy in Kabul.Transporting evacuees from different parts of Kabul to the airport also continues to be a problem because of the presence of hundreds of Taliban fighters in the city. The Taliban have also been insisting that Afghan nationals shouldn’t leave the country.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Tuesday that India’s operation to evacuate people from Kabul had been named “Devi Shakti”. He also lauded the efforts of the IAF, Air India the external affairs ministry in flying out the group of 78 people from Kabul via Dushanbe. The group was received at New Delhi airport by Union minister Hardeep Puri and minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. The ministers carried a copy of the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib, which was brought by the Afghan Sikhs out of the aircraft.Speaking to the media, Puri referred to the status of minorities facing persecution in neighbouring countries and said India takes in everyone, and not just people from certain communities. “I don’t want to get into the politics of what happened in Afghanistan, but as somebody who has lived abroad for nearly four decades intermittently, I know what it is to have as a feeling that you have a home – mother India – to which you can return,” he said.The Afghan Sikhs had thanked India and the prime minister for providing “sanctuary and comfort to people in times of distress, Hindus and Sikhs in particular [and] all other communities also,” he added.India has so far evacuated nearly 620 people, including 500 of its nationals, on flights from Kabul, Dushanbe and Doha. Nearly 200 people – including diplomats, officials and security personnel posted at the Indian embassy and some Indian nationals – were flown out of Kabul within two days of the Taliban marching into the Afghan capital on August 15.The evacuation flights have involved the C-130 and C-17 aircraft of the IAF and Air India’s aircraft. However, flights by military aircraft from the Afghan capital to India have had to take longer routes through Iranian airspace in order to avoid flying over Pakistan. A day after a secret meeting between CIA chief William Burns and top Taliban political leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Tuesday that the US must complete its evacuation of people from Afghanistan by the August 31 deadline set by the Biden administration for withdrawing all American troops. Details of Burns’ discussions with Baradar were not released, but news agency Associated Press reported that the meeting represented an “extraordinary moment for a CIA that for two decades targeted the Taliban” and that it gave a “sense of the extent of the wrangling happening ahead of the end of America’s two-decade war” in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-evacuation-mission-continues-another-78-people-brought-back-from-afghanistan-101629817144004.html
24-08-2021||India||Mandatory 14-day quarantine: Centre issues Covid-19 norms for Afghan evacuees||The Centre said on Tuesday that those evacuated from Afghanistan would have to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine at ITBP's Chhawla camp near Delhi.The move comes after at least two of the 146 people who landed in Delhi on Monday after they were evacuated from Kabul before they were taken to Doha, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Officials in the ITBP familiar with the development said that the first batch of 81 people who were evacuated from Afghanistan will be quarantined at ITBP camp in Chhawla for 14 days."Those who tested positive for Covid-19 would be shifted to dedicated hospitals later," an ITBP official told news agency ANI.The Indan government is currently running an emergency operation to evacuate the people from Afghanistan, after it fell to the Taliba. The government has allowed exemption from mandatory pre-boarding RT-PCTR testing — the norm for international travellers — for people who are being airlifted from the war-torn country.ALSO READ | 'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanEarlier in the day, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that India has evacuated 626 people, including 228 citizens and 77 Afghan Sikhs, till Tuesday and the process of repatriation is ongoing.Among the evacuees IAF aircraft brought were Afghan lawmakers Narendra Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Honaryar and their families.On Tuesday, India brought 78 people, including 25 Indian citizens, airlifted from Kabul via Tajikistan's Dushanbe in a special Air India flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandatory-14-day-quarantine-centre-issues-covid-19-norms-for-afghan-evacuees-101629813861662.html
24-08-2021||India||Army accepts delivery of grenades made by private sector firm||The Indian Army on Tuesday accepted the delivery of the first batch of multi-mode hand grenades, manufactured by a private sector firm, at a ceremony held in Nagpur. The move is expected to provide thrust to the goal of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (Self-Reliant India), the defence ministry said in a statement.The ministry signed a contract with Nagpur-based private firm Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) last October for supplying 1 million multi-mode hand grenades to the army. These will replace a World War II vintage hand grenade design being used by the army. The EEL is expected to execute the order by October 2022. The multi-mode hand grenade has been designed by the Chandigarh-based Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratories (TBRL) - a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratory - and produced by the EEL.The ceremony at Nagpur was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy. EEL chairman SN Nuwal handed over a scale replica of the grenade to the minister to mark the first delivery of ammunition from the private sector. Singh said the grenades were “a shining example” of public-private partnership to achieve self-reliance in defence manufacturing.“Today is a memorable day in the history of the Indian defence sector. Our private industry is coming of age when it comes to defence production. It is an important milestone not only in the field of defence manufacturing but also in achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’,” Singh said. Multi-purpose grenades figured on the first list of 101 types of weapons and ammunition whose import India will ban progressively over the next five years. The government published the list in August 2020. In May 2021, the government notified a list of another 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces with the ban kicking off from December 2021. The list, called the ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years.The first list included artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini-UAVs and different types of ammunition.The second list consists of several military systems including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and Control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63 per cent of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58 percent of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.The defence minister commended the industry for indigenously developing defence products. “Such products are not just being produced but exported on a large scale. The number of online export authorisations during 2016-19 was 1,210. It has increased to 1,774 in the last two years. This has resulted in defence exports of over ₹17,000 crore in the last two years,” he said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-accepts-delivery-of-grenades-made-by-private-sector-firm-101629814924466.html
24-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 25, 1946 — Interim national government formed: Cabinet of 14, 2 Muslim seats to be filled later||New Delhi- “His Majesty the King,” says a communique issued from the Viceroy’s House today, “has accepted the resignations of the present members of the Governor-General’s Executive Council.”His Majesty has been pleased to appoint the following:-Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Mr. M. Asaf Ali, Mr. C. Rajagopalachari, Mr. Sarat Chandra Bose, Dr John Matthai, Sardar Baldev Singh, sir Shafaat Ahmed khan, Mr. Jagjivan ram, Syed Ali Zaheer and Mr. Cooverji Hormusji Bhabha, two more muslim members will be appointed later. The Interim Government will take office on September 2.” The announcement is the culmination of the past five month’s negotiations. The wording of the communique is in keeping with the spirit underlying the formation of the first popular Government for India as a whole. The new members are not described as members of the Governor-General’s Executive Council but as “the Interim Government.” Lord Wavell broadcast tonight to the country on the new development. He has every reason to feel personally satisfied since it was he who set into motion in June 1945 a series of discussions which have now met with substantial success. The announcement made today is epoch-making, even though it marks only partial achievement of the Congress aim. The outbreak of the Second World War brought matters to a head in India. The British Government forced this country into the war without consulting either the Indian Legislature or the leaders of the main political parties. In its resolution passed on October 10, 1939, the All-India Congress Committee demanded that “India must be declared an independent nation and present application should be given to this status to the largest possible extent.” August OfferIt was not until August 8, 1940, that the then Viceroy, Lord Linlithgow, made a new declaration of policy. He promised to expand his Executive Council “to include a certain number of representatives of political parties.” The Congress demand for “a Provisional National Government composed of persons commanding the confidence of the various elected groups in the present Central Legislature” - was turned down.But the real mischief done by the Viceroy’s declaration was that it placed a veto in the hands of Mr. Jinnah and the Muslim League by stating that the British Government “could not contemplate the transfer of their present responsibilities for the peace and welfare of India to any system of Government whose authority is directly denied by large and powerful elements in India’s national life. Nor could they be parties to the coercion of such elements into submission to such a Government.” Cripps Mission A succession of reverses in the war and pressure by President Roosevelt, Marshal Chiang Kai-shek and Labour Ministers in the Churchill Government made the British war leader agree to make another offer which Sir Stafford Cripps brought to India in the name of the British War Cabinet. The Cripps Mission failed because no agreement could be reached on the question of a National Government. The British proposals stated that “His Majesty’s Government desire and invite the immediate I and effective participation of the leaders of the principal sections of the Indian people in the counsels of their country, of the Commonwealth and of the United Nations.” The subject of war was, of course, reserved but the effort to give precise definition to the proposal for a National Government failed. Wavell Plan The Sapru Committee appointed at the instance of Gandhiji revived interest in the question of forming a representative Government. On June 14, 1945. Lord Wavell made an announcement proposing that the Viceroy’s Executive Council would be wholly Indianized except for the War portfolio that the portfolio of External Affairs would be in charge of an Indian, that the Viceroy would select his Executive from “amongst leaders of Indian political life at the Centre and in the provinces in proportions which would give a balanced representation to the main communities, including equal proportion of Muslims and Caste Hindus.”But the implementation of the plan was made contingent on general acceptance, which meant that Mr. Jinnah and the Muslim League retained the veto. The Simla Conference, which considered the Wavell offer failed entirely because of Mr Jinnah’s intransigence but the Viceroy, was helpless since Mr. Churchill would not modify the condition that the consent of both the Congress and the League was indispensable.Attlee’s Statement The situation was radically transformed by a speech Premier Attlee made in the House of Commons on March 15. In it he stated that India was free to vote for immediate in- dependence and that no minority would be permitted to place a veto on the progress of the majority. The Cabinet Delegation and the Viceroy were persuaded by Mr Jinnah to modify Premier Attlee’s declaration and gave an assurance to the Muslim League leader that whichever party declined to accept the long-term proposal would be by passed and the proposed Interim Government formed leaving out the intransigent party. When this pledge was given Mr Jinnah was hoping that he would form the Interim Government and the Congress would be out of it. , But as a result of a series of wrong tactical moves Mr Jinnah lost the advantage he thought he had gained. He put himself out of court by, rejecting the long-term proposal. The pledge he had secured from the Cabinet Delegation now proved a boomerang. The Viceroy called upon the Congress President to make proposals for the formation of an Interim Government. The invitation was unconditional and the list of names announced is entirely that recommended by the Congress President. The Congress leader, however, has agreed with the Viceroy’s suggestion that it would be wise not to vary the 6:5:3 ratios which was the basis of the statement of June 16. Everyone hopes that Mr Jinnah and the Muslim League will reconsider their decision and join hands with the Congress and other parties in giving this country a strong National Government. When Lord Wavell made his first attempt to form an Interim Government on June 14, 1945, he said: “All that is so urgently required to be done for agricultural and industrial development and for the peasants and workers of India cannot be carried through unless the whole-hearted cooperation of every community and section of the Indian people is forthcoming.”These words have today an even greater force. There is one satisfaction, however. The personnel of the Interim Government represents the Congress and every minority interest. The Government is as representative as could possibly be made in the circumstances. Representing the overwhelming majority of the people of this country, it will lead the nation by the shortest path to the immediate I achievement of full independence and the development of economic and social policies in the interest of the masses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-august-25-1946-interim-national-government-formed-cabinet-of-14-2-muslim-seats-to-be-filled-later-101629814206597.html
24-08-2021||India||‘Creating monopolies...’: Rahul Gandhi’s jab on government’s monetization plan||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday dubbed the Narendra Modi government’s ambitious monetization scheme of public assets as an attempt to create a monopoly in critical areas that, according to the former party president, would cut down more job opportunities and wipe out the informal sector. He also cautioned that unemployment can lead to social tension and violence. “We are not against privatization. Our (UPA government’s) privatization had a logic and there was no privatization of strategic industry such as the railways. All this privatization is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” he said, alleging the Prime Minister is “selling the crown jewels of India.”The Monetization Pipeline, as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Monday, will lease infrastructure assets of central government ministries and state-run companies to create ₹6 trillion fund to build new infrastructure. Among projects, the government plans to lease are 26,700km of roads, 90 passenger trains, 400 railway stations, 28,608 circuit km transmission lines, 286,000km of Bharatnet fibre network and 14,917 towers owned by state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd and Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Ltd.Reacting to Gandhi’s conference, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that the Congress itself is a “Non-Performing Asset” which has neither any value outside nor inside.The Congress is trying to become a “champion of confusion and contradiction”, he said. “…while on one hand, the Modi government and the BJP are engaged in the construction of the country, the Congress is involved in the destruction of the country”, Naqvi added.While Sitharaman categorically ruled out any sale of land, her predecessor P Chidambaram termed the exercise as “a grand bargain sale” and quipped, “virtually, no public sector will exist after this.”Gandhi, who has often alleged the government of helping a chosen few industrialists, reiterated the same charges and said “It took 70 years to build this massive infrastructure. People’s money was involved but now these are being sold to 3-4 people. As soon as these become monopolies, employment opportunities would be shrunk. Small business, medium business will not exist,” he claimed. Chidambaram mocked the government’s announcement on infrastructure pipeline and pointed that the government has announced the same special fund for infrastructure on three different occasions. The former finance minister pointed out there are no criteria and goals for the monetization scheme. “We are going to raise ₹1.54 lakh crore every year—can this be a sole goal to sell assets? You don’t embark upon the exercise without consulting stakeholders. This is all hatched in secrecy in this wonderful organization called Niti Aayog,” said Chidambaram. He also added that the National infrastructure pipeline is a project of ₹100 lakh crore. “How can you match ₹100 lakh crore with ₹6 lakh crore in 5 years?Gandhi refused to accept that some of these areas are languishing or underutilized. But later he said, the Congress won’t mind if stadiums are put on lease as they are not strategic assets. He also underlined how the UPA government’s privatization policy only dealt with chronically ill companies or those with minimal market shares. “We didn’t allow the creation of monopolies. But all this privatization is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” said Gandhi. Gandhi compared the government’s move with British Raj’s East India Company and said, “Modi believes large monopolies can save this country. You will see a dramatic increase in anger and violence. Modi is an instrument for doing some particular job for these people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/creating-monopolies-rahul-gandhi-s-jab-on-government-s-monetization-plan-101629813903256.html
24-08-2021||India||Policy to fill lakes in parched districts with treated sewage water from Bengaluru continues||The Karnataka government has proposed a ₹1,670 crore project to supply treated water from Vrishabhavathi river in Bengaluru to regions like Tumakuru, Nelamanagala, Chikballapur and Doddaballapur, among others, to help revive depleting water tables in what appears to be the continuation of a policy to supply used water to regions surrounding India’s IT capital, officials privy to the development said.JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs, said that the department has sent the detailed project report (DPR) to the government for its approval.While the river, which resembles a drain, itself was lost to apathy, unchecked flow of sewage water and industrial pollutants, the new programme is meant to salvage the drain inlets by treating them and pumping around 300 mld (million litres per day) to nearby regions, outside of Bengaluru.“Around 308 mld of secondary treated water will be used to fill up tanks in Chikballapur, Nelamangala, parts of Tumakuru and Doddaballapur,” a senior official at Karnataka’s minor irrigation told Hindustan Times.Successive governments in Karnataka have pursued a policy to prioritise Bengaluru’s insatiable thirst by depriving regions around it. Not to say that Bengaluru does not have a water scarcity problem as most parts of the city are fed with tankers that are filled by overexploiting borewells that also harmed groundwater tables.The closest river to Bengaluru is over 100 kilometres away which has forced governments to continue spending thousands of crores to bring this water to the city and its over 12 million residents.Estimates by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) states that Bengaluru receives around 700-850 mm of rain each year which is enough to accumulate around 16 tmc ft of water which is almost 70% of its demand of around 19 tmc ft. But the lack of treatment plants and awareness has given rise to a situation where most of the water is let out into drains by most households except large apartment complexes where it is mandatory to have sewage treatment plants.The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had initiated the Koramangala and Challaghatta Valley (KC Valley) project to pump around 440 mld of secondary treated water to Kolar and Chikkaballapur, drought-prone districts, to fill up lakes and tanks. The treated water was pumped into Lakshmisagar lake in Narsapura of Kolar directly. The project had raised a clear divide between the politically backed groups and scientists who argued the benefits and harms of such an exercise.TV Ramachandra, a scientist at the Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science-Bengaluru said that “such projects are good if we are ensuring removal of heavy metals from water.”Ramachandra, who has authored several papers on the water in Bengaluru, said that the Vrishabhavathi belt has a dense population of industries that discharge heavy metals into these streams, which would enter the humans through any produce grown with this water.“We are so irresponsible as a regulatory body that we allow the industries to pollute the water bodies,” he said.The official cited above said that the water from Vrishbhavathi will be used only to fill tanks and not for agriculture or drinking purposes.However, experts do see a problem with such an approach that does not prioritise tertiary treatment of wastewater.The primary treatment removes large particles, chemical ions are removed in the secondary treatment and nutrients are removed in the tertiary treatment, experts said, pointing out the requirement to carry out all three processes to make the most of water.However, inadequately treated water into tanks to rejuvenate groundwater tables is unlikely to have the desired effect.“Vegetables that are grown downstream and also the lake water have heavy metal contents. Those vegetables like pudina (mint) and spinach which we eat will naturally get into our body. Higher instances of heavy metals in our food items are also leading to the escalation in cancers and kidney failures in the region,” he added.Ramchandra said that instances of kidney failure in the city (Bengaluru) which was 1 in 100,000 about 12 years ago stand at around 1 in 5,000 today.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city’s civic body, has also prioritised aesthetics over the quality of water in its periodical lake rejuvenation projects, experts said.A report by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) indicated that there are around 21 lakes out of the 205 existing on paper in which the water was fit for drinking.This claim has been contested by environmentalists, scientists, citizens among others.A report by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) in 2020 states that there is not even one lake that has water fit for drinking. But fish from these lakes are often consumed in Bengaluru as the licences are auctioned to the highest bidder. In Bengaluru’s BTM Lake, people throng to buy fish like Rohu (Labeo Rohita), Catla (Labeo Catla) and the common carp (Cyprinus carpio) among others in kilograms almost every weekend.Several citizen-initiative groups have aired their concerns over such projects that focus on cosmetic and beautification rather than improving the ecology of the spaces.A July 2021 research paper, titled, “Heavy metal in the food chain-Consequences of polluting water bodies” by TV Ramachandra and N R Narayan, studied the concentration of heavy metal in Varthur lake, near the technology corridor of the city.“The study on heavy metal concentrations in vegetables grown near Varthur lake, Bangalore, has shown significant accumulation of heavy metals in vegetables that correlated well with its soil and lake water concentrations. The prolonged irrigation of vegetables using such contaminated lake water has led to soil contamination, which ultimately resulted in contamination of vegetables due to the uptake and accumulation of heavy metals in edible portions of vegetables. The heavy metal content in vegetables exceeded the safe limits in India,” the paper stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policy-to-fill-lakes-in-parched-districts-with-treated-sewage-water-from-bengaluru-continues-101629810828777.html
24-08-2021||India||People of north Bengal will decide if they want a separate state: Pramanik||Union minister Nisith Pramanik on Tuesday said people of north Bengal have faced apathy for decades and they will decide whether they want a separate state. “There is no such thing as legitimate or illegitimate about this demand. It also does not matter what I think about it. A lot of leaders may have personal opinions,” Pramanik said at an event to pay homage to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers allegedly killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal this year. “I will give my opinion later. I am with the people of north Bengal. Let them decide what they want.”Pramanik’s comments came two months after BJP Parliament Member John Barla demanded a separate state or Union Territory comprising districts of north Bengal and triggered an angry reaction from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Both Barla and Pramanik are Lok Sabha members form north Bengal.In the March-April assembly polls, the BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seats in north Bengal districts as the TMC swept back to power in the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats. The BJP won seven of the eight seats in the region in 2019.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged the BJP has hatched a conspiracy to divide Bengal and said she will not allow anyone to split the state. Banerjee on Monday announced a series of development projects for the region.The Bengal government has allocated ₹776 crores in the state budget for development of north Bengal, said education minister Bratya Basu. “BJP leaders are making contradictory statements. Barla raised the demand for the first time on June 16. On 22 June, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said it was Barla’s personal opinion and the party did not approve it. On August 21, Ghosh said the party would think about Barla’s demand,” said Basu.Ghosh later said the BJP has taken no policy decision on this issue.Since June, several Gorkha groups from the Darjeeling hills as well as the Dalit Rajbanshis in the plains have started demanding statehood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-north-bengal-will-decide-if-they-want-a-separate-state-pramanik-101629807941789.html
24-08-2021||India||5 Korean firms invest ₹1,154 crore in Greater Noida, says UP govt||Uttar Pradesh received an investment of ₹1,154 crore in Greater Noida by five Korean firms who have acquired land to set up their factories in the city, the state government said in a release. The companies will provide employment to 8,706 youths, the release further said.These Korean firms - Samkwang India Electronics, KH Vatech India, Cenetech India, Dreamtech and Stereon - have bought 3.51 lakh square metres of land in Greater Noida area, the state government said.While Samkwang India Electronics is setting up its unit at an estimated cost of ₹440 crore, which will employ 4,000 people, KH Vatech India is investing ₹247 crore and Sentech India ₹34 crore to establish their own unit that will provide employment to 786 and 350 people, respectively.The other two - Dream Tech and Stereon - have acquired land in Sector Ecotech 10 to establish their plants at the cost of ₹433 crore. The two units will employ 3,570 youths, the government release said.Apart from South Korean firms, Chinese smartphone makers Oppo, Vivo and Forme have also invested heavily in Greater Noida in the last four-and-a-half years, according to UP government. It is the ₹7,429 crore and ₹2,000 crore investments by Vivo and Oppo respectively that piqued the interest of the South Korean firms, the government added.These investments will help Greater Noida emerge as a data centre hub, the UP government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-korean-firms-invest-rs-1-154-crore-in-greater-noida-says-up-govt-101629807682836.html
24-08-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s response on Maharashtra plea for OBC census data||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave Centre a month’s time to respond to a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking Census data on other backward classes (OBC) in the state with a view to reserving seats for these communities in the state local bodies. Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna that based on discussions held with the Registrar General and Census Commissioner and the ministry of social justice and empowerment, the Centre would like to put its stand in writing for which he sought three weeks. The bench posted the matter on September 23 giving more than three weeks to reply to the state’s petition. As the exercise of collecting data of OBCs is tedious, the state had approached the top court seeking information about OBCs in Maharashtra that was available with the Centre during the 2011 Census. The state government has invoked the extraordinary jurisdiction of the Supreme Court after having decided to conduct a socio-economic and caste census across the state by the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC). Also Read | SC notice to CBI on Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea on medical groundsThe Maharashtra legislative assembly had last month passed a resolution in the House to approach the Centre for 2011 census data in order to compile empirical data on the OBC population in the state. The 2011 census data has not been released till date by the Centre citing errors. Earlier in March this year, the Supreme Court while considering the extension of 27% OBC quota under the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 to local bodies in Akola, Washim, Nandurbar, Dhule and Nagpur had held that reservation in these local bodies (for SC/ST/OBC) should not exceed 50% cap mandated by the 1992 Indra Sahwney ruling by the top court. The top court set aside the quota requiring the state to first set up a backward classes commission to compile empirical data on the number and extent of backwardness of OBC population within the state. Against this decision, the state government filed a review petition that was dismissed in May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-maharashtra-plea-for-obc-census-data-101629807401856.html
24-08-2021||India||Punjab farmers' stir: Amarinder Singh approves higher price for sugarcane crop||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday approved a higher state agreed price (SAP) for sugarcane crop - a key demand made by the state's farmers who have been protesting since Friday. The decision was taken after Singh held a meeting with the farmer leaders."Conceding the demand of sugarcane farmers, Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has approved another hike of ₹35 per quintal in state agreed price (SAP) for crushing season 2021-22. The farmers will now get ₹360 per quintal - ₹2 higher than neighbouring Haryana," Raveen Thukral, Media Advisor to Punjab CM, said on Twitter.Earlier, the state's agriculture department proposed a hike of upto ₹345 per quintal, which the farmer leaders rejected.The farmers have also asked the state government to clear payment of arrears to the tune of ₹200-250 crore.The agitation, which entered its fifth day today, led to disruption of traffic on roads and train tracks. At least 368 trains have been affected so far - 40 of them on Tuesday which had to be cancelled, short terminated or diverted.Sharing the information about the trains being affected due to the farmers' agitation, Northern Railways General Manager, Ashutosh Gangal said that if the main route of the double line is closed, then the railways will not have that much capacity to operate trains as per schedule. "Due to this, we have had to cancel a large number of trains. 368 trains have either been canceled or diverted or have been short terminated. Out of these 215 have been cancelled, causing inconvenience to a large number of passengers," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-stir-amarinder-singh-approves-higher-price-for-sugarcane-crop-101629806583701.html
24-08-2021||India||BJP chief Nadda demands action from Cong on Sidhu’s advisors||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Tuesday criticised the Congress over recent statements made by Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisors and urged the party leadership to clarify its stance on Kashmir and Pakistan.I would urge the topmost national leadership of the Congress to state clearly whether they support the remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan made by Congress leaders in Punjab? Silence on the matter will be seen as implicit support to such objectionable remarks.In a series of tweets, Nadda said that if the Congress remains silent on the issue then it would seem that the party is supportive of the statements made by Sidhu’s advisors. “I would urge the topmost national leadership of the Congress to state clearly whether they support the remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan made by Congress leaders in Punjab? Silence on the matter will be seen as implicit support to such objectionable remarks,” Nadda said.Recent comments by Punjab Congress leaders, who enjoy the patronage of the topmost state leadership as well as the High Command in Delhi, are reprehensible. They are repeatedly making irresponsible statements that have grave implications on national security.“Recent comments by Punjab Congress leaders, who enjoy the patronage of the topmost state leadership as well as the high command in Delhi, are reprehensible. They are repeatedly making irresponsible statements that have grave implications on national security,” Nadda further added.Nadda’s criticism of the Congress comes amid Sidhu’s newly appointed advisors Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg making comments on Kashmir and Pakistan respectively. While Mali spoke of revocation of Article 370 and 35A, Garg questioned the Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s criticism of Pakistan.Soon after the statements were made, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh was first among the Congress leaders to condemn the statements and also asked newly inducted Punjab Congress president Sidhu to rein in his advisors.Congress MP Manish Tewari and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat also condemned the statements made by the advisors. Rawat said that Congress firmly believes that Kashmir is an inalienable part of India. Tewari also slammed both the advisors and questioned whether they have the right to ‘live in India’. Sidhu also summoned his advisors on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-nadda-demands-action-from-cong-on-sidhu-s-advisors-101629805782929.html
24-08-2021||India||SC notice to CBI on Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea on medical grounds||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to respond to the plea filed by Congress leader Sajjan Kumar seeking interim bail or suspension of sentence on account of his deteriorating medical condition.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the CBI on an application filed by Kumar who is undergoing a life term following his conviction in the 1984 Delhi anti-Sikh riots by the Delhi high court in December 2018.The court said, “Let the medical condition of the appellant (Kumar) be verified and an affidavit be filed by CBI within one week.” The court also asked CBI to take instructions on Kumar’s demand to be treated at Medanta Hospital.Sajjan Kumar, aged 77, in his bail application stated that his condition is critical and he is undergoing treatment in the emergency ICU at Safdarjung Hospital. “Due to his old age and his ill-health, he has become infirm and is incapable of taking care of himself and requires constant human attention for his daily needs such as bathing, going to the toilet, eating, etc,” stated the applicant filed through Kumar’s advocate Ajay Marwah.Also Read | 43,000 offences under POCSO Act registered last year: AG KK Venugopal to SCAppearing for Kumar, senior advocate Vikas Singh told the court that Medanta had the provision for colonoscopy which is not available at Safdarjung Hospital. Singh said he had been incarcerated for the past 31 months without being out on parole or furlough and his family wishes to provide him good medical treatment.The application was opposed by the complainants of the case lodged against Kumar. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the families of victims, said the accused was roaming free and came to be arrested following the Delhi high court’s order of December 17, 2018 which reversed the acquittal granted by the trial court in 2013.Dave pointed out that in March last year, AIIMS had examined the accused and submitted a report to the apex court indicating that he had no pressing medical concern.But Kumar’s counsel argued that more than a year had passed since then and the present condition of the accused was critical. In his application, Kumar stated that being of old age, his condition was most vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic and prayed for his immediate release either on bail or on temporary suspension of sentence.CBI was represented by advocate Shradha Deshmukh who accepted notice on the bail application and agreed to file an affidavit before the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-cbi-on-sajjan-kumar-s-bail-plea-on-medical-grounds-101629805541700.html
24-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu BJP leader resigns over sexually explicit chat uploaded on YouTube||K T Raghavan, a general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tamil Nadu unit, was on Tuesday forced to resign from his post after his allegedly sexually explicit video chat with a woman following a “sting operation” was uploaded on a YouTube channel.Madan Ravichandran, who joined the BJP last year and runs the channel with over 141,000 subscribers, has claimed to have released the video as part of his probe into allegations of sexual harassment and exploitation against state BJP leaders. He claimed to have video evidence against 15 of them. Ravichandran said he chose to release Raghavan’s video first as the media promotes him as “Mr Clean”.In a tweet, Raghavan denied the charges against him and said he will face them legally. “Dharma will win,” he tweeted. He cited his 30-year career “without any problems” and added the video was released to tarnish his image. “People of Tamil Nadu know who I am. Those who are associated with me know who I am,” he said. Raghavan, a lawyer, said he resigned after meeting with state BJP chief K Annamalai.Also Read | Kodanad case: Accused move Madras HC to examine Palaniswami, SasikalaAs a BJP spokesman in Tamil Nadu, he has been among the faces of the party in the state. He is also part of a committee the BJP has formed to prepare for the local body elections.Ravichandran said the face of the woman in the video has been blurred and her voice muted as she agreed to do the “sting” for public service. He added they showed the video to Annamalai for action since he is a young leader and should not allow older leaders to suppress the issue. Ravichandran cited a purported screen shot of a WhatsApp conversation and added Annamalai said they can release the video.In a statement, Annamalai said Ravichandran met him twice over the issue and asked him to take action. “But he did not submit any video evidence.” Annamalai said he conveyed to Ravichandran that action cannot be taken based only on accusations and this has to be probed. Annamalai added Ravichandran sent him a message later and said that he would release the videos if action was not taken. He said he reiterated action will be taken only after an investigation and told Ravichandran to go ahead. Tamil Nadu BJP has said they will form an enquiry commission to be headed by state secretary Malarkodi as they take these allegations seriously.Congress Member of Parliament Jothimani said they will file a complaint with the police against Raghavan . “There is video evidence that he has misbehaved with a woman and that has to be investigated,” she tweeted. The video has surfaced months after the state BJP issued a legal notice to Tamil daily Dinamalar for an article in June saying the party has allegedly received sexual harassment complaints and will set up a committee to look into them. The BJP called the article false and fabricated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-bjp-leader-resigns-over-sexually-explicit-chat-uploaded-on-youtube-101629804641452.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Received credible reports of execution of civilians by Taliban, says UN and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Credible reports of executions of civilians by Taliban: UN human rights chiefThe top UN human rights officials on Tuesday said she has received “credible reports” of summary executions of civilians by the Taliban as their actions raise fears of a “return to past patterns of human rights violations”. Read more.Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in AfghanistanPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke on the phone on Tuesday to discuss the evolving situation in Afghanistan in the aftermath of its siege by the Taliban. Read more.Hope for inclusive dispensation representing all sections of Afghan society: India at UNHRCIndia on Tuesday called for an inclusive and broad-based dispensation in Afghanistan that represents all sections of society and asserted that Afghan soil must not be used by terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any other country. Read more.2021 Triumph Speed Twin to be launched in India on August 31Triumph Motorcycles has announced that it will launch the new Speed Twin motorcycle in the Indian market on August 31st. The new Speed Twin has already been launched in the international markets and has now been listed on Triumph's India website ahead of launch. Read more.'I felt he wasn't trying to get me out': Anderson on bouncer barrage from Bumrah, says 'haven't felt like this' beforeJasprit Bumrah had an excellent Test match against England at Lord's. Not only did he shine with the ball on the last day by picking three important wickets, he also scored an important 34 not-out to help India set a fighting target. But if there is one thing that stood out from the match, it was his battle with England pacer James Anderson. Read more.Khushi Kapoor's new workout session will inspire you to have fun at gym, see picsBoney Kapoor and Sridevi's daughter, Khushi Kapoor, is a true-blue fitness enthusiast, like her sister, Janhvi Kapoor. Don't believe us? Just take a look at Bollywood's favourite Pilates trainer Namrata Purohit's latest post on Instagram, and you will know what we are talking about. Khushi and Namrata indulged in a couple's workout session recently, which will inspire you to have some fun at the gym too. Read more.Mahesh Manjrekar 'on the road to recovery' following bladder cancer surgeryActor-filmmaker Mahesh Manjrekar has undergone a surgery after being diagnosed with bladder cancer. The 63-year-old actor is back home following the medical procedure at the H N Reliance Foundation Hospital in Mumbai last week. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-credible-reports-of-executions-by-taliban-says-un-101629802496696.html
24-08-2021||India||Bombay HC refuses urgent hearing of Narayan Rane’s anticipatory bail plea||The Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected a plea for an urgent hearing of Union minister Narayan Rane’s anticipatory bail application as he faced arrest for his comments a day earlier that he wanted to “give a tight slap” to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly forgetting the year of India’s independence during a speech.Rane moved the court as Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday said he has ordered the formation of a team to arrest the minister and to produce him before a court. Three cases, including under India Penal Code’s sections 500 (defamation), 505(2) (mischief), 153-B (1)(c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill will), have been filed against Rane for the comments.A sessions court in Ratnagiri earlier refused to hear Rane’s anticipatory bail plea. Also Read | Sena-BJP clashes break out in Maharashtra over Narayan Rane’s ‘slap CM’ remarkA high court bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar directed Rane’s lawyer, Aniket Nikam, to follow due procedure before approaching it. A separate application has also been filed for quashing the three cases registered against Rane in Nashik, Pune and Mahad. Nikam approached the court after its lunch break concluded at 2.30 pm and mentioned the two applications seeking anticipatory bail and quashing of the cases. The court asked Nikam to follow the procedure under the law by filing a praecipe to get the matter listed for hearing. Nikam also sought protection from coercive action including arrest pending hearing of the plea.Nikam said for arrest for any offence which involves punishment of under 7 years, police have to issue a notice. He added this has not been issued in Rane’s case and hence the order for his arrest is illegal. Nikam said they will wait till 4.30 pm and approach the bench again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-urgent-hearing-of-narayan-rane-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-101629804221922.html
24-08-2021||India||Kodanad Case: Accused move Madras HC to examine Palaniswami, Sasikala||As the present political slugfest over the 2017 Kodanad heist-cum-murder case plays out inside the Tamil Nadu assembly, two related but contradictory pleas have been filed in the Madras high court, further muddying the waters.In one of the petitions, three of the ten accused in the case have asked the court to order interrogation of former chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader Edappadi Palaniswami and late J Jayalalithaa’s close confidante V K Sasikala among others, while the second petition, filed by a witness, seeks a stay on any further investigation in the case and demands fast tracking of the trial.A security guard at former Tamil Nadu CM and AIADMK chief Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad estate was allegedly murdered by robbers on August 17, 2017, followed by more mysterious deaths of an accused and family members of another accused in the case. All the 10 accused in the case hailed from Kerala. However, the case took a murky turn in 2019 when K V Sayan, a prime accused in the case alleged former chief minister Palaniswami’s involvement in the heist-cum-murder incident. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which had then sought Palaniswami’s resignation over the matter was now "furthering" investigations after returning to power this year, leading to a political storm in the state. The AIADMK has accused the DMK of a witch hunt to frame their leaders for political vendetta, while the ruling party insists it only wants the truth to surface.Deepu, MS Satheesan, and A Samthosh Samy, who along with seven others charge-sheeted in the case are undergoing trial at the session court in the Nilgiris, have now filed a joint revision petition requesting interrogation of nine persons including Palaniswami, Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s foster son V N Sudakaran, the then-Nilgiris collector and police chief, two employees of the Kodanad Estate alleging the real culprits have been let off by “lethargic” investigations in the case. Their petition was earlier rejected by the Nilgiris sessions court on April 30.“The learned judge of the trial court failed to consider the sensitivity of the case wherein the second respondent (Sayan) has come forward in digital media to depose about the involvement of former chief minister of Tamil Nadu, and dismissed the petition in a mechanical manner,” the petition alleges.The three have claimed that the trail at the Nilgiris court was “hurried”, “influenced” and “monitored” by persons holding power in the former ruling party, a reference to the AIADMK. They also alleged that the police inquired only 41 out of over a hundred witnesses it had listed. Their review petition also cites the death of the family of one of the accused in an accident and alleges political pressure on Sayan apart from claiming that an AIADMK-related person was appointed as the lawyer for one of the accused in the past in an attempt to derail their defence. The petition was filed on August 9 but was circulated to the media this week.After the case returned to the forefront of state politics following the DMK’s victory in assembly elections earlier this year, Palaniswami alleged a “secret statement” had been taken from the main accused, Sayan, with the purpose to frame him in the case. The AIADMK also released a video in which Sayan is purportedly being asked by few persons to name Palaniswami.Meanwhile, the second petition filed by a witness is listed for hearing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kodanad-case-accused-move-madras-hc-to-examine-palaniswami-sasikala-101629802291561.html
24-08-2021||India||43,000 offences under POCSO Act registered last year: AG KK Venugopal to SC||As many as 43,000 offences registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in the last year, Attorney General of India KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Tuesday.Venugopal provided the information during the hearing of appeals against the controversial Bombay High Court judgment that held that groping a minor's breast without "skin to skin contact" cannot be termed as sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The Attorney-General said that it's an outrageous judgement so far as POCSO is concerned."The judge said skin to skin contact is required. This would mean someone can wear a surgical glove and exploit a child and get away scot-free. The accused tried to bring down the salwar and even then bail was granted. This would be a precedent for magistrates in Maharashtra. Better appreciation would be needed for the definition of sexual assault. There are 43,000 POCSO offences in the last year," he said.The Court was hearing petitions filed by the Attorney General, State of Maharashtra and the National Commission for Women (NCW) against the January 19 judgment passed by the High Court, which held that pressing the breast of a 12-year-old child without removing her top will not fall within the definition of 'sexual assault'.A Bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi directed its Legal Services Committee to appoint a lawyer to represent the accused in the case.Since the accused are not being represented, the Bench directed SC Legal services Committee to make available services of any senior advocate on its panel along with any other Advocate-on-Record (AOR) to appear on behalf of the accused.The matter will be next heard on September 14.Earlier, the apex court-appointed senior advocate Siddharth Dave to assist it in the case.On January 27, the top court had stayed the operation of the January 19 verdict of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court after the Attorney General had mentioned and said the order is "very disturbing" and will set a "dangerous precedent".The Attorney General, NCW, Maharashtra, Youth Bar Association of India while challenging the High Court order in the apex court stated that such observations would have a wide impact on the entire society and public at large.Seeking to set aside the High Court order, the appeals said that the observations made by the High Court were "unwarranted" and concern the modesty of a girl child.One of the pleas pointed out that while passing the impugned judgment, the single judge recorded the name of the victim child. As per law, the names of victims of certain offences cannot be published. The pleas also sought to stay on the verdict as interim relief."Single Judge had made various observations, concerning the modesty of a girl child, which is not only derogatory and defamatory but the same are also in utter disregard to the applicable laws," Association's appeal added.Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, while passing judgement on January 19, had held that there must be "skin to skin contact with sexual intent" for an act to be considered sexual assault. "Mere groping will not fall under the definition of sexual assault," the judge said.The judge modified the order of a sessions court, which had held a 39-year-old man guilty of sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl and sentenced him to three years of imprisonment.Also Read | ‘No sexual assault’ in minor’s groping: Supreme Court stays Bombay HC orderAs per the prosecution and the minor victim's testimony in court, in December 2016, the accused had taken the girl to his house in Nagpur on the pretext of giving her something to eat and then gripped her breast and attempted to remove her clothes.However, the High Court said since he groped her without removing her clothes, the offence cannot be termed as sexual assault and, instead, constitutes the offence of outraging a woman's modesty under IPC section 354.The High Court acquitted him under the POCSO Act while upholding his conviction under IPC section 354. Section 354 entails a minimum sentence of imprisonment for one year, sexual assault under the POCSO Act entails minimum imprisonment of three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43000-offences-under-pocso-act-registered-last-year-ag-kk-venugopal-to-sc-101629800727264.html
24-08-2021||India||Hope for inclusive dispensation representing all sections of Afghan society: India at UNHRC||India on Tuesday called for an inclusive and broad-based dispensation in Afghanistan that represents all sections of society and asserted that Afghan soil must not be used by terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any other country. New Delhi’s position was outlined by Indramani Pandey, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, while participating in a special session of the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Afghanistan. India has been watching the security situation in the war-torn country with growing concern following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban on August 15. It has insisted that any future dispensation in Kabul should be inclusive in order to ensure legitimacy. In his statement at the UNHRC session, Pandey said India hopes “there is an inclusive and broad-based dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society”. He added, “Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected. A broad-based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy.” Also Read | ‘Operation Devi Shakti’: India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanAs with all recent official statements from the Indian side following the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban, there was no criticism or direct reference to the militant group in Pandey’s statement. However, he raised India’s concerns related to the “precarious” security situation Afghanistan. “Stability in Afghanistan is linked to the peace and security of the region. We hope that the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours and its territory is not used by terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any other country,” Pandey said. The world community, he said, must provide full support to the Afghan people’s desire for peace, stability and security and enable women, children and minorities to live in peace and dignity. Pandey said that as a neighbour of Afghanistan, the current situation in the country is of great concern to India. “We are closely monitoring the rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call upon parties concerned to maintain law and order, ensure the safety and security of all Afghan nationals, UN personnel and diplomatic staff members, and observe human rights and international humanitarian law in all circumstances in Afghanistan,” he said. Pandey said a “grave humanitarian crisis” is also unfolding, and the world community is concerned about increasing violations of fundamental rights of Afghan citizens. “Afghans are worried about whether their right to live with dignity would be respected,” he said. Thousands of people who have been internally displaced are facing an acute shortage of food, medical care and shelter, and the basic rights of civilians, children and women, including freedom of speech and opinion, access to education and medical care, have been drastically hampered by the current situation. “We call upon all the parties concerned to allow unhindered access to international assistance for all those who are in the need of it,” Pandey said. The envoy noted that India had significantly contributed in recent years to the development of Afghanistan through large infrastructure projects and connectivity, humanitarian aid, human resource development and capacity-building, and smaller high impact community development projects. This included projects in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education and agriculture, and Indian development ventures covered all 34 provinces of Afghanistan. India also provided 75,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan to strengthen food security during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our millennia old friendship with Afghanistan rests on the strong pillars of people-to-people relationship. India has always stood for a peaceful, prosperous and progressive Afghanistan. India stands ready to assist our friends from Afghanistan in fulfilling their aspirations,” he said. “We hope that the situation stabilises soon and the parties concerned address the humanitarian and security issues.” India was the largest regional donor to Afghanistan with pledges totalling almost $3 billion. Following the Taliban takeover, India withdrew its envoy and diplomatic staff from Kabul last week and has evacuated more than 600 people, a majority of them Indian nationals, from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-for-inclusive-dispensation-representing-all-sections-of-afghan-society-india-at-unhrc-101629801392926.html
24-08-2021||India||Union minister Narayan Rane arrested for remarks against Maharashtra CM||Union minister Narayan Rane was arrested by the Ratnagiri police in Maharashtra for comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Three FIRs were registered in the state - one each in Nashik, Pune and Mahad - against Rane who allegedly talked about slapping Thackeray for forgetting the year of India's independence.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader claimed that Thackeray forgot India's year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state. He made the remarks on Monday, during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in Raigad district.Rane arrest comes shortly after the Bombay high court refused to give urgent hearing to his plea seeking anticipatory bail. The bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar directed Rane's lawyer Aniket Nikam to follow due procedure before approaching the court.Rane also filed the application to quash the three FIRs registered against him. The court did not hear that petition too.The remarks have led to full-fledged battle between the BJP and Maharashtra's ruling party Shiv Sena. The workers of the two parties clashed in Mumbai and other cities; the Sena wants Rane to be stripped of his portfolio at the Centre and remarks withdrawn."This was the reaction to action. Narayan Rane provoked the Shiv Sainiks. He should withdraw his remarks and if he does not, then he will be responsible for the situation," said Shiv Sena legislator and state minister for home, Shambhuraj Desai.Stones were hurled at the BJP's office in Nashik.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), one of the three constituents of Maharashtra Vikhas Aghadi (MVA) government along with Congress and Shiv Sena, said Rane's language was insulting."The language used for CM Uddhav Thackeray by Union minister Narayan Rane is insulting not only for the chief minister but also for the people of Maharashtra. It will not be tolerated. No one is above the law and will have to face action irrespective of his position," NCP leader Nawab Malik said.Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the party does not support Rane's comments, but the way he has been targeted, the "it stands behind him 100 per cent".“People who are pointing fingers at Rane should not forget that there have been several instances of Uddhav Thackeray using inflammatory language,” Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-narayan-rane-arrested-for-remarks-against-maharashtra-cm-101629800434173.html
24-08-2021||India||Union minister Narayan Rane moves HC over FIRs against 'slam Thackeray' remark||Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narayan Rane on Tuesday moved the Bombay High Court seeking anticipatory bail and quashing of three FIRs filed against him over his statements that he would have “tightly slapped” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who he claimed was ignorant of the country’s independence year. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey had earlier said a team had been formed to arrest the Rajya Sabha MP and produce him before a court and all due procedure was being followed.The Rajya Sabha MP and former chief minister has defended his stand on the issue and said he had not committed any offence. Also read | Sena-BJP clashes break out in Maharashtra over Narayan Rane's 'slap CM' remarkThe high court refused to give an urgent hearing to the anticipatory bail application, filed by advocate Aniket Nikam on Rane’s behalf. A bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar directed Nikam to follow due procedure before approaching the court. The court was also yet to hear the petition seeking the quashing of FIRs registered at Nashik, Pune and Mahad police stations.The controversy over Rane’s comments against Thackeray made on Monday at a Jan Ashirvad event for newly inducted Union ministers intensified during the day as workers of the Shiv Sena and the BJP clashed at several places in the state and police issued arrest warrants against the Union minister.Rane also complained of uneasiness and a team of doctors was summoned to treat him, said BJP leader Pramod Jathar, adding his sugar level and blood pressure have shot up.Jathar further said the superintendent of Ratnagiri was under immense pressure to arrest the Union minister. “The Ratnagiri SP has reached Sangameshwar to arrest Rane without any arrest warrant. The SP says he is under tremendous pressure for the arrest and he has been asked to arrest Rane in five mins.”“We have moved the HC for anticipatory bail and police should follow the protocol,” he added.Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said that while he did not support Rane's comments, he would stand by him as an individual and a representative of the party. “Sharijil Usmani abused Bharat Mata but no FIR was registered against him but you (state govt) filed FIR against Rane,” he said.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-narayan-rane-moves-hc-firs-against-slam-cm-thackeray-remark-101629799575667.html
24-08-2021||India||Hope terrorists don't use Afghan soil for fuelling unrest: India at UNHRC||India said at the special session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on Tuesday that it hopes the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours.The special session of the UNHRC was underway in Geneva to consider the "promotion & protection of human rights in Afghanistan"India's premanent representative to the UN, Indramani Pandey raised concerns over the possibility of Afghan territory being used by terrorist groups, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), to threaten the peace and stability of any other country."Everyone is concerned about increasing violations of fundamental rights of Afghan citizens. Afghans are worried about whether their right to live with dignity would be respected," Pandey said at UNHRC session.Echoing the urgency shown by India, Afghan envoy to the UNHRC, Nasir Ahmad Andisha, said, "The human rights system cannot and should not 'wait and see'. We need attention and action."The Indian envoy said its "millennia-old friendship" with Afghanistan rests on strong pillars of people-to-people relations. "India has always stood for peaceful, prosperous and progressive Afghanistan. India stands ready to assist our friends from Afghanistan in fulfilling their aspirations," Pandey was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.ALSO READ | Women's rights under Islamic law to amnesty for all: What Taliban said in 1st addressHe said that India also hopes that there would be an inclusive and broad-based dispensation in Afghanistan which represents all sections of the Afghan society, and the one that would respect the voices of women and the aspirations of children while upholding the rights of minorities."A broad based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy," Pandey told the session of global diplomats.UNHRC chief Michelle Bachelet said she has received “credible reports” of summary executions of civilians by the Taliban and restrictions on the rights of women following their siege of Kabul on August 15.Last week, UN Secretary-General António Guterres urged the Taliban to exercise utmost restraint to protect lives.Even as the Taliban have said no one would be “harmed”, thousands of people are desperate to flee the country as many Afghans were apprehensive of the Taliban rule.Reports of Taliban fighters attacking women and children in Kabul and other provinces have surfaced over the past one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-terrorists-don-t-use-afghan-soil-for-fuelling-unrest-india-at-unhrc-101629799010429.html
24-08-2021||India||Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke on the phone on Tuesday to discuss the evolving situation in Afghanistan in the aftermath of its siege by the Taliban.Modi spoke to Putin on the phone about 45 minutes, news agency ANI posted on Twitter.Meanwhile, the Prime Minister also took to Twitter to share snippets of his conversation with Putin."Had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against COVID-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues," Modi tweeted.ANI cited Russian government officials to report that Modi and Putin expressed their intention to enhance cooperation on countering the spread of terrorist ideology and drug racket from the territory of Afghanistan. The two leaders reportedly agreed to form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations on issues pertaining to Afghanistan.On Monday, Modi spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel about the unfolding security situation in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world, apart from discussing bilateral agenda, including cooperation in vaccines against the Covid-19, fighting climate change and and developing clean energy, etc.The two leaders stressed the need for maintaining peace and security, and outlined that the repatriation of stranded people from Afghanistan is the urgent priority.ALSO READ | 'There is no alternative': Russia says resistance to Taliban would fail in AfghanistanIndia has evacuated nearly 550 people, including almost 400 of its nationals, from Afghanistan this week and dozens more are expected to be brought home by Tuesday.Earlier this week, Putin criticised the United States and the NATO allies for sending refugees from Afghanistan to central Asian countries, and said they pose a direct threat to Moscow.Some central Asian nations, including Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan — which share borders with Afghanistan — have raised concerns over the influx of refugees into their countries after fleeing Taliban regime, over fears that Islamic State fighters and other fundamentalists as well as religious extremists could infiltrate into the countries in the guise of refugees.Putin's remarks came despite Russia's ambassador to Afghanistan Dmitry Zhirnov praising the Taliban's siege of Kabul and describing their approach as "good, positive and business-like."Russia has reached out to the Taliban in recent years and hosted its representatives in Moscow several times, the most recent being in July.India was kept out of a key meeting on Afghanistan that was convened by Russia and saw the participation of Pakistan and China in Qatar earlier this month, reflecting certain divergences between New Delhi and Moscow on the evolving situation in the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-vladimir-putin-afghanistan-crisis-taliban-siege-101629796646493.html
24-08-2021||India||How 'loss of situational awareness' brought AirAsia, IndiGo flights within 8 km, reveals new report||Two flights over Mumbai airspace came within 8 km of each other when their altitude separation was just 300 feet, according to an Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) report released earlier this month. AirAsia India's Ahmedabad-Chennai flight and IndiGo's Bengaluru-Vadodara flight were involved in this “serious incident” which, as per the report, happened due to the air traffic controller's "loss of situational awareness", reported news agency PTI.The evaluation of the situation by the controller at the Mumbai airport "under the influence of preconceived mind" has been cited as another probable cause behind the incident."The minimum separation between both the aircraft was recorded as 8 km laterally while (it was) 300 feet vertical(ly) when the AirAsia India flight was below the IndiGo flight and it was 6.5 km laterally when the vertical separation was 500 feet when IndiGo flight was below the AirAsia India flight," the report said.Most of the flights from Ahmedabad to southern India overfly Bhavnagar but the AirAsia flight was on a route usually taken by planes descending to land at the Mumbai airport, the report explained. The changed route of AirAsia flight and direct routing of the IndiGo flight coming from the opposite direction resulted in the heading of both flights becoming “reciprocal to each other" at different altitudes.Also Read | Domestic air travel sees record surge since 2nd Covid wave, 50L flew in JulyThe automation system of the air traffic controller issued a "predicted conflict warning" when there was enough lateral separation between the two flights. But the controller at the Mumbai airport ignored the "predicted conflict warning", presuming the AirAsia flight was on its usual route, according to the report. By the time the controller realised the situation, the AirAsia India flight was at 38,008 feet and the IndiGo flight at 38,000 feet.AirAsia flight's traffic collision avoidance system (TCAS) issued a warning to the pilots, prompting them to continue the plane's ascent. As the IndiGo flight maintained an altitude of 38,000 feet, the conflicting traffic was resolved when the AirAsia flight reached an altitude of 38,396 feet, according to the report.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-loss-of-situational-awareness-brought-airasia-indigo-flights-within-8-km-reveals-new-report-101629796375000.html
24-08-2021||India||Gupkar Alliance adopts resolution to restore J&K's status under Article 370, 35A||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that held a meeting in Srinagar on Tuesday adopted a resolution to restore the constitutional position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh under Article 370 and 35A.The alliance’s spokesperson and CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami made the announcement on the resolution at the end of the meeting that was called to discuss the prevailing situation in the Union territory and have wider consultations on the way forward for restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting was held at alliance chairman and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah's residence at Gupkar at 11 am.We have adopted a resolution to restore the constitutional position of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh under Article 370 and 35A: People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) Spokesperson, MY Tarigami pic.twitter.com/c3v9bJ02xBThe PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Narendra Modi government in August 2019.Besides the heads of the constituent parties, several middle and lower-rung leaders attended the meeting. Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence, senior vice president of Awami National Conference, a constituent of the alliance, Muzaffar Shah said the agenda of the meeting, apart from the restoration of the Article 370, is to launch a mass contact programme.Asked about the reports of the administration having denied permission for the meeting, he said a democratic meeting cannot be denied."We are holding a democratic meeting and the government cannot stop us from doing it. We will discuss how to reach out to every region's aspirations," Shah said.Earlier, a leader of the alliance had said that the meeting would be different from the earlier ones."This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations, but the middle rung leadership as well," he had said.The meeting has been called to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir and "have wider consultations on various issues", he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-adopts-resolution-to-restore-j-k-s-status-under-article-370-35a-101629795478507.html
24-08-2021||India||Assam to destroy rhino horns stored over four decades||Assam’s forest and environment department plans to destroy animal parts, including around 2,500 rhino horns, seized from poachers, smugglers or extracted from dead animals over the last four decades. State chief wildlife warden MK Yadava said a final decision on destroying the horns will be taken after a public hearing on August 29 and based on recommendations of a state-level committee constituted last month for the purpose. “Based on the public hearing and the recommendations of the committee, the plan to destroy the horns would be finalised.”Officials said around five per cent of the horns needed in court cases and for preservation for educational and scientific purposes will continue to be stored. They will include the horns with unique features like the heaviest and longest among them. Elephant tusks and similar stored items will also be destroyed. Rhino horns are used in traditional medicine in countries such as China and Vietnam. Their high value has been blamed among one of the reasons for rampant killing of rhinos. Assam is home to the world’s largest population of one-horned rhinos. According to a 2018 census, there were nearly 2,650 rhinos in the state. Around 2,400 of them were concentrated in the Kaziranga National Park.Rhinos are listed in the Schedule 1 of Wildlife (Protection) Act as an endangered species. There is an international ban on trade of rhino horns.Also Read | Chakma groups reject proposed relocation move from Arunachal Pradesh, write to PM ModiAssam constituted a committee in 2016 to verify the horns amid doubts over their authenticity and safety. The committee found almost all 2,500 horns were genuine.Experts welcomed the move to destroy the horns. “Scientifically, rhino horns do not have any value. But they have a price in some markets based on superstitions about its medicinal properties. If we preserve them, it will convey the message that we believe in such superstitions. The horns stored in Assam should be destroyed,” said Rathin Barman, joint director, Wildlife Trust of India.Mrinal Talukdar, a member of the committee constituted for the verification of the horns, said they suggested the horns should be destroyed. “Preserving them could give a message to poachers that the horns are indeed of value and could lead to more poaching of the species.”Officials said six zonal committees verified the animal parts between August 18 and August 23 across Assam. The process involved forensic examination, extraction of DNA material, generation of barcode for each part, measurement and weighing of specimens and photography. Officials said the verification was done in presence of magistrates, representatives of deputy commissioners, superintendents of police, members of previous verification panels and members of technical, zonal and state committees. “All the activities are duly photo captured and video graphed. The operation is screened live on big monitors kept outside the halls for public viewing and transparency,” said a forest department statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-destroy-rhino-horns-stored-over-four-decades-101629795451145.html
24-08-2021||India||Three militants killed in gunfight in north Kashmir’s Sopore||Three unidentified militants were killed in a gunfight in north Kashmir’s Seer Jagir village late on Monday, police said.On a specific input, police, CRPF and the army launched a search and cordon operation at Seer Jagir village in Sopore on Monday night. The operation turned into an exchange of fire that continued till morning. Police said the identity of the militants is still being ascertained.A police spokesperson said, “Arms and ammunition were also recovered from the site.” During the exchange of fire, police snapped mobile internet in Sopore town and also suspended the railway service between Srinagar and Baramulla, as the railway line passes through the village.Also Read | RTF commander, deputy were killed in covert operation: J&K PoliceThe killing comes a day after police killed TRF chief Abbas Shiekh and his deputy Saqib Manzoor in Srinagar in an operation. With the toll in Sopore gunfight, police said the number of militants killed in Kashmir this year has reached 100.“Today, by the collective efforts of @JmuKmrPolice, @ChinarcorpsIA, @crpfindia and people of #Kashmir have led to #neutralisation of more than 100 #terrorists in the year of 2021 so far in Kashmir division,” J&K police tweeted while quoting Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar. Police said among the 100 militants killed this year, most are locals and top commanders of different outfits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-militants-killed-in-gunfight-in-north-kashmir-s-sopore-101629794911111.html
24-08-2021||India||'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from Afghanistan||India on Tuesday gave a name to its operation to evacuate its citizens from war-torn Afghanistan. External affairs minister S Jaishankar called it 'Operation Devi Shakti' and saluted the efforts of Indian Air Force and Air India."Op Devi Shakti continues. 78 evacuees from Kabul arrive via Dushanbe. Salute @IAF_MCC, @AirIndiain and #TeamMEA for their untiring efforts," Jaishankar tweeted.Op Devi Shakti continues. 78 evacuees from Kabul arrive via Dushanbe. Salute @IAF_MCC, @AirIndiain and #TeamMEA for their untiring efforts. #DeviShaktiHis tweet came hours after 78 people, including 25 Indian nationals, were brought to New Delhi from Tajikistan's Dushanbe in a special Air India flight on Tuesday. They were flown out of Taliban-controlled Kabul to Dushanbe in an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) a day before.Three copies (swaroop) of the Sikh sacred scripture Guru Granth Sahib was also brought back, which were received by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. He expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for carrying out rescue operations from Afghanistan and said the government is in constant touch with the remaining people over there."I want to start by thanking Prime Minister who made it possible to carry out these rescue operations to bring our brethren who are in difficult circumstances there (Afghanistan)," said Puri.ਵਿਚਿ ਕਰਤਾ ਪੁਰਖੁ ਖਲੋਆ ||ਵਾਲੁ ਨ ਵਿੰਗਾ ਹੋਆ ||धन्य हैं गुरु के सिख, सरदार हिम्मत सिंह, सरदार कुलराज सिंह और सरदार धर्मेंद्र सिंह जी जिनके द्वारा काबुल से लाये गए गुरु ग्रन्थ साहिब जी के तीन पवित्र स्वरूपों का दिल्ली में आगमन हुआ | गुरु साहिब हमेशा अपने सिखों पर कृपा बनाये रखें। pic.twitter.com/MTgYYtciwM"I want to compliment the Ministry of External Affairs, External Affairs Minister (EAM) S Jaishankar and minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan for having implemented this," he added.On Monday, India evacuated 75 Sikhs amid the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan.India has so far evacuated more than 800 people since the Taliban seized power in Afghanistan. Nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan. These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport, according to Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum which has been coordinating the evacuation efforts with the Ministry of External Affairs and the IAF.Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for nearly a week in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality.India is carrying out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operation-devi-shakti-india-evacuates-more-than-800-people-from-afghanistan-101629794300934.html
24-08-2021||India||Union ministers receive Guru Granth Sahib from Kabul||Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, V Muraleedaran and two other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Tuesday received three copies of Sikh holy book Guru Granth Sahib as they arrived from Kabul along with 75 evacuees from Afghanistan on an Indian Air Force plane.Puri tweeted visuals of him carrying the holy book on his head and called it his privilege. In a tweet, Murleedharan, the minister of state for external affairs, said: “Joined Minister Shri @HardeepSPuri Ji at Delhi Airport in receiving Swaroop of Shri Guru Granth Sahib ji arrived from Afghanistan along with evacuees.”Earlier, pictures of three Sikh evacuees carrying the copies of Guru Granth Sahib on their heads barefooted at Kabul Airport went viral on social media.RP Singh, a BJP leader, said the copies of the scripture will be kept at Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara, better known as Kabuli Gurudwara in New Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, which shelters hundreds of Afghan Sikh nationals.Around 700 people, including Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, have been brought to India from Kabul. The evacuees include Afghan lawmakers Narinder Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Kaur Honaryar.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Manjinder Sirsa has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to extend the cut-off date under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act for fast-tracking of citizenship from 2014 to 2021 so that Afghan evacuees can be granted Indian nationality. The law was passed in 2019 to fast-track citizenship process for non-Muslims from three neighbouring countries, including Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-receive-guru-granth-sahib-from-kabul-101629792871228.html
24-08-2021||India||Assam: Alleged gun smuggler tries to escape from police custody, killed||An alleged arms smuggler arrested on Monday following a joint operation by Border Security Force (BSF) and Assam Police in Karimganj district was killed in an encounter a few hours later, police claimed. The deceased, Nurul Islam, and another accused H Liang Khiyamon were arrested for carrying illegal arms while onboard Silchar-Guwahati train at Assam’s Badarpur. Islam was killed around midnight at Marjatkandi area under Badarpur police station when he attempted to escape, police claimed. Acting on a tip off, BSF and Assam Police jointly recovered 5 pistols, including four 7.65 mm pistols and a pen pistol from 31-year-old Islam, a resident of Baraigram area of the Karimganj district and 22-year-old Khiyamon, a resident of Tuensang district in Nagaland, during a search of Silchar-Guwahati passenger train on Monday morning. The duo was arrested for smuggling arms, police said. A police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Islam was taken to Marjatkandi area in Badarpur on Monday midnight for further investigation in the case but he tried to snatch a gun from a policeman and tried to escape. “On-duty officers fired at him to prevent him from escaping. Islam sustained severe injuries and was taken to Karimganj civil hospital where the doctors declared him dead,” the police officer quoted above said. Senior state police officers are yet to make any official comment on the purported encounter. One official aware of the developments said, “This happened when the police department attempted a raid at Marjatkandi area based on information given by Nurul Islam. We are not sure if he was shot by police or by his own people because the area was dark. Though, no other police officer or any civilian were injured during this incident. Things are under investigation,” he said.After Islam and his accomplice were arrested on Monday, Karimganj deputy superintendent of police (DSP), D Sharma said the accused were coming from Nagaland’s Dimapur.“...After initial interrogation, the arrested duo confessed to smuggling guns. It is possible that others were also involved in this smuggling,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-alleged-gun-smuggler-tries-to-escape-from-police-custody-killed-101629792391259.html
24-08-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in J-K’s Baramulla as midnight encounter ends||Three unidentified terrorists were gunned down by security forces on Tuesday during an encounter, which started late on Monday in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district, police said. “01 more unidentified # terrorist killed (Total 03). Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered. Operation over. Further details shall follow,” the Kashmir Zone Police tweeted on Tuesday afternoon.The site of the encounter was the Seer village in the Sopore area after security forces received inputs about the presence of terrorists there. A search and cordon operation was launched after a heavy exchange of fire.The encounter in Sopore comes hours after the Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday gunned down two top commanders of the terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba offshoot The Resistance Force (TRF).A senior police official said that Mohammad Abbas Sheikh, the chief of the TRF, and Mohammad Abbas Sheikh, were killed in a “swift intelligence-based operation following a brief shootout” with the police at Aloochi Bagh in Srinagar. The official added that the two terrorists were responsible for several killings and also motivated the youth to join the terror ranks.“We had information about their presence in the area. Ten jawans of the police dressed in civvies quickly surrounded the area and challenged the terrorists, who opened fire. In retaliatory firing, the duo was killed,” Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police of Kashmir Zone, said while addressing a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-baramulla-as-midnight-encounter-ends-101629767702799.html
24-08-2021||India||RTF commander, deputy were killed in covert operation: J&K Police||The killings of chief commander of Resistance Force (TRF), a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), and his deputy on Monday evening were part of a covert operation, said the police.Terming the operation a big success, police said they tracked down RTF commander Abbas Sheikh following inputs that he was operating in Srinagar and shuttling between central and South Kashmir. Sheikh’s deputy Saqib Manzoor was shot dead along with him on Monday.Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said a 10-member police team raided a specific location in Alochibagh area. “During the raid, the militants were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they started firing at the police team. Our team also retaliated. In a brief exchange of fire, two militants of LeT (TRF) were neutralised,” he said.Also Read | Don’t believe the Taliban’s rhetoric. Women’s rights are under threatSheikh was earlier a Hizbul Mujahideen militant, arrested and released twice. Later, he joined LeT and, according to the police, was operating as the TRF chief. Manzoor had been active since 2020 and helped Shiekh in carrying out attacks in the city. Sheikh was from Kulgam district while Manzoor hailed from Barzulla.“They were involved in killing of several political workers, police personnel and civilians. Saqib Manzoor was involved in the killing of advocate Babar Qadri last year. Besides, both them were also involved in several grenade attacks on security establishments and were also involved in several other terror crimes and civilian atrocities,” police spokesperson said in a statement released after the killing late Monday.Both Sheikh and Manzoor were among the top 10 militants operating in Kashmir, according to the list police released earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtf-commander-deputy-were-killed-in-covert-operationjkpolice-101629790770850.html
24-08-2021||India||UP police to conduct autopsy of man's body kept in freezer for 22 days by father||The police in Uttar Pradesh will on Tuesday conduct a second post-mortem investigation of the body of a man, which has been kept in a freezer by his father since his death. The father, retired Subedar Shivprasad Pathak, has refused to perform last rites of his son Shivank, alleging that he was murdered.The 32-year-old died in Delhi allegedly under mysterious circumstances, on August 1 and Shivprasad Pathak took the body to his home in Sultanpur where it has been kept in a deep freezer for the past 22 days.He said that the family will perform Shivank's last rites only after they get justice.“Shiv Pratap Pathak, resident of Majhauan village, had kept the body of his Shivank Pathak, 32, in deep freezer at his home for the last 21 days. Shivank died in Delhi on August 1. The post-mortem of the body was conducted in Delhi and foul play was ruled out, but the father claimed that his son was murdered and preserved the body in a deep freezer. It has been decided that a panel of doctors formed under the supervision of the chief medical officer (CMO) of the district will conduct a post-mortem mortem investigation of the body,” Sultanpur district magistrate Raveesh Gupta said on Monday.The DM held a meeting with the district police chief on Monday before directing the CMO to conduct the post-mortem.Before ordering the autopsy, the district administration issued a notice to Pathak on Saturday asking him to perform the last rites of his son or face action.Shivank went to Delhi in 2012, and started working in a call centre, news agency PTI reported quoting his family members. He met Gurleen Kaur in Delhi and the two got married in 2013, PTI further reported.Shivprasad Pathak alleged that since Shivank had a huge property in his name, his wife was eyeing it, according to PTI. He also claimed that his son was murdered but police did not register any case, and the body was handed over to him after the post-mortem examination in Delhi.Local representative of political parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), met the father last week and assured him of their support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-to-conduct-autopsy-of-man-s-body-kept-in-freezer-for-22-days-by-father-101629790074767.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: UAE temporarily suspends on-arrival visa for Indians with US, UK visas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UAE temporarily suspends visa-on-arrival facility for Indians with UK, US visasThe United Arab Emirates (UAE) has temporarily suspended visa on arrival facility for Indian nationals who have visa or residence permit issued by the United States, the United Kingdom or a European Union member state. This was announced by Etihad Airways on Twitter on Monday. Read moreInfosys hits $100 billion m-cap, fourth Indian firm to reach milestoneThe shares of Information Technology major Infosys hit a record high during intra day trading on Tuesday, which helped the company cross $100 billion in market capitalisation. Infosys is the fourth Indian company to achieve this milestone. Read moreTokyo 2020 Paralympics India Schedule: Indian Contingent Dates, Timings and EventsAfter sending its biggest Olympic contingent to Japan for the Tokyo Olympics, India has now sent its largest Paralympic contingent for the Tokyo Paralympics 2020. Read moreHere's what Sharmila Tagore tells Kareena Kapoor when she says 'I am like your daughter’Actor Sharmila Tagore has spoken about her daughter-in-law, actor Kareena Kapoor. She mentioned the qualities she loves about Kareena and how she is like a daughter to her. Read moreHyundai i20 N Line breaks cover; six colours, sportier steering and suspensionHyundai i20 N Line was officially unveiled in India on Tuesday and will be the first of several N Line models to touch down here in the times to come. Read moreBeyoncé becomes first Black woman to wear iconic Tiffany Diamond, pays homage to Audrey HepburnAmerican singer Beyoncé and her husband, Jay-Z's new Tiffany campaign dropped yesterday, and it has already stirred a storm online. The Grammy-Award winner made fashion history with the shoot, as she became the first Black woman to wear the iconic 128.54 carats Tiffany Diamond. Read moreVideo shows elephant having a gala time splashing in a pool. WatchSome videos make the Internet a joyful place and this clip of an elephant enjoying in a pool of water as well as mud is one of them. Shared on Twitter by Oregon zoo, the clip features Samudra the elephant. And that’s not all. The video is a tribute to the happy elephant on his 13th birthday. The clip will leave you smiling widely. Read moreAfghans in India seek refugee status, UNHCR says neighbours must keep doors openAfghan nationals continued their protest outside the UNHCR office in Delhi's Vasant Vihar. Desperate and fearful protesters demanded refugee status for Afghans and resettlement options in a third country. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uae-temporarily-suspends-on-arrival-visa-for-indians-with-us-uk-visas-and-all-the-latest-news-101629789285977.html
24-08-2021||India||Guru Granth Sahib, 44 Afghan Sikhs flown out of Afghanistan. Blessed, says Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri||As India evacuated hundreds of people, including Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, three copies of Guru Granth Sahib were also flown out of Kabul, where the situation has been chaotic with a number of people dying and making a desperate dash out of Taliban controlled Afghanistan. Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V Muraleedharan received the copies of Guru Granth Sahib and 44 Afghan Sikhs who reached India from Kabul on a special Air India flight after a stopover in Tajikistan’s capital city of Dushanbe."Blessed to receive & pay obeisance to three holy Swaroop of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji from Kabul to Delhi a short while ago,” Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted along with a video showing him carrying a copy of the holy book. Puri also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for carrying out rescue operations from Afghanistan and said the government is in touch with those in the country. The minister also said all the copies of Guru Granth Sahib have undergone the Covid-19 test.ਵਾਹੁ ਵਾਹੁ ਬਾਣੀ ਨਿਰੰਕਾਰ ਹੈ ਤਿਸੁ ਜੇਵਡੁ ਅਵਰੁ ਨ ਕੋਇ ।।Deeply privileged & fortunate to welcome the three holy Swaroop of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji from Kabul at ⁦⁦@DelhiAirport⁩ along with Sh ⁦⁦@VMBJP⁩ Ji, Sh ⁦@dushyanttgautam⁩ Ji & members of Sikh Sangat. pic.twitter.com/mWhTwpnoOsNews agency PTI reported citing people familiar with the development that the three copies of Guru Granth Sahib will be taken to Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara in the Capital’s New Mahavir Nagar.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader RP Singh and president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management committee Manjinder Singh Sirsa were also present at the airport. "I request PM & HM to amend CAA and extend the cut-off date from 2014 to 2021 so that people coming from Afghanistan get benefitted & lead a safe life here and their children are able to study here," Sirsa later said in a tweet."The Afghan Sikhs will stay at a hotel in Karol Bagh till further arrangements are made," Kanv Bhalla, an entrepreneur coordinating rehabilitation efforts on behalf of New York-based philanthropist Mandeep Singh Sobti.Also read | Will US compensate loss of Kabul by action on China?The Afghan Sikhs were among the 78 people, including 25 Indian nationals, to be brought to India. They were evacuated from Taliban-controlled Kabul to Dushanbe in an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) a day before. "Helping in the safe return from Afghanistan. AI 1956 enroute to Delhi from Dushanbe carrying 78 passengers, including 25 Indian nationals. Evacuees were flown in from Kabul on an @IAF_MCC aircraft," Arindam Bagchi, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson, tweeted earlier in the day.Also watch | Afghans in India seek refugee status, UNHCR says neighbours must keep doors openPuneet Singh Chandhok, the president of the Indian World Forum, an organisation coordinating the evacuation efforts with the ministry of external affairs and the IAF, said there are nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who are still stranded in Afghanistan. Chandhok said they have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport. Around 75 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are likely to be evacuated soon, Chandhok said.People taking shelter inside the gurdwara have said that the 10-kilometre drive to the Kabul airport through various checkpoints is one of the biggest challenges in the rescue efforts, according to news agency PTI. Those checkpoints are mostly manned by Taliban fighters.India has stepped up efforts to evacuate its citizens as well as its Afghans from Kabul amid the rapidly deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital and other parts of the country. India has so far evacuated hundreds of people from Afghanistan since August 16, a day after Kabul was overtaken by the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guru-granth-sahib-flown-out-of-afghanistan-blessed-says-hardeep-singh-puri-101629787390550.html
24-08-2021||India||Another FIR registered against poet Munawwar Rana for comparing Taliban with Valmiki||A case has been registered in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna against poet Munawwar Rana for allegedly comparing Taliban with Valmiki, who wrote Ramayana, under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 505 (2) (public mischief) and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Police superintendent (Guna) Rajesh Mishra said the case will be forwarded to the police in Lucknow as the alleged comments were made there. The case was registered on Bharatiya Janata Party Scheduled Caste Morcha general secretary Sunil Malviya’s complaint.Also Read | Will US compensate loss of Kabul by action on China?Malviya said by comparing Taliban with Valmiki, Rana insulted Valmiki community and the Hindu religion. “The statement of Rana hurt our religious sentiments.”Rana told a TV channel that Valmiki “became a God after he wrote the Ramayana, before that he was a dacoit. A person’s character can change. Similarly, the Taliban, for now, are terrorists but people and characters change. When you talk about Valmiki, you will have to talk about his past. In your religion, you make anyone God. But he was a writer, and he wrote the Ramayana, but we are not in competition here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-fir-registered-against-poet-munawwar-rana-for-comparing-taliban-with-valmiki-101629787350760.html
24-08-2021||India||UAE temporarily suspends visa-on-arrival facility for Indians with UK, US visas||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has temporarily suspended visa on arrival facility for Indian nationals who have visa or residence permit issued by the United States, the United Kingdom or a European Union member state. This was announced by Etihad Airways on Twitter on Monday."The UAE authorities have decided to temporarily suspend the Visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or been in India in the past 14 days," a tweet from Etihad Help said in response to a user's query.The UAE authorities have decided to temporarily suspend the Visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or been in India in the past 14 days. We're working to update our website, please keep an eye on https://t.co/hWA7ZGfiaF for latest regulations. *AriIt did not provide any reason or further details for the decision, but said that the details will be updated on the airline's website.Last week, Etihad had announced that Indian nationals with a visa or residence permit issued by the US, UK or an EU member state are eligible for UAE visa."If you’re an Indian citizen, you are now eligible to apply for a visa when you arrive in the UAE, including Abu Dhabi. To qualify, you must have a US Visitor Visa or Green Card , or holding a UK or EU residence valid for at least 6 months ,and your passport must have at least six months validity," the airline's website had said.Earlier this month, the UAE eased Covid-19 restrictions by issuing new travel protocol that allowed passengers from India and five other countries. However, all flyers were asked to undergo a Polymerase Chain Reaction test on the day of arrival and on the ninth day after arrival in the UAE.The passengers were also asked to produce a negative PCR test certificate with 48 hours validity and also undergo a Rapid PCR test at the departure airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-temporarily-suspends-visa-on-arrival-facility-for-indians-with-uk-us-visas-101629785382967.html
24-08-2021||India||Not committed any offence: Narayan Rane on 'would have slapped Thackeray' remark||Union minister Narayan Rane, who has been booked for his remarks against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said on Tuesday that he has not committed any offence. The Rajya Sabha member said reports in the media are based on false information.Rane sparked off a row with his remarks about slapping Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's Independence. Three FIRs have been registered against him - in Nashik, Pune and Mahad (in Raigad district)."I have not committed any offence. The reports of my arrest are false. I have not received any intimation of the legal action or arrest notice," Rane said today.The Union minister also said that the police should understand that his party (the Bharatiya Janata Party) is running the government at the Centre."The police first should check my statement to see if it leads to the criminal offence. They should understand that our government is at the Centre," said Rane."CM Thackeray too had given similar statement against BJP leader Prasad Lad a few weeks ago. Why no action was taken against it?" he askedAlso Read: Narayan Rane is trying to create confusion within MVA, says Eknath ShindeTalking about the FIRs against his Jan Aashirwad Yatra in Mumbai, the Union minister said the programme will continue as per the schedule.The Cyber Police in Nashik has booked Rane under sections 500, 505(2), 153 (b) (1) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after a complaint from the local unit chief of Shiv Sena, following which the police commissioner issued an order to arrest the Union minister and formed a team. In Pune, the FIR has been registered under sections 153 and 505 of the IPC, following a complaint by Yuva Sena. The third FIR in Mahad was also registered on a complaint from a Shiv Sena worker.The state leadership of the BJP has come out in support on Rane, saying the action is out of political vendetta."Uddhav Thackeray had use similar language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during Lok Sabha elections in 2019. His language in Dussehra rally was equally objectionable," said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil."No state government/authorities can arrest any Union cabinet minister as per the constitutional provisions," Patil added.The ruling Shiv Sena, meanwhile, demanded Rane explusion from the Union Cabinet. "I will meet PM Modi today and submit a letter in behalf of my party," said party leader Vinayak Raut.Reports say that a team of Nashik police has left for Chiplun in Konkan region, where Rane is present now. Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pande asked deputy commissioner Sanjay Barkund to form a team to arrest Rane and produce him before court."Considering the seriousness of the issue, I have asked DCP level officer Sanjay Barkund to constitute a team and produce Rane before court after arresting him," said Pandey in his order.He added that the police will ensure that the privilege of the minister/parliamentarian is not breached, and added that Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu will be informed in case Rane is arrested.Rane started his political life in Mumbai with the Shiv Sena under Bal Thackeray in the late 1960s. He entered the Maharashtra Assembly in 1990 as a Sena MLA. In February 1999, he was sworn in as Maharashtra's 13th chief minister. That stint was short as the then Shiv Sena-BJP combine lost the state Assembly elections held later that year.In 2005, Rane parted ways with the Shiv Sena following irreconcilable differences with the Thackerays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-committed-any-offence-nayaran-rane-on-would-have-slapped-thackeray-remark-101629782961076.html
24-08-2021||India||India adds over 25k new Covid cases for 2nd straight day, logs 354 more deaths||India on Tuesday recorded 25,467 fresh cases and 354 more fatalities due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 32,474,773 and 435,110 respectively, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. It is the second consecutive day that the daily Covid-19 tally in the country was above the 25,000-mark.Tuesday’s case count is 395 less than that of Monday’s when 25,072 people were detected Covid-19 positive, the lowest in 160 days. On the other hand, the deaths on Tuesday are 35 less than that of Monday’s when 389 patients succumbed to the viral disease.Also Read| Comorbid kids to be first to get vaccine: Panel chiefNearly 40,000 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, and the total recoveries from the viral disease have climbed to 31,720,112. The active caseload, on the other hand, has further declined to 319,551, the lowest in 156 days comprising less than 1.03 per cent of the total cases.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 509,391,792 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,647,526 were tested in the last 24 hours.As India continues to battle the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, which took its worst shape in April and May this year, an expert panel, set up by an institute under the Union home ministry predicted that the third wave would hit the country anytime between September and October and advised that the pace of vaccination should be significantly increased.Also Read| Covid-19: MHA panel warns of third wave peak in Oct, lack of infra to treat kidsThe expert panel, which has been constituted by the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), said that children will have a similar risk as adults as paediatric facilities, doctors and equipment including ventilators “are nowhere close” to what may be required if a large number of children are infected with Covid-19.In its report submitted to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the panel also pointed out that only 7.6 per cent of the country’s population was fully vaccinated and warned that if the inoculation drive is not ramped up, the country might record 600,000 cases on a daily basis in the third wave.According to the health ministry’s data at 7am, 588,997,805 vaccines have been administered to people till now of which 456,151,209 have received the first dose and the remaining 132,846,596 are fully vaccinated. More than 6.38 million people were vaccinated in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-over-25k-new-covid-cases-for-2nd-straight-day-logs-354-more-deaths-101629777685525.html
24-08-2021||India||'New Era': Covid-19 vaccination slots can now be booked on WhatsApp||Booking slots for vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will become easier now as the government partnered with Facebook-owned messaging application WhatsApp for the same.The tie-up among the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, citizen engagement platform MyGovIndia and WhatsApp will enable eligible individuals to get an appointment for a dose of the vaccine via phone.Taking to Twitter, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya wrote on Tuesday, “Paving a new era of citizen convenience. Now, book COVID-19 vaccine slots easily on your phone within minutes."Paving a new era of citizen convenience.Now, book #COVID19 vaccine slots easily on your phone within minutes.🔡 Send ‘Book Slot’ to MyGovIndia Corona Helpdesk on WhatsApp🔢 Verify OTP📱Follow the stepsBook today: https://t.co/HHgtl990bbThe chief executive officer (CEO) of WhatsApp Inc also put out a similar message. "Today we’re partnering with @MoHFW_INDIA and @mygovindia to enable people to make their vaccine appointments via WhatsApp. Spread the word," Cathcart tweeted.Besides booking slots, vaccinated individuals can also download their vaccine certificates through the same mechanism, Cathcart said, adding over three million Indians have already availed the service.Today we’re partnering with @MoHFW_INDIA and @mygovindia to enable people to make their vaccine appointments via WhatsApp. Spread the word: https://t.co/2oB1XJbUXD https://t.co/yvF6vzPHI1Also Read: Paytm launches Covid-19 vaccine slot booking feature: All you need to knowOn August 5, MyGov and WhatsApp had introduced the ability for users to download vaccine certificates from the chatbot; and so far, over 32 lakh certificates have been downloaded by users across the country.MyGov CEO Abhishek Singh said the new tie-up will enable digital inclusion since WhatsApp is much easier to navigate, and thanked the messaging app for creating the chatbot to help facilitate citizen's access to vaccination.“MyGov Corona Helpdesk is now also aiding in the process of vaccine booking and finding vaccination centres and slots and downloading vaccination certificates. It is enabling digital inclusion in the true sense as most people find the AI-based interface enabled on WhatsApp easier to navigate. We are thankful to WhatsApp for their continued support in helping us unlock the true potential of this chatbot for citizen help and engagement throughout the trying times of the pandemic," Singh, who also heads the government’s Digital India Corporation (DIC), was quoted as saying by Mint.To book slots on WhatsApp, one has follow these below-mentioned steps:Vaccine slots were so far being booked via the government-owned Co-WIN Portal or Arogya Setu/Umang Mobile Application and the Paytm App. Alternatively, one can get registered for a shot on-site at the vaccination centre.As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, India has, so far, inoculated about 58.89 crore beneficiaries against the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-slots-can-now-be-booked-on-whatsapp-know-more-101629781297418.html
24-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 588 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 588 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, August 23. With ZydusCadila’s vaccine, ZyCoV-D getting emergency use approval last week for children aged above 12, the Centre said on Monday that kids with comorbidities will be vaccinated firstMeanwhile, by 8pm on Monday, 588,221,623 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,610,116 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,962,091 got their first dose while 1,648,025 got their second dose.Also Read | New Zealand witnesses highest jump in Covid-19 cases since April 2020In the 18-45 age group, 219,881,683 have been given the first dose while 20,268,984 doses were given as the second dose.Among the healthcare workers, 10,353,668 have been given the first dose while 8,231,444 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,306,660 have got their first dose and 12,635,749 have got their second dose too.On Tuesday, India added 25,467 new Covid cases, while the active cases declined to 319,551, comprising 0.98% of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data.The total tally of Covid cases has risen to 32,474,773. The death toll has climbed to 435,110 with 354 fresh fatalities to the virus, according to the data updated at 8am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-588-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629780930437.html
24-08-2021||India||Punjab farmers' protest: 27 trains cancelled on fifth day of stir | 10 points||The farmers' agitation in Punjab over sugarcane prices entered its fifth day on Tuesday, impacting rail services and road traffic. Chief minister Amarinder Singh is scheduled to hold meeting farmer leaders over the sugarcane issue and clearance of dues.The indefinite stir was launched by the farmers in Jaladhar on Friday, who are sitting on key highway stretches and train tracks. The last meeting on Monday to a final call on the new state assured price (SAP) for the sugarcane crop remained inconclusive.On Tuesday, the officials in the Ferozepur division said that they had to cancel and divert a number of trains due to the ongoing agitation.Here are the latest developments on the farmers' stir in Punjab:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-protest-27-trains-cancelled-on-fifth-day-of-protest-10-points-101629777064337.html
24-08-2021||India||Subdued monsoon over NW India till Friday, says IMD||Subdued monsoon is likely over northwest India, central India and remaining parts of peninsular India including Maharashtra and Gujarat till August 27, according to India Meteorological Department.The western end of the monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and the eastern end lying to the north of its normal position. The western end is very likely to shift gradually northwards from today and the eastern end is likely to shift southwards from August 26. Subdued rain is expected over northwest India because the monsoon trough is shifting northwards which will lead to scanty rains over the plains. A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood. Strong southerly/south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India are very likely to continue till tomorrow.Also Read | Ambiguous definition means oil-palm plantations will count as forest coverDue to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till August 27.Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya till tomorrow. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is likely to continue over Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand till Friday.Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls over Tamil Nadu and Kerala is likely on Thursday and Friday.Subdued rainfall is very likely over rest of the country covering plains of northwest India, central India and remaining parts of Peninsular India including Maharashtra and Gujarat at least till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subdued-monsoon-over-nw-india-till-friday-says-imd-101629775950142.html
24-08-2021||India||FIRs against Union min Narayan Rane over 'slapping ignorant CM Thackeray' remark||Three FIRs have been registered against Union Minister Narayan Rane over his remarks about giving “a tight slap” to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who he claimed was ignorant of the country’s year of independence. The complaints were registered in Pune, Nashik and Mahad.Nashik Cyber police registered an FIR on a complaint from the Shiv Sena's local chief, following which the police commissioner issued an order to arrest the Union minister and formed a team, led by DCP Sanjay Barkund, for the same.Another FIR was registered under sections 153 and 505 of the Indian Penal Code at the Chaturshringi Police Station of Pune city, following a complaint by Yuva Sena, according to news agency ANI. The third FIR was lodged at Mahad based on a complaint filed by a Sena worker.The Union minister later said he had no information about any legal complaint being registered against him, adding that he was not a conman and had not committed any crime. "I have no information that an FIR has been registered against me. I am not a common man. I have not committed any crime. Is it not a crime if someone does not know about August 15? I had said that I would have slapped - these were the words and it is not a crime," he said.Rane triggered the controversy while addressing a Jan Ashirvad Yatra of the BJP in Raigad district on Monday. The BJP leader, who was recently inducted into the Narendra Modi cabinet, and former Shiv Sena chief minister said Thackeray forgot the year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state and had he been present at the spot, he would have slapped him.Also read | 36 FIRs filed so far against BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Mumbai“It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap,” Rane said.Thackeray had to check the year of independence with his aides midway during the speech that day, Rane said.Rane’s remarks drew sharp reactions from the ruling Shiv Sena, whose workers put several posters in Mumbai and other places, calling him a ‘kombdi chor’ (chicken stealer), a reference to the poultry shop he ran in Chembur five decades ago, during his initial stint with the Bal Thackeray-led party. The Sena’s Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut said Rane has lost his mental balance. “To impress BJP leadership, Rane has been attacking Shiv Sena and its leaders. He has lost his mental balance after his induction into the Modi-led ministry. Modi should show him the door,” Raut said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-union-min-narayan-rane-over-slapping-ignorant-cm-thackeray-remark-101629775308815.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PAGD to hold meeting today to discuss way forward and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PAGD to hold meeting today, discuss way forwardThe People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is set to meet in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in the Union territory (UT). Read MoreProposal to amend UP government’s policy to turn Ayodhya into solar cityLarsen & Toubro (L&T) is preparing a detailed project report (DPR) to transform the temple town of Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh into a solar city. Read More US President Joe Biden to meet G7 leaders today to discuss AfghanistanUS President Joe Biden is all set to hold a meeting with the Group of Seven (G7) leaders on Tuesday to discuss evacuation efforts in Afghanistan. Read MoreIndia Predicted XI for 3rd Test against England: Will India hand debut to Suryakumar to replace Cheteshwar PujaraAfter conquering Lord’s, Virat Kohli’s Team India has arrived in Leeds for the third Test against Joe Root’s England which begins from Wednesday. Read MoreSpider-Man: No Way Home trailer out, Tom Holland, Benedict Cumberbatch ride into the multiverseThe trailer for Spider-Man: No Way Home was released on Tuesday, a day after it was leaked online. Read MoreMadhuri Dixit teams the most dramatic blouse with embellished lehenga, Nora Fatehi reactsIf there is one Bollywood actor who has nailed the art of traditional dressing, it is Madhuri Dixit Nene. Read More‘If someone hides…’: MP Home Minister justifies beating of Bangle sellerMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra justified the thrashing of a bangles’ seller in Indore. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pagd-to-hold-meeting-today-to-discuss-way-forward-and-all-the-latest-news-101629774077714.html
24-08-2021||India||Air India flight with 78 people evacuated from Afghanistan lands in Delhi||As many as 78 people, including 25 Indian nationals, are brought to New Delhi from Tajikistan's Dushanbe in a special Air India flight on Tuesday. They were flown out of Taliban-controlled Kabul to Dushanbe in an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) a day before. "Helping in the safe return from Afghanistan. AI 1956 enroute to Delhi from Dushanbe carrying 78 passengers, including 25 Indian nationals. Evacuees were flown in from Kabul on an @IAF_MCC aircraft," Arindam Bagchi, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson, tweeted.Bagchi also posted a short clip of passengers on board the flight shouting Sikh slogans like Waheguru Ka Khalsa, Waheguru Ki Fateh. pic.twitter.com/N5t3wGzpnKIndia is expected to evacuate more people, including its own nationals and dozens of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul. On Monday, Indian authorities evacuated 75 Sikhs amid the deteriorating situation in war-torn Afghanistan.Also watch | Taliban recapture 3 districts as Panjshir resistance refuses to surrenderAlso read | US President Joe Biden to meet G7 leaders today to discuss AfghanistanThree copies of the Guru Granth Sahib and 75 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, will also be evacuated from Afghanistan on an IAF plane. “Three Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji are being escorted to the IAF aircraft at Kabul Airport. Forty-six Afghan Hindus and Sikhs along with stranded Indian nationals are blessed to return on the same flight,” Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted.Also read | Afghanistan's neighbours must keep borders open for refugees: UNHCRPuneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum, said nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan. “These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport,” he told news agency PTI.India evacuated nearly 540 people, including 475 of its nationals, on several flights from Kabul, Dushanbe and Doha on Sunday. Nearly 200 people – including diplomats, officials and security personnel posted at the Indian embassy and some Indian nationals – were flown out of Kabul within two days of the Taliban capturing Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-with-78-people-evacuated-from-afghanistan-lands-in-delhi-101629774345596.html
24-08-2021||India||Will begin delivery of S-400 missile system to India by year end: Russian firm||The deputy CEO of the air and space defense concern Almaz-Antey, Vyacheslav Dzirkaln on Monday said Russia will begin to deliver surface-to-air missile defence system (SAM) S-400 by end of the year 2021."I can confirm that we will deliver [the S-400 system to India] by the end of 2021 in accordance with the schedule and contractual obligations of the Russian side," Dzirkaln said while interacting at International Military-Technical Forum "ARMY-2021".He also said that at the present Indian military personnel training is underway in operating the S-400."As for the training, the first group of Indian specialists have completed the training. The second group is undergoing training. I would not talk about the number of people but it is a sufficient number for the Indian armed forces to effectively operate our equipment. I would like to say that the results shown by the first group of Indian specialists after the training were very high. I would like to note the [high] level of training of Indian specialists," the deputy CEO said.In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5.43 billion deal with Russia for five S-400 regiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-begin-delivery-of-s-400-missile-system-to-india-by-year-end-russian-firm-101629772577572.html
24-08-2021||India||TRS MLA Ramesh’s plea over citizenship row to be heard by Telangana high court today||The Telangana High Court will on Tuesday hear the writ petition filed by Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) legislator Chennamaneni Ramesh on the cancellation of his Indian citizenship by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).Ramesh went to Germany for employment in the early 1990s and obtained German citizenship in 1993 after surrendering his Indian passport. He returned to India in 2008 and applied for Indian citizenship which was granted to him by the MHA. He has been representing the Vemulawada assembly constituency since 2009.The MHA cancelled his Indian citizenship in September 2017 on the ground that he possessed German citizenship and had not followed the stipulated norms while obtaining his Indian citizenship. According to the Citizenship Act, a person who applies for Indian citizenship will have to be present in India at least for 12 months before the date of application. However, Congress leader Adi Srinivas filed a complaint with the MHA stating that Ramesh still held a German passport and had visited Germany within the stipulated period of 12 months.In September of 2017, a committee appointed by the MHA found Srinivas’ claims to be true and concluded that Ramesh obtained Indian citizenship “by playing fraud upon the Government of India and concealing crucial material facts of his visits abroad during the last twelve months immediately preceding his application for Indian citizenship”.Following which Ramesh filed a review petition with the MHA and also moved the Telangana High Court where he was granted a stay order. Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana high court while hearing his writ petition on August 10 asked N Rajeshwar Rao, assistant solicitor general of Telangana, to urge the Indian embassy to seek clarification from the German consulate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-mla-ramesh-s-plea-over-citizenship-row-to-be-heard-by-telangana-high-court-today-101629772864259.html
24-08-2021||India||Maharashtra says it is ready to deal with possible 3rd Covid-19 wave||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 3,643 fresh Covid-19 infections including 27 cases of the Delta Plus variant while the state government said it was fully prepared to tackle the possible third wave of the pandemic, which could result in as many as 400,000-500,000 country-wide infections daily, requiring 200,000 dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds nationally to deal with a 23% projected hospitalisation rate, as per an assessment by a Niti Aayog group.“We have taken steps to fill the vacancies (of medical staff), ensure maximum level of oxygen, additional budget as well as making available the medicines to face the surge in cases,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said, and added that the government was fully geared up to meet any challenges from a possible third wave. Niti Aayog’s Empowered Group-1, headed by V K Paul has also projected a state-wise requirement of ICU beds in different states for the third wave. As per their assessment, the most-- 33,000 ICU beds will be required in Uttar Pradesh followed by 17,865 in Maharashtra and 17,480 in Bihar.Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said citizens should follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to beat the third wave. “Citizens should act responsibly by wearing masks, observing social distance and not taking part in mass gatherings,” said Dr Mandot. “The government needs to speed up the vaccination drive as this will mitigate the possibility of the third wave,” he added.The Covid-19 second wave this year infected more people as well as caused more deaths compared to the first one last year.Mumbai on Monday saw 225 fresh Covid cases with 4 deaths, taking the death toll in the city to 15,951, while the state-wide toll reached 136,067. Maharashtra has so far recorded 6,428,294 Covid-19 infections including 49,924 active patients.Pune with 11,746 active patients tops the chart followed by Thane with 6,942 and Satara with 5,800. Pune also accounts for 18,864 Covid related deaths—the most for any city of Maharashtra, followed by 15,951 in Mumbai and 11,241 in Thane.A total of 153,558 Covid tests were conducted on Monday across the state.Of the 27 Delta Plus cases detected on Monday, six each are from Amravati and Gadchiroli, five are from Nagpur, four are from Ahmednagar, three from Yavatmal, two from Nashik and one from Bhandara..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-says-it-is-ready-to-deal-with-possible-3rd-covid-19-wave-101629771449999.html
24-08-2021||India||Change in Chhattisgarh? Bhupesh Baghel, TS Singh Deo in Delhi today||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and state health minister TS Singh Deo will meet the Congress leadership in Delhi on Tuesday morning amid rumours of an ongoing tussle between the two leaders for the change of leadership in the state. Chhattisgarh Congress in charge PL Punia will be present at the meeting. As Baghel completed two years as the Chhattisgarh chief minister on June 17, the tension between the CM and Singh Deo started brewing. Speculations have been rife that there has been a consensus for the top post based on a two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula between Baghel and Singh Deo.Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel left for Delhi on Monday evening and TS Singh Deo has already reached the national capital.“After a long time, I am going to Delhi. (Last month) I visited Himachal Pradesh to take part in the funeral of Virbhadra Singh ji as a representative of Sonia Gandhi during which I met Priyanka (returning to Delhi),” Baghel told reporters at Raipur’s Swami Vivekanand airport before taking off for Delhi. “This time the meeting is with Rahul Gandhi. There will also be a meeting with AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and state's in-charge PL Punia,” Baghel said.Also read | Chhattisgarh sends notice to news portal for report citing TS Singh DeoThe Chhattisgarh chief minister was also asked whether Singh Deo will also be present during the meeting with Gandhi. “I have information of meeting with Rahul ji only,” he replied to the query.On his part, Singh Deo, when asked about the meeting in Delhi on Tuesday, said, “You should ask Punia ji (PL Punia), he is the correct person to provide more details.”Also read | Chhattisgarh govt rejects allegations against TS Singh Deo levelled by Cong MLAThe differences within the Congress party spilled over when Singh Deo walked out of the state assembly on July 27. He demanded clarity from his government over allegations that one of his relatives was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh. Singh alleged that his convoy was attacked at the behest of Singh Deo in Surguja district, which is the health minister’s assembly constituency.The issue was resolved after PL Punia intervened and Singh Deo returned to assembly after Singh apologised for his remarks against the minister.The Congress won the assembly polls held in December 2018 with a thumping majority and then the state Congress president Bhupesh Baghel was made the chief minister. The Congress has 70 MLAs in the 90-member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/change-in-chhattisgarh-bhupesh-baghel-ts-singh-deo-in-delhi-today-101629766735598.html
24-08-2021||India||PAGD to hold meeting today, discuss way forward||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is set to meet in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in the Union territory (UT). A PAGD leader told news agency PTI on Sunday that the meeting will take place at alliance chairperson and National Conference (NC) patron Farooq Abdullah’s residence at 11am.“This meeting will be a different one from the earlier ones. This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations but the middle rung leadership as well,” the alliance leader cited above said on Sunday. He pointed out it has been left for the member political parties to select their leaders for Tuesday’s meeting and said 150-200 leaders are expected to participate.Also Read| Carry out exercise in free, fair manner: NC, Cong to J&K delimitation panel“It (the meeting) will discuss the way forward and it is the first such attempt in the Kashmir valley by the alliance to get a broader perspective on the issues. We wanted to have this kind of consultation before but various factors like Covid prevented such a gathering,” the PAGD leader also told PTI.The PAGD is a consortium of mainstream political parties, which have been seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was revoked by the Narendra Modi-led Centre back in 2019. The parties include the National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Jammu and Kashmir Awami National Conference, Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement and the Communist Party of India (Marxist).Tuesday’s meeting comes days after the PAGD on August 5 held a discussion on the second anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370 by the Centre and the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into a UT. Addressing reporters, CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami said that despite the tall claims of the Centre, the situation in J-K was worsening day by day. He also questioned where were the opportunities for investment and employment, which the Centre claimed the removal of Kashmir’s special status would bring.Also Read| Centre throws door open to J&K election, statehoodPrime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir on June 24, which was the first high-level interaction held between the Centre and Kashmir’s political leadership since 2019, when the former scrapped Article 370 and 35A. During the meeting, top leaders from J-K pushed for the restoration of the region’s special status. They also highlighted problems regarding the delimitation process and demanded the reinstatement of full statehood of Jammu and Kashmir before elections are held.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pagd-to-hold-meeting-today-discuss-way-forward-101629766525181.html
24-08-2021||India||Ambiguous definition means oil-palm plantations will count as forest cover||The National Mission on Edible Oils- Oil Palm (NMEO-OP), approved by the Union Cabinet last week, will increase the area under oil palm cultivation by an additional area of 6.5 lakh hectare (ha) by 2025-26, bringing a total area of 10 lakh ha under oil palm plantations in the country -- and thanks to the current definition of forest, the plantations that studies have found lead to deforestation and loss of biodiversity, will be classified forests.The Forest Survey of India defines forest cover thus: “All lands, more than 1 ha in area with a tree canopy density of 10% irrespective of ownership and legal status. Such lands may not necessarily be a recorded forest area. It also includes orchards, bamboo and palm.”“If the oil palm plantations meet our definition of forests, they will be integrated in forest cover. There is no plan as on today to change or review our definition of forest cover,” said Pankaj Agarwal, director general, Forest Survey of India. The total forest and tree cover in the country as per FSI’s 2019 report is around 80.7 million ha (807276 sq km). There was an increase of 0.56% in forest cover and 1.26% in tree cover as compared to 2017 according to FSI.Independent experts said fragile biodiversity rich areas like the North-East states and Andaman & Nicobar Islands (both specifically named in last week’s cabinet note) will bear the brunt.And the fear is that much like in other parts of the world (West Papua, a province of Indonesia is a case in point) , primary forests will be replaced with oil palm ones.“Oil palm plantations are not being proposed on empty lands. They have to negotiate prevailing ownership or use rights, irrespective of the land being forest, revenue, hill council, private or any other form of ownership. In countries where oil palm has been pushed through there are many documented cases of serious injustices and land conflicts (both individual and community level). What also needs to be emphasised is that conversion of land for oil palm or any other such large-scale commercial plantations in India do not require an Environment Impact Assessment based environment clearance as is mandated for highways, dams or industries,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.According to a paper by TR Shankar Raman and Jaydev Mandal, which was published in May 2016 in the journal Ornithological Applications, oil palm plantations in Mizoram had just 10 species of birds, followed by teak plantations (38), jhum (50), and rainforests (58). Forest bird abundance in the jhum landscape was similar to that in a rainforest, on average 304% higher than in oil palm plantations, the study found. According to Nature Conservation Foundations, jhum is a rotational system of organic farming involving the cutting and burning of forests for farming.According to a study “The environmental impacts of palm oil in context” by several biodiversity experts published in Nature Plants last year, between 2008 and 2017, oil palm expanded globally at an estimated rate of 700000 million hectares a year; palm oil is the leading and cheapest edible oil in much of Asia and Africa. Oil palm expansion’s direct contribution to regional tropical deforestation varies widely, ranging from an estimated 3% in West Africa to 50% in Malaysian Borneo. Species threatened by oil palm plantations made up 3.5% of the taxa and 1.2% of all globally threatened taxa (27,159 species) in 2019 including orangutans, gibbons and the tiger. The clearance of forests and drainage of peatlands for oil palm emit substantial carbon dioxide also.“Entire lowland forest, except for Taman Negara NP, in Peninsular Malaysia are lost to oil palm plantations. They are one of the biggest drivers of loss of biodiversity in Sumatra. We should not simply ape the Malaysian or Indonesian model of oil palm plantations. No natural forests, whether it’s a protected area or not, should be replaced with oil palm plantations. If done in an unplanned manner, this will have disastrous consequences on India’s biodiversity,” said Bivash Pandav, director of Bombay Natural History Society.The Union environment ministry is also focusing on facilitating plantations outside forest areas. The ministry invited an expression of interest (EOI) to prepare a draft amendment to the Indian Forest Act 1927. One of the key areas of amendment will be to encourage forest sector economic growth in the country -- especially getting non-government actors/ private sector/ civil society/ individuals to take up afforestation/tree planting and/or to develop/manage private forests on non-forest lands on their own.A forest policy has also been in the works which will support plantations and agroforestry in non-forest areas by government and private bodies. “The draft forest policy is being internally circulated for comments. It will be shared for public comments once approved,” said a senior official from forest policy division of the environment ministry who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambiguous-definition-means-oil-palm-plantations-will-count-as-forest-cover-101629751494817.html
24-08-2021||India||MGNREGS work demand surged during 2nd Covid-19 wave||The second wave of the Covid pandemic triggered a surge in demand for work under India’s rural job guarantee programme , with the 1.545 billion days of work generated exceeding the estimate by almost 5% as workers in rural areas avoided cities out of fear of Covid-19.Experts believe that the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme will require a top-up with demand for work likely continuing to remain strong.The rural job scheme generated 1.545 billion days of work against the official estimate of 1.473 billion days between April and July this year. with the demand led by some of the country’s larger states such as Rajasthan, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.“Higher demand in work-days is related to the second wave. But even during the second wave, the uneven rate of Covid incidence is reflected in the MGNREGS job map. Demand is low in states with high incidence, creating a negative correlation between MGNREGS and the pandemic,” said, former rural development secretary Jugal Kishor Mohapatra.With the economy still not recovered fully , and some workers not keen on travelling out of their villages, experts and politicians are pitching for more work. Parties such as the Congress and those that are part of the Left Front have suggested that in areas where there is a high demand for work, the annual cap of 100 days of work for individuals can be increased to at least 150 days. A government functionary said that in case of natural disasters, such flexibility can be offered under MGNREGA and the government only needs to treat the pandemic at par with a natural disaster.While the demand for work has outpaced estimates, in the last two months, as the Covid-19 wave has ebbed, it has correspondingly slowed. Government data shows that while 50.5 million workers demanded jobs in June, reflecting the peak demand for this year, in July, only 42.6 million people sought work under the world’s largest guaranteed job scheme.Rural development secretary NN Sinha, however, pointed out that “during the monsoon season, the job demand is usually low. A number of people are engaged in the agriculture sector. Also, a number of MGNREGS activities can’t be undertaken in the monsoon.”The monsoon coincides with the sowing season in India, resulting in an increase in agricultural work.Mohapatra is of the opinion that over the next few months more people will demand work under MGNREGS than the current estimate. “The budget will definitely require a top-up as a large section of the rural population would like to stay back home. While a number of migrant workers have not returned from the cities so far, shrinking opportunities can change the situation.”The government had allocated ₹73,000 crore for MGNREGS for this financial year, out of which the ministry has already released ₹49,800 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mgnregswork-demand-surged-during-2nd-covid-19-wave-101629750705379.html
24-08-2021||India||Sidhu aides’ remarks spark new Punjab row||Patiala:  A political row raged on Monday over controversial comments on Kashmir made by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisers, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, with the party saying it will consider taking action, and senior leaders sharply criticising the remarks.Late in the evening, Mali took direct potshots at Sidhu’s rival and chief minister Amarinder Singh and made personal attacks on the 79-year-old leader on social media. In a Facebook post last week, Mali had said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late prime minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg had questioned the chief minister’s criticism of Pakistan. Sidhu summoned the two newly appointed functionaries to his residence in Patiala and spoke to them for roughly three hours. The meeting came a day after Singh condemned the remarks and said they were detrimental to the peace and stability of the country. The CM also called the remarks “atrocious” and “anti-national”. Congress MP Manish Tewari also condemned the comments. “I urge Harish Rawat, AICC gen secy in-charge Punjab to seriously introspect that those who do not consider J&K to be a part of India and others who have ostensibly pro-Pakistan leanings should be a part of Punjab Congress,” Tewari tweeted. The Congress appeared to distance itself from the row. Rawat hinted at taking “strict action” against Mali if the comments were proven. “I would like to clarify on behalf of the party that J&K is an integral part of India. Nobody has the right to cast doubt on its status, let alone issuing a statement,” Rawat told news agency ANI. Rawat also warned of action over Indira Gandhi’s sketch. “She was one of the most popular leaders, a mother figure to us. If somebody insults her, we condemn it. Action will be taken if this is proven”, he added. Sidhu didn’t comment on the row. The advisers said they discussed issues concerning Punjab’s development with Sidhu. “Some political leaders and parties have started issuing ‘fatwa’ against him instead of initiating a dialogue. Dialogue is the best option to resolve issues,” Mali said. Garg said: “When a government does good work, we appreciate it. But if it performs badly, we criticise it.” Following Amarinder’s objection to his remarks, Mali on Sunday shared an old Facebook post, saying, “Punjab is asking - don’t beat around the bush and answer why the convoy was looted.” Singh and Sidhu were locked in a tussle for control of the party unit, which appeared to have been resolved on July 18when the latter was named state unit chief. But tensions continue to run high and Singh has made his displeasure clear. The row over the advisers is the latest indication that despite months of negotiation by the Congress leadership, the state unit continues to be riven by factionalism. Mali and Garg were appointed by SIdhu on August 11 as part of additions he made to the party organisation after taking charge as state unit chief. He has six other advisers. Punjab goes to the polls in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-aides-remarks-spark-new-punjab-row-101629746847401.html
24-08-2021||India||Bihar all-party delegation meets Modi, pushes for caste-based census in India||An all–party delegation from Bihar led by chief minister Nitish Kumar called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to push for a caste-based census, saying they were satisfied with a “patient hearing” but underlining that the final decision rested with the PM.Members of 11 parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), met Modi for around 40 minutes. Speaking to media after the event, Kumar, whose party runs a coalition government with the BJP in Bihar, said a demand for caste-based enumeration existed not just in his state but also the rest of the country. “We are grateful to the Prime Minister for listening to us. Now, he has to take a decision,” he said.The meeting happened in the backdrop of mounting pressure on the Union government to accept the demand for a caste census ahead of critical elections in seven states next year. “There is likelihood of another set of parties meeting the PM on the same issue,” said a person aware of details. Another person familiar with what happened during the meeting said the PM heard arguments put forth by the delegation. “He did not question what was explained by the leaders, but said the issue comes under the purview of the home ministry and will have to be discussed with the home minister as well,” this person added. A delegation of JD(U) members called on home minister Amit Shah earlier this month to discuss the issue.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, who has joined hands with bitter rival Kumar to press for a caste census, was also part of the delegation and said the enumeration will be in “interest of the nation” and a step “that will benefit the poor.”“When animals and trees are counted, then why not castes? When the government has no scientific data on the population, how can it make welfare policies?” he said. Yadav also said the perception that a caste-based enumeration will lead to social unrest is flawed. “When states will have the caste data, then only will they be able include castes in their OBC [other backward class] list. If caste census will lead to unrest, then the same logic applies to religion as well,” said Yadav.The demand for a caste census is decades old, especially among OBC groups, but has gathered momentum in recent months, coinciding with the BJP’s outreach among OBCs, a critical votebank in poll-bound states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. The last full caste census was done in 1931; since Independence, India has only counted scheduled castes and tribes.Sections of the BJP support the demand but the party has not explicitly taken a stand on the issue, given its sensitivity and the possibility of triggering anger among influential upper castes. But the party finds itself cornered by a growing coalition of parties, including allies such as the JD(U), Apna Dal, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Republican Party of India- Athawale. The YSR Congress and the Biju Janata Dal, considered friendly parties, have also lent their support to the Opposition’s demand. These parties have argued that a count of castes last carried out in 1931 will give a correct assessment of how castes are numerically poised and which groups have benefitted the most and the least from quotas based on the Mandal commission recommendations that paved the way for 27% reservation for OBCs in government jobs and educational institutions. Among those who spoke in favour of the exercise on Monday were Mukesh Sahani (Vikasheel Insaan Party), former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi (HAM) and Ajit Sharma (Congress). The BJP, which supported two resolutions on the demand passed in the Bihar assembly, was represented by Janak Ram.The demand for caste-based enumeration is a politically sensitive issue for the BJP as its outreach towards the OBCs is seen as attempts at consolidating support from the constituency, perceived to have immense political heft that can sway elections in key states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Political commentators credit the BJP‘s big win in the 2014 and 2019 general elections to the massive support that it drew from the OBC communities. As per a Lok Niti - CSDS survey the BJP managed 22% of the OBC votes in 2009 Lok Sabha elections as opposed to 42% that was drawn by the regional parties but during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections 44% of the OBCs voted for the BJP while only 27% voted for the regional parties.“Statistics given by the government shows that reservation notwithstanding OBCs make up just 9.42% and 8.95% of all group A and B government jobs,” said a JDU leader.Within the BJP too, there is an apprehension that not agreeing to the count could upset the OBC vote bank. “In Uttar Pradesh where OBCs are estimated to be around 50% of the population, the party is particularly concerned about eliciting the support of the non-dominant OBC castes who make up for more than half of the total OBC population,” said a BJP leader on condition of anonymity.The BJP’s political opponents accuse it of taking an anti-OBC stance but the party has referred to the appointment of 27 OBC ministers in the Union Cabinet, restoring the right of states to draw up their own OBC lists, and extending OBC reservation in medical and dental education as proof of the government’s commitment towards OBCs. Aware of the competition it faces from parties such as the RJD and the Samajwadi party in the race for OBC support, the BJP recently organised meetings to introduce OBC and Dalit ministers to the masses. The party also launched an all-round offensive to take on the SP and the RJD – which count on large dominant OBC castes for support --- by pointing out that during their rule, only a handful of communities benefitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-all-party-delegation-meets-modi-pushes-for-caste-based-census-in-india-101629746489940.html
24-08-2021||India||Decoding the purpose and politics of caste census||An all-party delegation from Bihar; led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to demand a caste census in the country. While speaking to the press after the meeting, the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav, leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, suggested that the caste census could be a part of the normal decadal census, which anyway counts religious groups and Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) separately.Such suggestions, while they appear logical , may not help achieve the objective of a caste census: enhance our understanding of India’s socio-economic inequalities. Here are five charts which explain why.India has not conducted a caste census after 1931, but this does not mean there are no reasonable estimatesThe British used to enumerate caste in their decadal censuses between 1881 and 1931. This practice was discontinued thereafter and independent India did not restore it as part of the regular census. What the census does count, however, is the number of people belonging to SC-ST groups. This share was 21.54% in the 1971 census and gradually increased to 25.26% in the 2011 census. The trend is not surprising, as the SC-ST population continues to be the most economically backward in the country, and fertility rates are higher when income levels are lower.The fact that the census does not count social groups other than SC-ST does not mean that there are no reasonable estimates of the broad social break-up of India’s population. Various government surveys such as the ones conducted by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) and National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) collect data on broad share of SCs, STs and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the population. The summary findings from the latest NFHS and NSSO rounds are given below.Of course, shares by caste such as those collected by NFHS and NSSO are survey based estimates unlike the census. The latter is actually an enumeration of every person in the country. It is this fact which allows the former to be questioned politically.What is often forgotten in this debate is the fact that today’s NFHS-NSSO estimates of caste shares are not very different from what the Mandal Commission Report assumed them to be, based on an extrapolation from the 1931 census numbers.Reconciling caste-census demands with reservationsDemands for a caste census are deeply linked with the policy of reservations in government jobs and educational institutions. This is not a benign statistical enumerationThere are two factors which matter: a continuing quest for including more social groups into the list of those eligible for reservations and demands for relaxing the Supreme Court mandated 50% quota on reservations in India. The former is bound to generate more traction for the latter, as inclusion of more communities into the reserved category will shrink the probability of the groups which were there earlier gaining from reservations. The Mandal Commission’s recommendation of providing 27% reservations for OBCs was a direct result of the 50% cap on reservations.The report says this unequivocally.“The population of OBCs, both Hindu and non-Hindu, is around 52% of the total population of India. Accordingly 52% of all posts under the Central government should be reserved for them. But this provision may go against the law laid down in a number of Supreme Court judgments wherein it has been held that the total quantum of reservation under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution should be below 50%. In view of this, the proposed reservation for OBCs would have to be pegged at a figure which when added to 22.5% for SCs and STs, remains below 50%. In view of this legal constraint, the Commission is obliged to recommend a reservation of 27% only, even though their (OBC) population is almost twice this figure.”It is in this context that the recent demand for doing away with the 50% cap on reservations -- the groups demanding this are the most consistent in demanding a caste census too -- needs to be seen.But reservations are for Other Backward Classes not Other Backward CastesOBCs, especially in the realm of politics, are always seen as a social group. This does not hold when it comes to constitutional provisions for reservations. Constitutionally speaking, OBC reservations are not at par with reservations for SC-ST groups in India. The biggest proof of this is the fact that unlike in the case of the SC-ST population, OBCs belonging to the creamy layer – a threshold which looks at various things, but primarily income limits – cannot avail of reservations. This underlines the importance of class rather than a simple caste aspect when it comes to OBC reservations.Reservations and OBC politicsThe biggest information black hole around implementation of OBC reservations is not the overall benefits to OBCs as a result of reservations. Reservations have clearly helped.“Representation of SCs and STs is more than the prescribed percentage of reservation, (15% and 7.5%, respectively). The representation of OBCs in the Central Government services is 21.57%, which is less, as compared to the prescribed percentage of reservation for them. However, reservation of Other Backward Classes (OBC) has shown an increasing trend since it started in September, 1993. As per available information, representation of OBCs, as on 1.1.2012, was 16.55%, which has increased to 21.57%, as on 01.01.2016”, Union Minister of State Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on July 17, 2019.The gap in knowledge is the extent to which these benefits have helped sub-castes within the larger group currently classified as OBCs. It is this fact which led to the Narendra Modi government setting-up the Justice Rohini Commission on sub-categorization of OBCs in 2017.There are 2,633 Other Backward Castes in the Central List and earlier this year the commission proposed to divide them into four subcategories numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4 and split the 27% into 2, 6, 9 and 10%, respectively. If accepted, the recommendations are likely to have a major impact on politics, especially in north India where the rise of powerful OBC groups such as Yadavs defined the 1990s.The Commission’s term was extended by another six months on July 14. As is obvious, the recommendations of the Justice Rohini Commission will unleash a major political churn, as dominant OBCs, who the commission believes have benefitted disproportionately from the current policy, might end up losing their advantage within the broad OBC group.Data from CSDS-Lokniti suggest that the BJP stands to gain by tilting the OBC reservation gains away from dominant OBC groups such as the Yadavs in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The BJP’s support among lower and upper OBCs was 22% in 2009. By 2019, the party enjoyed support of 47% lower OBCs. This number had increased to 41% for upper OBCs. Among Yadavs in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the BJP actually lost support between 2014 and 2019: from 14% to 9% in Bihar and 26% to 24% in Uttar Pradesh.Politics apart, clubbing caste census with normal census can’t do justice to the cause of equity within OBCsThe fact that OBC reservations must also take into account class and not just caste, and the current government has already set the ball rolling for restructuring the existing 27% OBC reservations, means that a simple enumeration of OBCs along with SC-ST groups in the census will not help the cause of equality among OBCs.Any such exercise must also collect detailed information on economic status of various sub-castes, which is not possible in the census. This is something the Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011 promised to do. But its findings were never released. However, we have more than enough evidence to question claims that the communities which are classified as OBCs have the same economic status.For example, a 2018 World Bank paper by Shareen Joshi and others found that intra-caste divisions can play a bigger role in creation of inequality than inter-caste factors. “While average figures for the broad caste groups confirm to the received wisdom, with upper castes being most well off and STs being the worst off, intra-caste or jati based trends do not always conform to this broad hierarchy”, a HT story on August 6, 2018 noted based on the paper’s findings.To be sure, the World Bank paper’s findings might have been affected by its mandate to provide baseline estimates of poverty in Bihar, which might have led to a disproportionate focus on poorer households.However, evidence from larger surveys such as the NFHS also underlines the prevalence of differentiation in economic status of OBCs across India’s states. For example, an HT story dated April 4, 2019 calculated relative share of OBCs in the top 20% households by wealth and found significant divergences across states, suggesting that the economic status of OBCs is not uniform across the country.These numbers clearly show that the politically convenient demand for clubbing a caste census with the normal census, and using it to justify either a reorganization or expansion of OBC reservations, might help political ends, but will not take India towards a more egalitarian and well-informed affirmative action policy framework.And if at all a comprehensive caste census with economic attributes is conducted, and the findings seek to disenfranchise or reduce the existing benefits available to certain groups, the country could have a huge social-political disruption to deal with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-the-purpose-and-politics-of-caste-census-101629741365130.html
24-08-2021||India||60% chance of ‘below normal’ rains: Skymet||Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting company, in an updated forecast on Monday said that there is a 60% chance of ‘below normal’ rains during monsoon at around 94% of the long period average (LPA) with an error margin of +/- 4%.In April, Skymet Weather had forecast that monsoon is likely to be ‘normal’ or ’above normal’ for the third consecutive year and monsoon rain from June to September is likely to be 103% of the long period average of 880.6 mm.The monsoon this year had a timely onset and made a good start with June ending above normal at 110% of the long period average (LPA). July, however, was marred with a pronged break till July 11. Therefore, the month finished with below normal rainfall at 93% of LPA.June and July ended with 110% and 93% of LPA against Skymet’s forecast of 106% and 97%, respectively. There was a ‘break monsoon’ phase during the first fortnight of August, leading to a monsoon deficiency of 9% till the middle of the month.“In terms of geographical risk, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Odisha, Kerala and northeast India are likely to be hit with deficient rains. The chance of drought over Gujarat and West Rajasthan appears imminent. However, the spatial distribution of rainfall over the rainfed areas of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh has been adequate. Accordingly, the food production in the agri-bowl of central parts may not be stressed and skewed,” Skymet Weather said in a statement on Monday.There is a 9% rain deficiency over the country with Gujarat recording 47% deficiency, Odisha 31%, Kerala 28%, Manipur 58%, Arunachal Pradesh 25%, Assam 20% and Nagaland 23%. Sub-division wise, northwest India has registered a 11% deficiency, central India 11% deficiency, east India 11% deficiency and northeast India 4% surplus.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its long range forecast issued on June 1, projected that monsoon rainfall over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal (96 to 104 % of Long Period Average (LPA)). Quantitatively, the monsoon season over the country as a whole is likely to be 101% of the LPA with a model error of ± 4%. IMD officials said monsoon seasonal rainfall may be close to normal.“As of now, August rainfall is likely to be below normal. There may be some rain towards the end of August but we don’t expect the deficit to be met. The models are indicating normal rains in September. Overall monsoon may be near normal or slightly below normal,” DS Pai, head of climate and research services at IMD Pune, said.Normally, the monsoon trough comes down to the plains when low pressure systems develop over the Bay of Bengal. “This time, fewer low-pressure areas formed — two against the normal of four — and they were not that active. They moved towards Uttar Pradesh and weakened abruptly. This led to breaks during monsoon and less rain overall. The monsoon trough shifted northwards,” Pai explained.IMD considers 96 to 104% of LPA to be ‘normal’, 90 to 96% in ‘below normal’ category and less than 90% in ‘deficient’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-chance-of-below-normal-rains-skymet-101629744687030.html
24-08-2021||India||Karnataka CM lays out plan to help in implementation of NEP||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the state would launch a research & development policy for synergy between institutes undertaking such work as well as help implement the National Education Policy (NEP-2020).“If we want NEP to succeed, we must make it reach every child across the state. Digitisation is important in education for which we will bring a new digitisation policy,” Bommai said on Monday.Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union minister for education, skill development and entrepreneurship virtually launched the admission process for higher education for the year 2021-22 under the Unified University and College Management System, making Karnataka the first state to implement the policy.“Karnataka has taken a lead role and has become a laboratory in implementation of NEP. India has a huge number of about 310 million who belong to the student community (class 1 to higher education) and with 25 million being newly added every year, the real challenge lies in making the benefits of NEP reach to all these. The success of NEP will enable creating a new global order,” Pradhan said, according to a statement by the Karnataka government.The launch of the new system comes at a time when the state government has been forced to resume physical classes in schools in Karnataka due to lack of connectivity for around 40% of students mostly living in rural and backward regions.The chief minister also said that broadband networking would be made available in all corners of the state. Bommai said there are about 180 R&D centres in Bengaluru but lamented the lack of any connect with students.“There are over 180 R&D centres in Bengaluru related to every sector but what is the connect between the students and the R&D centres? I want a synergy between students and the R&D centres,” he said.Bommai hailed the launch of NEP as “liberation day” and that it would free the education system from “vertical silos, compartmentalization and closed jacket structure of teaching-learning process”.“Digitisation plays a crucial role in education today apart from business and governance. Therefore (the) government will bring out (a) Digitisation Policy to enhance network connectivity in each village,” he said.Bommai said that such programmes will be given due preferences in the coming budgets despite constraints.He also announced that tablet PCs will be given this year also for those joining first year degree courses. “The policy which has been introduced under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after 34 years, has been drafted after wider consultations and considering more than 300,000 suggestions. The vice-chancellors will have to play a crucial role in its’ effective implementation,” Dr. CN Ashwath Narayan, the minister of higher education, who unveiled the MoU of Internationalization of Higher Education said. He added that the NEP will break the barriers and bring together science-arts-humanities, curricular-extra curricular, theoretical knowledge-skill development etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-lays-out-plan-to-help-in-implementation-of-nep-101629744627075.html
24-08-2021||India||Karnataka resumes physical classes for senior students||Schools and Pre-University (PU) colleges in Karnataka, except in five districts having more than two percent Covid test positivity rate, reopened on Monday after a gap of five months. In the first phase, physical classes have been reopened for students of classes 9 and 10. The government however decided not to reopen schools and PU colleges in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, and Mysuru as the Covid-19 positivity rate is above 2%. On the occasion, chief minister Basavaraj S Bommai visited several schools to take stock of the safety measures. Talking to media, he said, that reopening of for students provided freedom after lockdowns. “Students are very happy. It’s like, they have got a freedom today from Covid-19. August 15 is celebrated as a freedom for the country but for our students from classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 it’s real freedom for them with the opening of schools,” he said. Bommai added that online classes had posed several problems for the students, especially for those facing network problems. “In the physical classes, they can interact better with their teachers. Apart from better teaching and understanding, students are happy that they are now with their friends,” the chief minister said. As per the data released by the Education Department, on the first day, 21.08% attendance was reported for the class 10 while for class 9, the attendance was at 19.5%. Out of the 961,748 students who have enrolled for class 9, 188,077 attended classes on Monday. For class 10, 203,777 out of the 966,481 registered students attended classes. The highest attendance was reported in Uttara Kannada, which recorded 53.38% and 54.07% attendance in classes 9 and 10 respectively. During his interaction, CM Bommai asked teachers, staff, and students to follow Covid-19 norms. “There will be an experts’ committee meeting by the month-end. Looking at the situation, we will take a call on two things -- one is regarding border districts and second is classes for class 1 to the class 8,” the chief minister said. Bommai said if the reopening of schools becomes successful, August 23 will be celebrated as Education Day just as September 5 is observed as Teachers’ Day. He also said that this day is important as it will liberate children from Covid-19. The government decided to start the classes from Monday on the recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19. The TAC had said that the teachers and other staff in the schools and PU colleges should be vaccinated first. Further, it said the classrooms should be sanitized, social distancing and hand hygiene should be maintained and everyone should wear masks compulsorily. The primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh visited a few schools in the city and interacted with students. On the directions of the chief minister, the district in-charge ministers visited a few schools in their respective districts on Monday. In November 2020, degree colleges were opened and later in January 2021, class 10 and pre-university colleges were opened for a brief period. The experiment could not continue for long as the second wave had hit the country and Karnataka was among the worst affected states reporting over 50,000 cases and about 500 fatalities daily. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-resumes-physical-classes-for-senior-students-101629744507420.html
24-08-2021||India||Yatnal targets ‘intellectuals’ on Afghan crisis, stokes row||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Karnataka Basangouda Patil (Yatnal) on Monday courted fresh controversy as he targeted the intellectuals in India by saying that those who were propagating to bring stranded Afghani nationals should be “gunned down”.“The intellectuals in our country are not born to Hindus nor to our country but to the Taliban,” Yatnal said on Monday.“If you ask me, those Talibans in our country, how they were shot down there (Afghanistan), these people should be shot down here. If we do not gun them down, then our Hindu religion or India will not survive,” he said.Known for his hardcore right wing views, Yatnal has courted controversy with his statements many times in the past with his provocative speeches that go unchecked.The statements come at a time when there is a raging debate in India whether to allow people from the war-torn country into India after the Taliban regained control over the middle eastern nation.Yatnal said that Congress leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar who call themselves secular will not comment on the topic.“If Narendra Modi was not the Prime Minister they would have imported all the Talibans,” he said.“In any situation, other than Hindus and Sikhs, people from other religions should not be allowed to enter our country. If they (Muslims) say that they want to accept Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, let them come but look they are leaving their wife’s and running,” Yatnal said.He even said that Bollywood actors like Amitabh Bachchan and others portray Pathans as brave warriors. He said that actors like Aamir Khan and other Khans who said that it was becoming unsafe for their children to live in India should send their children to Afghanistan to find out how safe it was there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yatnal-targets-intellectuals-on-afghan-crisis-stokes-row-101629744447955.html
24-08-2021||India||Parents question reopening of schools, fee issue reignites||Decision by the Karnataka government to reopen physical classes for students from Monday has made a section of parents and guardians question if the urgency has something to do with the government favouring the powerful lobby of private educational institutions in the state. They have also called it a ploy by the state governments to help the lobby with payment of fees before a fresh wave of infections forces another lockdown. “This move to open the schools is purely seen as an attempt to favour the private school managements’ lobby to collect the fee,” Mohammed Shakeel, the president of Voice of Parents said. “The government is concerned about mid-day meals not reaching children, child marriages and child labour, in the event of schools not functioning or not able to provide or children unable to receive online education, this criteria is not applicable to students in private unaided schools. We cannot be made scapegoats in the hands of private schools most of who are charging unlawful fees,” Shakeel added. Physical classes for students in higher grades have resumed in many parts of the country which also points to the failure of the government in bridging technological divide, experts said. The government appointed technical advisory committee (TAC), in its recommendations submitted to authorities on June 22, argued that education is the fundamental right of the child and stated that reopening physical schools would optimise learning, physical and mental health as well as for nutritional aspects of children.“Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further Worse,” according to the report.According to the TAC, there are 23,838,995 people below the age of 18 in the state with an estimated population of 70,259,592, accounting for around 34%.In July, S Suresh Kumar, the then primary and secondary education minister had stated that around 9.3 million students out of the total 10.05 million across private and public schools in Karnataka, have been accounted for in terms of access to devices, internet, TV, radio and even email. Of the 9.3 million who have been accounted for, only 5,859,907 have smartphones/tablets while around 3,127,524 don’t have any access to such devices, leaving around 40% of the students out of the system for almost an entire year. Further, there are just 5,134,386 students who have access to the internet while 3,779,965 students do not have access to the internet, rendering the exercise of online classes as a redundant practice for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state, Hindustan Times had reported on July 2. BC Nagesh, Karnataka’s minister for primary and secondary education on Sunday said that the government could not teach all students online “no matter how much it tried”. The gap in such basic necessities also highlights the inequitable distribution of resources in a state that prides its prowess in technology and arguably one of the most industrious in the country. Karnataka has seen parents associations take private schools to court over the demand of payment of full fees. The two sides have locked horns and even resulted in a show of strength of sorts when both carried out protest marches in Bengaluru last year. Shashi Kumar, the state convenor of the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC) on Monday told Hindustan Times that the decision to reopen schools was backed by the government, experts, doctors and even the members of the Covid-19 task force. Kumar, also a member of the state task force on Covid, said that it was a unanimous decision to reopen schools from primary sections but the government has resumed only classes above class 9. “Our only regret is that the recommendation we had given as a task force; those recommendations are not completely implemented. We are concerned only on the quality of implementation,” Kumar said on Monday. He added that it was a “wrong” notion that the government heeded to demands by private schools to reopen. He said that the bulk or nearly 95% of all private schools were budget ( ₹10000- ₹30,000 per year) and have minimum school fees payment and poor admissions. He added that the bulk of the parents are fighting not to pay school fees but school managements are finding it difficult to operate. “Except a few hundred schools which are in demand, like National Public School and others, parents of those schools have paid fees in full,” Kumar said. He even added that several parents are yet to clear even the partly arrears of previous years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-question-reopening-of-schools-fee-issue-reignites-101629744446934.html
24-08-2021||India||SC refuses to cancel ex-mayor, corporator’s bail in Bengaluru riots case||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected Congress legislator’s plea and refused to cancel bail of former Bengaluru Mayor Sampath Raj and former corporator Abdul Raqueeb Zakir in a case connected to the 2020 Bengaluru riots, which claimed four lives. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy dismissed the petition filed by Congress’ Pulakeshinagar MLA R Akhanda Srinivasmurthy, who had challenged the grant of bail to Raj and Zakir by the Karnataka high court in February. “In view of the submissions of parties and taking into consideration the alleged role and the period for which they were in custody, we are not inclined to interfere with the impugned order of the high court,” said the bench in its order. On August 11 last year, an angry mob, enraged over an alleged derogatory social media post shared by Srinivasamurthy’s nephew, burnt down more than 60 vehicles as well as DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations in Bengaluru apart from the house of the MLA. The violence claimed four lives and left several injured.Appearing for Srinivasmurthy, senior advocates Devadatt Kamat and R Basant argued that Raj harbored ill-will against the MLA due to political reasons and created the riots on the pretext of the social media post by his nephew. The lawyers contended that Raj and Zakir were the chief conspirators who incited a mob to set ablaze the houses of the MLA and his sister. The mob also burnt down two police stations. The lawyers added that the two could manipulate the witnesses and evidence due to their political connections. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Ranjit Kumar appearing for Raj and Zakir, denied the charges against the two. The lawyers submitted that Raj and Zakir’s names were not mentioned in the first information report (FIR) and it was only when the chargesheet was filed, they had been named in the case for the first time. The lawyers added that there is no evidence to connect them to the riots and that they had already remained behind bars for two months. Rohatgi also said that all three; Srinivasmurthy, Raj and Zakir belong to the Congress party and the charges against his client was a result of political bickering. Representing the Karnataka government, advocate VN Raghupathy maintained that the state had opposed the bail before the high court and it is still against the grant of bail to Raj and Zakir.The bench, however, noted that when it first issued notices on Srinivasmurthy’s petition, it was brought to its notice the high court had not released the reasoned bail orders even after a fortnight of granting bail. “Since the detailed orders have now been uploaded on the high court website, nothing remains to be adjudicated therein,” said the court. It noted that the accused have remained in custody for more than two months and since the investigation was also over in the case, there was no need to interfere with the bail orders of Raj and Zakir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-cancel-ex-mayor-corporator-s-bail-in-bengaluru-riots-case-101629744388669.html
24-08-2021||India||Lack of papers led to luxury cars’ seizure||Karnataka transport department on Sunday seized seven luxury vehicles, including a Rolls Royce car alleged to have been formerly owned by Amitabh Bachchan, for failing to provide valid transfer documents, a senior official said. The transport department conducted a special drive near UB city mall, a popular shopping destination in the city, to seize the high-end vehicles, which are now parked at the Road Transport Office in Nelamangala on the outskirts of the city.Transport Commissioner N Shiva Kumar said the vehicles were seized because there were no documents available. “We don’t know who it belongs to. There are no documents available with them (drivers). That’s why the vehicles were seized,” “Some of these cars bore registration numbers belonging to Maharashtra or Pondicherry. These cars have not paid road tax in Karnataka and amount to a big loss to the state exchequer,” he added. Among these seized cars, one Rolls Royce stood out since it was allegedly registered in the name of Bachchan in 2019. Additional transport commissioner (enforcement) Narendra Holkar said that when the car was seized, the driver didn’t have the relevant document, but a letter signed by Bachchan stating that the vehicle was sold to the former. “Vahan (the government of India database) is not reflecting any details about the vehicle. So, we have seized the vehicle to examine the claims made by the driver,” said Holkar. On Monday, talking to the media, a person identified as Babu said that he had purchased the car from the actor in 2019 for ₹6 crores. “The family uses the car on Sundays, and when they came out, the department seized the vehicle. The driver couldn’t produce the original documents. The documents are at home, and I have told them that I will bring them to the RTO,” said Babu. A Bengaluru-based builder, Babu said that even though the car was purchased from the actor, the documents were not transferred to his name. In case the so-called owners are unable to prove their ownership with necessary documents, the transport department can auction the vehicles after seeking necessary approvals from the court. “The due process will be followed. In case anyone is found violating rules, fines will be imposed, and if they can’t produce any documents, there is an option of auctioning these vehicles. We have done such auctions in the past,” said a senior department official In March, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in Mangaluru was probing a case of alleged middlemen selling luxury cars in violation of legal processes. At that time, it was said a Jaguar was bought by a Bengaluru-based private company worker from a middleman for ₹14.5 lakh. The original owner of the car could not be traced. The official on Sunday said that only one car owner has come forward with the documents so far, and the documents presented were being verified. During the raid, cars manufactured by Rolls Royce, Jaguar, Audi, Range Rover, Porsche, Mercedes Benz, and Jaguar were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rollsroyce-among-7-luxury-cars-seized-101629744387555.html
24-08-2021||India||Centre mulls new rules on financial resolution plans||The government is considering objective and transparent guidelines for committee of creditors (CoC) – mainly banks and financial institutions -- signing off on resolution plans under India’s bankruptcy code, after some excessive haircuts agreed to by such CoCs were questioned by the National Company Law Tribunal and even a parliamentary panel, two people familiar with the matter said.According to the two, who asked not to be named, there are legitimate concerns that need to be addressed especially in the light of the recent NCLT verdict in the matter of Shiva Industries and Holdings Ltd. CoC, made up of financial creditors, is the supreme decision-making body in the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP).NCLT, Chennai, on August 12 rejected a one-time settlement (OTS) agreed between the erstwhile promoters of Siva Industries and its lenders and ordered liquidation of the company. In April, IDBI Bank-led lenders, who made up the CoC, discussed and approved a proposal of Siva Industries where creditors agreed to take a 93.25% haircut to settle dues of ₹4,863.87 crore. That means the banks would have recovered only ₹328.21 crore.According to a Mint report on June 18, India’s bankruptcy resolution system remains marred by meagre recoveries and protracted delays, despite attempts to fine-tune the regime that debuted in 2017. On June 15, NCLT also questioned the extensive haircut (95.85%) that lenders agreed to take in the insolvency resolution of Videocon group companies. The Anil Agarwal-promoted Twin Star Technologies proposed to pay ₹2,962 crore against admitted claims of ₹64,838 crore, implying a 95.85% loss to all Videocon creditors, the report said.As per Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) data, in over 363 major NCLT resolutions since 2017, banks have taken an average haircut of 80%. Some of the large haircuts include Deccan Chronicle (95%), Lanco Infra (88%), Ushdev International (94%) and Zion Steel (99%), the report said.The people mentioned above said that since CoC comprises financial creditors who are often banks and financial institutions that are regulated by the department of financial services (DFS) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), one of these could frame guidelines for them. DFS is an arm of the finance ministry.The ministries of finance and corporate affairs, RBI and DFS did not respond to an email query on this matter.“Banks must follow some guidelines so that they cannot take arbitrary decisions in the name of commercial wisdom such as negotiating a settlement with absconding promoters of Sterling Biotech. Thankfully, this was rejected by NCLT. If promoters are absconding, how can banks get access to them?” one of the two person asked.His reference was toa rejected OTS proposal related to Sterling Biotech where CoC settled for a 64% haircut of over ₹9,000 crore due with the promoters, who were absconding.“The verdict, in the case of Shiva Industries, also implied that ‘commercial wisdom’ of the CoC cannot be absolute,” the second person said, citing NCLT’s August 12 order. It said, “There is always a system of constant checks and balances where there must not be a capricious or arbitrary power given in hands of CoC to accept or reject settlement.” HT has reviewed a copy of the order.A parliamentary panel has also made some suggestions to further strengthen the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), including having a framework to ensure that commercial decisions of the CoC should be more transparent and objective. All such matters are under consideration, the second person added. HT reported the parliamentary panel’s observations on August 4.“In the Committee’s view, keeping in mind the experience gathered so far, there is an urgent need to have a professional code of conduct for CoC, which will define and circumscribe their decisions, as these have larger implications for the efficacy of the Code,” the panel said in its report.Pavan Kumar Vijay, the founder of legal and corporate advisory firm Corporate Professionals Group, said, “IBC may take some time to recover trust but is definitely a viable option. Since the law is evolving, so too is the commercial wisdom of the CoC which definitely requires discipline.”“Banks/FI’s in any case take a long time to decide whether to approve or reject a plan. Their decision involves commercial interest of all the creditors. Some additional discipline if imposed, would not harm stakeholders but would further streamline and ease the process of decision making,” he added.Mohit Saraf, founder & managing partner of Saraf & Partners, isn’t convinced“A new directional code instead of present prescriptive IBC code with framework/professional code of conduct for CoC will work but a new framework for code of conduct with old prescriptive laws will spell the death knell for resolutions and will only aggravate the size of the hair cut,” he said. Prescriptive laws follow step by step approach. Directional laws, on the other hand, provide flexibility to jump a process or timeline based on commercial wisdom, he explained.“The way the bankers have flexibility to give loans, the same way they need to have the flexibility to resolve insolvencies. We need to learn to respect the commercial wisdom of our bankers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-mulls-new-rules-on-financial-resolution-plans-101629744386412.html
24-08-2021||India||Slugfest after TN boy dies while putting up DMK flag||The death of a 13-year-old boy due to electrocution while helping DMK cadre erect banners in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district has led to a political furore in the state, with the AIADMK and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) asking chief minister M K Stalin to take action against those responsible. The deceased boy, Dinesh of class 9, was helping party workers decorate a road to welcome higher education minister K Ponmudy for a marriage function in Villupuram. A live wire fell on the boy. The minister has announced a compensation of ₹1.5 lakhs to the boy’s family. Villupuram police said that the incident happened on Friday. “An FIR has been filed two days ago,” an official said without going into details. However, the incident came to light only on Sunday.He was rushed to a local government hospital but died before his family reached him. Following a post mortem, the boy’s body was handed over to his mother. The image of the mother crying over her child’s white clothed wrapped body has been circulating on social media.Stalin on Monday urged the party cadre to end the practice of erecting banners and cutouts for leaders, which is a widespread political culture in Tamil Nadu. The DMK has been instructing its cadres not to erect banners and flags for party events. “This causes disturbance to the public and sometimes it threatens life and ends up tragically,” Stalin said in a statement expressing shock over the boy’s death. The opposition parties recalled an incident from two years ago when a 23-year-old woman Subshshree died after an AIADMK banner fell on her in Chennai, which triggered a massive outrage. BJP spokesperson in Tamil Nadu Narayanan Thirupathy recalled that when the young woman died, Stalin, then in the opposition, had asked how many more lives will be lost to the power-hungry and anarchist rule of the AIADMK. “Giving compensation will not give the family any consolation. The culprits have to be arrested immediately,” said Thirupathy. The BJP alliance, led by the AIADMK, said that all lives are equal no matter which party is in power. “Why shouldn’t they be prosecuted under The Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act,” said AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar. Several activists in the state have rallied against erecting illegal poles and banners. “Only if swift action is taken against wrongdoers can this be prevented in the future. The person who erected the pole and the contractor who hired the boy to tie up the flag must be prosecuted,” said Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam that has been fighting against illegal banners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slugfest-after-tn-boy-dies-while-putting-up-dmk-flag-101629744146924.html
24-08-2021||India||Hurriyat rejects charges of selling MBBS seats amid reports of ban||A faction of the Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday rejected charges that the separatist group was “selling” MBBS seats in Pakistan colleges to Kashmiri students and funnelling the money into terrorism .The denial came a day after reports quoted officials as saying a ban under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act may be imposed on both factions of the Hurriyat Conference. The reports said a recent probe into the granting of MBBS seats to Kashmiri students by institutions in Pakistan indicated that the money collected from aspirants was being used for funding terror organisations.“All Parties Hurriyat Conference(APHC) led by incarcerated chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq completely rejected and denounced the propaganda being promoted in print and other media by authorities, that it’s executive leadership, who could recommend aspiring Kashmiri candidates to medical and technical colleges in Pakistan, would ‘sell’ the admission seats to students for money,” the separatist group said in a statement.On Sunday, news agencies quoted unnamed officials as saying that both the factions of the Hurriyat are likely to be banned under Section 3(1) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or the UAPA. The separatist conglomerate broke into two factions in 2005 with the moderate group being led by the Mirwaiz and the hard-line by Syed Ali Shah Geelani.“APHC said that it wants to put on record that this is completely unfounded, and can be verified by those students or parents whom they have recommended, many among them being from among economically weak sections,” the statement quoted above added.The hard-line Hurriyat, to which Syed Ali Shah Geelani belongs, did not issue any reaction but eyewitnesses said that the organisation removed its sign board ‘Tehreek-e-Hurriyat’ from its office at Hyderpora.The united All Parties Hurriyat Conference was formed in 1993 with 26 separatist groups and then split after a section of Hurriyat put up a proxy candidate in 2002 assembly elections. Mirwaiz led one group and Geelani another. Tehreek-e-Hurriyat, a constituent of hard-line Hurriyat Conference, was formed by Geelani in August 2004 after he left politico-religious organisation Jamaat-e-Islami. Geelani stepped down as Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief after 14 years in March 2018.The Centre banned Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front and Jamaat e Islami under UAPA after the Pulwama attack in 2019.The APHC said that its chairman Mirwaiz, who is also the chief priest at Jamia Masjid Srinagar, has all along been giving recommendation letters to students for colleges and universities in Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Turkey and elsewhere.It also stated that the sentiments of the people of J&K with regard to the resolution of the Kashmir dispute in a peaceful and fair manner “cannot be altered despite repression, legal tactics or propaganda”.“Led by the Miwaiz, APHC will always represent those aspirations and seek their fulfillment through its principled stand of dialogue and deliberations among the stakeholders of the conflict,” it said.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) registered cases and arrested several separatist leaders in 2017 in a militant funding case. Those in jail are Geelani’s son-in-law Altaf Ahmed Shah, Mirwaiz’s aide Shahidul Islam, hardline Hurriyat former spokesman Ayaz Akbar, Mehrajuddin Kalwal ,Peer Saifullah, businessman Zahoor Ahmed Watali and Nayeem Khan. JKLF’s Yasin Malik and Dukhtaran e Millat chief Asiya Andrabi were arrested later.Member of Parliament and National Conference leader Hasnain Masoodi said that banning was not an option in a democracy. “By banning an organisation, the thought is not going to die. It is better to deal with a narrative with a counter narrative,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hurriyat-rejects-charges-of-selling-mbbs-seats-amid-reports-of-ban-101629744087896.html
24-08-2021||India||ED seizes ₹82.5L cash, house of alleged conman in Tamil Nadu||The Enforcement Directorate officials on Monday raided a high-profile conman, Sukesh Chandrasekhar, in the outskirts of Chennai, the agency said in a tweet. Following the raids, they seized a luxurious beachfront bungalow, 16 luxurious cars, ₹82.5 lakhs in cash, two kg gold and other high-end items.“The raids are a follow-up action based on a case filed by us,” said a senior official of the enforcement directorate, who did not wish to reveal more details. He added that Chandrasekhar is currently in jail. With a history of forgery and a known fascination for cars, Chandrasekar, who hails from Karnataka, has been accused in several criminal cases, including extortion across metro cities. He is known to return to crime in various cities after he received bail. Chandrasekar has faced charges of scamming people by being a middleman, targeting businessmen and is accused of posing as a relative of political leaders and even as a Supreme Court judge.He was earlier accused of running an extortion racket of several crores, despite being behind bars in Tihar jail. He was also arrested by the Delhi police in the two-leaves symbol bribery case in 2017. Chandrasekhar had allegedly acted as a middleman by taking money from TTV Dhinakaran to bribe the Election Commission to allot the AIADMK’s two-leaves party symbol to his faction headed by his aunt V K Sasikala.At that time the symbol was frozen, following the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s in office, and the AIADMK had split into factions. The symbol eventually went to the faction led by Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, who continue their dual leadership of the AIADMK while Dhinakaran went on to float a party with Sasikala’s supporters called Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) with an aim to retrieve the AIADMK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-seizes-82-5l-cash-house-of-alleged-conman-in-tamil-nadu-101629744087432.html
24-08-2021||India||DRDO develops biodegradable bags for Tirumala prasadam||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple in Andhra Pradesh, has teamed up with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to develop biodegradable bags which will be used to sell the mahaprasadam laddu, a prime initiative future. A dedicated sale counter has been set up by the TTD near the laddu counters adjacent to the Tirumala temple, where the devotees can first buy these bags before heading to counters to buy the prasadams.Detailing about the initiative, DRDO chairman Satish Reddy said, “Our Advance Systems Laboratory in Hyderabad has been doing a lot of research and inventing ways to find the best environmental friendly replacement for hazardous plastic. To minimise single-use plastic, we have come out with these eco-friendly bags made of starch corn, which degrades naturally within 90 days. It is also not harmful even if cattle consume them. After detailed research and rigorous testing of the formula, we have come out with these bags for Tirumala.”The TTD was one of the biggest distributors of single-use plastic covers before 2019. In the period between 2014 and 2018, the TTD procured and distributed 96.3 million polythene laddu covers to the devotees.The new TTD board, under the chairmanship of YV Subba Reddy, realised that the trust would be causing severe damage to the environment if it continued to promote the use of polythene laddu covers. A blanket ban on the use of single-use plastic covers was imposed in 2019, post which a tie-up was announced with the DRDO.Talking about the harmful effects of polythene bags, Satish Reddy, said, “Usually, conventional polyethene bags made from petrochemicals are toxic to the environment, and take nearly 200 years to degrade. In contrast, these bags would be offered as a sustainable, cost-effective and ocean-safe alternative to such plastic products.” “Products like these are essential for the survival of mankind. After observing the response from the pilgrims for a few days, we are planning to commence its sales in a full-fledged manner,” noted TTD EO Dr KS Jawahar Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-biodegradable-bags-for-tirumala-prasadam-101629744030494.html
24-08-2021||India||HC admits petitions against Gujarat Prohibition Act as ‘maintainable’||The Gujarat high court on Monday held as maintainable a batch of petitions challenging the provisions of Gujarat Prohibition Act, 1949, which bans the manufacture, sale and consumption of liquor in the state.A division bench comprising chief justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav said the court held the petitions as “maintainable and be heard and decided on merits,” as it rejected the state government’s objections to the same.The final hearing was initially posted for September 20 but was postponed to October 12 after advocate general Kamal Trivedi sought more time for the state to explore the option of approaching the Supreme Court.“If at all the government is thinking of testing it before a higher court, it needs some accommodation,” Trivedi said.To this, the chief justice asserted, “Who is stopping you from that? That is your right”.The bench had earlier reserved its order on the preliminary question of maintainability on June 23. Pointing out that the Supreme Court had upheld the Act in its 1952 judgment, Trivedi had argued that a law validated by the top court could be held invalid, “but for that purpose, the forum is the Supreme Court and not this court”.“It is not permissible for (high) court to examine the validity of any law or any new law or additional grounds when it has been upheld by the apex court in the past,” Trivedi said.The petitioners, however, argued that the matter should be taken up on merits, as the provisions challenged in the pleas are materially different from what they were in 1951 as they have been amended over the years. They added that the right to privacy was not recognized as a fundamental right in 1951 when the Supreme Court upheld the validity of the provisions in the prohibition law.The batch of petitions have challenged the constitutional validity of sections section 12, 13 (total prohibition on manufacture, purchase, import, transportation, export, sale, possession, use and consumption of liquor), 24-1B, 65 of the Gujarat Prohibition Act, 1949, and sought them to be declared as ultra vires Article 246 of the Constitution.The provisions are “arbitrary, irrational, unfair, unreasonable, and discriminatory...and despite prohibition being in place for more than six decades, a steady supply of liquor continues to be available through an underground network of bootleggers, organised criminal gangs and corrupt officials”, the petitioners who were represented by senior advocates such as Mihir Thakore, Mihir Joshi, Devan Parikh and Saurabh Soparkar said.“With expanding interpretation of the right to life, personal liberty and privacy, as contained in Article 21 of the Constitution, a citizen has a right to choose how he lives, so long as he is not a nuisance to the society. The state cannot dictate what he will eat and what he will drink,” one of the pleas said.At one point of time during the earlier hearing in June, Trivedi had said: “This concept of right to privacy is not like a bull in a china shop. It is subject to reasonable restrictions based on social environment; otherwise tomorrow, somebody will say you should not harass me if I am taking drugs, psychotropic substances within my four walls,” he said.It was also pointed out that the people of Gujarat “are extremely happy with the prohibition law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-admits-petitions-against-guj-prohibition-act-as-maintainable-101629744028844.html
24-08-2021||India||TN govt moves SC against Mekedatu dam project||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday reiterated in the state assembly that it will not allow Karnataka to build the Mekedatu dam and the state has moved the Supreme Court against an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which disposed of an appeal on whether Karnataka has started constructing the project. Tabling the first separate policy note of the water resources department, and presenting the demand for grants, water resources minister, Durai Murugan, asserted that Tamil Nadu will ensure that the state’s rights are not compromised in the decades-old inter-state water disputes with Karnataka and Kerala. “The Government of Tamil Nadu is taking all necessary action to prevent Karnataka from constructing a dam at Mekedatu or any other place, in the Cauvery basin of Karnataka,” Durai Murugan said. The state argues that the construction of the dam violates the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal in 2007 and a judgement of the Supreme Court in 2018.This comes after the NGT (Southern Zone) took up suo motu cognisance that Karnataka has started construction work for the dam based on media reports. In May this year, an order was passed for a committee to be constituted to look into whether any construction activity has started without obtaining the necessary clearance. It was also meant to assess and submit a report if there have been environmental damages due to this. But, based on the review application filed by Karnataka, the NGT’s principal bench in New Delhi in June disposed of the matter, citing that the issue was before the Supreme Court. The state said since it was disposed of without allowing Tamil Nadu to file a reply, they went on an appeal earlier this month.This comes after the DMK led an all-party delegation to the capital to meet Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to not give clearance to Karnataka and chief minister M K Stalin in his first meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, had conveyed Tamil Nadu’s opposition. Stalin had also not agreed to bilateral talks with ex-Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa. The intense battle continues with his successor Basavaraj Bommai, expressing they will continue with the plan.Karnataka has maintained that the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project will not affect Tamil Nadu and it is meant to generate 400 MW of power and additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking and domestic needs in the state and particularly Bengaluru. Tamil Nadu has argued that the dam would disrupt the natural flow of water from the upper riparian state and affect its agrarian community. In another issue where Karnataka has opposed Tamil Nadu’s plans, Durai Murugan said that the Tamil Nadu government will go ahead with the project to link Cauvery with Gundar within the state. To alleviate the water shortage in Tamil Nadu, Murugan said the new government was committed to inter-linking of peninsular rivers like Mahanadhi, Godavari, Krishna, Pennar, Palar, Cauvery, Vaigai, and Gundar. He also announced that 1,000 check dams and barrages will be constructed in the state in the next 10 years to conserve water. Barrages will come up across Cauvery, Kollidam, and Thamirabarani in the first phase. The minister said drones will be deployed to monitor water bodies in the state. Raising a dispute with another neighbouring state, the minister also said that Kerala’s “obstructionist attitude” was delaying works related to the Mullaperiyar Dam.He raised the issue of pending work that is required to raise the water level to FRL 152 ft. These works have been recommended by the Central Water Commission and ordered by the Supreme Court in 2006 and 2014. Chief minister M K Stalin had urged Modi in his meeting to instruct the concerned departments to give clearance to Tamil Nadu to carry out the work to restore the water level in the dam.“To strengthen the Baby Dam, 23 trees have to be felled down. Though necessary efforts have been taken to obtain necessary clearances, due to the obstructionist attitude of the state of Kerala, it is getting delayed,” the minister said. A petition seeking an order to the government of Kerala to cooperate for felling the 23 trees and repairing the Ghat road to the Dam site is pending in the Supreme Court. A joint inspection in June was carried out by the forest officials from Tamil Nadu and Kerala for details on the trees. Tamil Nadu is taking efforts to get the clearances of Union environment and wildlife departments regarding this pending work. Murugan added that a meeting with top Kerala officials to resolve water-related issues will be held shortly in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-govt-moves-sc-against-mekedatu-dam-project-101629744027244.html
24-08-2021||India||SC pulls up Allahabad, U’khand HCs for staying arrests in murder cases||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed shock at the high courts of Allahabad and Uttarakhand routinely issuing stay orders on the arrest of people accused of heinous crimes such as murder. “Despite our orders repeatedly holding that no such order can be passed, the High Courts in Uttar Pradesh (Allahabad) and Uttarakhand are continuously passing such orders,” remarked a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah.The court’s remarks came while hearing an appeal against a July 23 order passed by the Uttarakhand high court on a plea for quashing the first information report in the murder of a man that named three people as accused. The high court had noted that the prayer for quashing the FIR was “innocuous” and was not pressed for by the accused, but it still allowed them protection from arrest till August 10. The Supreme Court noted that the offence in the case was of murder and the high court should have been more circumspect. “It is a shocking order passed by the High Court,” the apex court remarked while noting that the order allowed the accused to surrender by August 10 and also get a decision on their bail plea on the same day, if filed. “Further, it goes on to say that if bail is refused, the papers should be sent to a Sessions Judge the same day who will deal with the bail expeditiously.”Praveen Salar, the complainant in the case and the brother of the victim, appealed in the Supreme Court against this order. His family, as well as the accused, were business rivals, each owning brick kilns in Haridwar. Salar in his appeal filed through advocate Suhaas Ratna Joshi questioned the high court order staying arrest in such a serious crime and said he wasn’t even heard before the order was passed. At this, the apex court issued a notice to the Uttarakhand government and posted the matter for hearing on September 3.The bench noted that orders such as this fly in the face of a recent Supreme Court decision authored by a three-judge bench in the Neeharika Infrastructure v State of Maharashtra (April 2019) case that specifically restrained the high courts from passing interim orders of stay of arrest or “no coercive steps” while dealing with writ petitions filed by the accused for the quashing of criminal cases.Neeharika Infrastructure had lodged an FIR against three people in Mumbai for allegedly selling off high-value real estate by fraud. The high court granted the accused protection from arrest in September 2020, which was challenged by the company in the apex court. Incidentally, the April 2019 judgment was authored by Justice Shah and the bench was headed by Justice Chandrachud while Justice Sanjiv Khanna was the third member. In the Neeharika case, the Bombay high court had passed an order of “no coercive action” without giving any reasons on a petition to quash the criminal case, which hampered the police investigation. The apex court had said that when an investigation is in progress and the facts are hazy, “the High Court should restrain itself from passing the interim order of not to arrest or...and the accused should be relegated to apply for anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the competent court.” Placing a bar on such action by the high courts, the three-judge bench had said that the high court “is not justified in passing the order of not to arrest or ‘no coercive steps’ either during the investigation or till the investigation is completed and/or till the final report/chargesheet is filed...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-pulls-up-allahabad-u-khand-hcs-for-staying-arrests-in-murder-cases-101629743847106.html
24-08-2021||India||Comorbid kids to be first to get vaccine: Panel chief||Children with comorbidities will be given priority in the vaccination drive for those below the age of 18, the chairman of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), NK Arora, said on Monday. Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, which received emergency use approval last week, is the first vaccine in India to be cleared for children aged above 12.Arora added that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is also likely to be available for use in children by the year-end, and the regulatory approval process for this could start anywhere between September and October.“Children with comorbidities will be given preference when paediatric vaccines are introduced in the system, be it Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin or the other one that Serum Institute of India is testing in children,” said Arora.Two vaccine candidates were tested among children in India: Covaxin and ZyCoV-D. The two are also the only ones of the six now approved in India to be developed indigenously. Public health experts say children should get vaccinated against the disease when they become eligible in order to reduce their vulnerability in a possible third wave of infections as they remain the only group that is completely unvaccinated.Government experts will be holding discussions on how to introduce Zydus’s vaccine as it is a three-dose intradermal vaccine to be administered in 28-day gaps. “We also need to see how to introduce ZyCoV-D in the immunisation drive,” said Arora.Zydus said that it also planned to seek approval for a two-dose regimen of its vaccine.Last week, Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director, Krishna Ella, and director of Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (Pune), Dr Priya Abraham, said that Covaxin was likely to be approved for children by September.“The final phase of our clinical trials is over. We are hoping that by the month-end or by next month, we should get the licence for vaccine use in children. This is the only vaccine in the world that can be given to children between 2 and 18 years,” Ella said in an interview to Doordarshan news on Wednesday.As Bharat Biotech has collaborated with ICMR to develop Covaxin, Abraham also confirmed that the Covaxin trial results in children were expected soon.“Hopefully, the results (of the trials) are going to be available very soon. These will be presented to the regulators. So, by September or just after it, we may have Covid-19 vaccines for children,” she added.The Covaxin trial had 525 children volunteers while ZyCov-D’s trials — as part of the phase II/III clinical studies — included 1,000 volunteers in the 12-18 age group.Arora said that another area that is getting more and more attention is the need for booster doses and studies have been initiated in the country to determine that.“We will rely strictly on our own data that is generated locally on the need for booster doses,” he added.However, experts said that the first the priority should be to vaccinate all eligible people.“Booster may be required but that will happen later; first we need to think about covering all our high-risk population groups and adults,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary and sleep medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comorbid-kids-to-be-first-to-get-vaccine-panel-chief-101629743729149.html
24-08-2021||India||Kharif sowing rises as rain picks up||Planting of summer-sown kharif crops, which account for half of India’s annual food output, accelerated in August as the monsoon revived, but acreage under key crops are still down 1% over last year due to erratic rainfall, even as experts warned that extreme weather this year could trim yields. The June-September monsoon rains, which water nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area, have been forecast to be normal by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Current official numbers of the area under various crops more or less offer a full picture of the sowing season, marked by short spurts of heavy rainfall and long pauses from late June to mid-July, and then again, in the first half of August. The revival of rainfall has improved sowing levels of crops such as paddy, soyabean, pulses, oilseeds, millets and vegetables, but farmers have been unable to match the record levels of 2020. Nearly half of all Indians depend on a farm-based income. The national weather agency officially forecast a normal monsoon during 2021. A normal monsoon means a strong sowing season and a good harvest which drives up rural demand for goods and services, helping the economy grow. Overall, farmers have been able to plant 104 million hectares by August 20, exceeding the normal area of 101 million hectares by 3.2%. However, this is about 1% less than the total area of 104 million hectares sown in 2020. An average of the past five years’ acreage is considered normal, according to the agriculture ministry’s classification. The five-year average in this case is 101 million hectares. But heavy rains disrupted sowing of cotton, a key commercial crop, and its acreage stands at close to 11.7 million hectares, almost 7% less than the 12.7 million hectares of last year. A reviving monsoon drove sowing of soyabean, a key oilseed that is widely used for edible oil, to about 18 million hectares, roughly what is considered normal. Planting of coarse cereals too picked to 16 million hectares, while that of pulses stood at 13.4 million hectares, both considered normal. The monsoon is one of the factors that influences the Reserve Bank’s inflation forecast and monetary policy, which determines key interest rates. July is agriculturally the most critical month during the kharif season, since rains during this month determine yields and crop health. Economists are looking to a robust farm growth to cushion the impacts of the pandemic on the overall economy. Rains were fairly poor in many parts in the initial weeks of July. More than the deficiency, this year’s uneven rains have been a cause of concern, agriculturally and climate-wise. “I more or less expected sowing to catch up to stand at normal levels,” said KJ Ramesh, a climatologist and former chief of the India Meteorological Department, the national weather-forecast agency. Longer monsoon pauses followed by heavy spells of rainfall are telltale signs of the climate crisis, experts say. “The consensus is that the number of rainy days will decrease because of climate change but overall quantum of rainfall will remain same. So, there will be segments or periods of very heavy rain,” Ramesh added. In 2020-21, when India faced a recession due to the pandemic, agriculture was the only sector to post positive growth of about 3.1%. This helped to keep farm incomes steady.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharif-sowing-rises-as-rain-picks-up-101629743667685.html
24-08-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu aides’ remarks spark new Punjab row||A political row raged on Monday over controversial comments on Kashmir made by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisers, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, with the party saying it will consider taking action, and senior leaders sharply criticising the remarks.Late in the evening, Mali took direct potshots at Sidhu’s rival and chief minister Amarinder Singh and made personal attacks on the 79-year-old leader on social media.In a Facebook post last week, Mali had said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late prime minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg had questioned the chief minister’s criticism of Pakistan.Sidhu summoned the two newly appointed functionaries to his residence in Patiala and spoke to them for roughly three hours. The meeting came a day after Singh condemned the remarks and said they were detrimental to the peace and stability of the country. The CM also called the remarks “atrocious” and “anti-national”.Congress MP Manish Tewari condemned the comments. “I urge Harish Rawat, AICC gen secy in-charge Punjab to seriously introspect that those who do not consider J&K to be a part of India and others who have ostensibly pro-Pakistan leanings should be a part of Punjab Congress,” Tewari tweeted. The Congress appeared to distance itself from the row.Rawat hinted at taking “strict action” against Mali if the comments were proven. “I would like to clarify on behalf of the party that J&K is an integral part of India. Nobody has the right to cast doubt on its status, let alone issuing a statement,” Rawat told news agency ANI.Rawat also warned of action over Indira Gandhi’s sketch. “She was one of the most popular leaders, a mother figure to us. If somebody insults her, we condemn it. Action will be taken if this is proven”, he added.Sidhu didn’t comment on the row. The advisers said they discussed issues concerning Punjab’s development with Sidhu. “Some political leaders and parties have started issuing ‘fatwa’ against me instead of initiating a dialogue...,” Mali said. Garg said: “When a government does good work, we appreciate it. But if it performs badly, we criticise it.”After the CM’s objection to his remarks, Mali on Sunday shared an old Facebook post, saying, “Punjab is asking — don’t beat around the bush and answer why the convoy was looted.”Mali and Garg were appointed by Sidhu on August 11 as part of additions he made to the party organisation after taking charge of the state unit. He has six other advisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-aides-remarks-spark-new-punjab-row-101629743504688.html
24-08-2021||India||Not Taliban state, says court; denies bail to accused in hate slogans case||A Delhi court refused to grant anticipatory bail to Hindu Raksha Dal president Bhupinder Tomar alias Pinky Chaudhary in a case of alleged anti-Muslim sloganeering in the Capital, saying that India was “not a Taliban state”.Chaudhary was purportedly seen making inflammatory remarks in an interview to a local news channel on August 8, the day incendiary slogans were raised at a rally named ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ called at Jantar Mantar to protest “colonial-era laws”.The video was placed as evidence before the court by the police who opposed Chaudhary’s pre-arrest bail plea.“We are not a Taliban state. Rule of law is the sacrosanct governing principle in our plural and multicultural society. While the whole of India is celebrating Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, there are some minds still chained with intolerant and self-centric beliefs,” additional sessions judge Anil Antil said in his August 21 order released on Monday.Videos of the anti-Muslim sloganeering were circulated widely on social media, which triggered outrage and resulted in the Delhi Police registering a case on August 9 and the arrest ofsix people, including lawyer and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, who was granted bail on August 11.Rejecting relief to Chaudhary, the court said that “the complicity of accused in the alleged case crime is prima facie apparent from the material placed before it”.It said the accusations are serious and the offence alleged is severe in nature, and history shows that such incidents have flared up communal tensions leading to riots “and causing loss to life and property of the general public”.The court also reiterated that freedom of speech is a fundamental right, but it is not “absolute”.“Nor can it be extended to transgress upon fundamental rights of other people; nor can it be expanded to the acts prejudicial to the maintenance of peace, harmony and public order; nor can it be permitted to invade and erode the secular fabric of our society. In the garb of the libertarian concept of free speech, the applicant/accused cannot be allowed to trample the Constitutional principles, which promote inclusiveness and common brotherhood,” the 10-page order noted.The judge noted that Chaudhary’s interview was loaded with “high octane communal barbs; laced with inflammatory, insulting and threatening gestures”; and was “indicative of the calculative design on the part of the applicant to promote hatred and ill will...”The court also observed that going by the tone and tenor of Chaudhary’s speech and the use of threatening words, “there is (a) strong possibility, if released on bail, at this stage, the applicant/accused shall hamper the investigation, and shall influence and/or threaten the witnesses”.Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, who appeared for Chaudhary, contended that his client wasn’t involved in the offence and was in no way associated with the event. He alleged that the 11-minute interview clip of Chaudhary was added by the investigating officer to strengthen his case.He also alleged that the police were harassing his client by regularly visiting him at home, office, and other places.Opposing the pre-arrest bail plea, public prosecutor KK Sain said that Chaudhary had gone to Jantar Mantar with other members of his outfit and joined the rally as planned earlier to use it to create communal disharmony.“...accordingly, they incited the youth to propagate against a particular religion, despite the sanction to gather refused by the competent authority,” Sain had argued.The court observed that the investigation is at a nascent stage and other people are yet to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-taliban-state-says-delhi-court-denies-bail-to-accused-in-jantar-mantar-hate-slogans-case-101629743366258.html
24-08-2021||India||Must respect decision of an interfaith couple: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will always respect the decision of an adult couple to live together and not investigate a marriage just because the man and the woman belong to different religions.“As a system and as an institution, we must respect the decision of a couple,” observed a bench of justices Uday U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi while refusing to entertain a petition by a woman’s parents, who claimed that their daughter, a Hindu, was forcibly converted to Islam and married to a Muslim man against her will.The habeas corpus petition by the parents alleged that the woman was illegally confined by the man and there must be an investigation into the circumstances of their alleged marriage after forceful conversion.But the court remarked: “As a system, we should not be prying into the privacy of a couple if a man and woman want to live together. We have to respect their decision as adults.”The bench relied on a statement given by the woman to the police officers in Chandigarh where the couple lived together.The ruling comes against the backdrop of some states passing laws that make inter-faith marriages difficult -- the Gujarat High Court recently stayed some provisions of a new state law recently on this count -- and the spectre of love-jihad. Several right wing groups believe that there is conspiracy where Muslim men hide their faith, and woo, marry, and subsequently convert women of other religions, usually Hinduism.The counter-affidavit, filed by advocate Shantanu Sagar for the Union territory of Chandigarh, attached the statement written by the woman, stating that she is living with the man of her own her free will and there is no coercion. The woman also said that her parents were against this alliance but she got married to the man in January and is now happily living with him.The affidavit also adduced the couple’s marriage certificate registered in Jammu and Kashmir, which is the man’s home state, apart from their birth certificates that show the woman is 25 years old and the man, 28.“Look at her statement. She has reported to the police that she is married of her own will. Look at the way the letter has been written. The letters are all straight and there are no cuts. The letter shows its author is not under any kind of stress or coercion,” the bench said.It asked the counsel for the parents if they were disputing her handwriting on the statement given to the police. “Since you are not doubting the handwriting, we cannot be of any assistance to you. A person, who is forced to make a statement, will not write like this. This is a clear case of a man or a woman being in complete sense and in control while writing a letter,” the bench told the parents’ counsel, Sudarsh Menon.After Menon said he could not dispute the handwriting, the court said that it is not a case for interference by the court and that the decision made by the couple should be respected. The counsel then opted to withdraw the petition.In February, another bench in the top court underscored the right of adults to choose their life partners while adding that it is time society learns to accept intercaste and interfaith marriages without hounding the couples.That bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul observed that “educated young boys and girls are increasingly choosing their life partner on their own”, which might be viewed as a deviation by the society and the parents, but the police authorities were duty-bound to keep such couples out of harm’s way if there was no violation of the law. In that instance, the bench was hearing a case of an intercaste marriage from Karnataka. The couple approached the top court, seeking protection from a criminal case lodged by the woman’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-respect-decision-of-an-interfaith-couple-sc-101629740128153.html
24-08-2021||India||Farmers protest: SC asks Centre, states to ensure agitations don’t block roads||The Supreme Court on Monday said that it is the responsibility of the Centre and the states to ensure that agitations do not block movement on public roads, as it took a grim view of the continuing farmers’ protests along Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy also turned down a suggestion to call upon the farm leaders of the two “prominent” unions, which have been spearheading the protests over three contentious agricultural laws since November last year. It insisted that the Centre and the states should rather put their heads together to work out a solution to road blockades.“The solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and state governments. They should coordinate with each other to ensure that if the protests are on, the traffic should not be stopped in any manner so that to and fro for people is not disturbed and does not cause any inconvenience to them,” said the court in its order.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November in protest against three controversial central laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy, and traffic at many points, including at Chilla border in Noida, have been diverted, adding significantly to commuters’ travel times.The bench was considering a woman’s complaint that it has been taking her almost two hours, instead of 20 minutes, to travel from Noida to Delhi due to frequent blockades and protests when it called upon solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Union government and Delhi Police.“What has been going on Mr Mehta? You have to find a solution. Courts cannot find a solution. There are some courts which have passed certain orders but it will work only if the governments find a solution,” Justice Kaul told the S-G.Mehta, on his part, suggested that the court may consider calling two “prominent” farmers’ unions involved in the protests to attend the case hearing. The court, however, did not accede to this request, commenting there could be some other unions that may make different claims.“You have to find a solution, they might have the right to a place to agitate, but the roads cannot be blocked like this,” the bench told the S-G while adjourning the matter to September 20 after Mehta said he will need two weeks to get further instructions.“We are putting this matter on September 20. That’s enough time. Please work out something,” Justice Kaul told the S-G.Petitioner Monicca Agarwaal, who works in an information technology firm, has stated in her petition that she needs to commute between Delhi and Noida for work but the travel time has become a “nightmare” for her.She rued that various directions passed by the top court in several cases, including the Shaheen Bagh protest, to keep public roads clear, have not been followed. Her plea added that the petitioner being a single mother with medical issues was having a harrowing time on account of the failure of the authorities in complying with the Supreme Court’s orders.During the hearing of this petition in April, the bench had emphasised that protesters cannot block roads and continually inconvenience the public while regretting that despite several judicial pronouncements on keeping public roads free, the situation did not seem to improve.The Union government and Delhi Police took a stand that the authorities were trying their best to remove blockades and make the commute in Delhi-NCR smooth.In its affidavit, the UP government said that efforts were underway to make the farmers understand the “grossly illegal act of blocking roads” but most of the protesters are aged farmers. “Diversions have been created to allow for smooth movement of traffic between Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi via the Maharajpur and Hindon roads as NH 24 was still blocked,” the affidavit stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-asks-centre-states-to-ensure-agitations-don-t-block-roads-101629738865739.html
24-08-2021||India||Martial community whose lineage is intertwined with army regiment||The young officers’ course is mandatory for all new lieutenants joining the Indian Army, but for a group of handpicked officers belonging to the 37 Coorg Regiment of the army’s artillery arm, the four-week course traditionally gets extended by two more weeks with a visit to Madikeri, a hilly town in Karnataka.These young officers spend time in the hills learning about the origins of their regiment and the tales of legends like Field Marshal KM Cariappa and General KS Thimayya, who emerged from these very hills.Even though contested in the modern age, the Indian army’s regiments are formed and named after the communities of the soldiers recruited into these units.The martial race was a designation that was created by army officials in British India after the Indian Rebellion of 1857, in which they classified castes into two categories, with the ‘martial race’ being typically brave and well-built for fighting. Even now, the Indian Army designates its regiments as Sikh Light Infantry, Gorkha Rifles, Madras Regiment, Rajputana Rifles, and so on.Even though not familiar within Karnataka, the Kodavas or the Coorgies is considered a marital race and have a regiment named after them – the 37 Coorg Regiment. This is the only regiment for the Kodavas.The unit traces its origins back to 1794 when it was raised by the British to counter Tipu Sultan’s attack against the Kodava kingdom. Initially raised as infantry, the unit went on to fight against Tipu in the fourth Mysore war, where he was eventually killed.Until 1901, the regiment was designated as the 11th Madras Infantry and in 1902, the regiment was reorganised, and the basis of recruitment changed from Tamil and Telugu to only Coorg soldiers. The restructured regiment was then renamed the 71st Coorg Rifles in 1903.The new regiment was given dark green uniforms with scarlet facings. Red fezzes, which were an unusual item of uniform in the Indian Army, are reported to have been worn by the sepoys. Subsequently, described as an ‘in-out-of-the-run’ unit, they were disbanded in 1904 because of insufficient recruits.In 1942, Coorgs were again recruited into the newly raised 1st Coorg Battalion. Like the 71st Coorg Rifles, the new battalion had a badge incorporating crossed Coorg knives. In 1946, it was converted to the 37 Coorg Anti-Tank Regiment Unit of the Royal Indian Artillery. It is now a part of the modern Indian regiment of artillery and wears the uniform of the artillery.The regiment’s attachment to the land it represents is such that their war cry is “CauveryMata ki Jai” (Hail mother Cauvery) since river Cauvery is an integral part of the Kodava culture.Subedar Major (Retd) KC Kalappa, a retired gunner from the regiment said that it was a matter of pride for the Kodava community to have a regiment in their name, but over the years, the number of recruits from the community is reducing. “In the early 1970s, the regiment had people only from the Kodava community and the community took pride in it. But over the years,the number of recruits is coming down and now the unit consists of soldiers from all four south Indian states,” said Kalappa.Even though the regiment has recruited from all south Indian states, the regiment maintains the tradition of the Kodava community. For example, on the regiment’s raising day, the officers, and non-commissioned officers, regardless of their ethnicity, wear the traditional ‘Kupya Chale’,which consists of a traditional jacket and headgear. The officers wear Pichangatti (a traditional knife), and instead of handing baton, when a new commanding officer takes over, a Pichangatti is handed over as a sign of change in command.“I’m a Punjabi but I was the commanding officer of the Coorg regiment for three years and whenever I visit Kodagu, I feel like a Coorgi because of the traditions of the regiment. The house of the commanding the officer is called a Mercara house, named after the Mercara town in the Coorg,” said Major General Sanjay Sharma (retd).According to Maj Gen Sharma, the unit is so closely affiliated with the Kodagu community that it is a tradition for the unit to take part in the annual hockey tournament in Kodagu. “For the Kodavas, the annual hockey tournament is very important it is part of their culture. In this tournament, various families of Kodagu compete against each other. So, for the past few years, the regiment gives an award for the first goal scored in the tournament and it is a matter of pride for the people because the regiment named after their community is taking an interest,” he said.Over the years, however, the composition of the unit has changed. According to Maj Gen Sharma, currently, the number of Kodavas is only about 15-20% in the unit, and three other south Indian states fill other vacancies. “Over the years, the number of recruits has come down. But all men of the regiment, whichever state they are from, celebrates all Kodava festivals and call themselves Coorgs with pride,” he said.Describing the 37 Coorg Medium Regiment as a matter of ‘pride for Karnataka’, ex-Sergeant of the Indian Air Force Mandetira Subramani and the president of VeKare Ex-Servicemen’s Trust (VKET), has emphasised the need to post a few more willing young officers, junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and jawans from the community to the regiment and make it more meaningful. “We are trying to promote the heritage of the unit among the youngsters and trying to get more people to join the regiment and continue the legacy,” said Subramani.Even though the number of the Coorgies in the regiments is coming down, the regiment still holds on to the traditions of the community and takes pride the representing the decedents of river Cauvery on the battlefield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/martial-community-whose-lineage-is-intertwined-with-army-regiment-101629570434076.html
24-08-2021||Today's||From generating capacity to demand, a blueprint for India’s electricity policy||India invested ₹18 trillion in the power sector over 2013-19 as per the Task Force on National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). The ambition for the next five years is to invest ₹23 trillion in power and renewable energy.NIP articulates a vision for investments to improve the quality of life of citizens. The goal for the power sector is affordable and clean energy with a 24x7 supply for all, enabled by reliable transmission and distribution infrastructure.Reliable supply is also emphasised in the National Electricity Policy (NEP1.0, 2005). It also recognised inadequacies in the distribution network as the reason for unreliable supply.Over the last 15 years, access has improved, but the quality of power remains poor. The initiatives to measure power quality on a consistent and comparable basis have not succeeded. Directives by the central electricity authority and regulators to report indices such as the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI), the Customer Average Interruption Frequency Index (CAIFI) have been ignored. Customer surveys, a norm in consumer-facing industries, are conspicuous in their absence.Also Read | Monetise assets, the right wayThe ministry of power recently constituted a committee to review the NEP. This is an opportunity to re-examine the priorities, particularly concerning the efficiency of investments and to incorporate scientific cost-benefit criteria for investment analysis to ensure maximum value for money.Our analysis reveals that it is time to shift gears to prioritise the customer and the creation of demand. A considerable surplus exists, given the peak demand of 185 GW relative to the installed capacity of 383 GW. Improving the quality of supply can be a key driver.India’s generation capacity expanded 300% since NEP 1.0, from 124 GW in fiscal year (FY) 2006 to over 383 GW by FY 2021, growing at an 8% compound annual growth rate (CAGR). Over the same duration, the demand grew at less than 5%. Current marginal deficits (0.1%) do not reflect the lack of supply. Reduction in plant load factors (PLFs) from over 77% in FY 2010, to approximately 53% in FY 2021, is proof.In addition to the utility-owned capacity of 383GW, an additional 75 GW of grid-connected captive capacity is owned by large commercial and industrial (C&I) customers. This does not include medium-sized generators, owned by C&I as backup, and small generators and inverters owned by individual homes. Limited data is available, but one report estimates the medium-sized C&I market, on a conservative basis, to be 15GW annually. No data is available for small generators, inverters and uninterruptible power supply (UPS).Cumulatively, the total investments in capacity, primary and backup may be ₹25-50 trillion, considering an average investment of ₹5 crore/MW. With declining PLFs, low-design capacity utilisation factor (CUF) of renewable generators and intermittently operated backup capacity, the capital-output ratio of investments is low and falling. Unreliable, underinvested, and under-maintained distribution networks are the primary reason.Underutilised investments stress finances by increasing the power procurement cost, which constitutes 80% of a typical distribution company (discom)’s cost structure. Power Finance Corporation (PFC)’s Performance of State Utilities report reveals that aggregate technical and commercial (ATC) losses reduced from 23.5% to 22.0% between FY 2017 and FY 2019, but the financial losses increased 50%, from ₹0.4 trillion to ₹0.6 trillion, over the same duration.Given the socio-political considerations in tariff setting, rapidly increasing power purchase costs worsen Discom finances. In the long run, low utilisation creates non-performing assets, increases risk aversion and raises the cost of capital. Parliament’s Standing Committee on Energy indicates that stressed generation capacity exceeds 20 GW, with investments over ₹1 trillion.Therefore, a key policy priority should be to enhance the utilisation of assets. Distribution improvement and reform is the place to start. Network upgrades will create incremental demand through various routes.First, by the electrification of sectors relying on other sources. The Indian Railways embarked early on electrification and has made progress, but electric vehicles and cooking are unrealised opportunities. Electrification will also enable a reduction in the hydrocarbon import bill.Second, by serving the existing demand currently met by backup capacity. Improving the network will decongest demand. Network upgrades require significant investments, but they also reduce losses. The existence of a large diesel Genset market is evidence of the willingness to pay, provided supply is reliable. Therefore, investment in distribution will payback fast and reduce the demand for backup, as evidenced by the case of Delhi.Third, by creating incremental demand through incentivising consumption. All capital-intensive industries go through cyclical demand-supply mismatches and price discounts are common when over-supplied. Coupled with improved quality, reforming the regulatory framework to enable Discoms to determine the price based on demand-supply and customer credit-worthiness will enhance market orientation and improve finances.New demand from productive sectors will support growth and create livelihoods, a much-needed boost from the Covid-19-induced slowdown.Investments in the generation sector will still be required when the demand catches up with supply.However, such investments should again be prioritised based on cost-benefit analysis, with the allocation of full costs — financial and economic. Renewables may still be on the top, even after accounting for the transmission charges, when environmental benefits are accounted for. Investments in coal may also be required, but more likely in renovation, maintenance, emission control and in making them more flexible.NEP 2.0 needs to prioritise customers by improving the quality of supply. This requires an objective analysis to prioritise investments. Demand creating investments such as distribution network upgrades will improve the viability of the sector, reduce stressed assets, enhance growth, and generate livelihoods.Gaurav Bhatiani is director, Energy & Environment, Research Triangle Institute (India). Rakesh Kacker retired as secretary to the Government of India. He has worked extensively in the energy sector. Somit Dasgupta is senior visiting fellow, ICRIER and former member, CEAThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-generating-capacity-to-demand-a-blueprint-for-india-s-electricity-policy-101629804281559.html
24-08-2021||Today's||The unravelling of Pax Americana||The “war on terror”, launched two decades ago, epitomised the peak of America’s unipolar moment. The jets crashing into the twin towers were seen by most as an attack on the soul of globalisation, a project promoted and designed by the United States (US) and its partners in Europe. The near-universal commitment to this war, within the P-5 and outside, was a demonstration of America’s real power. That was a different time and a different world.Since then, the US has been implicated in the global financial crisis of 2008. Its flawed domestic landscape and divided democracy have been a public spectacle for global audiences since 2016, from the swearing-in of President Donald Trump to that of President Joe Biden. Both individuals were and are legitimate leaders for only half their nation. America’s botched and self-serving response to the Covid-19 pandemic only hastened the decline of its ethical and moral positioning. Hot on the trail of these events, the hasty and bungled exit from Afghanistan is not just a political event, but part of a continuum, one that points to the momentous unravelling of Pax Americana.Also Read | Focus on double-dose vaccinations. Boosters can waitIt is not the US’s material power alone that has suffered; the institutions undergirding the liberal order are on shaky ground as well. The partisanship of its media and academia are visible to all. It is a nation where trolling as a way of life has replaced a broad national consensus. Morally tinged lectures about the international liberal order are likely to fall on deaf ears for those who witnessed the West’s callous indifference to billions in the developing world still in need of vaccines, or towards the thousands of Afghan interpreters who risked their lives to fight America’s war.Those watching from capitals in Asia, gearing up for a new era of conflict and competition in the Indo-Pacific, will be even more sceptical. Some among them will be the first victims of the Taliban’s willingness to shelter and nurture terrorist groups. More importantly, the fall of Kabul will serve as a dire reminder of the fate that may befall them if they get mired in great power competition.For instance, if one lived in Japan, going nuclear may be a sensible option. If you were a resident of an Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) country, your neighbourhood bully would seem a more predictable and acceptable proposition. No spin can change this. America today is less attractive to many. This is a heavily mediated exit from a partnership and the damage is far greater than any of its other follies.One could even argue that the US’s Indo-Pacific project has already faced its first significant setback. The idea that the US will now focus on China with greater intensity is naïve and suggests a poor understanding of politics. Land frontiers still matter and the US has ceded South and South-West Asia to Beijing. Chinese State media have lampooned and mocked the US’s withdrawal all week.Also Read | The Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in PunjabWhat role China will eventually play in Afghanistan is uncertain, but it has plans to fill the void that exists. The Chinese model is different and is based on the extraction of value from resources in the host country and providing lucre to the rulers who facilitate this. Tribes and feudal societies tend to work with this model better than the alternatives that seek to turn them into liberal nations and free markets. In the short term at least, China could well emerge as a powerful shaper of the economic and military arrangements in Af-Pak and West Asia.This episode will have repercussions for the Quad, an ostensibly “counter-China” alliance in the Indo-Pacific. It is time to face up to some home truths.First, for too long, policymakers in DC have relied on maps that mark the East Indian Ocean as the Indo-Pacific boundary. India’s perspective on Afghanistan, Pakistan, and West Asia has been dismissed time and again. This must change, or India will work with other arrangements to manage the threats that abound. The US must realise that dealing with the influence of China in Afghanistan and Pakistan are a core Indo-Pacific challenge. Ceding these to China defeats the Western Pacific project as well.Second, even as DC learns to re-imagine the expanse of the Indo-Pacific, it must internalise that Europe and Asia are merging through the efforts of Beijing. As these geographies rediscover one another, everything in between becomes a shared problem; refugee surges from countries mired in civil conflict, the climate crisis, and flows of finance, infrastructure and technology. The US cannot afford to ignore this region if it is to remain relevant at the end of the 2020s.Third, India will continue to assess the US as its most important partner. A declining superpower is easier to do business with. The Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CATSAA) sanctions and sermons on “values” could be shrugged off more quickly. Countries have learnt to assess the US by what it does, not by what it says. Efforts to shape and design regions to suit their own narrow interests are likely to be resisted. Its reliability and trustworthiness will be measured as per its capacity to contain China’s rise without disrupting the determination of states in the region to seek growth and development on their own terms. A transactional America will now encounter transactional friends.Samir Saran is president, Observer Research Foundation, and the co-author of Pax Sinica: Implications for the Indian Dawn and The New World Disorder and the Indian ImperativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-unravelling-of-pax-americana-101629803491580.html
24-08-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: What kind of PM would Rajiv Gandhi have made in second term?||It is one of the great ‘what ifs’ of Indian history and last week, as we marked Rajiv Gandhi’s birth anniversary, I was reminded of it again. What would India have been like if Rajiv Gandhi had not been assassinated in 1991?Well, first of all, there is the question of whether he would have become Prime Minister again. You can argue, as some do, that the only reason that the Congress came close to a majority when the results were declared was because there was a sympathy vote in the later rounds of polling after Rajiv was killed. There is no way to settle this. The case for a sympathy vote depends on the difference in the Congress vote in the early pre-assassination rounds versus the vote in the later rounds. For every person who makes the case for a sympathy vote, there are Congressmen who argue that the party was always expected to do badly in the early rounds because these were seats where the Congress was weak.Thirty years later, we are not going to be able to settle that argument but I believe that the balance of probability is on Rajiv’s side. Even if the Congress had won fewer seats, Rajiv had already sewn up the support of the Left and would have had no difficulty in forming a government.Assuming he had become prime minister, would he have liberalised the economy as completely as Narasimha Rao did?ALSO READ: Rude Food by Vir Sanghvi: China versus PunjabThe tendency within the Congress is to say that Rajiv had become a liberaliser and would have implemented the reforms. While it is certainly true that he had grown weary of state control of the economy, he was not, as far as I could tell, a full-fledged free-marketer. For instance, his Finance Minister would have been Pranab Mukherjee, a man who never quite fully embraced the market. (P Chidambaram was closer to Rajiv than Pranab during the Congress’s period in opposition but Pranab was the senior figure and would have got the job.)On the other hand, ask yourself this: was Narasimha Rao a great liberaliser before the Congress took office in 1991? And what about Manmohan Singh who had spent most of his life serving the license-quota-permit raj?The truth is that the Indian economy was in such bad shape that any Prime Minister would have had to accept the IMF’s terms and liberalise. There simply was no choice.You could argue that once the IMF’s conditions had been met, the Rajiv-Pranab duo would not have shown much enthusiasm for further big-ticket reforms. But then, did Narasimha Rao? Once the reforms the IMF had demanded had been implemented, Rao refused to take the liberalisation process much further.So yes, the reforms would have taken place if Rajiv was PM though we can argue about how far Pranab Mukherjee would have taken the process once the IMF’s pistol had been removed from his temple.What kind of prime minister would Rajiv have made in a second term? The general view of his first term is that he was well-intentioned but inexperienced and therefore unable to achieve the things he wanted to do.My sense is that he had learned from his mistakes and would have made a much better Prime Minister in his second term. By the end of his first term, he had already moved beyond the glib, managerial solutions that were presented to him in his first years in office. He had come to recognise the importance of bringing democracy to India’s villages (the Panchayati Raj programme) and cared very deeply about making sure that the aid meant for the poor actually reached them.People don’t often see this but the emphasis on direct transfers and welfare schemes that Sonia Gandhi brought to UPA I (and which Narendra Modi has persisted with) comes directly from Rajiv’s impatience with the fiscal and monetary solutions favoured by the government’s economists. Had Rajiv lived, he would have pursued liberalisation with an emphasis on social welfare. (Which is, effectively, what Sonia Gandhi did over a decade later.)How would the Congress have fared during a second Rajiv term? Well, it is foolish to believe that it would always have stayed in power. It could well have lost the 1996 election. But of one thing there is no doubt: under Rajiv it would not have become a marginal player struggling to remain relevant. He would have maintained its position at the centre of the political system.For a start, I don’t think the Congress would have lost the Muslim vote. We talk about liberalisation being Narasimha Rao’s major achievement. It certainly was that. But there was also another one. The Babri Masjid was destroyed on his watch. He slept through the demolition which he could have prevented. With that began the long process of alienation of Muslims from the Congress and in some cases, from mainstream Indian politics even. Knowing what we do of Rajiv, I think we can be fairly certain that he would never have let the Babri Masjid be demolished.Narasimha Rao also gifted away the Congress’s Dalit base to the BSP through an ill-advised electoral tie-up. And because he simply could not get across to voters in UP and Bihar and other North Indian states, he failed to win back those who had become disillusioned with the Congress. From his reign on, the Congress became an irrelevance in Bihar and UP. Rajiv may or may not have revived the Congress in those states but he certainly had an appeal to Hindi belt voters that Rao never did. He could well have used a second term to rebuild the Congress base in the Hindi heartland.And what of the BJP? Would we have the situation of communalised polarity that prevails today? I doubt it. Even if the BJP had risen to become the Congress’s primary opposition, the battle between Rajiv and AB Vajpayee would have been conducted within a secular construct. We would not have reach a situation where “Go to Pakistan” has become a common putdown and Muslims would not have been lynched by gau-rakshaks.We often forget that the Congress (and the UPA) convincingly defeated the BJP in 2009. The rise of Narendra Modi and his brand of Hinduism only came about because of the failures of UPA II and the leadership vacuum that resulted from Sonia Gandhi’s illness and Manmohan Singh’s inaction. Had the Congress shown strong leadership in that period, it would not have collapsed in the face of the Modi onslaught. That was when the party missed Rajiv the most.And it would have been a strong and united Congress. As long as Rajiv was alive, very few Congressmen of consequence dared talk about leaving the party. Those that did (say, Pranab Mukherjee) came back with their tails between their legs. But once Rajiv was assassinated, the Congress began to fall apart. The ND Tiwari Congress was created during Narasimha Rao’s time. That was when the entire Tamil Nadu unit of the party walked out. Mamata Banerjee left because the party was weak at the centre. So did Sharad Pawar. With Rajiv alive and in charge, those desertions may well have been avoided.So yes, the Congress would have been a very different party. And India would have been a very different country.Or so I think. Because ultimately, when we play the ‘what if’ game, all we can do is make educated guesses.Maybe this is really what would have happened.Or maybe not.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/opinion-the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-what-kind-of-pm-would-rajiv-gandhi-have-made-in-second-term-101629798150098.html
24-08-2021||Today's||Designing a climate law for India||The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) science report asserts more boldly than before the causal relationship between human activity and global warming. All the measurements we have seem to agree that human beings will cross a point of no return before this century’s close — unless, that is, we collectively begin an immediate transition to a low-carbon economy.In pursuing this transformation, climate legislation will likely play a central role. Around the world, climate laws are emerging as blueprints of national action plans for mitigation and adaptation. Just in 2021, political entities as diverse as Canada and Russia approved laws on the climate crisis.In a sprawling and unwieldy democracy such as India, a climate law may well be necessary for a coherent effort to meet the challenge. Given India is globally the third highest emitter of CO2, has the potential to avoid locking into high carbon futures, and is severely threatened by rising temperatures, it is time to have a serious conversation about an Indian climate law.Also Read | Focus on double-dose vaccinations. Boosters can waitDesigning a climate law apt for the Indian political context is a difficult task — it will have to perform a delicate dance between mitigation, adaptation, and development.There are at present two general visions of climate legislation, globally. The first is a law decreeing a limit on greenhouse gas emissions — most “net-zero” laws in the West articulate such explicit caps. The second focuses less on achieving numerical targets and lays out instead the architecture for a nation’s low-carbon transformation. The carbon-capping law, however, is commonly misunderstood to be the only form that a climate law can assume.The conventional idea of a carbon-capping law faces three main problems. First, while low-carbon development likely brings economic opportunities, there remain uncertainties and questions about whether hard, time-bound caps might impose development costs, particularly on the poorest.Second, and closely related, given India’s limited historic contribution to the problem and low per capita emissions, a carbon-capping law, which may be seen as restricting energy choices, is unlikely to win broad political support.Third, given these considerations, any target set is likely to be relatively modest, and fail to induce transformative change. If, somehow, despite these considerations, an ambitious target is stipulated, it is not clear that, given the peripheral place of climate in Indian politics, it would inspire the requisite large-scale cooperation. Moreover, in the event of failure, liability may be ill-specified to such an extent that courts will be powerless to enforce the desired outcome. Whether the target proves ineffectual or unattainable, we would lose the opportunity to build a robust structure to cope with an uncertain future.An alternate approach to climate legislation must, therefore, be seriously considered in the Indian context, one that isn’t restricting but enabling of a low-carbon transformation.Also Read | The Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in PunjabBroadly speaking, there are three arguments in its favour — effectiveness, efficiency, and prosperity.An effective law, instead of beginning with deadlines and limits, would first seek to prepare sectors of the economy and government at the national and local levels for a low-carbon transition. By focusing on institutional, technical, and financial capacity building, such a law would attempt to lay the structural foundations for success in mitigation and adaptation.Large-scale transformations are most likely to succeed when efficient. Economy of motion to a determined goal is best achieved through bottom-up approaches. Rather than the conventional view of global warming as an emergency demanding a decreed halt to proceedings, a climate law can conceptualise the climate crisis as shaping the context for the nation’s developmental path. This can be done by establishing positive feedback loops that mainstream low-carbon growth into state and national roadmaps, strategies, and budgets. By working with the political and economic grain of Indian society, a climate law can optimise, even maximise, its industrial capacity and institutional competence for mitigation and — often ignored in carbon-capping laws — adaption.The conventional notion of climate laws as carbon-capping instruments has created a strong association in the public imagination of climate legislation with restriction — a species of the spent dichotomy between national prosperity and global responsibility. The rate of global advancement in green transformation, however, shows this dichotomy as false. The international race to sustainability, in energy, building, and transportation, is likely to shift the markers of success in the coming decades. Inaction is thus no longer a neutral or development-positive gesture.The recent IPCC report signals the urgent need for India, as others, to consider a climate law. However, an enabling law that cradles research and prompts investment in green technology might be far more effective in securing India’s long-term economic prosperity than a hastily enacted net-zero or carbon-capping law, which might prove ineffective, unenforceable, or debilitating. Without a framework mechanism to coordinate strategically India’s low-carbon transition, the body politic risks soon becoming a fossilised remnant of a sooty past.Anirudh Sridhar is a visiting researcher at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New Delhi.This is the first of a two-part series proposing a new framework for a climate lawThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/designing-a-climate-law-for-india-101629800791590.html
24-08-2021||Today's||Focus on double-dose vaccinations. Boosters can wait||India administered over 588 million Covid-19 vaccine doses by August 23. This translates into over 34% of the estimated 940 million eligible adult population having received at least one dose, while another 14% have been fully vaccinated. Over 60% of the 60-plus age group have now received at least one shot of the vaccine. This is no small achievement.The novel coronavirus has recently undergone mutations, the prominent among these being Alpha (B.1.1.7), Beta (B.1.351), Gamma (P.1) and Delta (B.1.617.2). Genome submissions on GISAID show an overwhelming dominance of the Delta variant, which caused India’s devastating second wave, and has been behind the majority of the clinical cases of breakthrough infection (Sars-CoV-2 infection despite vaccination).Fortunately, the available vaccines have provided sustained protection against all variants, including Delta. According to a recent Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study, only a small number (9.8%) of such infections required hospitalisation and the fatality rate in them was also very low (0.4%).A look at the global seven-day new Covid-19 cases and deaths presents an interesting picture. Countries with the most aggressive vaccination drive and recording full vaccination of over 50% of their population (two doses) are now presenting a near-zero case fatality rate even though the number of infections has shown a rise. This includes the United States (51% fully vaccinated), the United Kingdom (61%), Spain (67%), Germany (58%), France (55%), among others.On the contrary, countries with poor vaccination records are reporting a consistently increased number of infections as well as deaths. These include Indonesia (11% vaccinated), Thailand (8.2%), Iran (4.9%), Bangladesh (3.6%), and Tunisia (12.5%). The share of people vaccinated against Covid-19 in the rest of the world, including Africa, is dismally low, raising concerns on the equitable and fair distribution of available vaccines.Even though the virus is not going away soon, many experts believe that the worst of the pandemic may be behind us. With increasing vaccinations, particularly of the vulnerable groups, Covid-19 will be a different disease in the not-too-distant future, with a vast majority of infections remaining asymptomatic or causing mild illness not requiring hospitalisation.Also Read | Oil palm plantations: Don’t ignore the environmental lensIndia’s daily vaccination drive is expected to increase further, with two-to-three more indigenous vaccines expected in September. In addition, the fourth sero-survey data suggesting a high rate of Covid-19-specific antibody occurrence in over 68% of the population is encouraging news. But people must continue to strictly maintain Covid-19-appropriate behaviour for at least six more months, if not longer.There is evidence to indicate that vaccinated people maintain enough long-lasting immunity, going up to a year or even longer. But there is a debate on a possible booster dose to increase the magnitude of protection. Countries such as the US, Israel and the United Arab Emirates have decided to offer a booster dose to cover the immunocompromised group, those undergoing organ transplantation, health care workers and the 70-plus group.On the other hand, the US Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have said that Americans who have been fully vaccinated do not need a booster shot at this time. Similarly, the European Medicines Agency and the World Health Organization (WHO) have both stated that it is too early to determine whether more than two shots are needed. Instead, WHO has issued an advisory to nations with excess vaccines to spare the same for countries with a low vaccination record.India must singularly focus on vaccinating all of its 18-plus adult population by the end of the year and even include children above 12 years as early as possible. Booster doses can wait until the science demonstrates that they are needed. And then too, it will be important to categorise those who may need it the most.Dr Narinder Kumar Mehra is an Honorary Emeritus Scientist of the Indian Council of Medical Research and former dean of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/focus-on-double-dose-vaccinations-boosters-can-wait-101629799351358.html
24-08-2021||Editorials||Oil palm plantations: Don’t ignore the environmental lens||On August 19, the Union Cabinet approved a new ₹11,040-crore National Mission on Edible Oils-Oil Palm to boost domestic production. It has identified the Northeast and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (ANI) for the project due to their favourable rainfall and temperature. On Monday, a report said that the Cabinet clearance for the project came in the face of objections raised by India’s top forestry research institute (Indian Council of Forestry Research & Education) against introducing oil palm in biodiversity-rich areas — and in the absence of a detailed study it had proposed.Also Read | Monetise assets, the right wayLast week, this newspaper reported that an official of the environment ministry told a parliamentary committee in 2009 that the existing plantation of oil palm in ANI must be phased out and the “land so released, insofar as it is forest land, be regenerated. No exotic species of fauna or flora should be introduced into the Islands”. In 2002, the Supreme Court (SC) ordered the phasing out of all “exotic plantations” to conserve the islands’ ecology, and the new push will likely require additional clearances from the SC.The government is keen to push for oil palm plantations because of the huge demand for edible oils. India is already the largest importer of vegetable oils. In 2020-21, it imported both crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. While there is an economic case for pushing for oil palm, the government must learn from the experiences in Sumatra, Borneo and the Malay Peninsula where oil palm plantations have eliminated pristine forests (carbon sinks) and pushed out wildlife. A rapid change in land use has also left a deep social impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/oil-palm-plantations-don-t-ignore-the-environmental-lens-101629798691711.html
24-08-2021||Editorials||Monetise assets, the right way||The announcement of a national asset monetisation plan, where ₹6 lakh crore of government assets across sectors such as roads, railways, power, aviation, sports infrastructure, shipping, telecom, and housing will be monetised over four years is welcome; the target for this year is ₹88,000 crore. It could, if implemented well, optimise the utilisation of assets, ensure their maintenance, provide a high level and quality of service, improve efficiencies of operation, and generate employment. And it will also free up the government’s own resources for critical social sector spending. By structuring the exercise as a partnership, and not divestment or privatisation, and by emphasising that the asset is not being sold, and no land is being transferred — land is the most political of issues in the country – the government has given the exercise a chance to succeed.Also Read | The Brahmin factor: From opinion-makers to floating votersBut the extent of this success will depend on four factors. One, pragmatism. The government has to value the assets fairly (not exorbitantly) and moderate its expectations, at least for the initial tranche of assets involved. Learnings from similar but smaller exercises in the past, including public private partnerships (PPPs), indicate that valuation can make or break. Unfortunately, in the past, it has often been the latter. Two, regulation and regulators. Many of the assets being monetised are in sectors where the government still has a dominant presence (or where it has had one until now). The regulatory regime in place, as well as the transparency, impartiality, and autonomy with which the sector’s regulator operates could either help licensees or concessionaires meet the objectives of the exercise or create a policy and legal quagmire.Three, the autonomy granted to the licensees and concessionaires to operate the asset, and manage unions (where these are involved) on their own terms. The fact that the assets involve high public-interface ones such as airports and railway stations and sports stadium, or those in politically sensitive ones such as coal mining and telecommunications, will make it difficult for the government to adopt a hands-off approach (but it must). Four, the ability of the government’s think-tank Niti Aayog to “handhold ministries” through this process, as described by the body’s chief executive officer, and the speed with which it and the ministries can finalise and formalise the fine print for the asset monetisation. With seven months remaining this financial year, a stiff target to meet, and a diverse and wide portfolio of assets across ministries, what is now needed is a proper and detailed operational plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/monetise-assets-the-right-way-101629797791262.html
