25-08-2021||News||Narayan Rane: What precedents and law say about the arrest of a minister||It was a rare moment — in 2006, when Union coal minister Shibu Soren was absconding, the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was so frustrated that he even contemplated leaving office, according to Congress insiders.The minister was facing criminal charges in a kidnapping and murder case. Singh, watching the Rajya Sabha proceedings from his parliamentary office, amid furore on the floor, heard Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) veteran Murali Manohar Joshi quip, ”Both the PM and his minister are not available here.”As Singh hardened his stand, Soren was “asked” to resign in 24 hours (he was later arrested).But Murasoli Maran was not so lucky. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader and industry minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government was literally picked up from his bedroom by Tamil Nadu police in 2001 as the J Jayalalithaa government extracted her revenge from her arch0rivals. TR Baalu (environment minister in Vajpayee Cabinet) too was arrested.Also Read | Scientifically Speaking: Radiation is a deadly threat to human space travelOn Friday, BJP minister Narayan Rane became the third sitting minister, after Balu and Maran, to be arrested by the Maharashtra police for saying he wanted to slap chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Rane could have possibly avoided the immediate arrest if he were present inside Parliament. As per the rules, any arrest inside the Parliament is strictly prohibited.The arrest of MPsThe closest encounter between police and a sitting MP in Parliament took place in 2005 when dreaded criminal-turned-political leader Md. Shahabuddin came to attend Parliament. The police, under the court’s direction, waited patiently and arrested him outside the Parliament.In civil cases, a lawmaker can’t be arrested “during the continuance of a joint sitting, meeting, conference or joint committee of the Houses of Parliament or, Houses of the State Legislature, as the case may be,” as defined in Section 135 of the Code of Civil Procedure. But as Rane is arrested for an alleged criminal offence, the window of arrest is not applicable.While Union ministers or MPs don’t enjoy any privilege against arrest and can be detained or arrested like any other person, the rules of Rajya Sabha (Rane is a member of the Upper House) say that the Chairman should be “immediately” informed about the reasons for such arrest.Rule 222A says, “When a member is arrested on a criminal charge or for a criminal offence or is sentenced to imprisonment by a court or is detained under an executive order, the committing judge, magistrate or executive authority, as the case may be, shall immediately intimate such fact to the Chairman indicating the reasons for the arrest, detention or conviction, as the case may be as also the place of detention or imprisonment of the member in the appropriate form set out in the Second Schedule.”Also Read | In the US-Taliban peace deal, the mystery of the secret annexesA senior Rajya Sabha official confirmed, “Maharashtra police has informed Chairman Venkaiah Naidu of the arrest of Rane late Tuesday evening.”While the minister has to fight his case like any other civilian arrested by the police, Rane, however, has an option which he can use against any mistreatment by the Maharashtra police: The privileges committee.There have been several cases, when an MP has filed complaint against police “high handedness” to the privileges committee of their respective House. While the panel can’t take any disciplinary action against the concerned cop, it can reprimand police and caution him.Even former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was arrested in 1977 by the police after she was accused of corruption by then Janata Dal government. In a rare occurrence, the former PM was accused of corruption and forgery and the Lok Sabha, after a 15-hour-long debate decided to expel her and committed her to jail. Her jail term, the House ruled by Janata Dal decided, would be coterminous with the end of term of the Lok Sabha.In Rane’s case, a bulletin has been issued by the Rajya Sabha communicating his arrest.The implications for a minister But if Rane is charge-sheeted, the ruling BJP government might face a moral dilemma. In 2014, a verdict of the Supreme Court had maintained that charge-sheeted persons facing trials should not be included in the council of ministers even as the court underlined that the Constitution, however, doesn’t impose any such restriction.Article 75 of the Indian Constitution, that lays down the conditions for formation of the Union council of ministers, doesn’t have any such condition to remain a minister except that “The Minister shall hold office during the pleasure of the President.”“An arrest is a part of investigation. But the minister has not been charge-sheeted yet. Possibly the police found a fit case to arrest him. But the Union minister has a right to legally continue his duty and fight a legal battle. There is no law that states he can’t continue to be a minister. There have been several examples in the past when a minister continued after being charge-sheeted,” said former Lok Sabha secretary general P Sreedharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/narayan-rane-what-precedents-and-law-say-about-the-arrest-of-a-minister-101629886211048.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi health min Jain lifts curtains off 30-bed rapid response centre for Covid patients at Rajiv Gandhi hospital||State health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday inaugurated a 30-bed rapid response centre to treat Covid-19 patients at the Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur. All the beds at the centre will be equipped with ventilators and a team of specialists will be present round-the-clock to provide immediate care to Covid-19 patients even before they are admitted, said hospital officials. The centre will ensure that patients receive appropriate care during a Covid-19 emergency, even while waiting for admissions, in what is a step-up from the holding areas demarcated at all Delhi government-run hospitals during the pandemic. The holding areas were meant to provide basic care and oxygen support while admission-related formalities were completed. “Treatment for Covid-19 will begin even before admission — no one will have to wait... All the beds are equipped with transport [moveable] ventilators, so that the patients can be moved to the ward on the same machine,” Jain said at the inauguration. In a tweet, the minister said, “Under the guidance of CM @ArvindKejriwal to combat the next covid wave, Delhi Govt has made a Rapid Response Center at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. This will be manned with a Rapid Response Team which will work 24×7 and will help in better management of covid patients.” Delhi is planning to create 37,000 beds, of which 12,000 would be intensive care unit beds, in preparation for a future wave of the pandemic. During the fourth surge in cases between April and May in Delhi, a peak of over 20,000 patients with the viral infection were hospitalised across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-health-min-jain-lifts-curtains-off-30-bed-rapid-response-centre-for-covid-patients-at-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-101629916155368.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Badals-led SAD wins DSGMC polls for a third consecutive term, bags 27 of 46 seats||The Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) won 27 of the total 46 seats in the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections, the results of which were declared on Wednesday, With this victory, the SAD is now ready to form the committee for a third consecutive term. However, outgoing president of the gurdwara body, SAD’s Manjinder Singh Sirsa, lost to former president Harvinder Singh Sarna in a fierce contest from the Punjabi Bagh seat. Polls were held on August 22. Top leaders of SAD said they view Wednesday’s victory as a precursor to the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, scheduled to be held in early 2022. Sarnas led SAD (Delhi) won 14 seats, while former DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK, who fielded candidates from the newly formed Jago party, shrunk to three seats, including GK’s home seat of Greater Kailash. Independents won two seats. Addressing a press conference in New Delhi, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal felicitated the Sikhs of Delhi for voting his party back to power and announced that Sirsa would continue to head the body even if he has lost the polls. “He (Sirsa) will be nominated from quota of (Amritsar-headquartered) Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC),” Sukhbir told media persons. With an annual budget of at least ₹110 crore and the management of nine historical gurdwaras, apart from schools, colleges and hospitals, the DSGMC is a powerful body with a say in the global matters of the Sikh community, and a voice in the government at the state and Centre. The head of the DSGMC is the leader of eight lakh Sikhs living in the national capital and also the Sikhs living outside the state of Punjab and abroad. The committee also proactively takes up matters concerning the Sikh diaspora. The DSGMC under Sirsa had won the hearts of Delhi residents during second wave of the Covid-19 for the manner in which it reached out to patients with medical support, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. The body also set up langars (community kitchens) during the lockdown, thereby helping SAD regain popularity within the community. “I know that both governments (Centre and Delhi) worked against our party, particularly Sirsa, but despite that opposition we won,” said Sukhbir. It takes a month for the constitution of the house, he said. As per the DSGMC Act of 1971, the 51-member house runs the gurdwara body. Apart from the 46 elected members, there is a provision to nominate one member (from SGPC quota), two members via co-option and two more from the Singh Sabhas (local gurdwaras) of Delhi. For SAD (Delhi) president Paramit Singh Sarna results came as a shock. “We were hopeful of doing much better, but the final say is of the voters, which we accept,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/badalsled-sad-wins-dsgmc-polls-for-a-third-consecutive-term-bags-27-of-46-seats-101629916153585.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||PMLA court issues process against GVK Airport Developers, MIAL, Sanjay Reddy||A special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court has issued process against representatives of GVK Airport Developers Ltd., Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) and its managing director GV Sanjay Reddy and 18 others on the basis of a complaint by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The court has asked them to appear before it on September 22.ED has, in May, filed a charge sheet against all the 21 accused. Special PMLA judge MG Deshpande in a detailed order said, “MIAL had allegedly entered into bogus contract of ₹310 crore during 2017-2018 with nine firms/companies, but against the same, no work was executed.”Referring to the ED charge sheet, the court said overdraft facility (OD) against surplus funds totalling ₹395 crore were remaining with MIAL after sharing revenue with the Airport Authority of India (AAl) and after deducting expenses kept as fixed deposit receipts (FDR) with public sector undertaking (PSU) banks, MIAL diverted the same to other group of companies.ED also alleged that MIAL inflated expenditure by paying salary of GVK employees from its revenues, and also rented out premium retail areas in Mumbai airport to family members, relatives and employees of GVK at very low rates, thereby reducing revenues. In this way, ₹705 crore were fraudulently siphoned off from MIAL, resulting loss to AAI and corresponding wrongful gain to GVK Airports Holding Ltd, said the court.The court said these allegations are corroborated by documentary evidence and hence it felt that prima facie, a case of money laundering as defined under section 3 and punishable under section 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 was made out and there is sufficient grounds to issue process.ED had filed the complaint through special prosecutor Kalpana Patil. AAI, which managed the city airport, had entered into an agreement with MIAL in 2006, allowing them to operate, manage and develop Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (T-2). Accordingly, MIAL was to share 38.7% earnings with AAI and keep the rest for modernisation and extension of the airport.ED has already attached land parcel in Tamil Nadu owned by GVK in November, 2020. The said land, valued at ₹509 crore, was purchased from crime proceedings, the agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-court-issues-process-against-gvk-airport-developers-mial-sanjay-reddy-101629915974319.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave hit BMC’s khau galli plan||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) plan to open up locations such as Marine Drive, Chowpatty, Worli sea face and Madh Island for setting up khau gallis in form of food truck and food stalls in the city has been on hold since the second wave of Covid-19.The plan was to set up khau gallis in all 24 administrative wards of the city. However, the city was hit with second wave days later with cases starting to increase from February 2021. According to BMC officials, a policy for khau gallis was to be framed but there is no development on the same as the plan is on hold for now.HT had, on February 14, reported had reported that BMC identified 65 locations wherein 3,331 vendors will be accommodated. These vendors can also be in the form of food trucks or normal stalls. This plan is an extension to BMC’s plan to have food trucks across the city, for which it had prepared a draft policy last year.The idea of food trucks was pushed by state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray who announced having food trucks across the city to boost tourism. In the 2021-22 budget, BMC reserved ₹200 crore for creating food hubs including beautification of footpaths, beautifying space below flyovers etc.BMC officials said after initial discussion in January, a policy was to be formulated wherein 10-12 trucks, selling different cuisines, will come and park trucks between 6pm and 11pm. For this, several wards in the city are looking at small streets which BMC can afford to shut between 6pm and 11pm and divert traffic to alternative routes.A senior BMC official not wishing to be named said, “Several wards in the western suburbs had also submitted their plan to the Mumbai Traffic Police (MTP) to get no objection certificate for temporarily shutting service roads for food trucks and stalls. These wards had also got the required permission from the traffic police.”Another BMC official from the license department which will frame the policy said, “Before the second wave hit the city, we were consulting with health department regarding such a plan, but since then the planning has been on hold owing to second wave. And now we also fear a third wave. Any policy on such an issue may now be drafted only once substantial population of the city is vaccinated.”Meanwhile, the hospitality industry feels they should be consulted before such a policy is implemented. Pradeep Shetty, senior vice-president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said, “Our industry is the most impacted due to the Covid lockdown, and business has been hit for hotel industry since the past 15 months. We expect that such a policy is drafted after taking suggestion from hospitality industry to ensure there is level playing ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-19-wave-hit-bmc-s-khau-galli-plan-101629915675142.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Must inform youth about perils of addiction, says Bombay HC; grants bail to duo held with drugs||The Bombay high court (HC), while granting bail to two young men, who were booked under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said that young people addicted to alcohol and drugs were not a new phenomenon. They two were found in possession of and consuming cocaine, ganja and charas, which was not of commercial quantity, during a birthday party at a bungalow in Igatpuri.The court, however, held that it was necessary for the young generation, who follow the principle of ‘now or never’ to be informed about the perils of such addiction. The court granted the duo bail as they did not have any antecedents of being suppliers or drug peddlers. However, they were warned that if found with drugs again, the bail would be cancelled, and they would be dealt with as per law. The single bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the bail applications of two young men, who had been booked and arrested by Igatpuri police during a raid on June 27, for consuming and possessing drugs during a party in a rented bungalow was informed by senior advocate Aabad Ponda that the search of the duo had resulted in the recovery of contraband which was not of commercial quantity, hence section 37 of the NDPS Act could not be applied to them. Ponda further submitted that the raiding party had not complied with the provisions of section 50, which requires the search of the person to be conducted in the presence of a gazetted officer or a magistrate. He submitted that as the officer who searched the accused claimed to be a gazetted officer without telling him that he had a right to seek the presence of another gazette officer, thus there was a lapse on the part of the raiding party. Lastly, Ponda submitted that the claim of the prosecution that traces of the contraband was found in the swimming pool could not be used to claim that it was put there by the accused nor the assumption of the forensic lab could be accepted that as traces were found in the sample water it could be attributed to being above non-commercial quantity. In light of these submissions and the fact that the duo was young and was possessing drugs for personal consumption, and they had already spent time in jail with hardened criminals, to avoid getting influenced by other inmates they should be granted bail. The additional public prosecutor relied upon circumstantial evidence and the forensic lab report to oppose the bail applications. After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “Considering their young age where they are in a stage of reformation, they deserve one opportunity by restoring their freedom, nevertheless with a forewarning that if they indulge in such activity in future, the law will not spare them and, in any case, at the outcome of the trial, if they are found guilty, they shall undergo the prescribed penalty for indulging in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substance as prescribed under the NDPS Act.” The court further observed, “It is true that the youth of today leads a lifestyle, where he believes in a cheerful present limiting to ‘now or never’ without thinking of consequences to follow. Adolescence and youth are the phases of a lifetime, where the aking of irrational and impulsive decisions may be favoured by some. The challenge of today mainly focuses on the issue of drug addiction in youth and how to tackle it.” The court then proceeded to grant bail to the duo on furnishing a personal bond of ₹50,000 each with sureties in like amount and also directed them to visit Igatpuri police station twice a week and restrained them from leaving the country without the prior permission of the special NDPS court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/must-inform-youth-about-perils-of-addiction-says-bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-duo-held-with-drugs-101629915674167.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Fisherfolk meet BMC, fisheries minister for re-establishing fish markets||Representatives of Akhil Maharashtra Machhimar Kruti Samiti (AMMKS) on Wednesday met with a senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official to voice their demands regarding the recently demolished fish markets at Crawford Market and Dadar. The meeting followed a jan akrosh morcha called by AMMKS held at Azad Maidan which was attended by at least 1,000 members of the fisherfolk community.Community leaders expressed resentment after their meeting with joint commissioner Ramesh Pawar. “We had asked to meet with Iqbal Chahal, but instead we were granted an audience with Mr Pawar. We demanded that the fish markets Crawford Market and Dadar to be re-established on sight, at the earliest. This is non-negotiable. We were told that the matter is the state government’s responsibility. There were no resolutions today,” said Devendra Tandel, president, AMMKS.When asked, Pawar said, “Market department is not with me.”The delegation led by Tandel later met with minister for textiles, fisheries and port development Aslam Sheikh, who assured the delegation of an equitable settlement between the fisherfolk and BMC. “Shaikh told us that the issue fall entirely within the remit of BMC, and that he will speak to the municipal commissioner. Our only demand is that we get back our evicted lands and fish markets,” Tandel said. He added that various fishing societies across the state — which also depend on Crawford Market for business — will wait 10 days to hear back from BMC with a concrete resolution, failing which a more aggressive protest will be mounted.In July this year, BMC had demolished the Chhatrapati Shivaji fish market within the Jyotiba Phule Market, also known as Crawford Market, after the building was deemed to be hazardous. Subsequently, Meenatai Thackeray fish market in Dadar was also demolished following longstanding complaints of traffic jams near Senapati Bapat Marg. “Chhatrapati Shivaji market is the heart of our business. Fish from all over the state comes there, and we go to collect it. Without that market, the fish business in Mumbai cannot survive. BMC has offered us a space in Airoli, but over there we are facing competition from established fisherwomen. Besides, it is too far away. It costs us double the fare to travel there as compared to Crawford Market. There are no bathrooms, no drinking water. The area is a marshy jungle and we don’t feel safe at all,” said Manda Guru Salian, a fisherwoman from Cuffe Parade who was present at the protest.Prior to demolition, Chhhatrapati Shivaji wholesale fish market reported a daily turnover of ₹5 crore and directly supported livelihoods of 157 fisherwomen, 87 wholesalers and 36 suppliers. “These are just the licensed operators. Indirectly, the market supports over a 1,000 fish workers. You cannot expect all of them to just leave their customary area and start trade elsewhere. Existing relationships with clients will be ruined,” said Tandel.Dadar fishmarket, meanwhile, was a wholesale venue for freshwater fish, a business dominated by migrants from West Bengal and adjacent states. Roughly 36 Koli fisherwomen were conducting their business there and have now been moved to a fish market in Marol, where they report facing stiff competition and from existing traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fisherfolk-meet-bmc-fisheries-minister-for-re-establishing-fish-markets-101629915254112.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Another semester online for medical students enrolled in Chinese varsities?||With merely weeks left before the beginning of the new semester, Indian students enrolled in medical courses in China are now gearing up for yet another semester online. Their efforts to complete their course in their college in China have not borne fruits yet. “In a couple of weeks, our new semester will kick-off. There has been no communication from the university regarding international students’ return to campuses. As medical students, we have already completed three semesters online, without any practical experience,” said a third-year medical student, on the condition of anonymity. In June, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) issued a notice in favour of students studying in international universities, stuck in India due to the pandemic. MEA asked such students to write to its Overseas Indian Affairs (OIA) office about difficulties in reaching out to their university. “Indian students studying abroad who are stuck in India owing to Covid-19 pandemic restrictions and mobility issues can send their coordinates, that is, email ID and mobile number to OIA-II division at emails: us.oia2@mea.gov.in and so1oia2@mea.gov.in,” said the notice on the official website.Thereafter, affected students had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the matter and facilitate the students’ return through an open letter. “Nothing much has come of it. We informed our university about the difficulties we have been facing while attending online classes. In response, we were asked to refer to study material online if we are not able to understand well during classes,” said a third-year student from Jianghan University in Wuhan. Students have been complaining that online classes and uncertainty over their return to campuses have led to mental stress. “Studying online for a prolonged time is exacting an immense mental toll on students. An increasing number of students are suffering from anxiety and stress due to uncertainty in the tentative date of return,” said students in an open letter issued earlier. Students of Chinese universities returned to India last year amid a raging pandemic as their universities imposed lockdowns. More than a year on, they have not been able to return to campuses as China continues to impose a travel ban for international students.Earlier this year, students pursuing their degrees in Chinese universities approached the United Nations (UN) hoping for positive development. In a letter signed by over 20,000 medical, graduate and undergraduate school students studying in universities in China, Japan and Australia, students have urged the UN to intervene in the matter and help lift border restrictions that have left thousands of students stranded in their home countries for the past one year.According to data from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), in 2018 and 2019, China received around 500,000 international students each, the third-highest in the world after the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK). Official data shows that in 2018, over 23,000 Indian students were enrolled in various programmes in China. Indians represent the fourth largest group of international students in China, after South Koreans, Thais and Pakistanis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/another-semester-online-for-medical-students-enrolled-in-chinese-varsities-101629915196152.html
25-08-2021||Other||Police video helpline offers quick solutions to people’s problems in Prayagraj||Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Prayagraj Sarvshrestha Tripathi’s initiative, “Jansunwai at doorstep”, is helping the aggrieved connect directly with the SSP on the helpline numbers. Police said during last few weeks several complaints have been addressed. “Within 24 days of the service, 540 complaints have been received through video conferencing. Out of which, 503 have been successfully disposed of. Those pending include some land related disputes and are under process,” SSP said. Resident of Sarai Inayat, Sarvjeet Kumar applied for character certificate for her sister who is an NCC cadet around a month back. However, despite all attempts Sarvjeet was unable to procure the certificate. On Tuesday, Sarvjeet called on the helpline number and made complaint to SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi. On the instructions of the SSP, cops immediately issued the certificate to Sarvjeet. Another complainant, Arunesh of Mauaima made a video call to SSP complaining about an attack made on him over a land dispute. On SSP’s instructions immediate action was taken against the accused. Started on July 27, the online jansunwai is receiving good response from people who are directly communicating their problems to senior officials without hassles of coming to the SSP office. “Complainants can make video calls on WhatsApp number 9984781881 from anywhere to communicate their problems and get them addressed. Video calls can be made 12 noon to 2 pm on the WhatsApp number,” the SSP said. “If a person does not have a smart phone or internet, then he can go to his nearest police station and make video call to the officials,” he added. “The motive of police is to reach out to people and learn about their problems for better solution. The objective of the basic policing is the early solution of people’s complaints, and this new initiative is bringing desired success,” SSP said. SP Crime Ashutosh Mishra said the identity of the complainants in cases of complaints against policemen will not be disclosed. People can freely make complaints against cops if they are being harassed unnecessarily, their complaints are not registered or if they are being implicated in fake cases etc. Information regarding criminal activities, suspects or any other illegal activities in the area can also be given on the WhatsApp number,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-video-helpline-offers-quick-solutions-to-people-s-problems-in-prayagraj-101629915194061.html
25-08-2021||Gurugram||Murder spree: Suspect’s wife arrested for planning crime||The police on Wednesday arrested the wife of a retired army subedar for planning and executing the murders of their daughter-in-law and tenants at their residence in Sector 105. The retired subedar surrendered to the police on Tuesday morning claiming to be solely responsible for the murders, but the police said that his wife was ‘equally involved’.The suspect, Rao Rai Singh Yadav (59), was in police detention after he surrendered and was formally arrested on Wednesday along with his wife, Bimlesh Yadav (55), after the two were questioned by the investigators. The couple was produced before the court on Wednesday, following which the man was sent on two-day police remand and the woman was given 14-day judicial custody.Deepak Saharan, the deputy commissioner of police who is investigating the case, said, “Bimlesh has said that she was with Yadav throughout when he attacked the victims. She did not use the weapon but stood by his side and instigated him.”According to the police, they killed their daughter-in-law suspecting her of having an extramarital affair with the tenant, Krishan Tiwari (45). Tiwari’s wife Anamika Tiwari, 35, and the couple’s nine-year-old daughter were also murdered on Tuesday. Their three-year-old daughter underwent treatment at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, and is out of danger. She was shifted to the general ward on Wednesday evening, the police said.After discussing the situation with his wife and son, Yadav surrendered at the Rajendra Park police station on Tuesday morning and took the blame to allegedly to shield his wife, the police said.The police said Yadav’s nine-year-old granddaughter is a prime witness in the case. They said the child is in shock after seeing her mother’s body lying in a pool of blood. The child got up around 2.15am upon hearing cries and tried to open the door but it was locked from the outside. Bimlesh entered the room and told her to sleep as some neighbours were unwell, the police said.Ashok Yadav, the brother of the daughter-in-law Sunita Yadav (40), said, “The girl told us that her grandparents killed her mother and they were bad people.”The girl was sent to a friend’s house in the neighbourhood on Tuesday, and handed over to her relatives on Wednesday evening, the police said.Saharan said the couple knocked on their daughter-in-law’s bedroom door around 2.10am, telling her that her daughter was suffering from eye pain and wanted to sleep alongside her mother. “As soon as she opened the door, Yadav attacked her more than 17 times with a sharp gardening tool, as suggested by the autopsy report, and she collapsed,” he said.“More arrests are likely in the case. We are investigating if the son also had any involvement in the case. The last call made by Yadav was to his son, Anand, who said he was in Rajasthan at the time of the incident,” said Saharan.Saharan said Anand was indeed in Rajasthan as corroborated by CCTV footage collected from a hotel he was staying in, and roadside eateries where he stopped on his way.Sujan Singh, Yadav’s counsel, said they (him and Anand) will meet Yadav in police custody on Thursday. Anand is a lawyer. “The court has permitted us to meet him for an hour to discuss the case and court proceedings,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/murder-spree-suspect-s-wife-arrested-for-planning-crime-101629914837553.html
25-08-2021||Gurugram||Murder spree: She was constantly abused by her in-laws, say family members of victim||Relatives of 40-year-old Sunita Yadav, who was murdered at her in-laws’ residence on Tuesday, said that she was constantly abused and assaulted by her husband and in-laws allegedly because she gave birth to a daughter around nine years ago.Sunita Yadav married Anand Yadav, the son of murder suspects Rao Rai Singh Yadav and Bimlesh Yadav, in 2010. She was a resident of Kanina in Mahendragarh, about 97 kilometres from Gurugram, and moved in with her in-laws at their Sector 105 residence after marriage.Ashok Yadav, Sunita’s brother, said following their father’s death in 1993, the property was transferred to him and Sunita. Ashok is a farmer who undertakes agricultural work on three acres, of which one acre belonged to Sunita.“The land is at a prime location on Kanina-Kosli main road and has a value of ₹1.5 crore. Her in-laws got to know about the property and started forcing her to sell it, but my sister wanted to keep this aside to support her daughter. Her daughter is a fan of badminton players Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu, and was taking badminton training at a sports academy. Sunita wanted to sell this land for her higher studies and her sports career,” he said.The family members alleged that Sunita’s in-laws constantly picked fights with her over household chores because she refused to sell the plot. “They used to humiliate and taunt us that we were using her plot to survive and meet our needs. Sunita often complained that her husband ill-treated her and in-laws assaulted her, but each time, we consoled her and told her things would get better,” Sharmila Devi, Sunita’s sister-in-law, said.The family said Sunita was assaulted a few years ago and a panchayat was also held in Kanina village over the issue.The police said Ashok is also being questioned and that more family members will be called in for questioning.Meanwhile, the three-year-old girl, the daughter of Yadav’s tenants who were also murdered, is recovering at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital and is under heavy medication. Her family members said she was shifted to the general ward on Wednesday but she constantly escaped her bed to go look for her mother. She suffered seven grave injuries to her head, neck and chest, and minor injuries to her arms and fingers, they said.“She is missing her mother and is trying to look around for her. She is crying and asking us to call her mother. She can’t recall what happened and is under a lot of trauma. She was hit at least seven times while she was fast asleep,” Varendra Shukla, a relative of the tenant’s family and a neighbour, said.The bodies of the tenant, Krishan Tiwari, 45, his wife, Anamika Tiwari, 35, and the couple’s nine-year-old daughter were cremated in Gururgam, while Sunita’s family conducted her last rites in Mahendragarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/murder-spree-she-was-constantly-abused-by-her-in-laws-say-family-members-of-victim-101629914834149.html
25-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Vaccination of over 77,000 targeted by district health department in mega drive||Over 77,500 residents who are to take their second Covid-19 vaccine dose in the last week of August are likely to be covered under a mega vaccination drive day scheduled on August 27, according to the district health department’s estimates. Even as the state health department has set a target of 60,000, the district health department is aiming to cover a higher number of beneficiaries. “About 35,000 people have to be inoculated with the second dose of Covishield and 11,500 with Covaxin at government facilities. In private hospitals, almost 22,000 people have to be given the second jab of Covishield and at least 9,000 need to be given Covaxin,” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said.The estimate is based on the number of people who were vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccines before June 3, which largely includes people in the 18-45 year age group. As per the target, of the 60,000 doses to be administered, nearly 60% will be given as the second dose and 40% as the first dose.On Wednesday, the health department opened about 15,000 online slots on the Co-WIN platform for the mega vaccination drive. Of these, at least 2,500 slots are for administering Covaxin and 12,500 for Covishield, at government health centres. According to Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, more than 150 vaccination centres will be set up by the health department, whereas private hospitals will also be having their own session sites to cover the targeted population.The state administration has planned to vaccinate more than half a million people, focusing on people aged 18-45 years who are awaiting their second vaccine shot, in the mega vaccination drive. Data provided by the health department shows that the overall target for the state is almost 725,000, with 1,500,736 vaccine doses provided to districts.Currently, Gurugram has over 92,810 vaccine doses in the stock, the highest in the state, followed by Faridabad, which has 85,826 doses. The rest of the districts have 60,000-70,000 doses, said officials. Until now, 2,243,136 vaccines doses have been administered in Gurugram since January 16, of which 19,584 vaccine shots were given on Wednesday. This includes 12,269 vaccinations at government health centres and 7,315 at private hospitals. On Thursday, at least 8,430 doses will be administered at government facilities through walk-in, of which 3,840 will be for the first dose and 4,590 as a second shot across 48 session sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19vaccination-of-over-77-000-targeted-by-district-health-department-in-mega-drive-101629914776329.html
25-08-2021||Gurugram||One Covid-19 case reported, lowest since March 13, 2020||The district on Wednesday reported a single case of the coronavirus infection (Covid-19) for the first time since March 13 last year, when the first Covid-19 case of Gurugram was confirmed. Health officials attribute the dip in cases to increased testing, monitoring and effective vaccination.According to the health department data, of 3,389 tests administered on Tuesday, only one positive case was detected on Wednesday. This took the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the samples tested, to 0.02% in Gurugram, while the state has a positivity rate of 0.05% at present.The Covid-19 cases have been on a constant wave of peaks and troughs since May 2020, after reporting a relatively lower count of cases in March and April of 2020. In contrast, cases started spiking in April 2021, with around 100,000 of the total of 181,033 cases reported during the second wave. Currently, there are 71 active cases, of whom five are critically ill patients undergoing treatments at hospitals. The Covid-19 toll is currently at 922. “Daily cases are on a decline, but the health department is conducting an average of 3,750 tests per day, with nearly 80% of them Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). Testing, monitoring and effective vaccination have led to a downfall in infection rate,” said Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram. As reported by HT on Monday, the weekly case count has been on a constant decline in the district, dropping from 51 cases in the first week of August to 39 cases over the past week. For more than a month, fewer than 10 new cases are detected every day.Data collated through the district health bulletin shows that from July 18 to 24, 52 cases were reported, after which 50 and 51 cases were reported from July 24-31 and August 1-7, respectively. Subsequently, the cases dropped to 36 from August 8-14 and increased marginally to 39 from August 15-21.Despite the downward trend of cases, the health department is preparing for a third wave that is predicted around October by the Central government. Private hospitals have been asked to form oxygen audit committees, whereas a team of doctors from the health department and Indian Medical Association (IMA) has been constituted to audit the bed availability in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/one-covid-19-case-reported-lowest-since-march-13-2020-101629914775185.html
25-08-2021||Gurugram||Work on final biodiversity registers starts after Covid-19 delays||A year and a half after an expert committee was formed by the Gurugram administration, work on developing the final people’s biodiversity registers (PBR) started on Monday, officials said. As part of the project, PBRs of 47 villages, 36 in Gurugram and 11 in Faridabad, falling in the Aravallis will be completed by October.PBRs are techno-legal documents that will serve as a repository of information on plants, animals, and crops, along with traditional knowledge of their place in local ecosystems. As per the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, every urban local body (ULB) in the country is mandated to prepare such a register for areas within their jurisdiction through biodiversity management committees (BMC).A total of 6,437 such BMCs have been formed across various urban local bodies in Haryana including, 203 in Gurugram. “In Haryana, BMCs were constituted around one-and-a-half years ago and primary PBRs were under preparation. Now, we have engaged technical support groups to help the BMCs. We have also constituted a state-level PBR quality monitoring committee and their members visited a few villages in Gurugram on Monday to assess whether the PBRs are being prepared properly or not,” said Vineet Kumar Garg, the chairman of Haryana State Biodiversity Board.The committee visited Tikli, Gairatpur Bas and Hasanpur villages in Gurugram district on Monday, while on Tuesday, the committee visited Mangar, Kot and Pali villages in Faridabad district.Sunil Harsana, a Faridabad-based wildlife researcher with expertise in the conservation of biodiversity, is working with the state biodiversity board for the formation of the final PBRs in Aravalli villages. A biologist, Samarth Khanna, an expert in identifying plants and wildlife of Aravallis, is also working alongside Harsana.“Until now, Haryana did not have a formal record of its local biodiversity and there is a lot still to be known about the Aravallis. These PBRs will help us maintain these records as traditional knowledge and will be registered in government records. Once it is known that a particular species of plant, crop or wildlife is found in a region, and it is documented, an interest can be generated among locals to save that species. Even if a commercial set-up is exploiting those resources, they would have to give compensation to the locals,” said Harsana.Last year, draft PBRs were formed but they were found to be lacking quality and rigour, officials said. The work also got delayed due to the lockdowns to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. PBRs rely on field inspections, as well as secondary data obtained from line departments of forest and wildlife, agriculture, fisheries, horticulture and animal husbandry departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/work-on-final-biodiversity-registers-starts-after-covid-19-delays-101629914774209.html
25-08-2021||Other||This sketch artist is the police’s best friend||PUNE: On August 14, a case of child molestation was registered at the Dattawadi police station in which a hand-drawn sketch of a rickshaw driver helped the police identify him after the CCTV failed in the dark of the night. On August 18, he was arrested and sent to prison. A search for the person who had drawn the sketch landed us at the office of professor Girish Charwad, 46, of the Bharti Vidyapeeth College of Fine Arts, Katraj. Charwad recently finished teaching a course in sketching suspects to the maiden batch at the criminal investigation division (CID) of Maharashtra located in Pune.How did you start teaching at CID?Answer: I was checking the acoustics in a hall built at the police research centre on the request of a police friend. While I was there, the recently transferred ADG CID Atulchandra Kulkarni was also present and my friend told him about the kind of work I do. ADG Kulkarni took interest and worked on the idea of starting a course in sketching suspects at CID. Of the first batch of 20 people, 18 completed the course recently and the second batch has begun two or three days ago. The CID has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) for the certification.How did you start doing what you do?Answer: In 1997, when I was in college, my friends and I were helping the police draw the sketch of a suspect. There were no mobile phones at the time so whoever was found did the job. My sketch came closest to the suspect and from that time, I started doing this off and on whenever the police required but all under the radar until 2002. In 2022, there was a spurt in brutal kidnappings and my work increased. D N Jadhav was the commissioner of police and Chandrashekhar Dethankar was the deputy commissioner of police back then. My work was appreciated by the then commissioner of police in a crime meeting and introduced to all police stations (till then, it was limited to a few police stations). As officers kept moving out, word of mouth kept spreading. Now I get called to various parts of Maharashtra to sketch suspects.What are some of the memorable cases you have been involved in?Answer: I have sketched extensively for the kidnappings in the early 2000s. There was a case of a deaf and dumb girl who was gang-raped in Bhosari, and several high-profile cases including some explosions and murders which I cannot talk about. I had sketched Sandesh alias Sainath Abhang (convicted of the murder of woman, 66, and rape and attempted murder of her five months’ pregnant daughter-in-law). There was a case of a body being left under the backseat of a bus, and the kidnapping of a four-month-old baby in Chakan. There was a case of a man who molested minor girls by asking them for directions. I have also sketched suspects in cases of chain snatching, robbery and dacoity.Tell us about your qualifications.Answer: I have completed a diploma in applied art, art teacher diploma (ATD), and diploma in art education [VERIFYING THE NAMES OF THESE DIPLOMAS FROM THE COLLEGE] from Abhinav college. Then I went on to pursue my MA in fine arts at the Babasaheb Ambedkar University in Aurangabad. I had always wanted to pursue a doctorate in a nice subject related to music, musicians, or the sarod as I play it. But my body of work in sketching suspects had built up so well that I pursued my PhD in the contribution of art to crime investigation (in Marathi) from Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University.What kind of tools do you use, modern and traditional?Answer: My work mostly involves drawing with hands. There are softwares that provide thousands of options for anatomical parts such as the lips, nose, eyebrows, chin, ears, eyes, etc. But the victims or witnesses are generally too shaken to choose between thousands of options. So, I use a simple pencil and paper. But with tools like tablet computers which provide for handmade sketches, we can choose drawings without hair, save them, and then proceed to draw the hair or facial hair etc. That would be a big step forward.What are the challenges you face?Answer: The dialogue with witnesses is the most difficult part mainly because of the sensitive state of mind that they are in. It was most difficult to communicate with the deaf and dumb girl who was gang-raped. Unfortunately, we had to make her mother ask her the questions in a manner that she understood. Asking little children about their abusers is another challenge. In cases where there are multiple accused, it is difficult to decipher whether the accused providing information is trying to mislead or not. If the crime has taken place at a particular time of the day, the sketch is best drawn at that time of the day and the location given the direction of light. At one time, I was playing the sarod at a concert and the police were waiting to take me for a sketch right afterwards. My fellow musicians had a lot of misconceptions when they saw two hawaldars escorting me hurriedly after the show. I had to explain to them that I had done nothing wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-sketch-artist-is-the-police-s-best-friend-101629914653451.html
25-08-2021||Other||Army exam paper leak: bail denied to 8 accused||PUNE A court in Pune denied bail on Wednesday to eight of nine arrested in the case involving the leak of an Indian Army recruitment exam paper, detected by the local crime branch in February with help of Army intelligence inputs.The nine include one Lieutenant Colonel, two Majors, and two serving civil staff of the defence force from various parts of the country. The decision was made by Additional Sessions Judge Sacchidanand Bapurao Hedaoo in the presence of public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal and multiple defence lawyers. The investigating officer is assistant commissioner of police Lakshman Borate.Those arrested so far include Lieutenant Colonel Bhagatpreetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44), Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47); Major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41), all from Delhi cantonment; Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), from Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers Vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Centre in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki. These have been arrested in a case registered at Wanowrie. Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37) have been held in the case registered at Vishrantwadi.Giri, Gite, Koli, and Auti were arrested on March 1, Adakmol was arrested on March . Major Thangavelu was arrested on March 7, while Major Kilari was arrested on March. Narnepati was arrested on May 14 while Lt Col Bedi was arrested on May 17 by the Pune police crime branch.While Lt Col Bedi has not yet applied for bail, the others have applied, and all their applications were rejected. The police have recovered ₹150,000 and an answer sheet from Lt Col Bedi’s residence in Delhi, according to a submission in court. “The court had written to the Indian Army headquarters about the three officers who were arrested from three different locations. We had asked them to take over the respective cases through their procedure, but they have responded saying proceedings should continue in this court,” said Advocate Agarwal.There are two cases registered in the matter - one under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Wanowrie police station, and a similar one at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-exam-paper-leak-bail-denied-to-8-accused-101629914595625.html
25-08-2021||Other||PMC gets poor passenger response for offline railway passes||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is getting a poor response from fully vaccinated commuters in terms of procuring offline railway passes for travel by local trains in the Pune region.Rajendra Renegade, assistant municipal commissioner of the Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward office, said, “We have provided training to staff on how to issue certificates to railway commuters as per the state government order. The offline process started immediately after August 15. However we are getting poor response with our staff issuing about 10 to 12 passes on a daily basis. We have deputed 16 primary teachers across the two timing slots. Passes include monthly and regular passes.”After the chief minister allowed citizens who have completed vaccination against covid-19 (including 14 days after the second dose) to travel by local train from August 15, the process was facilitated both online and offline. However, as the online process would take more time, the offline process was started on a priority basis. Accordingly, the PMC set up two help desks – one at Pune and the other at Shivajinagar railway station – and started the offline process on August 17 itself. The help desks are operational all seven days of the week from 7am to 1pm and 1pm to 7pm.Sunil Indulkar, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “Till date, we have issued nearly 200 passes to railway passengers. The state government has started an online service to issue ‘universal travel passes’. However, we are providing offline passes to those who are not used to the online process.”While there are 42 local trains operating to- and fro- between Pune and Lonavala with around 70,000 to 80,000 commuters travelling daily under normal circumstances, there are presently only eight local trains from Pune to Lonavala and Lonavala to Pune, that too for emergency services, with only around 4,000 commuters travelling on a daily basis. A minimum 50% of these commuters are monthly pass holders.Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group, said, “Due to limited local train services, the numbers of travellers is less as compared to normal situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-gets-poor-passenger-response-for-offline-railway-passes-101629914596251.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University PG entrance exam schedule announced||The Lucknow University (LU) administration announced the schedule for the post graduate entrance test (PGET) to be held from September 6, on Wednesday.“The entrance exam will have 90 questions of two marks each that will have to be completed in 90 minutes. There will be no negative marking,” said Durgesh Srivastav, LU spokesman. The university administration has asked candidates who have filled wrong information in their entrance form to make corrections by writing to the administration by Friday, Srivastav added.LU received a record number of 24,397 applications for PG admissions this year. The number of applications is 26% more than last year. The PGET will continue till September 13 and will be held in two shifts.Meanwhile, the undergraduate entrance exams have already started from August 25 at the university. The exams are being held offline on the LU campus. “We are following Covid-19 protocols in the exam halls. This is being done by limiting the number of candidates in a hall, making arrangements for proper santisation, and asking candidates to maintain social distancing,” Srivastav said.LU has offered admissions in over 6,000 seats mostly of UG and PG courses this year. The university has received over 72,000 applications for admissions on these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-university-pg-entrance-exam-schedule-announced-101629914595260.html
25-08-2021||Other||PCB writes to police commissioner, says vendors’ shops at Fashion Street illegal||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) administration has shot off a letter to the Pune police commissioner seeking assistance in enforcing fire safety norms after vendors at the famous Fashion Street in the Camp area of Pune set up shops in violation of the board’s orders to wait till firefighting rules are implemented to ensure safety of both vendors and buyers.Amit Kumar, chief executive officer of the PCB, said, “The vendors have illegally set up their shops. We have sought police cooperation for taking measurements at Fashion Street. The vendors did not wait for the fire safety norms to be put in place and went ahead with raising the structures which is illegal.”Earlier this month, Kumar wrote to the Lashkar police station seeking action against the alleged ongoing construction at Fashion Street. Last month, the PCB issued a public notice asking the vendors there to maintain “status quo” and refrain from carrying out any further construction. Kumar even requested the police to deploy adequate personnel on an urgent basis to maintain status quo until such time the board took a decision and to avoid any untoward incident and disruption of law and order. Despite the steps taken by the board however, further illegal construction was reported. Recently, the board received complaints about illegal structures having been raised without mandatory permissions.On March 26 this year, nearly 500 to 600 shops at Fashion Street were completely gutted after a major fire broke out in the area. While no casualties were reported, the head of the PCB’s fire department, Prakash Hasabe, was killed in a road accident while returning home after dousing the fire. Hasabe’s two-wheeler came under a bus the next morning at around 6.30am while he was on his way home (Viman nagar) after finishing fire-fighting at Fashion Street which was completely charred in the blaze.While the PCB is keen on construction of a commercial complex well equipped with all fire safety measures, the vendors’ association has publicly maintained that it is right in resuming business in accordance with vendors’ rights to a livelihood. Fashion Street, which is located adjacent to MG road, typically houses around 448 registered shops and 200 unauthorised outlets selling garments, shoes and other accessories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcb-writes-to-police-commissioner-says-vendors-shops-at-fashion-street-illegal-101629914593459.html
25-08-2021||Other||Three killed in three isolated road accidents in Pune||PUNE: Three people were killed in three isolated road accidents in the peripheral areas of Pune over two days - Monday and Tuesday.In one accident on Monday night around 8:40pm, a speeding rickshaw rammed into a wall with two passengers in it, and crushed an unidentified pedestrian in the process, according to the police.The two passengers and the rickshaw driver were all injured, while the deceased got struck before the vehicle rammed into a wall near a sports stadium near Taljai hill.A case was registered under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act at Sahakarnagar police station against the rickshaw driver.Around two-and-a-half hours later, a 72-year-old two-wheeler rider hit a rock on the road in Jadhav Vasti Wagholi and fell on his head. Identified as Baban Achuytrao Mohite, the man was killed on impact. He was booked for causing his own death at Lonikand police station.Hours later, around 5am on Tuesday, Vikas Vyankatrao Jirgekar (23), a resident of Nhavre in Shirur, was driving his pick-up truck back home after unloading it in Pune when a speeding tempo driving in the opposite direction rammed into his vehicle in Khandvenagar, Wagholi. The driver was killed in his vehicle while the tempo driver was also injured. The injured man is undergoing treatment and is booked under relevant Sections of IPC and Motor Vehicle Act, also at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-killed-in-three-isolated-road-accidents-in-pune-101629914593987.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Three pvt firms in race to get UPSRTC’s e-ticketing tender||Three private companies are in the race to grab the UP State Road Transport Corporation’s (UPSRTC) contract to implement its ambitious integrated bus ticketing system project which will be the precursor to the rollout of National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) in the state.“We opened technical bids on Tuesday and found three private firms to be in the race for the contract,” a senior UPSRTC official said, adding, “Now, we will evaluate financial bids by them early next month after which the company found quoting the lowest price to implement the project will be awarded the contract.”The three companies in the race are Aurionpro Solutions Ltd, the MCT Cards &Technology Pvt Ltd and Ebix Cash. “The UPSRTC invited the tender in July last year and then had to cancel the process and re-tender twice with relaxed terms and conditions because it received a single bid each time and according to the rules, a single bid cannot be processed,” the official said. The UPSRTC’s proposed integrated bus ticketing system seeks to provide ease of going cashless through Euro Master Visa (EMV)-compliant ticket-issuing machines. The ticketing machines will have provision to accept fare through multiple modes like cash, existing cards issued to passengers, debit cards, QR codes, open loop systems and/or NCMC cards, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-pvt-firms-in-race-to-get-upsrtc-s-e-ticketing-tender-101629913873914.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Ujjwala 2.0 to benefit 20 lakh women in 10 UP dists: CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said Ujjwala 2.0 scheme would provide gas connections to migrants who had been deprived of it so far in the absence of address proof. “Free gas connections are a gift to the beneficiaries from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched the second phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana in Mahoba recently,” said Yogi while interacting with 10 beneficiaries of the scheme via video conferencing. The CM said one crore connections would be given across the country under the second phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana. Besides Mahoba, Sonebhadra, Banda, Chitrakoot, Rae Bareli, Hardoi, Badaun, Amethi, Fatehpur and Farrukhabad districts have been selected under the second phase of the scheme and 20 lakh women would be benefitted in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ujjwala-2-0-to-benefit-20-lakh-women-in-10-up-dists-cm-101629913394455.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Unnao’s Miyagunj likely to be rechristened as Mayagunj||KANPUR Uttar Pradesh is likely to see another change of name as the district administration has recommended rechristening of Miyagunj, a gram panchayat in Unnao, as Mayagunj.Miyagunj is the biggest mango market in Unnao district and is historically known for its Sufi culture. The gram panchayat adopted the proposal of sitting MLA, Bambalal Diwakar, and suggested the name change. District magistrate (Unnao), Ravindra Kumar, sent a letter to the UP government, recommending the change in name of Miyagunj to Mayagunj. A copy of the letter is with HT. The proposal to rename the gram panchayat came after an open meeting in Miyaganj, where a resolution was passed that the name be changed to Mayaganj. The recommendation was then made to the collector in the matter.The DM took the matter under consideration, after which he sent the recommendation letter to the state government. When contacted, Kumar was not available for his comments.The move comes amid renaming of districts and railway stations in the state. Earlier, the Mughalsarai railway station was renamed as Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Station.Allahabad was renamed as Prayagraj and the names of four railway stations in the city were also changed. Allahabad Junction was renamed as Prayagraj Junction, Allahabad City as Prayagraj Rambag, Allahabad Chhioki as Prayagraj Chheoki and the name of Prayagghat was changed to Prayagraj Sangam.UP’s Faizabad district was also rechristened as Ayodhya. Earlier, Ayodhya city used to fall under Faizabad district, but now the name of the district has been changed to Ayodhya.Similarly, there was a proposal to rename Aligarh as Harigarh and Ferozabad as Chandra Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unnaos-miyagunj-likely-to-be-rechristened-as-mayagunj-101629912854512.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||More camps to be set up in Lucknow to increase vaccination coverage||In a bid to increase vaccination coverage, the health department has raised its average daily target from current 20,000-25,000 to 40,000 Covid vaccine doses and for this it will hold special camps at schools and other locations in the state capital, said officials.This was decided during a meeting called by district magistrate Abhishek Prakash here on Wednesday. “New camps for vaccination will be planned as per the geographical location keeping in view the schools around. So one camp will cater to several schools in the vicinity,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow. Teachers, their eligible family members and even parents of students can get the jab at camps in the schools, said Dr Agrawal. The district administration has planned to set up vaccination booths at schools, colleges, universities, government and private offices, banks, religious places and even different residential societies. “Increase in number of vaccination centres makes it easy for people to access vaccine doses. With more centres or booths for vaccination the distance to travel and waiting time both will be reduced,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors.Lucknow has till now administered 2497324 doses of vaccine, maximum among all districts in the state. The DM said camps will come up at home branches of various banks, Madhyanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam head office, 10 big schools, Kalicharan College and Lucknow University. Also the camp at Chota Imambada will be re-started. The DM emphasized on the need to speed up vaccination in areas where inoculation was going at a slow pace such as Khargapur, apartments of Gomti Nagar Extension, Indira Nagar, Amrai, Aliganj, Abrarnagar, Faizullaganj, Dawood Nagar. For Gomti Nagar extension, he said camps should be conducted in apartments with help of resident welfare associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/more-camps-to-be-set-up-in-lucknow-to-increase-vaccination-coverage-101629912618301.html
25-08-2021||Other||4% of 18 to 44-year age group in Pune district have taken 2nd dose of Covid vax||PUNE Just 4 per cent of the 18 to 44-year age group in Pune district have taken the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, as of August 24.As per the district administration, 56 per cent of the same age group have taken the first dose.The vaccine coverage is pertinent in view of the delta plus variant in the state, a strain of the Covid-19 virus that is very contagious. As per state health department officials, of the 103 patients who tested positive for the delta plus variant, 55 patients are from the age group of 19 to 45 years. Whereas 25 patients are from the age group of 46 to 60 years and 13 are from the age group of 60 years and above. There are 10 patients who have tested positive for the delta plus variant who are aged below 18 years.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) at the Zilla Parishad (ZP) said that new stock of the Covid-19 vaccines arrived on Wednesday.“Covishield and Covaxin were supplied on Wednesday. We have received a total of 152,180 doses of Covishield. Of these, 65,440 will be given to Pune rural and 53,260 doses will be given to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be given 33,480 doses of Covishield,” said Prasad.He added that a total of 12,530 doses of Covaxin have also been allocated.“Of these, Pune rural will have 5,380 doses and PMC will get 4,380 doses. Moreover, PCMC will get 2,770 doses,” said Prasad. Speaking about the overall vaccination drive, Dr Sachin Edke, district immunisation officer, said that so far, overall, 85 per cent of the population in the district have received at least one vaccine dose.The first dose coverage in Pune district is 62 per cent. Whereas, the second dose coverage is at 23 per cent. For beneficiaries in 45 to 59-year age group the coverage is at 41 per cent in the district for both doses, and 64 per cent for one dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-of-18-to-44-year-age-group-in-pune-district-have-taken-2nd-dose-of-covid-vax-101629909252800.html
25-08-2021||Patna||IAF chopper makes emergency landing in Buxar school, all safe||An Indian Air Force (IAF) Chinook helicopter, on a training sortie on Wednesday, made an emergency landing on a school ground in Buxar district but there was no damage or loss of life, officials said. According to a defence official of Prayagraj, following a technical snag, crew members executed a precautionary landing around 5.25 pm on the premises of Manikpur High School under Dhansoi police station limits. All 15 on board were safe. “The newly inducted helicopter had taken off from Prayagraj and was on way to Bihta air base near Patna when it had to make an emergency landing,” said Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir. No major damage has been reported, Samir said, adding that police had been deployed to guard the chopper till the time IAF personnel fly it back. Chinook is a multi-role, vertical-lift platform, primarily used for transporting troops, artillery, equipment and fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/iaf-chopper-makes-emergency-landing-in-buxar-school-all-safe-101629909077777.html
25-08-2021||Patna||JD(U) seeks reply from MLA for comments against deputy CM||The ruling Janata Dal (United) has sought an explanation from party MLA from Gopalpur, Gopal Mandal, who had accused deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad of collecting extortion and demanded his resignation. Prasad is from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the largest constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar.“The party has taken the MLA’s statement seriously and we will take action on it. An explanation has been sought from him,” JD(U) state unit president Umesh Kushwaha told reporters on Wednesday. Last week, Mandal alleged that Prasad frequently visited Bhagalpur to “collect extortion money” from shop owners and demanded a probe into the matter. He had also demanded deputy CM’s resignation.“’Deputy CM comes to Bhagalpur, not for development, but to collect extortion money. He hangs out with people who tried to defeat BJP and JD(U) in the recent assembly polls. He only hangs out with people having money,” Mandal had said while speaking to reporters at Bhagalpur on Saturday last.Prasad is also the minister in charge of Bhagalpur district.Mandal’s statement has infuriated BJP leaders. “JD (U) should take note of his statements and act,” BJP’s state unit president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said. Mandal also called Samrat Chaudhary, who became Panchayati Raj minister from BJP quota and had demanded action against the MLA, a defector. “One who does not have the strength to contest the elections, what will he say,” said Mandal. A few months ago, BJP’s MLC Tunna Pandey had made comments against Nitish Kumar and BJP suspended him from the party. “Nitish Kumar is known for discipline. He has taken action against those who break discipline in the past. Mandal is constantly issuing statements which are harming the alliance.We will expect JD(U) national president to take action,” said road construction minister Nitin Navin, of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-seeks-reply-from-mla-for-comments-against-deputy-cm-101629909076052.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Bihar Unlock 6: Religious places to open from Aug 26, shops, schools to function normally||The Bihar government on Wednesday decided to allow opening of religious places and normal functioning of shops, malls, parks from August 26, a day after the current period of Unlock 5 from the lockdown on account of Covid-19 ends on August 25.Emerging from a meeting of state’s crisis management hroup (CMG) which he chaired, chief minister Nitish Kumar said that after reviewing the Covid scenario in the state, it was decided to allow normal functioning of shops, business establishments, shopping malls, religious places, parks, etc.At present, shops had to shut at 7 pm.The state on Monday recorded only nine positive cases and the number of active cases stood at 101. “From now on, all universities, colleges, technical institutes and coaching institutes will function normally and universities, colleges and schools can conduct exams normally,” Kumar tweeted.Briefing about the meeting, additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said the provisions of Unlock 6 will remain in force till September 25.“Schools will function normally and all exams can be conducted as per the Covid norms. All coaching institutes can open. Earlier, coaching classes only for Class 10 and for competitive examinations were allowed,” said Prasad.The government has also allowed social, political, entertainment related functions, sports events, cultural and religious functions with permission from respective district magistrates. “The DMs will decide on the number of persons that can be allowed to attend these functions,” said the ACS (home).The government also removed the cap of 50 persons from marriage ceremonies and last rites rituals. However, the ban on orchestra and marriage processions will continue. Cinema halls, which were allowed to operate at 50% capacity, can now function during their normal hours at the same capacity while gymnasium, swimming pools, restaurants will continue to open with 50% capacity. The cinema halls opened from August 7 with 50% seating capacity but were allowed to operate till 7 pm only while malls were to open on alternate days. “We need to be alert on the possible third wave as well,” said chief minister Kumar.Prasad said the state government will facilitate testing of people who are coming from states where Delta variant has made inroads.Earlier, during Unlock 5, the government had allowed schools for class 9 and 10 to start from August 7 and for classes 1 to 1 to 8 from August 16 with 50% attendance. The government had during Unlock 5 had also lifted alternate day restrictions for shops but were asked to closed on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-unlock-6-religious-places-to-open-from-aug-26-shops-schools-to-function-normally-101629909074829.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Patna HC struggles with fewer judges, piling cases||The Patna high court, which has a sanctioned strength of 53 judges, will be left with just 18 by September end if new judges are not appointed by then in the 105-year-old institution, according to data accessed by HT.The current strength of judges at the HC is 19 and one of them is due to retire by next month’s end.This year, according to senior officials in the court, the Patna HC collegium has sent four recommendations comprising a total of 35 names to reduce the vacancies, but appointments are still awaited. These names have been recommended during the tenure of incumbent Chief Justice Sanjay Karol, who was the last appointment to the Patna HC, in November 2019. The last three recommendations comprising 20 names were made since July 16, including one on August 2. The number of vacancies, which stood at 24 in August 2019, when Justice AP Shahi was the Chief Justice, is set to rise to 35, including the one falling vacant in September 2021.In August 2019 also, Justice Shahi had recommended 24 names, including 15 from the bar and nine from the service, but all were remitted back by the law department vide its letter dated September 3, 2020, said an official.Thereafter, incumbent Chief Justice Sanjay Karol sent the first recommendation comprising four names on January 15, 2021, and followed it up with another recommendation with 11 more names on February 11, 2021.Later, the HC collegium recommended eight names from the bar with representation to all communities. This, according to an official, included names of three from other backward castes (OBC), one each from scheduled caste (SC), a Muslim and a woman, and three from general category, to give it a more balanced look.“Earlier, the names recommended by the HC collegium and forwarded by the Centre were almost accepted, but the final warrant of appointment is issued by the President only after a go-ahead from the ministry of law and justice. In view of falling strength of judges in Patna HC, we are hopeful new names will soon be cleared,” the official quoted above said.The issue of rising vacancies was also raised during the closing function of centenary year celebrations of the Patna HC in 2016 before Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was the chief guest, by the then Chief Justice of India TS Thakur. The Patna HC then had 14 vacancies, while Thakur had pointed out that 468 of around 900 posts of HC judges were vacant across the country at that point of time.Senior advocate Vinod Kanth said the delay was sad, as it was only contributing to big pendency of cases in an already overburdened judiciary.In July this year, Yogesh Chandra Verma, president of the coordination committee of the three associations of lawyers, had said there were 69,109 writ petitions pending for disposal. The total number of pending cases in the High Court is estimated to be around 2.13 lakh, up from 1.78 lakh in December 2020. In fact, in view of growing pendency and fresh filing of cases, the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh had asked the chief secretary what the government was doing to prevent filing of frivolous cases.“The process (of appointment of judges) needs to be made smoother to avoid delays, which affect justice system. At present, a three-judge collegium of the HC sends its recommendations to the SC, where another three-judge collegium either accepts the names or rejects. The names accepted by SC collegium are then forwarded to the ministry of law and justice. If the ministry approves, it is sent to the President for warrant, else it is returned to the SC. If the SC collegium reiterates it, the ministry has to accept it, but it can be delayed,” Kanth said.Former advocate general and senior advocate PK Shahi said Bihar never had such poor strength of judges as far as he could remember. “The strength has now perhaps fallen lower than even Jharkhand, resulting in huge pendency and delay in disposal of cases. Even for bail matters, one has to wait for 8-10 months. The litigants are suffering. Even hearing of writ petitions is getting delayed. We cannot comment on why the recommendations are being rejected or delayed, but it has certainly affected delivery of justice,” he said.According to Supreme Court website, of the total 1,098 judges posts in high courts in the country, 455 are vacant as on August 1, 2021. Apart from Patna high court, there are large number of positions vacant in high courts of Andhra Pradesh, Calcutta, Madhya Pradesh, Allahabad, Punjab and Haryana and Rajasthan, according to the data on SC website. Former additional solicitor general (ASG) SD sanjay said, “Even urgent cases and those related to development issues are suffering. Now, the HC collegium has also started taking a balanced view by accommodating all sections, as happened in case of the last recommendation. Hopefully, the SC will now start clearing the names, as delay is hurting the cause of justice delivery.”Head: Court concernsIntro: HC collegium has sent 35 names this year to reduce the vacancies, but appointments are still awaited Judges’ strengthSanctioned: 53Current: 19Vacancies: 35 (one anticipated in Sept)Pending casesCurrent: 2.13 lakhDec 2020: 1.78 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hc-struggles-with-fewer-judges-piling-cases-101629909073608.html
25-08-2021||Other||Man kills pregnant wife, 2 kids in Bihar; arrested||A man has been arrested for allegedly killing his pregnant wife and two children with a spade over a domestic dispute at Sondihara village in Kaimur district on Wednesday, police said.The police have seized the murder weapon and sent the bodies for postmortem examination, superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar said.The accused, identified as Lal Babu Sah (30), told police that he is poor as his small business was hit badly during the pandemic, leaving him frustrated, which was further compounded by his wife’s prolonged illness. He claimed that he suspected his wife Moti Devi’s illness was due to some black magic spell cast by his in-laws.He added that his wife was influenced by her father, who is a purported sorcerer. She often used to visit sorcerers and give them money against his advice. He told police that he killed her and his two children in a fit of rage when she insisted on visiting his father claiming his sorcery could cure her despite his objections.Villagers informed police after they found the bodies in a pool of blood in Sah’s thatched outhouse on Wednesday. Station house officer (SHO) Ramanand Mandal rushed to the place and arrested the accused..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-kills-pregnant-wife-2-kids-in-bihar-arrested-101629909017370.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur man returns from Kabul, quarantined in Delhi||A Muzaffarpur native teaching at a private university in Afghanistan’s Kabul has been evacuated safely from the troubled country and has reached New Delhi, where he has been quarantined, his brother said on Wednesday. Dr Syed Abid Hussain, 50, who was an assistant professor of management at Bakhtar University in Kabul, reached New Delhi Tuesday morning along with 70 other Indians, including three professors, two of them from Kerala and one from Jharkhand.Abid, who has been teaching economics at the university in Kabul since 2018, said he and other evacuees have been quarantined for 14 days despite producing negative report for Covid-19.Talking from New Delhi on phone, Abid said he had booked a flight for August 16, which was cancelled due to suspension of flight operations. Later, he booked another ticket for August 18 but was unable to fly. Lastly, he, along with others, registered with the ministry of external affairs (MEA). “I and three others reached a point at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul on the university vehicle with the support of MEA officials. We finally entered the airport only after getting clearance from the US army,” he said. Abid’s brother Syed Majid Hussain, a former mayor of Muzaffarpur, he was constantly in touch with his elder brother. Abid’s wife Shakra Tabbasum thanked the Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muzaffarpur-man-returns-from-kabul-quarantined-in-delhi-101629909016166.html
25-08-2021||Other||Three held in loot case||Police on Tuesday arrested three out of five persons for their alleged involvement in a loot case that took place at Salempur situated under Chandi police station on August 22.Police also recovered the HDFC bank’s assistant manager’s bike that was looted, besides the bike used in the loot.The remaining two accused are still at large and police will arrest them soon, Bhojpur SP Vinay Tiwari said.The incident took place around 9.30 pm on August 22 near the petrol pump situated at Salempur under Chandi police station. The miscreants intercepted the victim and looted his bike at gunpoint.A case was lodged against unknown persons on the victim’s statement at Chandi police station..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-in-loot-case-101629909015086.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Black-marketing of urea in Champaran: 19 FIRs lodged, licences of 65 shops suspended||The Champaran district administration Tuesday booked three people for their alleged involvement in the black marketing of fertilizers. With this, the tally of offenders has reached 19 in the last seven days, officials said. According to officials, while two people were booked in Harshidih and Chirraiya in East Champaran, one case was registered in Chautarwa in West Champaran on Tuesday. The development came after a team from Patna raided several fertilizer shops following the complaint of black marketing. On Wednesday, East Champaran district agriculture officer (DAO) Chandradeo Prasad confirmed the registration of nine cases of black-marketing in the district so far. “The licences of 65 shops have been suspended in the past few days due to irregularities detected. During the raid at a fertilizer shop in Harshidih, 1036 bags of urea were found missing from the godown, whereas one person in Chirraiya was found selling urea above the maximum retail price (MRP),” Prasad said. Ten cases were registered in West Champaran district for alleged black marketing of urea in the last seven days. The two districts of East and West Champaran are reeling under acute shortage of urea due to below the requirements supply for the past three months. According to officials in East Champaran, 5,424 metric tonnes (MT) urea was received against the requirements of 8,365 MT in June. Altogether 7,268 MT was received in July and 1,558.6 MT in August against 9235 MT and 11562 MT, respectively. In neighbouring West Champaran, while 1,000 MT urea has been made available as against the requirement of 1300 MT in August, a total of 5,789.630 MT urea was received in July as against the requirement of 9,581 MT. Meanwhile, Adesh Titarmare, director of the agriculture department, Patna, did not respond to this reporter’s texts for his comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/blackmarketing-of-urea-in-champaran-19-firs-lodged-licences-of-65-shops-suspended-101629909013428.html
25-08-2021||Gurugram||Haryana to reopen schools for classes 4,5 starting Sept 15||Haryana government on Wednesday allowed the reopening of schools for classes 4 and 5 starting September 15. The government had earlier reopened schools for classes 9 to 12 in July. School administrators will have to stick to strict Covid-19 preventative measures for the safety of students, the government has made it clear.Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said that classes will reopen strictly adhering to the Covid-19 preventative measures and all SOPs will be followed. Physical lessons in schools have begun across several states in a staggered format. Several state governments and governments of Union Territories have resumed physical lessons for students of a few selected classes as Covid-19 cases continue to remain above 25,000 for the past one week. The government however has still kept the option for online classes open to all.Earlier in the day, NTAGI chief Dr NK Arora said that schools should reopen but administrations should ensure that staff and other members of the school are fully vaccinated in order to provide a ring of protection.“Besides parents and other members of the family, it has to be ensured that all the support staff whether it be school bus drivers, teachers or other staff in the schools are vaccinated against coronavirus to create a protective ring around children,” Dr Arora said and also recommended that resumption of classes should happen in a phased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-4-5-starting-sept-15-101629908590072.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Man commits suicide, leaves note incriminating wife, her brother||A 42-year-old trader allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan on Wednesday at his house under Khajekalan police station. The deceased left a suicide note in which he made his wife and brother-in-law responsible for this extreme step, police said.SHO of Khajekalan police station Rahul Thakur said, “An FIR has been lodged against wife and others. The police are investigating the matter to ascertain the cause of the suicide.” The incident came to light on Wednesday around 10 am. “On getting information, a police team reached the spot and sent the man’s body to the NMCH for autopsy,” he added.The deceased’s sister-in-law told the police that his wife used to argue with him every day. On Tuesday night, a heated argument took place between the man and his wife and brother-in-law, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-commits-suicide-leaves-note-incriminating-wife-her-brother-101629908955928.html
25-08-2021||Ranchi||J’khand cabinet: No more party-wise polls for post of mayor, municipality chairman; BJP opposes move||Reversing the decision of the previous BJP government, the Hemant Soren government has decided to conduct the election of mayor and chairman of the urban local bodies in the state on a non-party basis. The state cabinet has given its nod to the Jharkhand Municipal (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which would be tabled for approval in the upcoming monsoon session of the Jharkhand assembly next week. “The decision of the state government is in the interest of people. These are local body polls and conducting it on a non-party basis would end the unusual influence of the political parties and help local aspirations,” said JMM spokesperson Manoj Pandey. After the amendments, willing candidates would be able to contest the post of mayor in the municipal corporations and chairman of municipalities without a party symbol. The amendment in the municipal Act will also give rights to the state government to cancel the appointment of municipal heads if they do not attend three consecutive meetings of the house, sources said. There are 34 urban local bodies in the state and the last election was held in 2018 on party basis after the then Raghubar Das government had amended the municipal Act and introduced election with party symbols for the post of heads of the municipal corporations and other municipalities. The BJP had then won in 20 of the 34 local bodies. While the move has been hailed by the ruling JMM, the opposition BJP has opposed the move. BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi said the state government should review its decision. The BJP said the move would give an advantage to money bags with muscle power. “The population of a corporation like Ranchi would be around 15 lakh. It will not be possible for a common person to reach out to the electorate on their own. This would provide an advantage to people with money and muscle power. The government needs to review its decision,” said Marandi. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shabdeo also charged that the state government was bringing this legislation as it wants to prevent the fallout of its impending loss in the municipal polls. “They know people would punish them due to their failure in governance in the past two years. So they don’t want to be seen being defeated. But people understand all these tactics,” added Shahdeo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-cabinet-no-more-party-wise-polls-for-post-of-mayor-municipality-chairman-bjp-opposes-move-101629908954686.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Nurse killed, surgeon hurt in firing incident, four detained||A nurse was killed late on Tuesday after a group of armed assailants opened fired at a surgeon and his staff outside a nursing home situated on Rojpatti Road under the town police station of Sitamarhi, police said. The deceased nurse has been identified as Babli Pandey. The surgeon also sustained injuries and is currently undergoing treatment, police said. An FIR has been lodged against five persons, including the surgeon’s ex-wife, two nephews and one unknown person under various sections of the IPC. Police have detained all of them for interrogation. Police suspect that the accused hired contract killers to eliminate Dr Shivshankar Mahto and his second wife Shabnam. A preliminary probe into the attack suggested that the reason behind the incident could be a property dispute with nephews and a financial dispute with the ex-wife. After their divorce, Mahto refused to send money to his ex-wife, following which she threatened him with dire consequences, said Sitamarhi SP Harkishore Rai. “The surgeon is now out of danger. CCTV footage has been collected from the spot to identify the gunmen,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nurse-killed-surgeon-hurt-in-firing-incident-four-detained-101629908953563.html
25-08-2021||Other||Mayor, civic chief meet Union health minister in push for PMC medical college NOC||PUNE With municipal elections slated for Pune in February 2022, every decision, proposal and plan in the city is now being viewed with votes in mind.The BJP’s Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar are currently in Delhi to meet Mansukh Mandviya, union health minister. The aim is to get the final clearance for the PMC-run medical college, to be named after the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, a former prime minister of India from the BJP.Speaking to HT from Delhi, Mohol said, “We met the minister and appealed for the NOC. All technical instructions from the centre have been seen to by the PMC. Even recruiting of teaching and non-teaching staff is in the final stage. It was a very positive discussion, and we are confident that admissions to the medical college will begin this academic year.”Former chief minister, the BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis is believed to have helped set up the appointment with the health minister.Political analysts in the city believe the starting of the new medical college is important for the BJP ahead of the elections.The new medical college will be attached to the Kamla Nehru Hospital and after the BJ Medical College at Sassoon hospital, will be the second government medical college in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mayor-civic-chief-meet-union-health-minister-in-push-for-pmc-medical-college-noc-101629908652746.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to withdraw cases against farmers over stubble burning||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday announced to withdraw cases filed against the farmers and waive the fines imposed on them for stubble burning. During an interaction with farmers, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath promised to make all the previous payments that have been pending since 2010 before the new cane crushing season.“The government will withdraw the cases registered against the farmers due to stubble burning and the decision will be taken on refund of fine” the chief minister said.“We will work to make sure timely payments are made as well as to increase the price of sugarcane. The decision will be communicated to all the concerned stakeholders so that the farmers are not misguided,” he added.According to the UP government, Adityanath has instructed the officials to not sever electricity connection of any farmer due to pending bills. He also assured farmers that a One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme will be introduced for farmers so they don’t have to pay interest or penalty on the old electricity bills.“The covid-19 pandemic today has grappled the entire world, however, the farmers have faced it bravely. The sugar mills continued to function even during the Covid period and the farmers continued to produce food grains” the chief minister said.Criticising the previous governments, Adityanath said the sugar mills were shut down in the ‘Sugar Bowl’ of western Uttar Pradesh that left farmers disappointed. He asserted that the state and Central government of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have worked together to uplift farmers with the goal to double their income. He also recounted the new sugar mills that were started in Pipraich-Munderwa and the enhancement of the capacity of the closed Ramala sugar mill. He announced that sugar mills would start in the western region from October 20 and in the central region from October 25.“While only 6 lakh metric tonnes of wheat was procured in 2016-17, this year a record 56 lakh metric tonnes of wheat was procured despite [Covid-19]. We procured 66 lakh metric tonnes of paddy in the last season against 16 lakh metric tonnes of paddy purchased in 2016,” he said, adding that all these procurement were made directly from the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-withdraw-cases-against-farmers-over-stubble-burning-101629908286906.html
25-08-2021||Other||PMC GB meet to decide on leasing of amenity spaces on Thursday||PUNE Despite opposition from various NGOs, citizen groups and the Maha Vikas Aghadi itself, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in power in the Pune Municipal Corporation is now likely to clear a proposal to rent out amenity spaces. The decision will be taken at the general body scheduled for Thursday. The standing committee of the PMC has already cleared the proposal, which allows private players to develop and run civic amenity centres after paying a rent to the civic body. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Congress and the Shiv Sena have all opposed the move. Some NGOs have moved the Bombay High Court challenging the decision. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane and leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar are of the view that this proposal will help raise revenue for the PMC. NCP MP Vandna Chavan has opposed the move, while NCP leader and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has promised the Pune NCP that even if the PMC approves the decision, the state government will scrap it. “Let the ruling party take the decision they want to take,” Ajit Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-gb-meet-to-decide-on-leasing-of-amenity-spaces-on-thursday-101629908532734.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Prez to visit Ayodhya by special train, lay foundation of Ayush univ in Gorakhpur||LUCKNOW President Ram Nath Kovind will begin his four-day visit to Uttar Pradesh (UP) from Thursday. His itinerary includes convocation and launch functions, but the highlight would be his journey to Ayodhya by a special train from Lucknow on Sunday – the second journey to UP in a presidential train in two months. Kovind will be the first Indian President to visit Ram Lalla temple in Ayodhya.He is also expected to offer prayers at the site where the Ram temple is being constructed. Security has been beefed up in Lucknow ahead of the VIP’s visit, police officials said. Though the President’s schedule hasn’t been received so far, officials said the country’s top executive would begin his UP journey from Thursday when he would grace the ninth convocation of Lucknow’s Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU). He would follow it up by unveiling a statue of former UP chief minister Dr Sampurnanand and also inaugurate an auditorium at the Captain Manoj Pandey Sainik School in Lucknow on Friday. The President would also attend the 26th convocation function of Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). On Saturday, the President will lay the foundation of Ayush University and inaugurate Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath University in Gorakhpur. Ahead of the President’s visit, chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Gorakhpur to review preparations. Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath University, a private institution, has been established by the Gorakhnath Temple Trust. It has been named after Guru Gorakhnath — the founder of Nath Panth. With two new universities, Gorakhpur will now have four universities. Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University and Madan Mohan Malviya Technological University are already enrolling students for higher education. An officer said the state government plans to spend ₹815 crore on the construction of Ayush University. The state government has acquired 52 acres land for the university near Pipri and Tarkulhi villages. The PWD has earmarked ₹299.87 crore for the construction of the university. Though the President’s final itinerary hasn’t been announced, the buzz is that he might visit the Gorakhnath temple too. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is the head priest of the temple. On Sunday, President Kovind will go to Ayodhya from Lucknow by a special train. “He will launch various projects of the state government’s department of culture and tourism, including renovation and construction of Tulsi Smarak Bhavan and the development of bus stand in the city. The President is also expected to visit the site where the Ram temple is coming up in Ayodhya. He will also perform pooja at the site,” an officer said.Ahead of the President’s visit, chief minister Yogi Adityanath called on governor Anandiben Patel on Wednesday evening. While officials described it as a “courtesy call”, it is learnt that the two leaders discussed about the President’s four-day visit to UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prez-to-visit-ayodhya-by-special-train-lay-foundation-of-ayush-univ-in-gorakhpur-101629907453376.html
25-08-2021||Other||Press upon the UK to return Udham Singh’s pistol, diary: CM to Jaishankar||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Union minister for external affairs S Jaishankar appealing to him to press upon the UK to return the personal effects of legendary martyr Shaheed Udham Singh, including his pistol and personal diary. Amarinder had first raised the issue at the 82nd martyrdom day of Udham Singh last month. In the letter, Amarinder adds that this will help the country express its highest gratitude to the martyr and the great patriot, as we celebrate the 75th year of India’s Independence. “You may be aware that it was with this very pistol that he avenged the dastardly act of the erstwhile British government at Jallianwala Bagh, where hundreds of unarmed and innocent Indians were shot dead under the charge of the then Punjab lieutenant governor, Michael O’Dwyer,” the letter adds. “It was with this pistol that Shaheed Udham Singh brought Michael O’ Dwyer to justice in the Caxton Hall, London,” the CM has written, adding that, “It is also known that Shaheed Udham Singh used to keep a diary, as his personal log, which also deserves to be brought back to India, so that the people of country could derive motivation and inspiration from it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/press-upon-the-uk-to-return-udham-singh-s-pistol-diary-cm-to-jaishankar-101629906613334.html
25-08-2021||Other||Punjab CM to virtually lay stone of new varsity in Tarn Taran on Friday||Tarn Taran Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will, virtually, lay the foundation stone of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur State University of Law at Kairon village in Tarn Taran on Friday. The 35-acre varsity will be built at ₹280 crore in the native village of former Punjab chief minister Partap Singh Kairon. On Wednesday, Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill and officials of the Public Works Department (PWD), the construction agency, visited the site.“The government is yet to provide details about the construction, but we expect the work to be completed in two years,” said PWD executive engineer Jasbir Singh, adding, “The university will have an administrative block, hostels, auditorium and examination halls.” The university had started enrolment in April this year, with Guru Nanak Dev University operating it. Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh said, “All arrangements have been completed for the foundation stone laying ceremony to be done virtually.” In August 2020, the state cabinet approved the ‘Sri Guru Teg Bahadur State University of Law Bill’. The draft bill, prepared by the higher education department, seeks to establish and incorporate a state university for the development and advancement of legal education and for the purposes of imparting specialised and systematic instruction, training and research in the field of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-to-virtually-lay-stone-of-new-varsity-in-tarn-taran-on-friday-101629906193083.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Munawwar Rana’s son held for staging attack on himself to frame others||LUCKNOW Nearly two months after he was allegedly shot at in Rae Bareli, Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s son Tabrez Rana was arrested on Wednesday for scripting the attack with the intent of framing his relatives, said Shlok Kumar, SP (Rae Bareli).Tabrez was arrested from his house in Lucknow after a Rae Bareli court issued a non-bailable warrant issued against him for not appearing before the court on August 13 in the matter. He was held in compliance of the court’s warrant in the matter on the basis of findings that surfaced during the course of police investigation, he said.Tabrez was accused of hatching a criminal conspiracy and will be produced before the competent court on Thursday for further legal proceedings, added the SP.The SP said Tabrez had earlier alleged that two motorcycle-borne shooters had opened fire on his sports utility vehicle (SUV) when he stopped at a petrol pump under the Rae Bareli city police station limits while returning to Lucknow on June 28. He said the four people involved in the attack were arrested on July 2 and revealed that the attack was planned with the consent of Tabrez.On July 2, the Rae Bareli police stated that Tabrez had sold off his 18 biswa land in February this year. It was his parental property and his other relatives also had a share in it. Tabrez’s relatives were raising objection on the issue and demanding their share, after which he allegedly hired shooters to stage the attack on his SUV with the intent of framing his relatives, said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/munawwar-rana-s-son-held-for-staging-attack-on-himself-to-frame-others-101629904033256.html
25-08-2021||Other||Kidnapped teen rescued in Amritsar||Amritsar Police on Wednesday rescued a 14-year-old boy, Pintu, who had been kidnapped at gunpoint by unidentified miscreants for ransom within four hours of receiving the complaint. The four kidnappers, Raj Kumar; Amit Kumar; Suraj and Krishan Kumar of Amritsar, have been arrested. Pintu, the younger brother of a vegetable vendor, had been hostage at a rented house in Jawahar Nagar. A country-made pistol used in the kidnapping has been recovered from the accused. Addressing a press conference, police commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said, “A complaint was received from one Kailash Chaudhari, who works as a vegetable vendor, on Tuesday that his younger brother Pintu had not come for work since 6pm on Monday. Kailash added that he had also received a ransom call of ₹3 lakh.” He added, “A team of senior police officials under the supervision of deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar was formed. The team rescued the teen within four hours of receiving the complaint.”DCP Bhullar said, “The ransom demand was raised to ₹4 lakh. A trap was laid and a kin of the victim was sent with the money. When an accused Raj Kumar came to collect the money, our team arrested him and he led us to the location of the other kidnappers and the child. The accused had taken the room on rent just 15 days ago.”“During questioning, the accused told us that they planned to kidnap another child, but that did not come off. We are ascertaining if they have committed other kidnappings,” he added. A case under Sections 364-A (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered at Mohkampura police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kidnapped-teen-rescued-in-amritsar-101629903132980.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||3-yr-old boy falls to death from 6th floor, mother alleges murder||LUCKNOW A three-year-old boy, Shreyansh, died after allegedly being thrown off the sixth floor balcony of a posh residential building behind the state police headquarters here on Raksha Bandhan day, said police on Wednesday.On Tuesday night, the boy’s mother, Priyansha Dwivedi, lodged an FIR of murder against a relative, Kuldeep Pandey, alleging that he threw her son from the sixth floor in an inebriated state, said cops. In her complaint, the woman mentioned that she came to know about the crime after being informed by other children playing along with her son at the time of incident.The accused had been taken into custody for questioning, said police.The complainant said that her elder sister, Swati Tripathi, had come to her house in Gomti Nagar’s Gwari area on Sunday (Raksha Bandhan). She stated that her son was familiar with Swati’s children, so he went along them to their flat on the sixth floor of Omaxe Embracia building under Sushant Golf City police station limits, said a senior police official. The complainant mentioned that her relative Jagdamba Pandey’s family, including his younger brother Kuldeep Pandey, also visited her elder sister’s flat later in the evening. “Kuldeep Pandey, who is not on good terms with my husband Arun Dwivedi, threw my son from the sixth floor while he was playing in the balcony along with other children. Kuldeep was in an inebriated state at that time,” she mentioned in the FIR, and added, “He later posed as if the boy had fallen accidentally from the sixth floor.”Inspector of Sushant Golf City, Vijayendra Singh, said the police examined the spot and sought opinion from forensic experts over the incident. He said further investigation was on and the accused had been taken into custody for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/3yrold-boy-falls-to-death-from-6th-floor-mother-alleges-murder-101629901332847.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||UP govt says no space for 'Taliban' mentality on posters condemning AMU VC for condoling Kalyan Singh's demise||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday warned that individuals who display “Talibani” thinking or ideology would face strict action. The warning was a reaction to posters springing across the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus condemning the vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor for condoling the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. The government said it is probing the matter.The poster which condemned the vice-chancellor were shared by ‘Students of Aligarh Muslim University’, according to a report by news agency PTI. The posters shared the message - Praying for a criminal is an unforgiving crime - an apparent reference to the felling of the Babri Masjid, during which Kalyan Singh was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Singh was acquitted along with former Union minister Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi in September 2020.“The condolence words of the AMU VC on the demise of ex-chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Singh are not only a matter of shame but also hurt the religious sentiments of our community,” the poster said.The poster makers also said that the condolence message brought ‘disgrace’ to the entire AMU fraternity and the “Aligarh Movement”. The poster makers called the act of condoling the former chief minister’s death ‘shameful’. “Kalyan Singh is not only the main culprit in the demolition of Babri Masjid but also an offender for not obeying the Supreme Court's order. The VC's condolence has brought disgrace to the entire AMU fraternity,” the poster said.UP minister Mohsin Raza said that the vice-chancellor’s condolence message was reflective of ‘Indian culture’ and the posters were an attempt to vitiate the atmosphere in the university. “If some persons of Talibani soch (mentality) are there we will treat them accordingly. This is a university of Hindustan. There is no Taliban here. This is an attempt to vitiate the atmosphere,” Raza, the minority affairs minister of the state was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He said strict action would be taken in order to set an example for others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amu-posters-condemning-v-c-up-govt-says-no-space-for-taliban-mentality-101629899931040.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Special postal covers released to honour and popularise Bihar’s Sikki craft||The famed Sikki grass craft of Bihar, already recognised with Geographical Indication (GI) tag, was honoured on Tuesday with the release of two special postal covers, showcasing its intricate design and beauty.Two special postal covers titled Artwork made from Sikki grass and Sikki grass product of Bihar, were released by the Darbhanga Postal Division at an event held at the Postal Training Centre in the city. Sikki or Vetiver grass or Khus belongs to Poaceae family and its botanical name is Chrysopogon Zizanioides.“This comes as a shot in the arm for artisans and cottage industry to upscale its dwindling trade and restore its glory. The inclusion of Sikki grass as a special cover will help generate more awareness about this art from this region,” said Umesh Chandra Prasad, postal superintendent of Darbhanga division.He said the other objective of this exercise was to be Vocal for Local, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat.Sikki grass grows abundantly in flood plains of Mithila region and it has cultural significance as well. Women, particularly in rural pockets of Mithila region, have been making handicrafts, using its strong blades, for ages.Director postal services (northern region) Shankar Prasad said that Sikki Grass was one of the most popular handicrafts in the country. “These products are natural, handcrafted, stylish, attractive and affordable besides being eco-friendly. Sikki products are most immune to pest attacks,” he said.Special postal covers are brought out to popularise significant themes. The event was attended by a host of officials and art lovers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/special-postal-covers-released-to-honour-and-popularise-bihar-s-unique-sikki-craft-101629899772478.html
25-08-2021||Other||Save apple farmers from open loot by corporates: Himachal Congress chief||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Wednesday demanded that the government save the apple growers of the state from “open loot by the Adani Group”. In a press conference held here, Rathore said the Adani Agri Fresh Company had reduced the procurement rate of apples by ₹16, thus negatively impacting the ₹5,000-crore apple market of the state. “Covid-19 and unseasonal rain and snow in May have caused immense losses to small farmers. And now, the prices of the fruits have also nosedived. Congress will not remain a mute spectator to this loot of farmers,” said Rathore, adding that the party will launch a stir. Rathore further alleged that the government was hand-in-glove with apple traders and commission agents. He said apple prices were deliberately brought down so that corporate companies can accumulate profits. “Corporate companies of Ambani and Adani are getting full protection from the government in the loot of farmers,” he alleged. Rathore said the new farm laws enacted by the Centre were to benefit their capitalist friends. “Does Himachal Pradesh government also want the farmers of the state to end their lives?” he asked. He said the input cost of a box of apple comes to around ₹450 to ₹500 but farmers are barely able to make ₹600 for a box this year. The HPCC chief said, “Since 1984, the government has been giving subsidies on insecticides, fungicides and other input material, along with agricultural equipments. However, the present BJP dispensation has withdrawn all these benefits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/save-apple-farmers-from-open-loot-by-corporates-himachal-congress-chief-101629897192613.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Bihar: Religious places to reopen, educational institutions to function normally||Bihar government on Wednesday said shops, malls and parks in the state will function normally and religious places will open doors to devotees from August 26, considering the significant containment of the second wave of coronavirus infection in the state. The government also removed the cap of 50 persons from marriage ceremonies and last rites rituals. However, the ban on orchestra and marriage processions will continue. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced the fresh relaxations as part-6 of the phased reopening, also referred to as Unlock-6, after reviewing the Covid situation in the state in a meeting of the Crisis Management Group (CMG). The current period of Unlock-5 ends today on August 25. Under the previous guidelines, shops and businesses were instructed to remain closed on Sundays.On Monday, Bihar recorded only nine Covid positive cases and the number of active cases stood at 101. “From now on, all universities, colleges, technical institutes, coaching institutes will function normally and can conduct exams normally,” Kumar said in a Twitter post. The CM said that social, political, sports, cultural, entertainment and religious events can also be organised with permission from respective district magistrates. However, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools and restaurants will continue to operate with 50% capacity. “We need to be alert on the possible third wave as well,” said Kumar. During Unlock-5, the government had allowed resumption of in-person learning in schools for students of class 9 and 10 from August 7 and from August 16 for classes 1 to 8 with maximum 50% attendance.Cinema halls in the state were allowed to operate from August 7 with 50% seating capacity till 7 pm only, while malls were allowed to open on alternate days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-religious-places-to-reopen-educational-institutions-to-function-normally-101629897012418.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||UP’s joyride train with see-through coaches will take you through Dudhwa||LUCKNOW UP’s first joyride train on the 170 km-long-meter-gauge route connecting Mailani with Nanpara via the Dudhwa forest reserve is all set to hit the track soon. The train packed with luxurious, see-through vistadome coaches would not only give a comfortable ride to passengers but also boost eco tourism in the state. The coaches have reached the Mailani junction in Lakhimpur Kheri district, said North Eastern Railway (NER) officials. “As of now, we have received a set of two vistadome coaches brought from the Mhow Coaching Depot. These are stationed at the Mailani Junction. The special coaches are meant to ply on the Mailani-Nanpara route via Dudhwa Forest Reserve,” said Pankaj Kumar Singh, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NER. However, NER officials are yet to finalise the time-table and fare of the train. “Officially it is yet to be decided when the train would hit the track. But it is expected to roll out on World Tourism Day (September 27, 2021),” said a senior official. Once started, passengers could enjoy the lush green scenic view of Dudhwa National Park from the ultra-modern vistadome coaches. “Initially, the train would be equipped with two vistadome coaches, each having a seating capacity of 60 passengers,” another NER official said highlighting the features of the state-of the art coaches. What makes these coaches different? The wide glass windows and wide see- through roof enables passengers to enjoy the scenic view. The coaches have the capacity to ply at a speed of 180kmph though they would be operated at a lower speed. The seats can rotate up to 180 degrees and coaches are equipped with Wi-Fi connectivity, pantry, modular toilets, LED destination board, multi-tier luggage racks, CCTV cameras and other appliances like microwave, coffee maker, refrigerator, bottle cooler etc, said the official. These air-conditioned vistadome coaches were developed by the RDSO. The Janshatabdi Express, flagged off by the Prime Minister on January 17 2021, is equipped with this coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-joyride-train-with-see-through-coaches-will-take-you-through-dudhwa-101629896112166.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Posters come up in AMU against V-C for condoling Kalyan’s death, removed||Posters were put up on Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus condemning vice-chancellor (V-C) Tariq Mansoor for offering condolences on former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh’s death last week, an official said and added they were immediately removed. The official said a watch is being maintained to ensure no such posters are pasted on the campus again.“Around 10 pm on Monday, a few posters were found pasted on the notice board near the mosque premises within the AMU campus. Some posters were found lying on the ground. These posters were removed, and a search was launched for any other posters but were not found anywhere else,” said Wasim Ali, AMU proctor.Also Read | Blockade call not sedition, says Sharjeel Imam’s lawyer“A team led by two assistant proctors has kept a vigil, but no more posters were found. These posters were in English but not signed. No individual or group owned responsibility for them. We are inquiring about these posters at our level.”The printed posters were titled “Praying for Criminal is unforgiving crime!” The posters cited Kalyan Singh’s alleged role in the Babri Masjid demolition in Ayodhya in December 1992 when he was the chief minister.Uttar Pradesh minister Mohsin Raza said the V-C acted as per “our culture” by condoling the death. “If some persons of Taliban thinking are there, we will also treat them accordingly.” He added the matter will be probed and strict action will be taken. “This is a university of Hindustan. Taliban is not here. This is an attempt to vitiate the atmosphere,” said Raza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/posters-come-up-in-amu-against-v-c-for-condoling-kalyan-s-death-removed-101629894791947.html
25-08-2021||Patna||35 names suggested this year for Patna high court judges, none appointed||Thirty-five names have been recommended this year to fill growing vacancies of judges at the Patna high court, but no appointments have been made yet despite a growing pendency of cases, people aware of the matter said on Wednesday. As of now, the court has 19 judges while the sanctioned strength is 53. By September end, the Patna high court will be left with 18 judges, with one more due to retire, if appointments are not made until then.In August 2019, then chief Justice AP Shai recommended 24 names, including 15 from the bar but no appointments were made. Shai’s successor, Sanjay Karol, sent his first recommendation of four names on January 15 this year. He recommended 11 more names on February 11. Later, eight more names from the bar were recommended.The number of pending cases in the high court is estimated to be around 21,30,00 up from 17,80,00 in December 2020.Also Read | Bihar announces guidelines for Unlock 6: All you need to knowSenior advocate PK Shahi said the vacancies have resulted in huge pendency and delay in the disposal of cases. “Even for bail matters, one has to wait for 8-10 months. The litigants are suffering. Even hearing of writ petitions is getting delayed. We cannot comment on why the recommendations are being rejected or delayed, but it has certainly affected the delivery of justice.”Former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay said even urgent cases and those related to development issues are suffering. “...the delay in filling the vacancies is hurting the main cause of justice delivery.”The Supreme Court in April prescribed a judicially mandated timeline for the Centre to make appointments of judges in the high courts, saying promptness in this process was to facilitate the larger cause of dispensation of timely justice.The court, for the first time, indicated an outer time limit within which the Centre is expected to process the names for appointments of the high court judges, besides notifying appointments once the names are reiterated by its collegium. The existing Memorandum of Procedure, which guides judicial appointments, has not suggested any period within which the Centre is supposed to forward the recommendations to the Supreme Court collegium. The top court set down 18 weeks to complete this process. It added high courts have a shortage of around 40% judges, requiring a “collaborative” exercise involving the judiciary and the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/35-names-suggested-this-year-for-patna-high-court-judges-none-appointed-101629894254360.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||No dissent in Punjab Congress: Rawat says after meeting ‘aggrieved’ MLAs||Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat quashed rumours of any infighting among lawmakers in Punjab Congress and said that three MLAs and four ministers met him to express their concerns regarding the party’s chances to retain power in the Punjab polls which are to be held in 2022.The Congress in-charge for the state clarified that these MLAs and ministers are not against anyone and were seeking ‘a clear roadmap’ before Congress embarks on its preparations for the elections.Amid power tussle in Punjab, CM Amarinder meets leaders“Four ministers and three MLAs met me and expressed their concerns. They were concerned about our chances of victory in the state elections next year but clarified that they are not against anyone. They want to go to the polls with a clear roadmap so that we win,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Rawat, however, said that it is concerning if a lawmaker feels ‘insecure’ and feels that the administration is ‘working against them’ or ‘wants them to lose’. He said that they aired grievances regarding the running of the party and the Punjab government.Open rebellion against CaptainCabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhbinder Sarkaria on Tuesday declared open rebellion against the chief minister Amarinder Singh, according to a report by HT. These lawmakers said that they have ‘lack of faith’ in the chief minister. “We have lost faith in him (Amarinder), but changing the CM is the prerogative of the party high command,” Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said.The report also said that disgruntled leaders also authorised a five-member delegation along with Punjab Congress general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh will meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi to express their grievances. Pargat Singh, who is known to be close to newly inducted Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, said that the meeting with Sonia Gandhi will go ahead after Sidhu’s nod.Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh: Harish RawatThe developments come after Sidhu’s advisors faced criticism for making comments regarding Kashmir and Pakistan, which the chief minister and other Congress leaders, including Manish Tewari and Harish Rawat, deemed anti-national.Rawat says ‘no threat to Congress in PunjabRawat, however, maintained that there was no threat to chances of Congress’ victory in 2022. He said that concerned people themselves will pave the way for the party's victory. “We will decide on a solution,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-dissent-in-punjab-congress-rawat-says-after-meeting-aggrieved-mlas-101629892854179.html
25-08-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa to ride in comfort across Karnataka, buys Toyota Vellfire||BS Yediyurappa, the former chief minister of Karnataka has bought a new seven-seater Toyota Vellfire, a hybrid electric car, which costs about ₹1.06 crores in Bengaluru. People aware of the developments said the vehicle has been bought to ensure comfortable travel, mainly for the purpose of mustering support for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s return to power in the next assembly elections, slated for 2023, in the state.“After stepping down (as chief minister), he (Yediyurappa) has returned all the official cars and will now use this which is more comfortable,” said one person aware of the developments, requesting not to be named.Yediyurappa spent about a week in Maldives and returned to Bengaluru on Sunday. On July 26, before he resigned as Karnataka CM, he vowed to work to bring the BJP back to power in the state. Two days later he was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai on July 28. He had also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda for letting him continue in the top post despite his age (78) crossing BJP’s threshold for holding public positions.The person cited above added that earlier the 78-year-old had the option of travelling by a helicopter to distant places in a short span of time but after his stepping down, he has to depend on by-road travel for his engagements.Other former chief ministers’ association with luxury cars, too, has resulted in controversies in Karnataka in the past.Yediyurappa had to return a Toyota Landcruiser gifted to him by minister and industrialist Murugesh Nirani when the former was the state BJP president in 2016. It was meant for Yediyurappa to travel to drought-hit districts in the state. His critics had then hit out alleging there was dissonance in the luxurious nature of the vehicle and the tragedy engulfing poor people in the state.“Don’t compare it (the cost of the vehicle) with drought,” Yeddyurappa said at the time (April 16, 2016), as reported by the Press Trust of India.The Vellfire, purchased now, has an ultra luxurious interior with especially designed recliner seats that are considered very comfortable for long journeys.Yediyurappa’s predecessors like HD Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah too have courted controversies by travelling in high-end cars during their term in office.Kumaraswamy’s Range Rover was his vehicle of choice while he was the chief minister.Siddaramaiah was “given” a Toyota Landcruiser by his cabinet colleague KJ George first and later another Mercedes SUV by Congress leader Byrathi Suresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-to-ride-in-comfort-across-state-in-toyota-vellfire-101629892931621.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Return of the native: Our Gulab’s journey home||Life is full of surprises. It was quite early that day when a phone ring abruptly broke the silence of the calm morning. “Gulab! It’s you!” my husband said unbelievably. Gulab! It was March 1999 when two of our acquaintances in Patiala arrived with a boy in his early teens. Everything in his life seemed great – until that one terrible day when his world turned upside down. At a tender age, cheated by a man from his own village with a false promise, he landed up in Patiala where he was sold to a family. He was maltreated and starved by his master. Alien to the culture and with no memory of his hometown, he was left with no choice but to stay there for three years. The people who brought him to us helped him get rid of that place. He pleaded them to get him employed far from Patiala. That’s how we met Gulab. He agreed to stay with us and was welcomed warmly in the family. We tried to convince him to get admission in a school, but he refused as he hadn’t even got his primary education. He started accompanying my father-in-law to look after our ancestral property. As the years went by, he mingled well with our family. Our house address became familiar with the name of Gulab. My kids affectionately called him Gulab Chacha. Though he looked happy, he always seemed perturbed over his past. One day, he opened up about some faded memories. His vague recollections of an animal fair held annually near his hometown and some landmarks were helpful during our online search. It took us a few days and voila! There it was, Balbal mela. He was sure his village was near it. Later, we came to know he belonged to Tilaiya village. His joy knew no bounds. A reservation for the train from Jalandhar to Patna was made. Finally, the day to say goodbye came. We all bid him farewell with a heavy heart. He reached Patna safely and took a bus for Hazaribagh. As it was getting dark, he got confused to follow the right track leading to his village from Hazaribagh. We told him to take shelter in a nearby hotel. The next day as the bus neared, several questions arose in his mind: Would his family still be there? Would they recognise him? He began to walk, following the dusty path etched in his brain from his childhood. His memory was guiding him home. Accompanied by a villager, he quickly recognised his house. He burst into tears on catching a glimpse of his mother. He told his family who he was. Dumbfounded, they asked him to show a particular scar on his body. He complied. Their happiness knew no bounds. Their son was back. For all these years, his parents had searched for him and lost hope. A reunion with their long-lost son was the last thing they expected. Gulab, too, was elated. Since all his younger siblings had been married, a suitable match was found for him, too. He returned to Punjab after getting engaged to Geeta Devi and stayed with us for three months. Sadly, after his wedding, there was no communication from his side. This phone call came as a big surprise because we had lost hope of ever reconnecting with him. He is now blessed with a baby girl, Kiran Kumari, and a baby boy, Kamlesh. amarbirkaur0@gmail.com The writer is a Hoshiarpur-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/return-of-the-native-our-gulab-s-journey-home-101629891971582.html
25-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan girl who delivered baby says was raped by cousin, not classmates||The 12-year-old girl who delivered a baby on Sunday in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur has now told the police that she was raped by her cousin. The girl’s complaint blamed three of her classmates but on Tuesday, she said it was her uncle’s (father’s elder brother’s) son who raped her, said the police.Also Read | Former Meghalaya MLA sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for raping minorThe police arrested the 23-year-old accused and presented him before the court which sent him for two-day police remand. In her statement, the survivor said her cousin had been abusing her for the past eight months. She said he left her alone once he got married but she was pregnant by then.Deputy SP Rajuram Choudhary confirmed the development and added that investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-girl-who-delivered-baby-says-was-raped-by-cousin-not-classmates-101629891671434.html
25-08-2021||Jaipur||Centre giving away assets to its acquaintances at throwaway prices: Sachin Pilot||Hitting out at the Centre, senior Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said the government should help the poor and middle-class people instead of giving away assets created in the past 70 years to private persons at throwaway prices. The former union minister alleged that the Central government wants to give the country’s assets, be it ports, railways, airports or big institutions, to its acquaintances at throwaway prices.Addressing reporters in Dausa, he said, “The government should help the poor and middle-class people instead of handing over the assets of the country to select people.” Also Read | No Bombay HC relief for Narayan RaneHe accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of misleading people and doing divisive politics. “Today, unemployment and inflation are skyrocketing. And I am surprised that BJP leaders across the country are taking out Jan Ashirwad Yatras,” he said. “For what are they seeking blessings? Petrol prices are above ₹105 per litre, one gas cylinder is for ₹900, there are no jobs, lakhs of people died due to coronavirus disease, there was oxygen shortage during the second wave of the pandemic, still they are seeking blessings,” he said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said all charges made by the Congress leader are baseless. “Ever since the BJP government was formed in the Centre, rightful money of the poor is reaching their bank accounts. The government’s other schemes are working on the principle of sabka saath sabka vishvas,” he said. He said the Jan Ashirwad Yatra is being taken out to ensure that welfare schemes reach the masses. Pilot, during his Dausa visit, also exuded confidence that the Congress will win the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections. The elections will be held in Bharatpur, Dausa, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi districts. Polling will be held in three phases on August 26, 29 and September 1, and counting of votes will take place on September 4 at the district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/centre-giving-away-assets-to-its-acquaintances-at-throwaway-prices-sachin-pilot-101629890531381.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||'Won't let CM forget...': BJP says will send 75,000 letters to Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Wednesday it will send 75,000 letters to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray so that he doesn’t forget “how many years it has been since independence.” BJP MLA Ashish Shelar made this remark while addressing a press conference over the arrest of Union minister and BJP leader Narayan Rane by the Maharashtra Police a day ago.Also Read | Shiv Sena defends Narayan Rane’s arrest“On 15th August, CM Thackeray forgot how many years it has been since independence. Under the leadership of state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, we will write and send 75,000 letters to the CM so that he doesn’t forget the date. Will he apologise to the people?” Shelar said in Mumbai.On 15th Aug, CM Thackeray forgot that how many yrs has it been since the independence. Under the leadership of state BJP chief, Chandrakant Patil we'll write 75,000 letters &send them to CM so that he doesn't forget. Will CM apologise to people?: Maharashtra BJP MLA Ashish Shelar pic.twitter.com/LgFMgEPH3PRane, the Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, had, on Monday, targeted Thackeray for allegedly mixing up the number of years since India gained independence, while delivering the chief minister’s address on August 15 on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. “Had I been there, I would’ve given him a slap under his ears,” Rane had said of Thackeray. His remarks set off a chain of events which saw the minister being arrested on Tuesday afternoon, culminating with him being granted bail after a late-night hearing.Also Read | Narayan Rane: What precedents and law say about the arrest of a ministerThe BJP has accused Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab, who is from the Thackeray-headed Shiv Sena, of being behind Rane’s arrest. “Parab is behind Rane’s arrest. We demand a CBI probe into the arrest and entire procedure of action. Why is the Maharashtra government so scared that they are behaving like this?” Shelar said.Anil Parab (Maharashtra Minister) is behind the arrest of Narayan Rane. We demand a CBI inquiry into the arrest and the entire procedure of action. Why is the Maharashtra govt so scared of Jan Ashirvaad Yatra that they are behaving like this?: Maharashtra BJP MLA Ashish Shelar pic.twitter.com/LQzmAYQZ22A video is doing the rounds on social media in which Parab is purportedly instructing police officers to arrest Rane “without any warrant” and, if needed, “with force.”Also Read | Video showing minister ordering for Rane’s arrest goes viral, BJP seeks actionRane, 69, is a former Sena leader himself, and in 1999, was the party’s second chief minister in Maharashtra. He left the Sena in 2005, and joined the Congress. In 2017, he resigned from the Congress and joined the BJP in 2019. In July, he was inducted into the Union council of ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narayan-rane-arrest-will-send-75-000-letters-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-says-bjp-101629888572491.html
25-08-2021||Pune||NCL in Pune develops tech to convert biomedical waste to plastic||A plastic bucket or mug, a computer part or a car part made from discarded face masks and PPE suits used by health workers and doctors - that is what the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) in Pune is claiming its research has proven can happen.The new research, announced on Tuesday, is based on a system of autoclaving biomedical waste. Face masks and PPE suits were burnt earlier. Now this new recycling system will allow plastic products to be made from the bio-medical waste.Small particles of plastic are made after a recycling process and then converted into various products.“In this pandemic all health workers and hospital staffers use PPE kits for protections and face masks. When the pandemic was at its peak our country was producing almost 200 tonnes per day of this waste. It was thrown away and eventually burnt. So we decided to reuse and recycle it. So we got five companies together for this project. The idea is ours but these companies will actually implement it,” said Dr Ashish Lele, director, NCL.“These companies are doing a pilot project in Pune where 150kg of this biomedical waste will be recycled and turned into products. There is only one company in Pune which collects biomedical waste from hospitals, swab centres, vaccination centres, and airports. Right now we are only taking face masks and PPE suits. First we got authorisation from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB),” said Dr Lele.“There is process called ‘autoclaving’ which is to sanitise these used masks and suits. It is basically to heat to a certain temperature in the presence of steam and then all viruses are inactivated,” he added.“Then we bring all this waste and keep it for some more days in quarantine and then we take it to recycling, where it is first shredded and then converted into small particles. That becomes the product and from that multiple plastic products are made. We are working with a company which uses this product to convert it into a automotive car, then also other things like computer parts and household items,” said Dr Lele.NCL hired research students to work on this project, and the waste management company gave the PPE kits.NCL will take the technology all over the country once the Pune operation is established.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncl-in-pune-develops-tech-to-convert-biomedical-waste-to-plastic-101629888731241.html
25-08-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s Tales: How the Ambil Odha has made way for Pune’s devp for 100s of years||Torrential rain on September 25, 2019, played havoc with southern Pune, as a humble old stream called the “Ambil”, swelled to engulf everything in its way. The water and the silt entered ever-growing encroachments in the form of built apartments, cemented stream banks and slums, resulting in a terrible loss of property and life. In the rapidly expanding city of Pune, natural resources are the ones that are at stake. A constant battle between demand for urban spaces and the need of conservation brings out an age-old debate about disasters and sustainable development. In the times of the Peshwas it was no different. But, visionary Peshwa Balaji Bajirao alias Nanasaheb came up with a well worked out solution and utilised the fresh water streams not only for water supply, but for creating aesthetical beauty and to prevent floods. Amongst the most important freshwater steams that flow through the city of Pune, are the Nagjhari stream and the Ambil Odha. The locus of development of Pune is nestled in the space between these two streams in the form of an elevated mount, since the beginning of the settlement.Like most cities of Mawal, Pune has primarily settled on the banks of the rivers Mula and Mutha. Pune is surrounding by secondary offshoots of the Sahyadri, thus forming a saucer-shaped basin, open on the eastern side. The southern hills of Katraj stand as natural sentinels and give birth to numerous rivulets and streams that flow northwards to meet the river Mutha. In addition to the rivers, in absence of any other water source, large streams such as Ambil odha have served as an important water source for centuries. One can trace four distinct stages in the life of the Ambil odha, where changes were made at each stage by the then administrators as a response to the city’s development. The original unrestricted course of the Ambil started on the hill tops of the Katraj and came down roughly via present Satara road, and then along the present Bajirao road, to meet the Mutha river near the present day Amruteshwar temple complex.Based on microliths and other stone tools found in the area around “9 Sadashiv” in Sadashiv peth, Dr Rajguru and his team reported the presence of prehistoric man along channel of the stream meeting the river Mutha. The archaeological explorations have revealed microlithic tools nearby a seasonal stream flowing through heartland of Pune. Living on the bank of the stream as against frequent flooding of the river banks was preferred by prehistoric man who settled at this location in the early days. The Ambil stream had no name till then. Ambil literally means “sour” and it may be possible that the name referred to the somewhat sour taste of stream water. Confluences of sea, river or streams have always been assigned sanctity and were revered in the form of tirthas in Indian culture. A number of shrines, temples and memorials are known to be raised on confluences all across the Indian sub-continent. The few remnants of Narayaneshwar temple, a Yadava period religious complex in Pune were located at the original confluence of Ambil stream and the river Mutha. It is the presently occupied by the Thorla Shaikh Salla Dargah.When Shivaji Maharaj arrived at Pune in 1637, the banks of the Ambil stream were occupied by small hutments of fishermen folk, which formed the outskirts of the then Kasbe Pune. It was this very steam which has presented us with Pune’s two village deities, namely, Kasba Ganpati and goddess Tambdi Jogeshwari. A person from the Thakaar family found the “swayambhu” idol of Ganesha which was established in the form of a temple in Kasba peth. Similarly, the Tambdi Jogeshwari shrine has been located in area called “Kale vivar” that meanders along the same Ambil stream.The historical record mentions another offshoot of the Ambil stream flowing nearby Kedareshwar temple, adjacent to the Kasba Ganpati temple which might have flowed separately into the river Mutha. The earliest dam “Bel dharan”, was built in a C shape by Dadoji Konddeo at the base of hill which housed the Parvati religious complex, much later. The dam was primarily for irrigation purposes and it submerged a large area extending from Sanas ground to present day Parvati water works. The Pan Mala and Ganesh Mala were the cultivated areas for vegetables that benefited from the dam water. The remnants of the dam wall can still be seen over the Ambil Odha today.By the seventeenth century, the religious complexes of the town were firmly settled on both the banks of Ambil stream as it ran through the settlement. It also served as a water ditch for protection from the western side.As the historians of Pune chronicle “Pune Nagar Samshodhan Vrutta” note, Ambil Odha initially flowed through the old and new settlement of medieval Pune. When Bajirao I shifted to Shaniwarwada, Ambil Odha flowed from west side of Bhau Maharaj Bol near Jilbya Maruti and later ,along Tambdi Jogeshwari temple to Amruteshwar temple to meet the river. Income from taxes of Shaniwar peth was gifted by Bajirao I to his younger sister Bhiubai in dowry. Her brother-in-law, Babuji Naik, commissioned the Amruteshwar temple and Shri Siddheshwar temples in her memory at the location where the Ambil stream meets the river.The area beyond present day Lakshmi road was end of Pune’s settlement and the area around Shanipar on the banks of Ambil stream served as a cremation ground for a while.Nanasaheb Peshwa, however, had other ideas. He was keen on the expansion of Pune’s settlement to the west and planned a diversion for the Ambil Odha. An unfortunate tragedy which took place in 1752, making him take this daring decision.Peshwa had initiated a religious charity or “Dakshina” for learned Brahmins all over the kingdom who would come to Pune to seek patronage. The original venue for Dakshina was at Kabutarkhana near Onkareshwar temple. As the legend goes, 40,000 Brahmins, chiefly from Telangana area had stayed at Kabutarkhana on that particular occasion and were locked in due to heavy rains. Around 40-50 Brahmins were engulfed by the flooding of the Ambil Odha and lost their lives. This accident compelled Nanasaheb Peshwa to immediately undertake construction of an alternate space for carrying out religious charities and planned a diversion for the Ambil stream. Thus, he commissioned a lake with dam on the Ambil stream and diverted the flow of stream at a sharp right angle towards the west, the present day Dattawadi, and connected it to the river. The diversion created access and caused a huge amount of land to open up for new settlement; thus, kick starting city’s expansion.Though Nanasaheb diverted the Ambil odha he made sure sufficient space was kept to accommodate the annual flooding of the stream, allowing it to breath. However, the last change and latest events witnessed by the Ambil stream in the form of incessant and illegal encroachments has choked it and has led to the unfathomable disaster we witnessed on September 25, 2019. In this light, one sincerely wishes that Nanasaheb Peshwa’s vision guided the city’s present-day builders to plan for better development of Pune in 21st century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-how-the-ambil-odha-has-made-way-for-pune-s-devp-for-100s-of-years-101629888131180.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena defends Narayan Rane’s arrest||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena has defended Narayan Rane’s arrest over his remarks about slapping chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, saying the union minister crossed all limits. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, it slammed Rane and called his remarks an insult to Maharashtra.“Anyone who speaks against (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi is charged with anti-national activity and is sent to jail. Rane’s crime is of similar fashion. Maharashtra is a law-abiding state, and it was necessary to send a strong message that we will not tolerate beyond a limit. Even Modi will not tolerate such arrogance.”The editorial said anyone who talks about “manhandling the chief minister” will have to face the music according to the law of the land. “A few intellectuals who were accused of conspiring against Modi are still languishing in jail due to the action taken by the previous Devendra Fadnavis government,” said the editorial. It said any decent politician would have apologised for such remarks. The editorial added both Rane and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) do not care about Maharashtra’s pride.Also Read | Video showing minister ordering for Rane’s arrest goes viral, BJP seeks actionRane on Monday criticised Thackeray for allegedly confusing the number of years since India got independence during the chief minister’s August 15 address. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire [with his chief secretary] about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given him a slap under his ears?” Rane said. His comments sparked outrage and he was arrested a day later and subsequently released on bail.The editorial called Rane’s comments an insult to both the state as well as the citizens as Thackeray is the head of Maharashtra. It called Rane a back-stabber, who was disloyal to Shiv Sena, which made him the chief minister. “Rane is nothing without the Sena. We have defeated him four times after he left the Sena,” said the editorial. It added the BJP has “unleashed Rane” just to trouble the Sena after losing power in the state. “Rane will be a big embarrassment to the BJP and serve no useful purpose.”The BJP asked Shiv Sena to introspect. “Uddhav Thackeray has been constantly criticising Modi. The Sena has a record of using derogatory language and has no moral right to criticise anyone,” said BJP lawmaker Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-defends-narayan-rane-s-arrest-101629886390791.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bureaucratic resilience necessary but not enough for governance||Good governance comes from experience but a lot of that comes from bad governance.Governments often blame bureaucracy for wrongs attributed to them. It may be correct to evade accountability but not always true. The core function of any government is to deliver transparent and responsive governance that cares for the poor and vulnerable. It should be rule-based and maintain constitutional proprieties in all spheres of life, social, political, and economic. Conflicts in governance emerge when its various actors become self-interested and competitive. Also read: Amarinder to lead Cong’s Punjab Assembly battle: Rawat as fresh trouble brewsThe bureaucratic predominance in governance has existed since time immemorial. Max Weber theorised bureaucratic essentiality in governance. However, many of us believe that good governance is primarily the function of civil servants. Undoubtedly, civil servants represent the permanent establishment and are referred to as the steel frame of the government, but they are not flawless. They may be relatively more resilient owing to their education, information, and even better intellectual understanding, but academic and intellectual excellence, though necessary, is not enough for quality governance. Apart from being distant from ground realities, they do tend to be non-transparent and unresponsive. Many purposely violate rules, and some of them also abdicate their responsibilities and perform poorly for personal gains to which they are not entitled. Many a time, such conduct of bureaucrats allures political executives to governance that is not fully compliant with the law. Intellectual excellence is not the same as academic excellence. Many of those who had first-rate degrees have proved unworthy of their positions and who had no, or lesser education have risen to the topmost positions with more intellectual and emotional stability. Governments have to respond to rising aspirations, and that requires not only a good understanding of systems, laws, and processes but also a better appreciation of people’s perceptions and needs. Good intellectual minds leading to misuse of systems or social isolation based on caste or class differentiation do not yield unflawed governance that is widely applauded. Roles and responsibilities The roles and responsibilities of political executives and civil servants are well defined, though at times there is a thin line distinction. Politicians control the policy domain. Through legislatures, they make the laws and rules, which articulate the functional framework for the civil servants. They also set the goals for the civil servants. The political executives, if so required, can alter the rules based on political ideologies, programmes, or other socio-economic considerations but do not have the choice to allow or put up with their violations. The spoils system promoted for the benefit of a select few is a blatant attempt to squeeze the governance for personal or political dividends that are otherwise not permitted. Usurping the space allocated to the bureaucracy disturbs the balance of power and harms governance. However, the civil servants should concede the space legitimately provided to the political executives, of course without allowing their actions and interventions to become impermissible interference. The politicians, when in power, bring politics into government, but all of them are not familiar with the finer nuances of governance. Many are experienced, some learn core governance rather quickly, but several aspirational politicians get carried away by not so appreciable past bureaucratic or political practices. The bureaucracy is more adept in such practices using generous phrases such as natural justice, public interest or purposes, concern for national or internal security, etc., to cajole these not-so-experienced politicians in the governments for actions that are not strictly legitimate. Ground realities and governance In a democratic setup, elected representatives are more aware of the ground realities of life and are thus in a better position to guide the civil servants in framing public policies. Such policies should necessarily be evidence-based, and impartial to benefit everyone without any discrimination. However, the bureaucracy examines the real-life evidence that the politicians bring to the government, and often outcomes don’t turn out to be as visualised by the public due to inadequate appreciation of grassroots realities. Over the years, senior bureaucrats gain knowledge and information to fill in such a gap, but that is also becoming increasingly scarce. With lesser experiential learning and knowledge of affected areas or communities, the bureaucracy either circumvents the politicians or envelopes the governance in red tape. As an outcome, affirmative politics and good governance suffer. Even though intellectually and academically more resilient, the bureaucrats, being distant from battlegrounds, are observed to be less pragmatic and risk averse. Some of them concede to governance based on emotions, religions, casteism, and communism, which should be avoided for any principled decision-making. Some even become victims or partners in perilous politics. If intellectually strong and emotionally stable, civil servants and politicians ponder more on the ethical conduct of government business, fully reflecting upon the socio-economic needs of the common man, this may lay the foundation of political success through good governance. Trust and expectations Governance is thus not always driven by intellectual resilience; it requires grassroots understanding and a realistic appreciation of peoples’ aspirations, devoid of any bias. Discrimination based on caste, class, resource endowments, or even elite education should be prevented to ensure governance based on greater equality, equity, and rule-of-law. It should aim to “level up for all” and everyone should have equal opportunities to enjoy life through hard work and honest means. However, politics in our country is struggling to respond to these aspirations of younger generations. For the governments, the challenges are increasing with the commonly experienced decline in the popular trust in traditional politicians and the rising expectations from the bureaucracy. Unless remedied speedily, this may cause long-term damage to our democratic polity. sureshkumarnangia@gmail.comThe writer is chief principal secretary to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bureaucratic-resilience-necessary-but-not-enough-for-governance-101629885791328.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||No FIR yet in Thane’s missing Covid vaccine doses case||Ten days after vials containing at least 40 doses of a Covid vaccine-- missing from a vaccination center in Maharashtra’s Thane district-- were found at a hair transplant clinic, no case has been registered against those suspected to be involved in the matter, officials said.On August 14, some Mumbra residents complained that Covid vaccine doses were missing from the vaccination center situated near Kausa stadium. A day later on August 15, some Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) officials found 40 vaccine doses at a local hair transplant clinic. The clinic was sealed immediately and the civic body said it had begun an investigation into the incident.A week ago, Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske instructed TMC officials to register a complaint against concerned officials and the hair transplant clinic where the vials were found. However, the police and civic officials are busy in a blame game.The police said they are awaiting certain clarifications from the municipality.“The day after a complaint was given by the TMC we sent a letter with some questions regarding the incident to TMC; however we have not received any reply from them yet. We need to understand what ensued at the vaccination center and when the civic officials reached the clinic to seize the vaccine vials. This will help in our investigation,” Madhukar Kad, senior police inspector of Mumbra police station, said.Thane mayor Mhaske claimed they were still “in talks” with the police over the issue.“We are in talks with the Mumbra police regarding the incident and shall find out about the delay in filing an FIR by the TMC,” Mhaske said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-fir-yet-in-thane-s-missing-covid-vaccine-doses-found-in-hair-clinic-case-101629884110656.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Bihar announces guidelines for Unlock 6: All you need to know||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday announced a significant easing in Covid-19 related restrictions for the next stage of Unlock in the state. The relaxations, Kumar said on Twitter, were taken during a meeting to review the situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Bihar, which, he said, was improving, prompting the government to further ease the curbs."However, due to the possibility of a third wave, all of us should take necessary precautions by following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour," Kumar tweeted.The new relaxations will be effective from August 26 and mark the beginning of Unlock 6 in the state. Relaxations for Unlock 5 were announced on August 4, and were scheduled to be in effect from August 7-25.Here’s what all is now allowed to open in Bihar:(1.) All shops, establishments, shopping malls, parks, gardens and religious places can function normally.(2.) Permission of district administration needed to organise political, social, entertainment, sports, cultural and religious functions/gatherings. Covid-19 related norms to be strict complied with.(3.) All universities, colleges, technical institutes, coaching institutes, schools (from classes 1-12) to resume offline classes normally. Universities, colleges, schools etc. allowed to hold examinations.(4.) Cinema halls, clubs, swimming pools, gyms, restaurants allowed to function at 50% customer strength.Unlock 5 in Bihar:Under the guidelines for Unlock 5, colleges, technical institutes and schools (for classes 9 and 10) opened from August 7, while offline lectures for classes 1-8 began on August 16. Also from August 7, cinema halls and malls opened at 50% strength. While halls could open till 7pm every day, malls could operate on alternate days.Covid-19 in BiharAccording to the state health department, Bihar had 101 active cases of Covid-19 as on August 24. Complete lockdown was imposed here on May as a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic swept the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-announces-guidelines-for-unlock-6-all-you-need-to-know-101629883062042.html
25-08-2021||Bhopal||Hindu group members booked for staging protest without permission in MP’s Indore||The Madhya Pradesh Police have booked members of Hindu Jagran Manch (HJM) for staging a protest in Indore without permission, an officer said on Wednesday.Indore (East) police superintendent Ashustoh Bagri said the unauthorised protest was held in the city’s Regal Square without permission. The case against HJM members has been filed under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 188 that relates to disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant. HJM leader Dheeraj Yadav insisted they held a peaceful protest against the rise in crime and communal tensions in the city. He added they handed over a memorandum to Indore deputy inspector general Manish Kapuria to remove Tejaji Nagar police station in charge for registering a case against 15 people of the Hindu organisation who opposed the shouting of “anti-national slogans” on August 15.Also Read | Man, parents booked under Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversion lawRajesh Chauhan, another leader of the Hindu organisation, said groups like the Popular Front of India (PFI) were trying to disturb peace and harmony over the thrashing of a bangle seller in Indore. “These organisations should be banned.”PFI leaders accused Hindu groups of creating terror among Muslims by staging protests. “In bangle’ seller case, police made the man who was assaulted accused after 24 hours for sexually harassing a girl, who is the daughter of one of the main accused in the assault,” said Kafeel Raza, state president PFI. He accused the government of being biased against Muslims. “Now to shift the blame, they are blaming PFI.”State home minister Narottam Mishra said the government is making a list of incidents in which PFI allegedly tried to create a nuisance. “The bangle seller’s is not the only incident in which PFI leaders tried to give it a communal colour. The home department is making the list before sending a proposal to Union home ministry to ban this organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/hindu-group-members-booked-for-staging-protest-without-permission-in-mp-s-indore-101629882910502.html
25-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt makes Indian Idol winner Pawandeep Rajan brand ambassador||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday made Pawandeep Rajan, who won Indian Idol, a famous singing competition, the brand ambassador to promote state’s art, culture and tourism. Dhami made the announcement after meeting Rajan at his Dehradun residence earlier today.Dhami said Pawandeep, who is from a humble background, has brought Uttarakhand fame with his immense talent. Pawandeep also played a tune on guitar for the chief minister.Earlier this month, when Pawandeep won the Indian Idol, there were celebrations in many parts of the state as residents distributed sweets and burst crackers.Earlier in his Facebook post, Dhami had stated that Rajan had not only won Indian Idol competition but also the hearts of all the countrymen with his singing.Pawandeep’s family lives in Talli Chowki village of Champawat district. He was born in 1996. His father Suresh Rajan, mother Saroj Rajan and sisters are Kumaoni folk artists. He started playing tabla as a two-year old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-makes-indian-idol-winner-pawandeep-rajan-brand-ambassador-101629880810594.html
25-08-2021||Bhopal||Man, parents booked under Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversion law||A 25-year-old man and his parents have been booked under Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversion law for allegedly forcing the former’s wife to change her religion, a police officer said on Wednesday.Rajeev Uike, a local police officer, said Irfan Khan, a resident of Agar Malwa district’s Susner town, met his wife, who is from Shujalpur, three years ago and introduced himself as Rohan. “The woman eloped with him and got married in a temple,” Uike said. He added in February this year, Khan told his wife about his real religious identity and allegedly forced her to marry him as per the customs of his religion. “The woman refused to do so but Khan convinced her she would not need to change her religion.”Uike said the woman, a mother of two, later started living with her in-laws and that they allegedly forced her to convert. “She was beaten up by her husband. The woman said she suffered a permanent injury in her spine due to physical assault. They locked her in a room but on August 19, she managed to flee,” he said. The woman returned to her parents’ house and later filed a complaint.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh to kick-off 2 day mega Covid vaccination drive from todayPolice said they were investigating the matter while the three accused were absconding. The three have been also booked under the Indian Penal Code’s section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 420 (fraud), and 506 (criminal intimidation).Madhya Pradesh is among the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states that have criminalised what they call forced religious conversion, including through interfaith marriages. Critics of the legislation say they are being misused to target Muslims and tend to infantilise women to prevent them from choosing who they wish to marry.Vigilante groups have targeted interfaith couples and the anti-conversion laws were passed after a campaign against “love jihad”, the term Hindu groups use to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. The groups believe “love jihad” is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-parents-booked-under-madhya-pradesh-s-anti-conversion-law-101629879010084.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses harassment plea against Sanjay Raut||The Bombay high court on Wednesday directed a woman to approach the appropriate court for alleged police inaction on her complaints of harassment at the behest of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and her estranged husband. The court dismissed her petitions after the state submitted that a charge sheet was filed in one complaint and A-summary in two complaints. The division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar, which was hearing the woman’s petitions seeking directions to the police to investigate her three complaints filed in 2013 and 2018 against unknown persons, had concluded hearing of the petitions on July 22 and reserved its orders. While arguing for the woman who is also a psychologist, advocate Abha Singh said her client was illegally arrested for practising as a clinical psychologist in a hospital at Bandra (West) for two years by using an alleged fake PhD degree before being removed from the post. The high court granted her interim bail in the case on July 27. Also Read | Narayan Rane’s arrest sets off a fresh war of wordsWhile responding to the submissions by Singh, senior advocate Prasad Dhakephalkar for Raut submitted that the woman was like a daughter to his client and asked her to resolve the dispute with her husband.The court was also informed that the woman was provided police protection. Chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai submitted that as a charge sheet was filed in one of the complaints and A-summary reports were filed in the two other complaints, further investigations were not required and the petitions should be dismissed. After hearing the submissions the court had directed the Mumbai Police commissioner to look into the grievances of the woman, take appropriate steps and submit a report to the HC pertaining to the inquiry made by him in respect of the complaints by the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-harassment-plea-against-sanjay-raut-101629878650014.html
25-08-2021||Patna||Man killed pregnant wife and 2 children in Bihar’s Kaimur district||A man killed his pregnant wife and two children with a spade used for farming at Sondihara village in Bihar’s Kaimur district over a domestic dispute on Wednesday, police said.Lal Babu Sah, 30, was arrested, the murder weapon was seized, and the bodies of the victims were sent for post-mortem examination, superintendent of police (SP), Rakesh Kumar said.The accused told police that he was very poor and his small business was badly affected during the pandemic, leaving him frustrated, which was further compounded by his wife’s prolonged illness. He claimed that he suspected his wife Moti Devi’s illness was due to some black magic spell cast by his in-laws.He added that his wife was influenced by her father, a purported sorcerer, and often used to visit his kind and gave them money against his advice. He told police that he killed her and his two children in a fit of rage when she insisted on visiting his father claiming his sorcery could cure her despite his objections.Villagers informed police after finding the bodies of Sah’s wife, daughter Khushi, 4, and son Shivam, 3, lying in a pool of blood in his thatched outhouse after midnight on Wednesday. Station house officer (SHO) Ramanand Mandal rushed to the place and arrested the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-killed-pregnant-wife-and-2-children-in-bihar-s-kaimur-district-101629877989967.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Teenager dies in high speed crash near Mahim Dargah in Mumbai||A teenager, who was riding dangerously in a no entry zone near Mahim Dargah on Tuesday night in Mumbai, crashed his bike into a car coming from the opposite direction, resulting in his death, and injuries to the pillion rider and the driver of the car, police said.Yasin Niyaaz Khan (18) and his friend Irfan Ansari (18) were on a joyride after midnight near Mahim Dargah area after having dinner at a hotel. Khan, a resident of Baiganwadi locality in Govandi, entered a no entry lane at Cadell Road near Makhdoom Shah Baba Dargah, and was zigzagging through the road at high speed when his bike crashed into the car, which was also being driven at a high speed, Mahim police officers said.Due to the impact of the accident, Khan was thrown off the bike and Ansari, who was riding pillion, suffered severe injuries but survived, they added. The driver of the car, identified as Avesh Chowdhary (22) also suffered injuries on his head.All the three were rushed to a hospital where Khan was declared dead on arrival while Ansari and Chowdhary were admitted.Police have registered a case under Sections 304 (I), 279, 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 177 of the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teenager-dies-in-high-speed-crash-near-mahim-dargah-in-mumbai-101629872829451.html
25-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Police seize 469 kg opium pods from drug smugglers||Rajasthan Police seized over 486 kilogram of opium pods from drug smugglers, who fled leaving the narcotics behind after firing at the police party that intercepted them at a checkpoint in Pali district late Monday night.The incident took place on the intervening night of August 23 and 24, when opium smugglers travelling in two SUVs were signalled to stop at a police check post. The smugglers responded by firing at the cops, resulting in the police giving them a chase. The drug smugglers abandoned one of the vehicles loaded with opium pods following a tyre burst before giving police the slip.Over 468 kg of poppy seeds and empty cartridges were found in the abandoned SUV. Opium is obtained as the dried milky juice of the seed pods of the opium poppyPali police chief Kaluram Rawat said two SUVs without number plates broke the checkpoint on the outskirts of Danvarli area in the district at around 1:50 am, and fired 8-10 rounds on the police team while fleeing. In response, the police team, too, fired 14 rounds.He said one of the tyres of a SUV burst in police firing, forcing the smugglers to abandon it before they escaped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-seizes-469-kg-opium-pods-from-drug-smugglers-101629870549239.html
25-08-2021||Other||Odisha lawmaker clears Class 10 exam two decades after dropping out of school||Over two decades after he dropped out of school as he failed to clear his Class 10 exam and started driving passenger buses in Odisha’s Ganjam district, ruling Biju Janata Dal lawmaker Purna Chandra Swain, 49, has finally cleared the test. He took the Class 10 State Open School Certificate Examination this year. The results of the exam were declared on Tuesday and Swain secured 68% marks. He scored 340 marks out of 500. Swain secured the highest marks in painting (85) followed by home science (83), Odia (67), social sciences (61), and English (44).Also Read | Odisha’s capital to allow only vaccinated people to enter religious placesThe three-time lawmaker dropped out of school in Berhampur in 1997 after several unsuccessful attempts to clear the Class 10 examination. Swain said he sought to clear the exam after his Congress opponent Sangram Mohanty repeatedly mocked him over his lack of formal education. “After I defeated him in the 2019 assembly elections, Sangram mocked me saying I was Class 9 pass. I wanted to give a befitting reply,” said Swain.Swain enrolled in the Odisha State Open School started in 2016 to allow dropouts a chance to clear the Class 10 exam without attending schools. “Despite my busy schedule amid the Covid pandemic, I took time off to study. My daughter, who has just cleared her higher secondary school exam in science, too helped me,” said Swain.He said he would now enrol for Class 11 and later seek admission to a college. “I know how important it is to be educated. I do not want anyone to mock me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-lawmaker-clears-class-10-exam-two-decades-after-dropping-out-of-school-101629870489146.html
25-08-2021||Other||Former Rajasthan minister gets bail in Bhanwari Devi case||The Rajasthan high court on Tuesday granted bail to seven accused, including former minister Mahipal Maderna, in the 2011 Bhanwari Devi murder case. Maderna, who was out on interim bail on health grounds, had moved a fresh application for permanent bail.Maderna and former lawmaker Malkhan Singh Bishnoi are the prime accused in the abduction and murder of Devi, 36, in 2011. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which probed the case, has charged 17 people, including the Congress leaders, some of their family members, and paid assassins with the murder.Also Read | 13-yr-old girl saves three kids, drowns while rescuing 4th in RajasthanAccording to the CBI’s charge sheet in the case, Devi, a nurse, disappeared in September 2011 after a CD surfaced that showed Maderna with her amid reports that she was blackmailing him. Maderna was arrested in 2012 along with Bishnoi, who allegedly had a relationship with Devi before he introduced her to Maderna.The CBI has alleged the two plotted together to get rid of Devi after they were fed up with meeting her demands. Devi’s remains were found in a canal in Jodhpur near a pit, where her body was allegedly set on fire, in January 2012, nearly four months after she disappeared.Now out of the 17 accused in this case, 16 have got bail.The Supreme Court on July 27 granted bail to one of the accused, Parasram Bishnoi, citing delay in the trial while the accused have served around 10 years in jail. The other accused moved high court after a trial court rejected their bail applications. The high court accepted their bail applications in light of the Supreme Court’s bail order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-rajasthan-minister-gets-bail-in-bhanwari-devi-case-101629869168976.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to grant another 3% hike in dearness allowance and dearness relief: Report||The Uttar Pradesh government is expected to increase the dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) for government employees and pensioners for the month of July by another three per cent, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Wednesday. Chief minister Yogi Aditynath had announced in the state assembly a proposal to hike DA and DR by 11 per cent from July 1.“The leaders of opposition parties were in home isolation during Covid-19. Minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna is saying most of them were in hospitals. But the state government’s offices were working. So, we have decided to increase the DA from 17% to 28%,” the chief minister had said on August 19, as reported by Livehindustan.Adityanath also said that 16 lakh employees and 12 lakh pensioners stand to benefit from the hike, adding that the provident fund (PF) contribution will also be increased.Earlier, the Adityanath government had increased DA from 17 to 28 per cent.The Adityanath-led government’s move followed similar decisions taken by the Bihar state government, which hiked the DA and DR by 11 per cent, and the Himachal Pradesh government, which increased both of them by 6 per cent. Jammu and Kashmir administration, Rajasthan state government and Haryana government also increased the DA and DR given to employees and pensioners from 17 per cent to 28 per cent.In July, the Central government had also hiked the rate of DA and DR from 17 per cent to 28 per cent after a gap of one-and-a-half years to benefit nearly 1.14 crore employees and pensioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-grant-another-3-hike-in-dearness-allowance-and-dearness-relief-report-101629868113581.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Porn racket case: Bombay high court to hear Raj Kundra’s bail plea today||The Bombay high court will hear businessman Raj Kundra’s application for anticipatory bail in a case registered by the Mumbai cyber police in 2020, in connection with a pornographic films racket case, on Wednesday. The court had granted Kundra interim protection from arrest on August 18.A single bench of Justice SK Shinde had also directed police to respond to the pre-arrest bail plea filed by Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband.Kundra, who was arrested in July, is currently lodged in prison in another case pertaining to the production and distribution of pornographic materials through mobile apps.The businessman had moved the high court for anticipatory bail in early August after a sessions court had rejected his plea. Kundra had said another accused in the case had been granted bail and, hence, a similar ruling should be followed in his case.Additional Public Prosecutor Prajakta Shinde had opposed Kundra’s bail plea on the ground that Kundra’s role in the case was different from the other accused who was currently out on bail. Shinde had also asked the court for more time to take instructions on the application. The court granted her more time and gave Kundra interim protection for a week.This particular case was filed by the Mumbai cyber police in 2020 in which directors and owners of various over-the-top (OTT) platforms and websites were booked for broadcasting obscene content.The First Information Report was registered by a retired customs officer who had named several OTT platforms in his complaint. Police had also recorded model-actor Sherlyn Chopra’s statement in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/porn-racket-case-bombay-high-court-to-hear-raj-kundra-s-bail-plea-today-101629863916728.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi to experience a dry spell for next four days: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a dry spell for the next four days as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 28 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 27.3°C, and the maximum temperature was 38.8°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 113. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 100, which is in the satisfactory category. Also Read | 12 liquor retail zones in Delhi to go on auction today, bidding closes next weekAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in satisfactory category due to good ventilation and very low dust re-suspension owing to wet soil. It is forecasted to deteriorate to moderate category for the next two days due to drying to wet soil with low/scattered rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-experience-a-dry-spell-for-next-four-daysimd-101629859987963.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 12 liquor retail zones to go on auction today, bidding closes next week||The auctioning for 12 liquor retail zones in the national capital Delhi is set to begin from Wednesday, August 25. The Delhi government floated fresh tenders for the auctioning licenses of these zones, the Hindustan Times had earlier reported. The bidding will close on September 2.The Delhi government is looking to double its excise revenue by bagging a record ₹10,000 crore in the first few months of the new liberalised liquor policy. Notably, the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has already earned an amount of ₹5,300 crore from auctioning the alcohol licences for 20 of the city’s 32 liquor retail zones on August 5 and 6.The auctioning of the 12 remaining liquor zones could not be held earlier due to the disqualification of the bidders at the last moment on technical grounds, which caused the Delhi government to issue fresh tenders. With the new set of bidding, the government is looking to raise around ₹3,180 crore from the auctioning of these 12 remaining liquor retail zones, according to an official who spoke to HT on the condition of anonymity. The aforementioned amount does not include another ₹650 crore that the government is looking to earn from excise duty, import fees, value-added tax, and other licence fees, the official said, adding that another ₹900 to ₹1,000 crore is expected to come from the licensing of new brands, distributor licenses, and the like.The 12 zones to be put up for auction include localities such as Sarita Vihar, Shakarpur, Dakshinpuri, Anand Vihar, Tagore Garden, Vikaspuri, Trilokpuri-East, Badarpur, Timarpur, Nawada, Matiala, Rithala, Pitampura, Paschim Vihar, Lajpat Nagar, Jama Masjid, Paharganj, Najafgarh, Punjabi Bagh, Kasturba Nagar, Shastri Park, Mukherjee Nagar, Alipur, Narela, Ashok Vihar, IP Extension, Abul Fazl Enclave, Laxmi Nagar, Kalyanpuri, Sadar Bazar, Sriniwaspuri, Ballimaran, Deoli, and Pratap Nagar.The annual reserve license fee for the zones ranges between ₹220 crore and ₹225 crore, according to documents seen by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-12-liquor-retail-zones-to-go-on-auction-today-bidding-closes-next-week-101629854926826.html
25-08-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to kick-off 2 day mega Covid vaccination drive from today||The Madhya Pradesh government will on Wednesday begin a two-day mega vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) called the “MP Vaccination Maha Abhiyan 2” drive , focusing on covering those people whose second dose is due. An official told news agency PTI on Tuesday that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will launch the campaign from the Jawahar Chowk area in the capital city of Bhopal. The state government has aimed to inoculate a total of 3.5 million people in these two days.The above-mentioned official said that on Wednesday, both first and second doses of the vaccine will be administered to beneficiaries while on Thursday, only those whose second dose is due will be covered.Chief minister Chouhan on Monday met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and urged for 1.1 million additional vaccine doses for the mega vaccination drive in the state. Chouhan informed that under the drive, the state government was committed to administer both vaccine doses to the entire eligible population of the state.Addressing the block, ward and village level crisis management committees regarding the vaccination drive on Tuesday, Chouhan instructed that all collectors, doctors, experts, public representatives and crisis management groups should put in their efforts to make the campaign successful.“Crisis management team and the administration should do a door-to-door survey. If there is confusion in anyone’s mind regarding the vaccine, then clear it. Vehicles should be arranged for the elderly people and others who have difficulty in coming to the vaccination centre,” Chouhan said. The chief minister also urged pregnant women to take the jab in order to ensure the safety of the mother as well as the child.“I am sure that with the cooperation of all of you, the Vaccination Maha Abhiyan will once again set new records of success and the Madhya Pradesh model of public participation will set an excellent example of vaccination across the country,” Chouhan said on Tuesday, according to a tweet posted by the chief minister’s office (CMO).In June, the Madhya Pradesh government launched the first mega vaccination campaign on the occasion of International Yoga Day (June 21), where it aimed towards vaccinating over one million beneficiaries. And on that day, the state set a record of administering the jab to 1.64 million people.Authorities so far have administered vaccines to 40,194,231 people of which 33,592,729 have received the first dose and the remaining 6,601,502 have received both doses, i.e fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-to-kick-off-2-day-mega-covid-vaccination-drive-from-today-101629852246597.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Narayan Rane arrested in Maharashtra over ‘slap CM’ remark||Maharashtra Police arrested Union minister Narayan Rane on Tuesday for saying he wanted to slap chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, prompting Shiv Sena workers to go on a rampage, and setting up another political face-off between the ruling three-party alliance and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Rane, who holds the micro, small and medium enterprises portfolio, is the first sitting central minister to be arrested in two decades, since Murasoli Maran and TR Baalu were picked up in an infamous midnight raid in Chennai by the Tamil Nadu Police in 2001.The senior BJP leader was arrested in Golavali in Ratnagiri district, where he was travelling as part of the Jan Ashirwad rallies newly inducted Union ministers are addressing across the country. He was arrested during his lunch break and was handed over to Raigad police around 2.45pm. A doctor examined him after the leader complained of high blood pressure and sugar level.The 69-year-old was produced in a court in Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night and granted bail.Aniket Nikam, Rane’s counsel, said, “The bail has been granted on the ₹15,000 surety with four conditions. Rane will have to appear twice before Mahad police, he will have to ensure that the act will not be repeated. He will have to cooperate with the police for collection of voice samples. He will have to ensure that the evidence is not tampered with,” he said.He is facing three separate first information reports -- one in Mahad in Raigad, one in Nashik, and one in Pune.The First Information Report at Mahad was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of public peace), and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief). The FIR in Nashik was filed under sections 500 (defamation), 505(2) (circulation of defamatory material), 153-b (1)(c) (commits any act which is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities) of Indian Penal Code. Of the charges, section 153-b (1)(c) is a non-bailable offence.In a speech on Monday, Rane criticised Thackeray for allegedly confusing the number of years since India got independence during the chief minister’s August 15 address. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire [with his chief secretary] about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given him a slap under his ears?,” Rane had said. His comments sparked outrage.Sena workers hit the streets on Tuesday, put up posters against Rane, and slapped photos of the minister with shoes in Pune. Sena workers vandalised the BJP’s office In Amravati and set the party’s posters on fire, and demonstrated outside Rane’s Juhu bungalow and clashed violently with BJP members.Sena’s Ratanagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut even wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding Rane’s expulsion from the Cabinet. “Rane has belittled the constitutional framework by his statement. The Jan Ashirwad Yatra conceptualised by the PM was to seek the blessings of the people, instead of it, Rane has been issuing statements for the cheap publicity,” Raut said.Rane approached the Bombay high court challenging the FIRs against him and sought protection from arrest, but in vain.“File an application before the Registry department seeking urgent hearing and then we will consider,” said a division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar. “Everyone has to go through the process. Don’t make us do the job of the Registry,” the bench said.A court in Ratnagiri also rejected Rane’s anticipatory bail application.Hours before his arrest, Rane -- a former ally turned bitter critic of Thackeray -- appeared defiant. “I haven’t committed any crime. You should verify and show it on TV or else I will file a case against you (media). Despite not committing any crime, the media is showing speculative news about my ‘imminent’ arrest. Do you think I am a normal (ordinary) man?” Rane told reporters.After his arrest, he told news channel CNN News18 that he had no regrets.As per Rule 222A of the rules of procedure and conduct of business,when a member of the Upper House is arrested on a criminal charge or a criminal offence, it has to be immediately intimated to the chairperson of the Rajya Sabha. They also have to provide reasons for and the place of the arrest.Rule 222B says when a member is arrested and after conviction released on bail pending an appeal or is otherwise released, it too has to be intimated to the chairperson.A member enjoys protection from arrest in civil matters when the House is in session and 40 days before and after; but in criminal matters, only the chairman of the House needs to be informed.Nashik Police commissioner Deepak Pandey said they were following the rule book and the arrest order was issued as per legal provisions. “We have followed legal provisions and will ensure that privileges of the parliamentarian are protected. Since the Union minister is member of Rajya Sabha, we are bound to intimate chairman of the upper House in due course after the arrest,” he said.Constitutional expert Ulhas Bapat said, “The action can be taken against any Union minister, but the sections slapped against Rane do not attract the arrest. The action will not stand judicial scrutiny.”Rane’s arrest sparked a political tussle between the BJP and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi, which comprises the Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress. The two have sparred since the Sena shocked the BJP by breaking its 25-year-old alliance and joining hands with traditional rivals Congress-NCP to form the government in 2019.State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said they didn't justify Rane’s remarks but condemned the arrest. He said Union ministers, President, vice president and the Prime Minister have protection from arrest. “The state authorities which have been given the arrest orders should be aware of it. We do not justify the statement by Rane. He should have been given warning for his statement.”Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the BJP did not support Rane’s comments but stood behind him “100 per cent”. “Action against Union minister Narayanrao Rane is absolute vendetta!We strongly condemn this gross misuse of police force & suppression,” he said.Union minister Smriti Irani condemned the arrest. “What happened in Maharashtra is against all norms, not only of decency of protocol, but also law. This is the depths to which depravity will now be politically exhibited in Maharashtra. It’s a sad day in our constitutional history,” she said.The NCP condemned Rane’s remarks and party chief Sharad Pawar said Rane was acting according to his “sanskar”.The Sena said Rane lost his mental balance. “Rane was inducted in the (Union) Cabinet just to attack the Shiv Sena, and while doing his job, he stooped to a new low,” said Raut. .The controversy comes months ahead of crucial local body elections in Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra. Experts said Rane was elevated as Union minister to take on the Sena in its stronghold of Mumbai and coastal Konkan regions. It also revives an old rivalry between Thackeray and Rane, a former chief minister who revolted against the Sena chief in 2005, moved to the Congress with a dozen lawmakers in 2005, before joining the BJP in 2019.“Ä lot depends on how this controversy plays up in next few days. If the case against Rane falls in the court he will come out as a winner and BJP will get benefit in Konkan-Mumbai. On the other hand, the Sena leadership has shown aggression and given a message to the party cadre that they should take on Rane-BJP in coming elections,” said Hemant Desai, a political analyst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narayan-rane-arrested-in-maharashtra-over-slap-cm-remark-101629838548843.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Dr Pyare Lal Garg, the social, health activist known for his ‘outspoken’ nature||Under fire for taking on chief minister Amarinder Singh for his frequent criticism of Pakistan, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s adviser Dr Pyare Lal Garg, the former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, is a known social and health activist. Garg, 73, who retired as professor of paediatric surgery in 2002 and is known for his outspoken nature, has worked both with the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) as well as Congress governments in Punjab. A native of Ladha Kothi village in Sangrur district, Garg is said to have been influenced by the Left ideology since his school days. In 2006, he was appointed the BFUHS registrar by the then Congress government but had to step down from the spot after some varsity employees challenged his appointment in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. But he was asked to continue at the varsity as examination coordinator.Later, when the SAD-BJP government formed government in 2012 for the second time with Parkash Singh Badal at the helm, he was appointed director of the Punjab State Health System Resource Centre at the CM’s native village Badal in Muktsar district.Senior officials in the health department say it was when Garg came close to the Sidhu family as Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu was the chief parliamentary secretary (CPS health) at the time. In 2019, he was appointed chairman of the ‘Padho Punjab’ committee set up by the state education department.While Garg’s detractors say he cleverly used his links to get plum posts in the government, he on the other hand, claims that he has not accepted any payment for all the post-retirement assignments. Before joining as adviser to the PPCC chief, Garg frequently appeared on TV debates as an expert. He often quotes the Hindu and Sikh scriptures. “People may call me leftist but I follow every positive thinker in the world. I have read Karl Marx but then I have read Gandhi, Madan Lal Dhingra and Abdul Kalam Azad as well,” says Garg, who is often seen taking on the BJP-led NDA government on the issues of the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA), National Register of Citizens NRC and agitation against the farm laws.The controversy over his recent remark, says Garg, it was uncalled for. “I had only said that defence and foreign affairs are the domains of the Centre. As a chief minister, Amarinder should not give statement with regards to Pakistan. No chief minister has the right to speak on sensitive defence matters,” said Garg.“I am always there for Navjot Sidhu as I see something different in him,” he adds.Interestingly, Garg claimed that he never met Sidhu before his appointment as adviser.“I met Sidhu for the first time in Patiala on Monday. Before appointing as an adviser, Sidhu called up and said he wanted my expert opinions on matters concerning the state. There was no reason to say no,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dr-pyare-lal-garg-the-social-health-activist-known-for-his-outspoken-nature-101629837605609.html
25-08-2021||Gurugram||After spree of cold-blooded killings, suspect surrenders||A retired army subedar allegedly murdered four people, including his daughter-in-law, with a knife used to prune plants early on Tuesday morning, and later walked into a police station with the murder weapon to confess his crime.The other three victims were the tenant Krishan Tiwari, 45, his wife, Anamika Tiwari, 35, and the couple’s nine-year-old daughter. They all suffered multiple stab wounds. The couple’s younger daughter, a three-year-old, survived the attack and is battling for life in hospital, police said. According to investigators,the accused, Rao Rai Singh, suspected that his daughter-in-law, 40-year-old Sunita Yadav, was in a relationship with Krishan Tiwari.DCP Deepak Saharan said the four murders took place between 2.30am and 4am on Tuesday. “Prima facie, evidence suggests the suspect, Rao Rai Singh Yadav, 59, a retired subedar of the Indian Army, bolted all the doors of the house and murdered four people with a long knife used for pruning garden plants, when the victims were sleeping on different floors of the building,” Saharan said.Yadav surrendered at the Rajendra Park police station around 6am, and told the police that he has murdered four people in his house. A team station reached the spot and recovered the bodies around 7am.The relatives of the deceased have been informed and a post-mortem examination was conducted by a board doctors on Tuesday evening, Saharan said. The report was still awaited.“First, he murdered Sunita Yadav, who was sleeping on the first floor, and then went to the second floor and killed three tenants with the weapon. A minor daughter of the tenant who was also attacked, survived,” assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said.Police said that despite gruesome injuries, nobody in the house or the neighbours heard any cries due to the noise from air coolers. “It was a sudden attack and Rao took everyone by surprise, giving them no time to react,” Saharan said. Yadav’s wife has told the police that she was asleep, and his son, Anand Yadav, said that he was in Shyam Khatu in Rajasthan. The police are verifying their locations.Singh stays in a three-storey building with his wife, son, and daughter-in-law on the first floor. On the second floor, Krishan Tiwari lived with his wife and their two daughters.“A three-year-old girl, who had suffered multiple stab injuries, was breathing when the teams reached. She was immediately sent to a hospital. Later, she was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where the doctors described her condition as critical. We are questioning Singh, his wife, and son, who are also suspects,” Saharan said.ACP Sangwan said that Yadav’s son, Anand, is a lawyer in the Gurugram court. He told police that he reached the city only on Tuesday morning. “His phone location will be checked to establish his whereabouts,” said Sangwan.“This is a cold-blooded, gruesome murder. There are signs of injuries on bodies that appear to have been caused after death... The suspect has told the police that he kept stabbing his victims,” Sangwan added.A team of forensic experts, fingerprint experts and crime teams lifted samples from the crime scene on Tuesday afternoon, and a team of cyber crime police station has been involved for technical surveillance.Dr Deepak Mathur, the forensic expert who conducted the autopsy of the bodies, said Kishan Tiwari suffered seven stab wounds to his head and neck. His wife Anamika suffered 22 injuries on her neck, face and head, her daughter had 16 injury marks, and Sunita had 17 grave injuries. “We have also found fractures in the skull of victims. The fingers were partially chopped due to the likely resistance put up by victims,” he said.The neighbours claimed that Singh was allegedly concerned for the past few months over domestic issues. “Initial inquiry suggests there was no trouble within the family,” said Saharan.Delhi resident Ashwani Mishra, Tiwari’s brother-in-law, said the police informed him about the incident. “I was shocked to find all the family members lying in a pool of blood. The landlord was troubling them, and was not ready to return their security deposit. Krishan had come to our house in Delhi on Rakshabandhan and told us how the landlord tried to molest his wife several times. They wanted to move out of the house at the earliest,” he alleged.The police did not respond to queries about his allegations.Another relative said that Tiwari was living in the house for the last two years. He had lost his job at a bank during the lockdown. “He went to his village with his family and returned this month. The landlord was demanding money from him and was troubling them, but he had no job to pay him and was asking for more time,” the relative said, asking not to be named.A case under IPC sections 302 (murder), 120 B (conspiracy) and 307 (attempt to murder) and sections of the Arms Act has been registered at the Rajendra Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/after-spree-of-cold-blooded-killings-suspect-surrenders-101629837190800.html
25-08-2021||Other||Haryana constable recruitment: Cops says staff of Jammu-based exam agency leaked questions||Two employees associated with a Jammu-based examination agency, which had been given the contract to prepare the question papers for the written exams, had leaked the questions and answer key of the male constables’ recruitment exam conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), claimed the Kaithal police.Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh said Rakesh Kumar, who is a manager with the printing press of the examination agency, had a soft copy of the exam in a pen-drive on July 31 and another employee of the agency, Jitender Singh, managed to get access to the pen-drive and copied the questions and prepared a hard copy of questions and answer keys on August 2.The claims were made by the police following the arrest of Rakesh of Jammu, Ajaz Amin of Srinagar, and Jitender of Doda district of Jammu. They were brought on a transit remand from Jammu on Monday and sent on 10-day police remand in Kaithal.As per the investigation, Jitender had promised to give the questions to another accused Muzaffar Ahmad Khan of Ramban district of Jammu for ₹6 lakh.On August 3, Jitender allegedly gave the copy of questions to Muzaffar and he promised to give him the money after the exam. Then on August 5, Muzaffar had sold the questions and their answers to Afzal of Hazratbal in Srinagar for ₹60 lakh with the help his friend Ajaz.Another accused, Nazir Ahmad Khande, had arranged a meeting between Afzal and Raj Kumar of Khanda Kheri village of Hisar and given the answer key and questions to Raj Kumar at Delhi Airport on August 5, two days before the exam on August 7 and 8.The SP claimed that Raj Kumar had paid ₹5 lakh cash to Afzal and promised to pay the remaining amount on August 9 and 10. Raj Kumar also sold the questions and answer key to his friend Ved Prakash of Ritoli village of Rohtak for ₹1 crore, and Narender of Hisar for ₹1 crore on August 6. Narender paid ₹20 lakh cash to Kuldeep and promised to pay the remaining amount after the exam, said the SP. On August 4, Narender had a meeting with another accused Ramesh at a hotel to arrange interested candidates who want to buy the answer key, he added.He said that Narender, with the help of his friends Naveen Kumar and Nihal Singh of Hisar, sold the answer key to aspirants at ₹10 lakh per candidate. Narender also sold them to Sonu and Sahil of Chidi village of Rohtak and they later gave them to Ramesh Kumar, who runs a private teaching academy in Kaithal.The SP claimed that 28 people, including 13 candidates who had got the answer key, have been arrested so far and police teams were working to arrest the remaining accused in the case. The police have recovered ₹18.87 lakh cash, 30 mobile phones, 4 cars, two blank cheques, laptop, computer and other documents from their possession.Around eight lakh youths from the state have applied for the 5,500 posts of male constables advertised by the HSSC in December last year and the written exams scheduled in two shifts on August 7 and 8 were cancelled soon after reports of leakage of answer key on social media a few hours after the exam August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-constable-recruitment-cops-says-staff-of-jammu-based-exam-agency-leaked-questions-101629837125253.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Murder case: HC restrains CBI judge from pronouncing verdict against Ram Rahim||The high court on Tuesday restrained a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court, Panchkula, from pronouncing the final verdict in a murder case involving Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim. The high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan acted on the plea of victim Ranjit Singh’s son, Jagseer Singh, who had sought directions for the transfer of the case to any other court in the region. The CBI special judge, Sushil Kumar Garg, was to pronounce the judgment on August 26. Ram Rahim is one of the accused in the murder of Ranjit Singh, committed in 2002. As per CBI, Ranjit Singh was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter on sexual exploitation of female disciples on Dera premises. Ram Rahim stands convicted for 20 years rigorous imprisonment for raping two female disciples, in 2017 and subsequently convicted for life for the murder of a Sirsa-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, who had published an article in his newspaper, regarding sexual exploitation of Sadhvis in Dera. The son had questioned adjournments granted by the CBI judge a number of times since his joining in April this year. “Everything has been manipulated through the respondent No.2 (KP Singh, public prosecutor for CBI),” alleges the son. His plea also refers to some complaint pending before chief justice in which there are allegations of the CBI judge remaining in touch with an accused in an enforcement directorate case. The plea states KP Singh, was previously posted with the CBI special court, Chandigarh, when Garg too was posted at Chandigarh and after his transfer to Panchkula, KP Singh too was transferred to Panchkula. He has been “interfering” in the “administration of justice” and is “influencing” the entire proceedings despite the fact there are two other special public prosecutors appointed for the trial, it was alleged. If the CCTV footage installed in the court is seen, KP Singh, is attending the court even on Saturday, which is not a court working day, the son claimed further adding that he had reasonable “apprehension” that he may not “get justice” from the special judge. The court while posting the matter for August 27 has sought comments from the CBI judge and issued notice to KP Singh and CBI. It further ordered that till the next date of hearing, final pronouncement of the judgment shall remain stayed. The court also asked CBI to file a specific affidavit about the appointment of KP Singh at CBI court, Panchkula, along with his posting order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-case-against-ram-rahim-hc-restrains-cbi-judge-from-pronouncing-verdict-101629836825291.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder okays hike in sugarcane prices, farmers end rail, road blockades||Farmers seeking increase in sugarcane prices called off their protest on Tuesday after Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh accepted their demand and announced a state-advised price (SAP) of ₹360 per quintal for the crop, an increase of ₹35 per quintal from the existing rate, applicable from the upcoming crushing season. Protesters had blocked a national highway and rail tracks in Jalandhar, saying the recent hike announced by the state government was inadequate as their production cost had spiralled considerably. Their demand had also got the backing of state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who demanded better prices for Punjab farmers and had said the rates should be increased immediately. Around 360 trains were affected in the past six days due to the agitation, causing huge loss to the Railways. “Happy to share that after consultation with farmers, have approved SAP for sugarcane at ₹360 per quintal. My government is committed to the welfare of our farmers. Jai Kisan, Jai Jawan!” Amarinder said in a tweet. Earlier, the two rounds of talks between the officers of state agriculture department and farmers had remained inconclusive. In today’s meeting, a proposal to increase SAP to ₹345 per quintal was made to the cane growers initially. The farmers rejected it following which the CM intervened and increase the SAP to ₹360. With this increase, the SAP in Punjab is now highest in the country, even ₹2 per quintal more than the neighbouring Haryana. Protesting farmers had earlier said that if Haryana could give a good SAP price, then why can’t Punjab. According to farm leaders, both states have a similar crop pattern and has almost same amount of sugar content – about 9.6% --- in canes. Amarinder accepted that cane prices were not increased in the previous years due to state’s poor fiscal health, adding that balancing the needs of farmers and cooperative and private sugar mill owners was tough, given the prevailing fiscal situation. “We are satisfied with price assured by the CM and have decided to call off the strike immediately,” said BKU’s Balbir Singh Rajewal who was leading the protest. In Jalandhar, protesting farmers cleared the road and rail blockades to ensure smooth flow of traffic. According to the agriculture department, sugarcane is being grown over 93,000 hectares (2.27 lakh acres) and the increase in price will benefit 50,000 farmers. The SAP hike, however, is a concern for the sugarmill owners. ”Who will bear the escalated cost,” asked a mill owner, pleading anonymity.Haryana model to be adopted According to Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, who was part of the talks, the chief minister also agreed to adopt Haryana model to support sugar mill owners. Under this, the mill owners will pay fair remunerative price (FRP) fixed by the Centre to the farmers. The over and above amount will be paid by the government. “The prices have also been linked to recovery of sugar and sugar prices. It means if recovery is more than the state’s average of 9.6% and sugar is fetching higher prices, there will be lesser burden on the government,” added Rana Gurjit. The state government is still to make a formal announcement in this regard. There are 16 sugar mills in the state, nine in the cooperative sector and seven are privately owned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-okays-hike-in-sugarcane-prices-farmers-end-rail-road-blockades-101629836765303.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC disposes of plea from Khemka on Central government empanelment||The high court on Tuesday disposed of a plea from Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka, challenging a Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order, wherein, his plea seeking direction to Centre to consider his empanelment was dismissed.The high court disposed of the plea, with a direction that in case he files a fresh representation within two weeks, the authority concerned shall pass a speaking order, not later than a month. Earlier, Khemka had told court that he is merely seeking consideration for empanelment on aspect which was not considered by the CAT. The Tribunal proceeded on a wrong premise that the petitioner was seeking a direction to empanel him, his counsel had told court, adding that he would be satisfied, if his representation is decided by the Centre. Khemka had moved high court in July 2020 after CAT dismissed his plea. He had argued that non-empanelment at this stage would lead to cascading effect and he will not be able to serve at the Centre permanently. The eligibility criteria for such empanelment required minimum three years’ service at the Centre at the level of deputy secretary and above. He offered himself on a number of occasions, but was not appointed “without any fault on his part”, he had argued. CAT dismissed the plea, observing that the appointment of a person at Centre can’t be a matter of right. Khemka — who was the topper in computer science and engineering at IIT-Kharagpur in 1988 before he joined the civil services — has been transferred over 50 times in 27 years of his service. Khemka has had run-ins with successive governments on various issues. In HC, the Centre had told court that he cannot be considered for appointment as he did not fulfill the eligibility criterion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-disposes-of-plea-from-khemka-on-central-government-empanelment-101629836585128.html
25-08-2021||Other||2 shot dead by car-borne men in Jhajjar||Two persons were shot dead by car-borne assailants in Aasuda village in Jhajjar.The deceased have been identified as Sanjay, 45, and Naresh, 46. Another man, identified as Anil, 28, suffered critical injuries in the firing. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh where his condition is stated to be critical. Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal was on the crime spot and no case was registered till the filing of the report. Old enmity is believed to be the reason behind the killings. The crime was perpetrated when the trio was sitting near a temple in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-shot-dead-by-car-borne-men-in-jhajjar-101629836405240.html
25-08-2021||Other||Karnal illegal adoption case: 2 months on, rescued baby yet to be reunited with biological mom||Nearly two months after a nine-month-old baby was rescued from the custody of a Meerut-based couple, who had allegedly adopted him illegally, police are yet to reunite him with his biological mother. A Karnal-based woman had come forward and claimed to be the biological mother but the district child welfare committee (CWC) had sent the baby to an orphanage, pending a DNA test. But two months on, the woman, identified as Jyoti, claims that neither has a DNA test been conducted nor are the police letting her take custody of her child. “They are not even letting me see my baby, who has been away from me since September last year. If the baby recovered is not mine, then why have the police arrested a couple for illegal adoption? And why has a DNA test still not been conducted?” said Jyoti, who has moved court over the issue. The woman, who works as an agricultural labourer and lives with her two children in a rented accommodation, said, “I don’t even have enough money to pay the lawyer.” She further said that since the recovery of her baby on June 25, she was not told anything about him. “Recently, I came to know that he has some medical issues and has been shifted to an orphanage in Panchkula. I am concerned about his health, but I am not being allowed to see him,” said Jyoti. Karnal CWC chairman Umesh Chanana said the baby had initially been sent to an orphanage in Karnal but later shifted to Bal Niketan, Panchkula, so that he could get treatment from PGI Chandigarh. The size of his head is not normal, and he needs emergency treatment for it, Chanana added. On why the baby was not handed over to his mother, he said, “The baby will be handed over only after tests confirm that she is the biological mother. She has to move court for custody of the baby.” Though the Meerut-based couple is in custody for illegal adoption, another accused in the case is yet to be arrested. Jyoti had claimed that a doctor had taken her baby after birth on the pretext of providing him free treatment at his hospital in Meerut. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said, “The child has been shifted to Panchkula due to some health issues and necessary procedure for DNA examination is underway.” He said the custody issue of the boy is pending but sincere efforts are being made for the arrest of the remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-illegal-adoption-case-2-months-on-rescued-baby-yet-to-be-reunited-with-biological-mom-101629836165135.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four state ministers, two dozen Congress MLAs revolt against Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||The Congress government in Punjab plunged into a fresh crisis as four cabinet ministers and nearly two dozen legislators declared open rebellion against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the state, expressing total “lack of faith” in him. The disgruntled leaders, including cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhbinder Sarkaria and state unit general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh, who met at Bajwa’s official residence here, decided to urge the party high command to replace the chief minister. “We do not have any faith in the chief minister as he has not fulfilled promises made before the 2017 assembly elections,” three of the ministers said after the meeting. The unfulfilled promises such as delay in justice in sacrilege and police firing cases, arrest of the big fish in drug rackets and cancellation of power purchase agreements listed by them are part of the 18-point agenda handed by the central leadership to the chief minister two months ago for implementation. Randhawa told reporters that they had no confidence left in him (Amarinder), but changing the chief minister was the prerogative of the party high command. Bajwa, who along with Randhawa was among the ministers considered close to Amarinder until a few months ago, was more scathing in his criticism and accused the chief minister of “colluding” with Akalis.“The high command needs to take drastic steps. If there is a need to change the chief minister, then it should be done,” he said. Asked if this was an attempt to oust the chief minister, Bajwa said it was not an attempt but the demand of the people. The disgruntled leaders authorised a five-member delegation, including four ministers and Pargat, who were with Navjot Singh Sidhu in his tussle with Amarinder, to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and apprise her of the sentiment prevailing in the party at the earliest. The ministers immediately spoke to All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and will travel to Dehradun to meet him before heading to the national capital. Rawat said the ministers and MLAs had sought time and would meet him on Wednesday. “I will hear them and inform the high command about their issues. However, no one has talked to me about any demand for leadership change in the state,” he said. On the latest flare-up, the Punjab affairs in-charge said that Sidhu and the chief minister should see why such a situation had arisen. “This should not have happened. I have already said certain things that should not happen are being done in different constituencies. There should not be a situation where if someone disagrees with us, action is taken against him with revenue as the motive. If such things are happening, it should be stopped. Only Capt can do that,” he said. Though it was claimed by some of those present that 32 legislators attended the meeting, the ministers refused to give their number and names. “We will tell this to the high command. Several MLAs are scared and not willing to come out in the open at this stage,” one of the CM’s detractors said. The Congress has 80 MLAs in the 117-strong state assembly. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was not present at the meeting, later met some of these ministers and MLAs at the party’s state headquarters here. “Got a call from Tripat Bajwa ji asking for an emergency…Met him along with other colleagues at the PPCC office. Will appraise the high command of the situation (sic),” he tweeted after meeting them. Sidhu has also been feeling the heat over his two advisers Malwinder Singh Mali and Dr Pyare Lal Garg whose controversial remarks on sensitive issues such as Kashmir and Pakistan have drawn flak from within and outside the ruling party. Besides Amarinder, several other party leaders, including five cabinet ministers from the Capt camp, have lashed out at the two advisers, asking the state Congress chief to rein them in. Addressing the media after the meeting at Bajwa’s house, Channi said that a lot of promises had been fulfilled, but some promises (the implementation of) that may lead to friction with the opposition were unfulfilled. “The issues are not getting resolved the way the Congress wants, and we were promised. We no longer believe that these issues will be resolved. Therefore, we are seeking time from the party high command for a meeting,” said Channi, flanked by Randhawa, Bajwa and Pargat. Channi said nothing happened after the questioning of (former chief minister) Parkash Singh Badal and (SAD president) Sukhbhir Badal by the SIT in the Kotkapura police firing incident. The flare-up between Sidhu and Amarinder came four days after their twin decisions to form a 10-member “strategic policy group” that included the two of them and make the ministers available at the party office by rotation were seen in the Congress circles as the first sign of thaw in their strained relations ahead of next year’s assembly elections. Tuesday’s developments were a throwback to a crisis that engulfed the Congress in May, when Sidhu rallied Singh’s detractors and publicly accused the CM of enabling corruption. Tensions between 79-year-old Singh and Sidhu had simmered since the latter quit the state cabinet after the chief minister changed his portfolio in 2019. To resolve the crisis, the Congress set up a three-member panel, which met around 150 functionaries – including Singh twice -- and submitted its report to party president Sonia Gandhi on June 10. On July 18, Sidhu was named state unit chief -- a post he coveted -- overriding strong objections from Singh. The two leaders were seen at key meetings together and the CM even attended the ceremony where Sidhu took charge of the party in Punjab. But the latest round of infighting shatters that fragile truce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-state-ministers-two-dozen-congress-mlas-revolt-against-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-101629835985315.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A family man||It’s Raksha Bandhan festival and Parash Ram is wondering what if he were in his village in Lalitpur, MP, this day. “My sister, Preeti, would have tied rakhi on my wrist.” After a pause, he says—“I’ve a big family but I’m lonely. They are all in the village.”This late afternoon Mr Ram is alone in his Delhi home. It is a roadside camp, in a neighbourhood lined with gleaming apartment complexes. Mr Ram’s home is transitory, he informs. A labourer, his address keeps shifting, depending on the assignment he gets from his “thekedar,” the contractor. Currently, he is a “water pump operator.” Pointing to a machine parked across the road, he says his “duty” is to start it each time the road gets flooded during the monsoon showers, whether it be midday or midnight. “The machine quickly drains away the rainwater.”The roof in Mr Ram’s home is very low; it’s impossible to stand up straight. He is sitting crosslegged by the entrance, watching the empty road. His pink chappals are lying beside his bare feet, on the footpath. The white bed-sheet spread across the floor is perfectly ironed. It turns out to be a “tirpal”, a plastic awning.All homes show at least some trappings of daily living. But this residence is completely empty. Where’s the dinner plate, the towel, the tooth brush? Mr Ram smiles. He says two of his colleagues who work with the same contractor but are busy in other assignments keep all his things with them. They are currently residing under a flyover, nearby, where the water supply and bathroom facility is more easily accessible. Mr Ram walks to these colleagues twice a day for the meals that they quickly cook together. His clothes too are with them.This afternoon the sky is clear of rain clouds. The road is dry. “My duniya (world) is in my village—my eldest brother Dhani Ram; my younger brother Mohan; my sister Preeti is married with two children; my wife Gayatri with our two daughters—Sanskriti and… the other one has no name, she is four months old.”He talked to his sister the previous evening on mobile phone. “I’ll visit the family after the rains… I’ll then celebrate Rakhsha Bandhan with Preeti.” While sharing the travel plans, Mr Ram’s face breaks into a smile. He now gets up and stretches out his arms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-family-man-101629835716664.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon session: Haryana Congress demands CBI probe into constable recruitment paper leak||The Congress on Tuesday demanded that a CBI probe should be ordered in the examination paper leak for recruitment of constables in Haryana police. Speaking during a calling attention motion, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that committees in every district should be set up to find out how many people paid money to buy the leaked paper. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said a crime syndicate was behind the paper leaks and the police was chasing the perpetrators. “If the state police are not able to get to the bottom of this matter, we will get this matter inquired by another entity,” he said. In a written reply, Parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal said that Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) has recruited 78,701 candidates to various Group C-D posts since 2015 even as the examination was cancelled on five occasions. “The nefarious elements in the society have always targeted the examination process. Thus, job aspirants are willing to shell out large sums of money to gain an unfair advantage and organised gangs operate with the objective of acquiring the question paper illegally and then making pecuniary gains out of the sale of such papers,” he said. The examinations so far cancelled include that of gram sachiv, assistant lineman, upper divisional clerk, various categories of posts and male constable (general duty).During the conduct of examination on August 7, it came to the notice of the commission that the paper had been leaked following which, it was decided to cancel the recruitment process. A total of seven criminal cases were registered in respect of leak of question paper. Two cases were lodged in Kaithal, one case each in Fatehabad and Hisar and three cases in Karnal. The police have arrested 35 persons in this regard and the matter is being thoroughly investigated by Haryana Police, he said. Since 2011, 30 criminal cases pertaining to written examinations have been registered. Of these 30 cases, four were cancelled; accused were acquitted in two cases; investigation is going on in 10 cases; and 14 cases are pending adjudication in the courts, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-session-haryana-congress-demands-cbi-probe-into-constable-recruitment-paper-leak-101629835625187.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress opposes amendment in land acquisition law in Haryana, walks out of House||The opposition Congress MLAs on Tuesday staged a walkout from the House to register their protest against the passage of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Haryana Amendment) Bill in the assembly. The amendment Bill proposes to exempt certain development projects, rural infrastructure, affordable housing, industrial corridors, health, education and urban metro rail projects from the ambit of social impact assessment study and provision to safeguard food security. Congress MLAs led by leader of the opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded that the Bill should be held back and referred to a select committee of the House for scrutiny. Congress MLA from Tosham, Kiran Choudhry said the amendment Bill was anti-farmer and anti-poor. “The principal Act of 2013 is a benevolent legislation which takes care of the interests of landowners and farmers. However, this amendment Bill proposes to do away with the requirement of taking the prior consent of at least 70% of the land losing families for acquisition of land for public private partnership (PPP) projects,” said Choudhry. Congress MLA from Rohtak, Bharat Bhushan Batra said the proposed amendments were outside the stated objects and reasons of the principal Act. “The intent of this law was to have a consultative process for land acquisition and to determine the public purpose. These aspects were being done away with. This amendment Bill should be referred to a select committee of the House,” said Batra. Leader of opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that the amendment Bill reeked of crony capitalism. It aims to give vast powers to the government in matters of land acquisition and puts the stakeholders at complete disadvantage, said Hooda. First-time Congress MLA from Dabwali, Amit Sihag said that since the Central government had also tried to amend the principal Act on similar lines without success, there is a need to have discussion on the proposed amendment. Seeking an addition in the amendment Bill, BJP MLA from Nangal Chaudhary, Abhe Singh Yadav said in Section 10 A (c) of the amendment Bill, which empowered the government to exempt certain projects pertaining to affordable housing, housing for poor people and for rehabilitation of persons displaced due to either acquisition of land by the state government or by any natural calamity, it is proposed that projects for rehabilitation of persons evicted from lands under any forest or archaeological site notified for the protection or preservation under any law in force for the time being, should also be exempted. Yadav’s proposed modification was carried out by revenue minister Dushyant Chautala. Supporting the amendment Bill, JJP MLA from Narnaund, Ram Kumar Gautam said since no land could be acquired for public purpose under the existing law, it was important to amend the principal Act. Defending the amendment Bill, the revenue minister said many state governments such as Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat have carried out similar amendments in the principal Act. The amendment Bill was passed by the assembly and will have to be reserved for the consideration of the President for his assent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-opposes-amendment-in-land-acquisition-law-in-haryana-walks-out-of-house-101629835385044.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to hike crop storage capacity by 31 lakh MT in four years, Dushyant tells House||Steel silos, having a total capacity of over 31 lakh metric tonne (MT), will be built in the next four years for storing crops procured by various agencies, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said during the question hour on Tuesday. He said the state government has decided to build new godowns and steel silos to increase storage capacity, even as procurement agencies in the state already have about 91 lakh MT covered storage capacity. About 70 to 80 lakh MT wheat and 55 to 65 lakh MT paddy is procured from farmers in Haryana every year. The minister said during rabi season 2021-22, 85 lakh MT wheat was procured by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and other procurement agencies of the state. Out of this stock, about 15 lakh MT wheat has been lifted from the state till July 31. He said construction work of 16,632 MT capacity godown has been completed in Hisar and the remaining 24,000 MT godown is under process, while godowns with storage capacity of 4.41 lakh MT (HAFED) and 2.4 lakh MT of Haryana State Warehousing Corporation are also under construction. Dushyant Chautala said about 45-acre land of agriculture and irrigation department in Rohtak, Kaithal, Hansi, Hisar and Karnal districts are being transferred to food and supplies department for making godowns. These godowns will have a storage capacity of 1.5 lakh MT. Stadium not feasible in Palwal: Sports minister Haryana minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh said that the construction of Swarna Jayanti Stadium in Palwal village of Kurukshetra district is not feasible because of a high-tension line in the area. He said that instead of a stadium, it has been decided to build boundary wall, athletics track, grassy ground or court for handball, volleyball, basketball and kabaddi games, office-cum storerooms and toilets. He said that at present, Dronacharya Stadium in Kurukshetra is a district-level stadium with multipurpose hall, athletic track, sports facilities for basketball, skating, badminton, judo, wushu, handball, hockey, volleyball, kho-kho, kabaddi and boxing. At least 13 coaches and 315 players are taking training in this stadium. He said the state government has given special emphasis to promote sports infrastructure in the state. At present, there are two state-level sports complexes in the state, 22 district-level sports stadiums, 12 sub-divisional stadiums and 160 Rajiv Gandhi Rural Sports Complexes. In addition, there are 245 mini/rural stadiums, seven swimming pools, nine multipurpose halls, eight synthetic athletic tracks, 13 hockey astroturfs and a synthetic football surface. Govt looking to fill 1,410 PGT computer teacher posts Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said the government has set into motion the exercise to fill 1,410 posts of Post Graduate Teacher (PGT-Computer Science). He apprised the House that there are 1,967 sanctioned posts of PGT (Computer Science) in government senior secondary schools and that currently, only 337 posts have been filled. He said that a demand has been sent to the Haryana Staff Selection Commission for recruitment of 1,410 posts. The education minister said 3,122 computer labs have been set up in government high and senior secondary schools of the state to provide computer education to students of Classes VI to XII. He said 800 more computer labs will be set up during this fiscal. He informed that 2,036 computer faculty and 2,215 computer lab attendants are working to impart computer education in these labs. Replying to another question, education minister Kanwar Pal said norms have been relaxed to provide permanent recognition to private schools. He said the state government has reduced the area requirement for primary school from 500 square metres to minimum 250 square metres. Similarly, for middle school, it has been decreased from 800 sq mt to minimum 500 sq mt, for high schools from 2,000 sq mt to minimum 1,200 sq mt. Goel bats for uniform DC rates across districts BJP MLA Aseem Goel pleaded that there should be uniformity in what is called DC rate while employing people on contract basis. The MLA had asked a question if the wages given to the employees on DC rates in Ambala city are equal to the DC rate wages given in other districts of the state. He said there was huge difference in DC rates of all districts. The minister of state for labour and employment Anoop Dhanak said that DC rate wages given in Ambala City are not equal to the DC rate wages of other districts in the State. He said DC rates are fixed for a particular district and are fixed by the deputy commissioner concerned every year and that it is based on the cost of living in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-hike-crop-storage-capacity-by-31-lakh-mt-in-four-years-dushyant-tells-house-101629835025118.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-SHO, 3 other cops booked in Moga for illegal detention of elderly couple||Former in-charge of the Badhni Kalan police station in Moga district, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and two other cops have been booked for alleged illegal detention of an elderly coupleThe cops had registered a case of abetment of suicide against Shinda Singh and his wife Paramjit Kaur of Rania village after allegedly keeping them in detention for four days in the first week of March this year. A case under section 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against former Badhni Kalan SHO Karamjit Singh, ASI Jaswant Rai, gunman Pawan Kumar and a policewoman. On August 20, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) to register a case against the police personnel.Earlier, the HC had directed the Moga district and sessions judge to conduct an inquiry into the incident. The judge had found the cops guilty of illegal detention of Shinda and Paramjit.Badhni Kalan police station in-charge Sandeep Singh said, “Karamjeet Singh was transferred to Faridkot. We are yet to arrest the accused.”Also, a case of abetment of suicide was registered against Karamjeet Singh at Badhni Kalan in May this year after a 52-year-old ASI committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver over alleged harassment by the then SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exsho-3-other-cops-booked-in-moga-for-illegal-detention-of-elderly-couple-101629834788581.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will restore old pension scheme for govt employees if voted to power: AAP||Leader of opposition in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Tuesday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will restore the old pension scheme for government employees if voted to power in the assembly elections early next year. Joining the state-level protest of government employees and pensioners, Cheema said their demand for the restoration of the old pension scheme will be included in the AAP’s poll manifesto. “It is the right of an employee to get pension on retirement. It is not charity. The Congress government should immediately restore the old scheme,” Cheema said.Ajay Dutt, AAP legislator from Delhi who accompanied Cheema in support of the employees’ demands, said the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in the national capital was the first in the country to restore the old pension scheme.The AAP leaders said the Congress government in Punjab has robbed lakhs of employees of their right to pension by implementing anti-employee recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission and stripped them of their jobs in the name of departmental restructuring.The protest also got support from farm union leaders, who got miffed with the organisers for inviting representatives of political parties.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) state president Joginder Singh Ugrahan left the stage when the AAP leaders joining the protest. “We can’t share stage with political parties. They should only support to protest from outside in the future,” he said.According to the new pension scheme, the government employees recruited after 2004 are not entitled for pension after retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-restore-old-pension-scheme-for-govt-employees-if-voted-to-power-aap-101629834787743.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Issued no order restraining banks from recovering car, gold loan during Covid-19, says HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has clarified that it has not issued any order restraining the banks or other financial institutions from recovering the amount on account of car loans and gold loans in view of the pandemic in the two states and Chandigarh. The bench of chief justice RS Jha and Justice Arun Palli was responding to a plea from various financial institutions that due to an April 28 order, they were unable to recover the loans and other dues from the debtors who were deliberately taking advantage of the said clause.Amicus curaie in the matter, senior advocate Anupam Gupta, had submitted that no specific instances of default have been mentioned by the banks in their applications. He had termed their applications “misconceived” and lacking “bona fide”.The court clarified that it has not granted any stay on the recovery of car or gold loans. The object and purpose of passing the interim order was only to stay the auction proceedings in respect of residential accommodations so that occupants of such units were not rendered homeless and exposed to further miseries, it said.The court was hearing a suo motu plea which was initiated on demand that certain measures be taken up so as to ensure that during the pandemic-triggered crisis, generation of litigation can be controlled for some time. It was initiated on April 28. The court also said that it had not granted any kind of stay facilitating filing of appeals before the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) or any other tribunal/authority without making pre-deposits as mandated. This clarification too was issued in view of some pleas whether tribunals, especially RERA, had been restrained from asking for pre-deposits in accepting appeals by builders as mandated by law.The high court has deferred hearing in the matter plea for August 31 to take a call on opening of courts, where functioning was restricted in view of second wave of pandemic in April. Earlier, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association had sought physical opening of courts in view of lesser prevalence of Covid-19 now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/issued-no-order-restraining-banks-from-recovering-car-gold-loan-during-covid-19-says-hc-101629834786368.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chief Khalsa Diwan offers children of evacuated Afghan Sikhs free education in its institutes||With people being evacuated from Afghanistan after the Taliban’s takeover, the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Tuesday offered the children of emigrating Sikhs from the war-ravaged country free education in its schools and higher education institutes.In a joint statement, CKD president Nirmal Singh, CKD schools chairman Bhag Singh Ankhi and honorary secretary Sawinder Singh Kathunangal said, “We are committed to extend help to the Afghan Sikhs who are seeking refuge in India in the wake of a threat from the Taliban”.Expressing concern over the historic gurdwaras in Afghanistan, which are all set to be abandoned after complete exit of Sikhs from the country, Nirmal Singh said, “While the Sikhs being evacuated from the country by the Indian government is a plausible step, the historic gurdwaras and relics related to the Gurus is a cause of worry for the Sikh community across the world.” “There are many sacred places in Afghanistan which were visited by the Gurus. There are large gurdwaras at these places. However, the Sikhs in large numbers have left this country due to the unfavourable situation with only a few staying there. Who will take care of these gurdwaras, Sikh heritage and relics is a question,” he said.The CKD chief said these gurdwaras and relics might be desecrated if the Centre did not take any concrete step in this direction. “The CKD will cooperate with the government in every possible way to look after the Sikh heritage and historic places. The Centre should take necessary action to ensure the care of these places and safety of the Sikhs still living there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chief-khalsa-diwan-offers-children-of-evacuated-afghan-sikhs-free-education-in-its-institutes-101629834785364.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir faces farmers’ wrath in Muktsar||BATHINDAShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal faced the wrath of farmer unions at public rallies for the second consecutive day on Tuesday in his home district of Muktsar.As a part of the pre-election campaign “Gall Punjab Di” scheduled for 100 days, Sukhbir on Tuesday visited Gidderbaha where he faced strong opposition from activists of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).Represented by Congress’ Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Gidderbaha was once considered a traditional stronghold of the Akalis. SAD patriarch Parkash Singh won from Gidderbaha five times in a row from 1969 to 1985 and in the later years also, the Akalis maintained electoral control over the segment.The former deputy chief minister was scheduled to hold nine public meetings, including one with the SKM leaders at a resort at Doda village in the Gidderbaha segment. However, farmer union activists demanded that the meeting between the SKM and Sukhbir be held in the presence of the media, to which the SAD leadership refused.Activists wanted an open dialogue with Sukhbir on farmers’ demands and other issues.Agitated over the stand, a large number of SKM activists gheraoed the venue for over an hour.Earlier in the day, SKM activists showed black flags to Sukhbir’s convoy being led by youth Akali workers during a motorbike rally.Dimpy Dhillon is SAD candidate from GidderbahaAt a workers meeting, Sukhbir announced the candidature of his close aide Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon from the Gidderbaha segment. He said if voted to power, the SAD-BSP alliance would increase state assured price (SAP) of sugarcane to ₹380 per quintal.On Monday, SKM activists staged a protest against Sukhbir’s political events in the Malout constituency. A large gathering under the banner of SKM blocked the main entrance to a banquet hall on the Muktsar-Fazilka road where Sukhbir was holding a meeting with the party’s rural circle presidents and booth-level committee workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-faces-farmers-wrath-in-muktsar-101629834665097.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amid concerns over privacy, Haryana assembly passes Parivar Pehchan Bill||Congress MLAs on Friday cited privacy concerns while opposing the enactment of Haryana Parivar Pehchan Bill, a legislation aimed at providing a unique identifier number to each family in the state for determination of eligibility for any scheme, service, subsidy or benefit provided by the state government. The Bill was, however, passed by the state assembly. Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry said the proposed legislation will enable the government of the day to misuse citizens’ data. “Why is this Bill being pushed in a haste. It is in violation of Supreme Court orders in KS Puttaswamy case and will be challenged in a court of law,” she said. The apex court, in its order, had said that every citizen has a fundamental right to privacy guaranteed by the Constitution. “The right to privacy is protected as an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 and as a part of the freedoms guaranteed by part III of the Constitution,” the SC order said. Insisting that the Bill be withdrawn, Choudhry said that data collection should have been done by an independent authority and state assembly should be the custodian of the data. Leader of the opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that the proposed legislation was not in the interest of democratic rights of citizens and should be withdrawn. Congress MLA from Jhajjar, Geeta Bhukkal questioned the need for such a piece of legislation. “Why do we need a family identity card when we already have multiple identity cards like Aadhar card and PAN. I would also like to know whether this I mandatory or voluntary,” said Bhukkal. Defending the Haryana Parivar Pehchan Bill, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) was not mandatory but voluntary. Dismissing privacy concerns, Khattar said that privacy issues are for wealthy people who do not want to share their income and wealth. “And if there is any breach of data, we will punish the perpetrators,” he said. Khattar said that government already has citizens’ data in its land records database, the public distribution system database and students’ database. “We are just consolidating it and bringing it under an umbrella,” he said. “No one has built a system for the benefit of the last person in the queue. Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) has been formulated to deliver the benefits of the schemes till the last person. The government has been working on it for the last three years and 64 lakh families have been registered in the PPP. Anyone who wants to take advantage of government service should have some document of being a resident of Haryana. As per the statement of objects and reasons of the Bill, a Parivar Pehchan Authority is proposed to be established for development of the policy, procedure, technology and systems for generating and issuing of Parivar Pehchan number to families residing in Haryana. The Authority shall collect, update, manage and maintain information of the family and its members in the form of specified data fields in the Family Information Data Repository and develop and implement mechanisms, processes and systems for authenticating or verifying such information. It shall provide verified and authenticated data based on the Parivar Pehchan number to all government departments, government agencies and local authorities for identification of beneficiaries or determination of eligibility or provision or implementation of any scheme, service, benefit or subsidy. It shall also maintain the security and confidentiality of data and information held by it in the Family Information Data Repository. Parivar Pehchan identifier can enable the proactive delivery without the beneficiary or recipient having to visit any government office. It will minimise the burden on production of documents and enable faceless and nameless anytime and anywhere delivery of schemes, services, subsidies and benefits. Other Bills passed The Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority, Bill, 2021, the Haryana Goods and Services Tax (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Haryana Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means) Bill, 2021, and the Haryana Appropriation (No. 3) Bill, 2021 were also passed in the House on Tuesday before it was adjourned sine die.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-concerns-over-privacy-haryana-assembly-passes-parivar-pehchan-bill-101629834184972.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||NCB seizes 24kg charas in Pathankot, three held||AMRITSARThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has busted an inter-state drugs racket with the recovery of 24.5 kg of charas from a canter truck during a barricading at the Ladpalwan toll plaza in Pathankot following an intelligence input. The NCB has also arrested three persons, identified as Nazeer Mohammad and Mohammad Rafi of Himachal Pradesh, and Rahul Uppal of Amritsar district.“On Sunday, we got information regarding trafficking of a huge consignment of charas from Chamba district in Himachal Pradesh to Amritsar in Punjab. Our team of Amritsar sub-zone laid a naka at the Ladpalwan toll plaza and a blue-coloured canter (HP-73-1465) was intercepted. During the search, 24 kg and 500 gm of charas was recovered from the truck. The vehicle was impounded and the driver and cleaner were arrested on the spot,” said a spokesperson of the NCB.The arrested men disclosed that they had been working for a notorious smuggler based in Himachal who has been running the inter-state drugs network. They also disclosed that they had to deliver the drugs to one Rahul Uppal, a resident of Verka Chowk in Amritsar, the spokesperson said. “On the basis of the disclosure, our team conducted a raid and arrested Uppal. ₹61,000 drug money was also recovered from him,” he added. A case has been registered at the NCB’s Amritsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncb-seizes-24kg-charas-in-pathankot-three-held-101629834125360.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 1 death, 55 fresh Covid cases||One more person died from coronavirus in Punjab on Tuesday as 55 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 6,00,342, according to a medical bulletin. The infection has claimed 16,355 lives in the state till now. The fatality count also included a death that was not reported earlier.The number of active cases stood at 423. Jalandhar reported nine cases, followed by eight in Ferozepur and five in Muktsar. With 46 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,83,564, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-1-death-55-fresh-covid-cases-101629833944929.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Capt camp hits back, wants action against PPCC president’s advisers||Chandigarh After open revolt by ministers and several MLAs belonging to Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s camp, five cabinet ministers and one MLA called for strong action under the law against the state chief’s advisers, Malwinder Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, for their “patently anti-national and pro-Pak comments”. “The statements of both these newly appointed advisers of Sidhu were clearly against India’s interests and detrimental to national security,” said cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, along with MLA Raj Kumar Verka in a statement. Besides stringent legal action against Mali and Garg, they also urged the Congress national leadership to direct Sidhu to immediately rein in his aides in the interest of the party, as well as the country. “The Congress has made many sacrifices for the protection of the nation’s security and peace, as have our soldiers at the borders. Nobody can or should be allowed to undermine these sacrifices and jeopardise the safety of our country and its people,” they emphasised, citing, in particular, the grave implications such statements could have for the border state of Punjab. The Congress leaders also questioned Sidhu’s failure to put his foot down on such “anti-national and pro-Pak diatribe” by his close aides, despite the justified uproar it has triggered across party lines. Sidhu’s omission in this regard had given ammunition to the opposition parties, which were quick to recall the PPCC president’s own bonhomie with the Pakistan Prime Minister and army chief, they pointed out, warning against the massive damage this could cause to the Congress in the run-up to the 2022 Punjab assembly polls, which are due in less than six months. They termed Mali’s statement on Kashmir a dangerous and unacceptable deviation from India’s stated position on J&K. By questioning the unanimous 1994 resolution of the Parliament of India declaring Jammu & Kashmir as an integral of India (which was reiterated in 2012), Mali had blatantly toed the line of Pakistan, which had been trying to stake claim to the region and was in illegal occupation of certain areas, such as PoK, they added. The Congress leaders said that even Garg’s statement countering chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s criticism of Pakistan reflected strong pro-Pak leanings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-camp-hits-back-wants-action-against-ppcc-president-s-advisers-101629833824913.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||1984 riots case: Verify medical condition of Sajjan Kumar, SC directs CBI||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to verify the medical condition of former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving life imprisonment in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case and is seeking interim bail on health grounds.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the CBI on Kumar’s plea and asked it to file an affidavit within a week after verifying his medical condition.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the ex-MP, said Kumar should be taken to a private hospital for treatment as his condition had not been determined at a government hospital here.“We want the state to verify what his medical condition is,” the bench observed.Singh said Kumar was earlier treated by a doctor at a private hospital and he could be treated there.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the complainant, said that Kumar had got anticipatory bail from the high court in 2010 and he was sent to jail only after he was convicted by the high court. “This is shocking,” he told the bench, adding that people were slaughtered during the riots.“I have serious reservation about private hospitals and these powerful accused,” Dave said, adding that the apex court had in September last year dismissed Kumar’s plea seeking interim bail on health grounds.When Singh said that Kumar is in a “very precarious condition”, Dave said in March last year, he was examined by an AIIMS board. They all get into precarious condition after slaughtering people, Dave said.“This is a precarious condition itself that he is in jail. That itself is a precarious condition,” the bench observed.As Singh said irresponsible statements should not be made, Dave argued “it is not irresponsible, it is a serious matter”.Singh said he had not argued anything on merits.“The medical condition of the petitioner should be verified and affidavit be filed within a week,” the bench said and posted the matter for hearing on September 6.Kumar is serving life imprisonment after the Delhi high court convicted him and others in the case on December 17, 2018.The high court had reversed the acquittal of Kumar by the trial court in 2013 in the case related to killings of five Sikhs in the Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.The riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.In its verdict, the high court had convicted and sentenced Kumar to imprisonment for “remainder of his natural life” in the case saying the riots were a “crime against humanity” perpetrated by those who enjoyed “political patronage” and aided by an “indifferent” law enforcement agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1984-riots-case-verify-medical-condition-of-sajjan-kumar-sc-directs-cbi-101629833704854.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Out of 1.58 lakh tests, 28 found positive: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh recorded 28 fresh cases of Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday.The previous day, the state had registered just 7 new cases, the lowest since the second wave of pandemic had set in. “In the last 24 hours, the state did 1.58 lakh tests, of which 28 tested positive. A total of 58 districts did not report any fresh case while 17 districts had fresh cases in single digit. Daily positivity rate is 0.01% and overall recovery rate is 98.6%”, said Adityanath at Covid 19 review meeting on Tuesday.Yogi said that all this was possible because of the concerted and continued efforts in following the policy of ‘trace, test, treat, and vaccination’. He asked the officers concerned to keep up the efforts and alertness.Regarding vaccination, Yogi said “This month so far, the state has administered 1.6 crore doses taking the total doses administered in the state so far to 6.42 crore. UP is the only state to do so,” he said asking officers concerned to be in regular touch with the central government for steady supply of vaccine.Regarding preparations for the possible third wave of the pandemic, Yogi asked the officials to be ready in advance and said so far, the state had arranged 6,600 PICU (pediatric ICU) and 5,850 NICU (neonatal ICU) beds. The state currently has 56,000 isolation beds and 18,000 ICU beds.In view of the reopening of schools from Tuesday for classes 6th to 8th, Yogi asked for cleanliness, sanitisation, use of mask and social distancing in schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/out-of-1-58-lakh-tests-28-found-positive-yogi-101629833585562.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Narayan Rane's arrest sets off a fresh war of words||The arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane on Tuesday over his controversial remarks about Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray sparked a political row.The Shiv Sena demanded Rane’s expulsion from the Union Cabinet and the Congress said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders need empathy and treatment for mental health.The BJP didn’t condone Rane’s remarks, but stood by its leader and said the action taken against him was uncalled for when similar remarks by Sena leaders, including CM Thackeray, go unnoticed.BJP national president JP Nadda said they aren’t scared and the ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ -- in which newly inducted Union ministers are addressing rallies across the nation -- will continue in Rane’s absence.“The arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane ji by the Maharashtra government violates constitutional values. We will neither be scared nor pressured by it. They (MVA partners) are troubled by the immense support the BJP is getting in the ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’. We will continue to fight democratically, the journey will continue,” Nadda tweeted.Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis didn’t condone Rane’s remarks and said people should refrain from passing derogatory remarks against people holding constitutional posts. “However, the arrest is uncalled for and is driven by political vendetta. It is a gross misuse of power and the police force is being used to suppress dissident voices. The violence in Maharashtra is state-sponsored,” said Fadnavis, who is the leader of opposition in the Maharashtra assembly.Fadnavis also warned the Shiv Sena over attacks on BJP offices in the state. “We do not advocate violent protest or reaction, but we will also not tolerate the attacks on our offices. It is strange that the police force has also been taking action on the directions of their political bosses. If you are taking action against Rane, why was there no action taken against chief minister Uddhavji Thackeray for his inflammatory language in his Dussehra rally speech or against the leaders who instigate workers to attack or call the PM a thief?” he said.Fadnavis said the party stands by Rane and his arrest was illegal as he was neither given the opportunity to explain nor served with a notice.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil joined in and said Union ministers have protection from arrest under the Constitution.The Maha Vikas Aghadi allies condemned Rane’s remarks and endorsed the police action against him.Sena’s Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding Rane’s expulsion from the Cabinet. “Rane has belittled the constitutional framework by his statement. The Jan Ashirwad Yatra conceptualised by the PM was to seek the blessings of the people. Instead, Rane has been issuing statements for cheap publicity. He has lost his mental balance and has been ranting just to woo his political bosses,” Raut said.State Nationalist Congress Party chief Jayant Patil also condemned the remarks. “The statement made by Rane is certainly condemnable. The derogatory remarks against the chief minister is an insult to the people of Maharashtra. Such language was never used by a political leader in the past. This has also become an example for people of the state and the country to know the type of people selected by PM Narendra Modi and BJP-led government at the Centre,” Patil said.“All the political parties need to rethink about giving importance to the people who use such language. Even if the BJP is angry and hates Uddhav Thackeray, using such language against the chief minister is unfortunate and will have to be condemned,” Patil said when asked if the standard of politics is going down.He also chose to defend the Sena over agitations at several places and said that the party has been behaving responsibly ever since Uddhav Thackeray became the CM. But he clarified that not only Sena workers but even the common people are hurt by the derogatory remarks against their CM “and reaction would have come at a few places”NCP’s national spokesperson Nawab Malik said the BJP was looking to carry out “politics of violence by disturbing law and order” in Maharashtra.“But it will not be accepted by the people of Maharashtra,” he said.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “No matter how many clashes, scandals and pressure from the (Narendra) Modi government at the Centre, the MVA government is not becoming unstable. In fact, it is becoming more and more popular. This is the reason BJP leaders have started using foul language, which shows their helplessness and depression. They (BJP leaders) need empathy, compassion and mental (health) treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narayan-rane-s-arrest-sets-off-a-fresh-war-of-words-101629833404922.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||7 Cong leaders deny being part of move to replace Amarinder||Seven of the 20-odd Punjab Congress MLAs and ex-MLAs, who were purported to have been party to the demand for the removal of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, have completely disassociated themselves from any such move. Denying being part of what they termed as “a conspiracy hatched by a section engaged in trying to drive a wedge within the party”, these seven leaders – MLAs Kuldeep Vaid, Dalvir Singh Goldy, Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Angad Saini, Raja Warring, Gurkirat Singh Kotli and ex-MLA Ajit Singh Mofar – threw their weight behind the chief minister and reposed their full faith in his leadership, according to a statement issued by the chief minister’s media adviser Raveen Thukral. Their denial came within hours of a list of party MLAs and ex-MLAs circulated by a section of the Punjab Congress, which claimed that these leaders wanted the replacement of Captain Amarinder Singh and intended taking up the matter with the high command, it said. All seven of them said the closed-door meeting held at Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s residence, after which their names were fraudulently released along with others, had been convened to discuss party affairs. Some of the participants tried to raise the issue of the chief minister’s replacement but, contrary to claims, no unanimous resolution was passed or agreed upon. Taking strong exception to the misuse of their names in this manner, these seven made it clear that they do not subscribe to any such move against Amarinder. Mofar, in fact, said he did not even attend the said meeting and had merely gone to meet one of the cabinet ministers present there. He said he was shocked to see his name being touted as one of those seeking Amarinder’s removal. Vaid made it clear he was “not part of any such conspiracy against the chief minister”, while Goldy firmly put his might behind Capt Amarinder. Angad said he had gone to the meeting to discuss cooperative elections in his constituency, and Warring said he was not even aware of any such discussion being held during the meeting. Bhalaipur and Kotli also denied any talk of the chief minister’s replacement taking place at the meeting, and added that there was no question of being party to such a demand. All seven of them condemned the attempts by a section of the Punjab Congress to trigger revolt in the party ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, especially when the high command had already resolved the differences between Sidhu and Amarinder. With the polls just months away, the party needs to work unitedly, as one integrated whole, and not fritter away its political advantage by indulging in petty politicking to promote personal vested interests, they said. They urged the Congress leadership to take immediate steps to quell any attempts to divide the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-cong-leaders-deny-being-part-of-move-to-replace-amarinder-101629833524849.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man held for sexually exploiting teenaged co-worker||A Manimajra resident was arrested for sexually exploiting his colleague by threatening her with obscene pictures, the police said on Tuesday.The victim in her complaint to the police said that she had come in contact with the accused, identified as Momin, two years back when she was working in a factory in Panchkula. The two had become friends after which the accused had offered the victim, who was then a 17-year-old, to shift with him to Manimajra.The victim alleged that after she and her mother had shifted to Manimajra, the accused had clicked her pictures and sexually exploited her.A complaint was lodged with the women’s cell, Panchkula, and forwarded to Manimajra police station. A case under sections 354C (voyeurism), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (insulting modesty of women) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 14 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered.Teen held for molesting studentAn 18-year-old resident of Mauli Jagran has been arrested for outraging the modesty of a 15-year-old girl who takes tuitions from him. The accused, identified as Anuj Yadav, is a student of Class 12 while the girl studies in Class 10. The alleged incident took place on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-held-for-sexually-exploiting-teenaged-coworker-101629833465722.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Solar City Ayodhya: DPR in the pipeline, govt to amend solar policy||Larsen & Toubro (L&T) is preparing the detailed project report (DPR) of Ayodhya to convert the temple town into a solar city. The completed project will fulfil the city’s maximum electricity requirement, including that of the Shriram Temple Complex, through the green power, to be generated by rooftop solar panels, people dealing with the issue said.According to them, the government is also considering changes in the Solar Policy, 2017 to provide more incentives to people who opt for rooftop solar panels, so that the Ayodhya model may be replicated in more cities, especially those of religious importance.“L&T is almost ready with the Ayodhya DPR, detailing the plan to convert the town into a solar city by installing solar panels on roofs of houses, government buildings, commercial and industrial establishments etc. This will be on a pilot basis in the first phase after which some other cities will also be identified for the same purpose,” Bhawani Singh Khangarot, director, Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (UPNEDA) said.An L&T survey found Ayodhya’s (3.40 lakh population) annual electricity consumption to be 281 million units by 0.81 lakh households. “The NEDA is basically working on four things in Ayodhya, that is, solar generation from ground-mounted utility scale and solar plants, arranging solar cooking for community kitchens for devotees, fulfilling energy requirement of the Shriram Temple Complex from solar and other renewable sources,” he said.Simultaneously, the NEDA has also proposed changes to the solar policy, seeking more incentives to people and government, semi-government and commercial bodies to install rooftop panels on houses/buildings.The NEDA has proposed enhancement of state subsidy on installation of rooftop solar panels by residents in the cities identified to be declared as solar cities. Ajay Kumar, another NEDA official said that the enhanced state-subsidy would be in addition to the subsidy already provided by the Central government. “We have also proposed net metering facility for government and semi-government buildings and commercial and industrial establishments that use grid-connected rooftop solar panels to generate power in solar cities. The net metering will enable them to sell excess electricity to the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) through net meters,” he added.Domestic and agriculture consumers already have the net metering facility. The UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) did away with this facility for government buildings and commercial/industrial establishments in 2019.The third proposal mooted by the NEDA seeks to solarise Nagar Nigams of cities identified as solar ones. “According to the proposal, the Nagar Nigam will meet its energy needs for street lighting, water works etc from the renewable power through the ‘Open Access’,” Kumar said.The amendment proposals, he said, have been sent to the government which was likely to take a call on the issue soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/solar-city-ayodhya-dpr-in-the-pipeline-govt-to-amend-solar-policy-101629833416151.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Thieves decamp with cash, jewellery from locked house||Thieves targeted a locked house in Sector 22 and decamped with ₹50,000 cash along with jewellery, the police said on Tuesday.In his complaint, house owner Raj Kumar, who works as a driver with Haryana secretariat, told the police that he had gone to Delhi on August 20. Upon returning, he had found the lock of the main door broken and the entire house ransacked. He said that one gold necklace, one mangalsutra, six gold rings, one nathni tikka, three silver ring bracelets, seven anklets, one silver coin, one laptop and ₹50,000 cash were missing.A case under Sections 380 (house theft) and 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhthieves-decamp-with-cash-jewellery-from-locked-house-101629833344821.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Medical services hit as NHM employees go on strike||Medical services in government health and wellness centres of Chandigarh were badly affected on Tuesday after over 300 employees of National Health Mission (NHM) went on an indefinite strike to press for their demand of getting equal pay for equal work.A few Covid-19 vaccination centres, especially in UT’s rural areas, also remained closed on Tuesday after the NHM employees gathered outside the administration block of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to hold a protest march against the central government and the UT director, health services.The NHM employees, working under the UT health department as paramedical staff and managerial employees, include nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), lab technicians, dental technicians and other class-four employees.“Since 2013, NHM employees in Chandigarh have been working below the pay scale of DC wage rate. However in other states, they are getting better monthly pays. Despite several protests, our demand of getting fair wage for our work has not been met by the central government or the director,” said Amit Kumar, general secretary, NHM Union.He added, “Initially, we had decided to hold a protest march for only two days, but looking at the officers’ approach, we have decided to go on indefinite strike. All health services rendered by NHM employees will remain suspended from 9am to 3pm daily, until our pay is hiked.”Pregnant women left in lurchWith most health and wellness centres and/or dispensaries in city’s rural areas closed, pregnant women were left in a lurch. Every Tuesday is fixed as antenatal checkup day in government centres and since ANMs were protesting, the Covid vaccination drive and routine consultation for pregnant women took a hit.“Health services will remain affected on Wednesday and non-Covid vaccination drives for children will also be suspended in a few dispensaries. We will intensify our protest if our demands are not met,” said NHM employees. Health centres in Mauli village, Raipur Khurd, Daria and Khuda Lahora were completely shut on Tuesday.Meanwhile, Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, UT, said, “We have written a letter to the Centre requesting them to either increase the annual NHM budget for UT or to give us approval for hiking their salaries from the UT administration’s budget. We are waiting to hear back from them.”UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “I had a discussion with the health secretary and the DHS. The administration will approach the Union government and I will be writing a letter to the Centre shortly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmedical-services-hit-as-nhm-employees-go-on-strike-101629833285264.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Congress, AAP leaders back protesting students||Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who visited the protest site on Panjab University (PU) campus on Tuesday, expressed support for the demand of students and candidates for the immediate conduct of polling of the registered graduate constituency.The members of various student bodies have been protesting for the last 11 days outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, demanding the immediate conduct of polls and reopening of the campus for students.Stating that the students’ demand was genuine, Khaira said, “I will talk to the V-C and press upon him to hold these polls timely.”“From the graduate constituency, young leaders are elected to the senate who raise the issues of students,” he said.The polling for the registered graduate constituency, from which 15 members are elected to the PU senate, was earlier scheduled to be held on August 18, but PU on August 13 had postponed the polls citing non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana. The university is yet to announce the new date.Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema along with other party leaders also visited PU campus on Tuesday.Cheema said AAP condemned the delay in the conduct of polls of the said constituency and demanded they be conducted immediately. “The democratic process should not be stalled at this premiere institution and polling dates should be announced immediately. We stand with the students and candidates who are protesting for democracy in PU,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pucongress-aap-leaders-back-protesting-students-101629833225320.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Eight more members elected to Panjab University senate||Eight members from the constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges were declared elected to Panjab University (PU) senate on Tuesday.The polling for the constituency was held last week along with that of the teachers’ constituency of arts colleges, but results were declared on Tuesday after it was produced in high court in a sealed cover due to issue over the inclusion of a voter’s name in the list.Of those elected, Kirandeep Kaur and Jatinder Kaur belong to the Goyal group; NR Sharma and RS Jhanji belong to the BJP group; and Nisha Bhargava and Rajesh Kumar Mahajan are from the DAV group. The other two elected members include Kuldeep Kaur Dhaliwal from Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and Rupinder Kaur from Jagpal group.NR Sharma secured 11 votes followed by Kuldeep Kaur Dhaliwal at eight votes; Kirandeep Kaur secured seven votes.Faculty polls: Timings fixed for faculty meetingsThe varsity has also fixed the timings and the venue for faculty meetings for the election of senate members. The constituency of faculties will go to polls on September 1; earlier the polling was scheduled for August 23.For the arts faculty, polling will be held from 9am to 10.30am, and for the medical sciences faculty, it will be held from 10.31am to 11.45am.The faculty of languages will go to polls from 11.46am to 1pm and polling for the combined faculties will take place from 1.01pm to 4pm. For science faculty, polling will be held from 4.01pm to 6pm; for law faculty, polling will be held from 6.01pm to 7pm.The constituency of faculties has total 755 voters and 12 candidates are in fray for the election of six members to the senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eight-more-members-elected-to-panjab-university-senate-101629833164923.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four years on, no one held guilty for dera violence in Panchkula||Moments after the CBI special court had found Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim guilty of raping two women disciples, four years ago this day on August 25, lakhs of his followers had turned Haryana into a war zone of bloodshed and destruction, leaving 36 persons dead and 423 injured.Ram Rahim’s followers had pelted stones, destroyed outstation broadcasting (OB) vans of news channels and buildings, burnt vehicles and attacked security forces. When tear gas shells had proved ineffective, police had fled from the nakas, giving way to paramilitary forces, who had “shot to kill”.Police record shows that 29 buildings were damaged, 74 vehicles including two fire brigades were set ablaze, three OB vans, one school bus and 57 vehicles, including one ambulance, were vandalized in Panchkula. The police had also seized five pistols/revolvers, four rifles, including an AK-47, two guns, one Mauser and 58 vehicles.However, four years have passed, yet no one has been convicted.Aditya Insaan, a former spokesperson of the dera, had fled the spot just after the verdict. He continues to carry a police reward of ₹5 lakh on his head and was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) on May 21 this year.Three more persons, Amrik Singh, Phool Kumar and Abhijeet, are wanted by the police and carry a ₹1 lakh bounty each on their heads.Panchkula police had registered 177 FIRs against 2,318 accused; 20 FIRs were clubbed on court’s direction. In total, 2,167 persons have been arrested and are facing trial. Currently, trials are going on in 143 cases.The police could not trace accused five cases, and the remaining 152 cases are pending in district court, Panchkula. “To date, none has been convicted,” according to police data. At least 46 accused in nine cases have been acquitted.Cases fell flat in courtNine special investigation teams (SITs) were formed to investigate cases of violence, but they all fell flat in court. The first such case that fell flat in court on April 30, 2018, was related to FIR 415 of 2017, registered in Sector 5. Six persons, accused of rioting and snatching at Hafed Chowk, were acquitted. They had been arrested on the complaint of a Mohali-based photojournalist, whose video camera and tripod were snatched. The court acquitted them as “prosecution lacked evidence”.In 2020, the eighth dera violence case (FIR 363) fell flat after an additional district and sessions judge acquitted 10 dera followers, accused of attempt to murder, riot and damaging public property. The three eyewitnesses that the prosecution presented failed to identify the accused and instead said that a mob had set a fire tender ablaze in which a fireman was injured.In a 19-page judgment, the judge had held that the prosecution was not able to establish its case beyond reasonable doubt. The order read that the identity of the accused persons was not established in the case.Another person was acquitted of criminal intimidation on June 4, 2018. Six were acquitted in FIR 362 on July 30, 2018. Five were acquitted on November 15, 2018, in a snatching case. On May 9, 2019, another five persons were acquitted.The most important FIR was number 345 of 2017, registered in Sector 5, in which 40 accused, including Insaan, were named and whose role is considered crucial in “planning and execution of riots”. However, the case is pending trial. Since outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, trial as well as probe has got affected and there is almost no progress since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-years-on-no-one-held-guilty-for-dera-violence-in-panchkula-101629833106386.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: FIR registered on complaint of woman activist manhandled at BJP event||Five days after a woman activist was allegedly manhandled while protesting in favour of farmers’ demands at a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) event in Chandigarh, police on Tuesday registered a case against unknown persons on her complaint. The FIR has been registered under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-26 police station. No one has been named in it.The activist had alleged that she was manhandled, harassed, and subjected to abusive language while she was showing black flags to Union minister Anurag Thakur, who was in Chandigarh to launch the BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra from Himachal Bhawan in Sector 28 on August 19. A video clip of the alleged incident was recorded by a local and put online and has since been shared widely on social media. Even as BJP leaders have maintained that it was staged, the incident has invited criticism from opposition parties and farm leaders.Women members of both Aam Aadmi Party and Congress staged protests against the BJP, while farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni had demanded immediate arrests of those involved. Even the woman activist along with other protesters had gathered at Matka Chowk on August 20, following which a complaint was submitted to the senior superintendent of police’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-fir-registered-on-complaint-of-woman-activist-manhandled-at-bjp-event-101629833044943.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Aerotropolis: GMADA to issue letters of intent in September||Three years after acquiring land for its Aerotropolis project, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will start issuing the letter of intent (LoI) to landowners in the first week of September. In a first, the letters will be delivered digitally.Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, chief administrator, GMADA, said 1,600 acres of land was acquired in 11 villages for setting up Aerotropolis, an extension of Aerocity, in the vicinity of the international airport in Mohali. “Scrutiny of applications received from landowners who had applied for land pooling is going on and the entitlement of around 650-700 acres of land is almost ready,” he said. To ensure quick delivery of LoI, the landowners will get them through an SMS with a download link, said Agrawal. “It will also do away with the prevailing practice of manual dispatch, as earlier there had been instances where allottees complained of not receiving the LoI,” he said, adding that the process of online issuance of LoI will be adopted in all future schemes.GMADA has acquired land for the project in Bakarpur, Rurka, Safipur, Matran, Siaun, Manauli, Patton, Saini Majra, Chau Majra, Naraingarh and Chhat villages. The compensation ranges from ₹1.82 crore to ₹4 crore per acre. Around 90% of the landowners have applied for land pooling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aerotropolis-gmada-to-issue-letters-of-intent-in-september-101629832805844.html
25-08-2021||Kolkata||NIA files charge sheet against 2 for Nimtita station blast||KOLKATA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed the charge sheet against two accused in the Nimtita railway station IED blast case in which Jakir Hossain, who was then the state’s deputy labour minister and several others were severely injured.The attack was carried out to derail the assembly polls held in March-April, NIA said in the charge sheet filed at a Kolkata court. The two accused have been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Explosive Substance Act and several sections of the Indian Penal Code. Both are residents of Suti in Murshidabad. The central investigating agency took over the investigation on March 2. Hossain sustained severe injuries along with 21 Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers around 9.45 pm at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district. Hossain was supposed to board the Kolkata-bound Teesta-Torsha Express when the blast took place at the station platform. This was the first attack on a Bengal minister in recent history. Hossain, a businessman and popular leader, recovered after months of treatment.The charge sheet was filed against Sahidul Islam, 35, a resident of Aurangabad Moulavi Para in Suti and Abu Samad, 37, a resident of Raghunathpur located in the same region. They were charged under sections 120B, 201, 326 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code; sections 16 and 18 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sections 3 and 4 of the Explosives Substance Act.“Investigation has revealed that the accused persons hatched a criminal conspiracy to kill Jakir Hossain and his supporters in order to strike terror in the minds of the people and to derail the impending assembly election. Sahidul Islam had procured materials from local shops for making the IED and held meetings with Abu Samad for the final selection of the site for executing the conspiracy. The accused persons also unsuccessfully tried to destroy the phones used by them for misleading the investigation agency. Further investigation is on,” NIA said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/niafiles-charge-sheet-against-2-for-nimtita-station-blast-101629832744706.html
25-08-2021||Other||10 arrested for loot, extortion after donning army uniforms in Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir Police have arrested 10 people on Tuesday for allegedly looting and extorting people in Srinagar by posing as army personnel donning combat uniforms and carrying dummy AK-47 rifles.Police said the accused were arrested and stolen gold ornaments worth ₹22 lakh, a vehicle worth ₹2 lakh, combat uniforms and dummy weapons resembling AK- 47 rifles and pistols were recovered from their possession.A police spokesman said they received a complaint on May 5, from a resident of Khawaja Bagh Maloora that on the night of May4, around six to eight unidentified gunmen wearing combat uniforms had barged into his house and looted jewellery, some cash, and a mobile phone along with a SIM card.Two months later, another complaint was filed on July 8 by a resident of Hokarsar Umerabad stating that four to six unidentified gunmen in combat uniform entered his house and looted gold jewellery and cash. Cases were filed in both the incidents.The spokesman said special teams were constituted under the supervision of SDPO West City.“After leads from technical evidences, a few suspects were zeroed in on. During the process, 10 accused were arrested,” the spokesman said.The accused belong to Srinagar, Baramulla and Budgam districts.“The miscreants would first recce different areas to find target houses which invariably were the ones where a marriage ceremony was scheduled in the near future. They would don the army camouflage uniforms and enter the houses with dummy pistols and assault rifles on pretext of cordon and search,” the police spokesman said.He said after getting access to the targeted houses, they would lock up the family in one room, snatch their mobile phones and loot valuables, gold jewellery and cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-arrested-for-loot-extortion-after-donning-army-uniforms-in-kashmir-101629832504945.html
25-08-2021||Other||Were involved in several attacks, civilian atrocities, police on militants killed on Monday||The Resistance Force chief commander Abbas Shiekh and his deputy Saqib Manzoor, who were killed in a covert operation on Monday evening, had been on the been trying to revive militancy in Srinagar, police said in a late-night release after the encounter. Terming their operation a “big success”, police said the duo had been involved in the killings of several political workers, police personnel and civilians in the city. For the past several weeks, police had been pursuing several leads to track down Shiekh after getting inputs that he was operating from Srinagar and shuttling between central and South Kashmir.Shiekh was earlier a Hizbul Mujahideen militant, arrested and released twice. Later, he joined the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and was currently operating as the chief of TRF, a shadow front of LeT.Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said, “A small team of police, comprising 10 members, was sent in covertly to raid a specific location in Alochibagh area. During the raid, the hiding militants were given an opportunity to surrender, however, they started firing on the police team. Our team also retaliated. In a brief shootout, two militants of LeT (TRF) got neutralised,” he said.Abbas Sheikh was resident of Kulgam district and his deputy, district commander, Saqib Manzoor hailed from Barzulla.“They were involved in the killing of several political workers, police personnel and civilians. Saqib Manzoor was involved in killing of advocate Babar Qadri last year. Besides, both them were also involved in several grenade attacks on security establishments and were also involved in several other terror crimes and civilian atrocities,” a police spokesman said in a statement.Police said Shiekh, in a bid to revive militancy in Srinagar, had recruited seven youths into militant ranks, of which four have been killed.Saqib Manzoor got active in 2020 and helped Shiekh carry out the attacks in the city.Police said Srinagar had become militancy-free in September last year but after Abbas Sheikh’s shifting to Srinagar city, he motivated and recruited Saqib and six other youths into his cadre.Earlier this month, after the killing of 83 militants, mostly locals, police had released names of top 10 militants currently operating in Kashmir. The list included the names of Shiekh and Saqib Manzoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/were-involved-in-several-attacks-civilian-atrocities-police-on-militants-killed-on-monday-101629832449980.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Power privatisation: Chandigarh admn sends final bid report to MHA||After getting UT administrator VP Singh Badnore’s nod, the Chandigarh administration has sent the final bid report on privatisation of the electricity department to the ministry of home affairs (MHA).Now, the final note on the privatisation process will be submitted with the Union cabinet for its approval. After its consent, the department will be handed over to the private player. The administration has zeroed in on Eminent Electricity Distribution (EED), a whole-owned subsidiary of the RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group’s flagship Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation, to take over the department after it bid ₹871 crore against the reserve price of ₹175 crore.The bid was highest among those quoted by seven firms, which included Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power and Torrent Power.The decision to privatise the electricity department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. The UT had committed to finish the process by the year end but it got entangled in legal battles after the UT Powermen Union approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the move. The process was twice stayed by the high court. On May 28, HC had applied the brakes on privatisation, and even pulled up the administration for its “undue hurry” during a raging pandemic. Earlier, the HC had stayed the process on December 1.On both occasions the administration had approached the Supreme Court, which allowed the process to continue.The move has elicited criticism from different quarters, including employee’ unions, resident welfare associations and opposition parties. It was on a petition of the unions that the HC had stayed the process. However, with the Union government pushing for it, the administration has put it on fast track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-privatisation-chandigarh-admn-sends-final-bid-report-to-mha-101629832386661.html
25-08-2021||Bangalore||State targets 500k jabs per day in Sept: CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said that the state government is planning to administer 500,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses per day in September, reiterating the goal to vaccinate all eligible population by the end of the year. “Vaccination is the only solution for the future waves (of Covid). So, the more population we vaccinate the safer India is. Karnataka has been at the forefront in vaccination, we have got vaccination centres throughout the state and we are planning to vaccinate 500,000 every day in the month of September,” Bommai said.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Karnataka governor Thaawarchand Gehlot were part of the ‘Vaccinate India Programme,’ which was an initiative of the department of planning and Give India Foundation. The statement comes at a time when Karnataka is staring at a threat of a third wave of Covid-19 infections even as the government continues to relax restrictions and even resume physical classes for school children. Karnataka has so far administered 3,79,01,502 doses of vaccines, according to data from CoWin till 8.20 pm on Tuesday. The first dose accounts for 2,89,27,640 doses while 89,73,862 second doses have been administered, as per CoWin data. Karnataka is ranging between 200,000 to 400,000 doses each day but shortage in vaccines outside Bengaluru has been a concern which Bommai said the government will overcome with the help of the union government. “The government of India has assured us all help and I am confident that they will give 15 million vaccines so that we can vaccinate 500,000 persons every day. If this is done for the next three to four months, probably 80% of our population will be vaccinated. That’s the target we are trying to achieve,” he added.Bommai, on Tuesday morning told reporters that he would be visiting Delhi on Wednesday to hold meetings with all Union ministers including health and seek better quota of vaccines. The CM said that he would change the dynamics of vaccination once availability of the same is assured. The Karnataka government has already reached out to high net worth individuals and large corporations to tap into their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds and help the state procure more vaccines, Hindustan Times reported on August 18. “We have set an ambitious target to fully inoculate the entire eligible adult population in the state by December. I will soon visit Delhi to seek an additional supply of vaccines to our state. The private sector can procure 25% of the vaccine production. We are having discussions with corporate companies to explore the possibilities of procuring vaccines under CSR and providing it to the state government. This will significantly accelerate the vaccination drive,” Sudhakar said in a statement on August 17. The Centre’s decision to control the distribution of Covid- 19 vaccine doses among all states has left Karnataka with a shortage of sorts to achieve its target of administering at least one dose to all eligible people by the end of the year, according to data. Bommai reiterated the government’s plea, asking more philanthropists to come forward and help increase the vaccination coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/state-targets-500k-jabs-per-day-in-sept-cm-101629832385159.html
25-08-2021||Bangalore||Forensic hair test confirm drug use by actors||In a first, Bengaluru police have used forensic analysis of human hair to confirm consumption of narcotic substances by two Kannada actors whose blood and urine sample tests to find drug traces were inconclusive, police officials said. This forensic technique was used in the investigation of the drug case involving two Kannada actors, Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjana Galrani. In a statement released on Tuesday, Bengaluru police said that as the tests of urine and blood samples were not conclusive in this case, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) collected hair follicles from the actors and sent them to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Hyderabad in October 2020. “Generally, only blood or urine samples are sent to labs for tests. But these samples could only confirm whether drugs were consumed in the past 24 hours. So, we decided to send the hair samples to Hyderabad forensic lab,” said a senior CCB official. According to the police, the hair samples were sent along with those of nails and urine. “The hair samples were sent for the first time in a drugs case in the state,” said Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime). The test is known as the hair follicle test or hair drug test. The lab had rejected the samples of hair of the actresses for the first time, so the samples were sent again, read a statement from the CCB. Following the Narcotics Control Bureau’s seizure of drugs in August 2020, Kannada film director Indrajit Lankesh claimed to have information on several film personalities who frequently used drugs at parties. On August 31 last year, the Central Crime Branch police questioned him for almost five hours and asked him to share whatever details he could to support the police in its fight against the drug menace. Lankesh claimed he had shared 15 names from the industry and some supporting documents. Based on these inputs, the Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police and the NCB had arrested Dwivedi on September 14, 2020, and Sanjjanaa two days later. The actors had been arrested following an FIR registered in the Cottonpet police station under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act dealing with illegal drug possession, consumption, and dealing. They were released on bail in January 2021. After interrogating more than 180 witnesses, the CCB filed a 2,400-page charge sheet against 25 persons, including Ragini and Sanjjanaa, in March this year. Patil said that since the accused in the case had evaded arrest, it was difficult to collect urine and other routine blood tests within 48 hours. “Hair samples will retain the traces of drugs for up to one year. The new method has helped the police to trace the drug consumption of the accused in NDPS cases,” Patil said. Apart from the two actresses, the reports have also confirmed that other accused in the case -- Viren Khanna, Rahul Tonse -- were using drugs. After the lab sent the reports, the investigation officer in the case has submitted them to the 33rd CCH court in Bengaluru. The reports will be added to the charge sheet against the actresses and others, the statement added. Talking to local media, Sanjjanaa Galrani has responded that she does not know about the CFSL report. She said she will answer only after obtaining the details of the CFSL report. Ragini and the other accused were not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/forensic-hair-test-confirm-drug-use-by-actors-101629832326584.html
25-08-2021||Bangalore||K’taka relaxes testing rules for fliers from Europe, West Asia||The Karnataka government on Tuesday relaxed RT-PCR testing norms for those arriving from the United Kingdom, Europe and the middle-eastern countries. Under the relaxations, passengers arriving from the UK, Europe and Middle East would have to provide samples to health authorities but will be permitted to leave the airport before the results are declared. “The passengers arriving from (the) UK, Europe and Middle East on arrival at Kempegowda International Airport and other entry airports in Karnataka, shall provide the sample and leave the airport for further compliance as per SoPs,” the state government said in a new order on Tuesday. Earlier passengers arriving from these counties were subject to RT-PCR tests at the airport irrespective of the negative test report from the originating country. This was done to minimize the risk of importing new Covid-19 variants. “However, the passengers arriving from Brazil and South Africa shall continue to provide the samples at Kempegowda international Airport / other entry airports and wait for the results in the airport. On testing negative they shall leave the airport,” according to the new orders. Karnataka has so far recorded several variants of the Covid-19 virus that has added to the challenges of the southern state which was among the worst impacted by the pandemic. The state has so far detected 155 cases of the Alpha / B.1.1.7 variant, 7 of the Beta / B.1.351, 1089 Delta / B.1.617.2 and 4 of the Delta plus / B.1.617.2.1(AY.1) variant, government data shows. The state has also detected 159 Kappa / B.1.617.1 variants and 1 ETA / B.1.525 variant. However, Karnataka has seen a marginal reduction in new infections but the threat of the third wave of infections looms large on the southern state. There were 1,259 new infections in a 24 -hour period, the state health department said in its daily bulletin on Tuesday. As the biggest city in Karnataka and among the largest urban centres in the country, Bengaluru attracts millions of arrivals from foreign shores each year. Despite the pandemic, Bengaluru airport has seen an uptick in arrivals in recent days and weeks. The state government said that it will continue to monitor these points of arrival closely. The state already has a rule that mandates negative RT-PCR tests from those coming from Kerala and Maharashtra, where there has been a resurgence of cases. “However, further actions shall be taken as per existing SoPs. The strict tele-monitoring of these passengers should be ensured. The above protocol shall be periodically reviewed according to the scenario of Covid-19 in the state,” the government said in its order on international passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-relaxes-testing-rules-for-fliers-from-europe-west-asia-101629832325336.html
25-08-2021||Bangalore||Mysuru police bust fake RT-PCR test racket, 3 arrested||Mysuru police on Monday arrested two people for trying to enter Karnataka using fake RT-PCR reports. In the investigation that followed, one more person was arrested for preparing the fake report. Following the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the state government had imposed strict regulations for passengers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala, including mandatory RT-PCR test reports. The arrest took place based on an input that people were entering the state using fake test reports. A team of HD Kote Police began conducting checks at the Bavali check-post. During one such inspection, when the team checked the QR code on one of the reports, it was found to be fake. The two men -- Jabeer and Shariff – traveling using the fake reports were taken into custody. “Based on the information, we located the origin of the fake report to Vellamunda city, in Wayanad (in Kerala). We arrested Ranjit, who runs a tours and travels agency, and seized the computer and other equipment used to prepare the fake reports,” said HD Kote police official. Another accused, identified as Nishad, has gone absconding, and the police have launched a hunt to nab him. Jabber and Shariff were produced before a court, which remanded them to 14 days judicial custody .Meanwhile, BJP member of legislative council AH Vishwanath accused the personnel at Bavali check-post on the border of Karnataka and Kerala of taking money to allow people to enter from across the state without any RT-PCR negative report.Addressing a news conference on Sunday, he said that the personnel at the Bavali check-post are reportedly collecting money to allow people from the neighboring state without insisting on the negative reports. The MLC urged the government to close this border till the situation improves in Kerala. “Senior officers must make surprise visits to keep a tight vigil in the border. By intensifying checking at the border, the government must withdraw the weekend curfew imposed on Mysuru city from 9 pm on Friday up to 5 am on Monday in view of the low positivity rate. Traders are badly hit due to weekend curfew,” he added. Karnataka government’s decision to demand RT-PCR test had led to protest in Dakshina Kannada district and other parts of the state bordering Kerala. However, the government had insisted that considering the increase in Covid-19 cases in districts bordering Kerala, the rule can’t be withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/mysuru-police-bust-fake-rt-pcr-test-racket-3-arrested-101629832264779.html
25-08-2021||Other||3-day mega vaccination drive in Kangra from today to cover 96K people||About 92% eligible population has been inoculated in Kangra and the district authorities are launching a three-day mega vaccination drive from Wednesday to give jabs to 96,000 people who haven’t received even their first dose so far, officials said.Kangra deputy commission Dr Nipun Jindal said as per the 2011 census and decadal growth rate, about 12.13 lakh people in Kangra are eligible for vaccination.Of these, 11.17 lakh (92% of the eligible beneficiaries) have already been inoculated including 3.69 lakh people who have received the second dose as well, said Dr Jindal.To cover the left out population, the administration is launching the drive from August 25 to 27.Under the drive, one vaccination session will be organised in each of the 800 panchayats so that people can get the jab.The DC said all departments concerned including ICDS, health and PRIs will be involved in the drive. The booth-level officers will carry out house-to-house survey on the basis of electoral rolls to identify fully and partially vaccinated and unvaccinated population in their wards.“During the drive, all departments concerned have been asked to suspend other activities and focus on vaccination so that the aim is achieved,” said Dr Jindal.“In last three months, as many as 6,903 people were detected Covid-19 positive in Kangra. Of these, 6,412 were unvaccinated. Only 170 fully vaccinated people caught the infection, of whom three died,” said Dr Jindal.During the second wave, the hospitalisation rate was 13-14% which has come down to 3-4% after the vaccination drive was launched, he said.“Vaccine is safe and counter indications are only for people with severe allergic problems. People with co-morbidities must get the jab to reduced chances of mortality,” he said.Himachal logs 281 fresh casesWith 281 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, Himachal’s total case tally rose to 2,12,260 while the death toll mounted to 3,562 after four patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 90 were reported in Mandi, 48 in Chamba, 45 in Shimla, 37 in Kangra, 20 in Kullu, 18 in Hamirpur, 10 in Lahaul-Spiti, seven in Bilaspur, three in Kinnaur, two in Una and one in Solan. The active climbed to 2,050 while recoveries reached 2,06,623 after 253 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 47,403 followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,482 and 26,431 cases, respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,525 cases, Sirmaur 15,419, Hamirpur 15,113, Una 13,522, Chamba 13,354, Bilaspur 13,326, Kullu 9,436, Kinnaur 3,380 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,870.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3day-mega-vaccination-drive-in-kangra-from-today-to-cover-96k-people-101629832208322.html
25-08-2021||Bangalore||Over ₹1k-cr project on anvil to help revive parched districts||The Karnataka government has proposed a ₹1,670-crore project to supply treated water from Vrishabhavathi river in Bengaluru to regions like Tumakuru, Nelamanagala, Chikballapur and Doddaballapur to help revive depleting water tables, in what appears to be the continuation of a policy to supply used water to surrounding areas of India’s IT capital. Karnataka’s minister for minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs JC Madhuswamy said the department has sent a detailed project report (DPR) to the government for its approval. While the river, which resembles a drain due to an unchecked inflow of sewage water and industrial pollutants, the new programme is meant to salvage the drain inlets by treating them and then pumping around 300 mld (million litres per day) to nearby regions outside Bengaluru. “Around 308 mld of secondary treated water will be used to fill up tanks in Chikballapur, Nelamangala, parts of Tumakuru and Doddaballapur,” a senior official at the state’s minor irrigation department told Hindustan Times. Successive governments in Karnataka have pursued a policy to prioritise Bengaluru’s water needs, depriving regions around it. Despite that Bengaluru faces water scarcity as most parts of the city are fed with tankers that are filled by overexploiting borewells, adversely impacting groundwater tables. The closest river to Bengaluru is over 100kms away, which has forced governments to spend thousands of crores to bring water for over 12 million residents of the city. According to estimates by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru receives around 700-850 mm of rain each year, which is enough to accumulate around 16 tmc ft of water -- almost 70% of its demand of around 19 tmc ft. But lack of treatment plants and awareness has given rise to a situation in which most of the water is let out into drains by most households except large apartment complexes where it is mandatory to have sewage treatment plants. The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had initiated the Koramangala and Challaghatta Valley (KC Valley) project to pump around 440 mld of secondary treated water to drought-prone Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts to fill up lakes and tanks. The treated water was pumped into Lakshmisagar lake in Narsapura of Kolar directly. The project had divided political groups and scientists who argued over the benefits and harms of such an exercise. TV Ramachandra, a scientist at the Centre for Ecological Sciences at IISc, said, “Such projects are good if we are ensuring the removal of heavy metals from water.” Ramachandra, who has authored several papers on water in Bengaluru, said the Vrishabhavathi belt has a concentration of industries that discharge heavy metals into the streams, which would enter the humans through any produce grown with this water. “We are so irresponsible as a regulatory body that we allow the industries to pollute the water bodies.” The official cited above said the water from Vrishbhavathi will be used only to fill tanks and not for agriculture or drinking water purposes. However, experts see a problem with such an approach that does not prioritise tertiary treatment of wastewater. The primary treatment removes large particles, chemical ions are removed in the secondary treatment and nutrients are removed in the tertiary treatment, experts said, pointing out the requirement to carry out all three processes to make the most of water. Pumping inadequately treated water into tanks for the purpose of rejuvenating groundwater tables is unlikely to have a desired effect, experts said. “Vegetables that are grown downstream and also the lake water have heavy metal contents. Those vegetables like pudina and spinach which we eat will naturally get into our body. Higher instances of heavy metals in our food items is also leading to the escalation in cancer and kidney failures in the region,” Ramchandra said. He said instances of kidney failure in Bengaluru, which was 1 in 100,000 about 12 years ago, is around 1 in 5,000 today. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) has also prioritised aesthetics over quality of water in its lake rejuvenation projects, experts said. A report by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) indicated that there are around 21 lakes out of the 205 existing on paper in which water was fit for drinking. This claim has been contested by environmentalists, scientists, and citizens. A report by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) in 2020 states that there is not even one lake which has water fit for drinking. But fish from these lakes are often consumed in Bengaluru as licences are auctioned to the highest bidder. In Bengaluru’s BTM Lake, people throng to buy fish like rohu (Labeo Rohita), catla (Labeo Catla) and common carp (Cyprinus carpio), among others, almost every weekend. Several citizen-initiative groups have aired concerns over such projects that focus on cosmetic beautification rather than improving the ecology of the spaces. A July 2021 research paper, ‘Heavy metal in the food chain -- Consequences of polluting water bodies, by TV Ramachandra and NR Narayan studied the concentration of heavy metal in Varthur lake, near the technology corridor of the city. “The study on heavy metal concentrations in vegetables grown near Varthur lake, Bangalore, has shown significant accumulation of heavy metals in vegetables that correlated well with its soil and lake water concentrations. The prolonged irrigation of vegetables using such contaminated lake water has led to soil contamination, which ultimately resulted in contamination of vegetables due to the uptake and accumulation of heavy metals in edible portions of vegetables. The heavy metal content in vegetables exceeded the safe limits in India,” the paper states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/over-1k-cr-project-on-anvil-to-help-revive-parched-districts-101629832204978.html
25-08-2021||Other||Rathore slams Jai Ram govt for ‘neglecting’ apple growers||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Tuesday slammed the state government for “neglecting” the horticulture sector, which, he said, had led to a drastic fall in apple prices.Rathore, in a statement issued here, said, “Apple growers are not getting the right prices for their produce. They have already suffered huge losses due to unseasonal rains and hailstorm this year. The prices they are fetching now are not even enough to cover the input costs.” The Congress president alleged that the government has given traders and commission agents a free hand in the “organised loot” of apple growers.He said the prices of apples should be decided through open bidding. Increased transportation and packaging costsRathore said bad roads in the apple belt were resulting in high transportation cost and further, the unprecedented increase in cost of fertilisers, pesticides and packaging material had dealt a severe blow to apple growers.Rathore alleged that despite the assurances given by horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur, the prices of packaging material, including cartons and trays, had increased manifold.The Congress chief demanded the state government procure apple crop through National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) on the lines of Jammu and Kashmir. He demanded that the government also fix a minimum support price (MSP) for table fruit and good quality apples. For this, he demanded, that the HPMC should increase the number of procurement centres so that the growers can be saved from financial loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rathore-slams-jai-ram-govt-for-neglecting-apple-growers-101629832084841.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity: New Covid cases in single digit for 3rd day||After a spike over two weeks, the daily Covid-19 cases have started dropping in the tricity again and have remained in single digit in the past three days. On Tuesday, only five new cases were reported, with two each in Mohali (Mohali city and Kharar) and Panchkula (Sectors 9 and 17) and just one in Chandigarh (Sector 31). Meanwhile, no death was recorded.In August so far, 240 people have tested positive in the tricity while a death each has been reported across the three jurisdictions.The active caseload has dropped to 91, with 44 patients in Mohali, 35 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula. The daily positivity rate remained below 1%.So far, 65,069 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus of whom 64,222 have successfully recovered while 812 have succumbed to the disease. Of the 68,572 patients in Mohali, 67,470 have been cured while 1058 have died. Panchkula’s total case tally stands at 30,673, of which 30284 have been cured and discharged and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-new-covid-cases-in-single-digit-for-3rd-day-101629831964745.html
25-08-2021||Other||HPAU’s new digital services for students, farmers||The two new digital services launched by the Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU) will facilitate students and the farming community, said varsity vice-chancellor Prof HK Chaudhary.The digilocker and Kissan portal were launched by the HPAU on its 16th Convocation held on Monday. Prof Chaudhary said the facility of the National Academic Depository (NAD) digilocker will provide students access to their degrees and other academic documents.He said the NAD digilocker ecosystem comprises academic institutions, students, and verifying partners on the NAD repository.The university has taken lead among farm varsities to publish degrees on NAD digilocker platform which will digitally empower students and help in making the institution paperless, he said.Students can register themselves on digilocker and access degrees directly on their account. The issued documents in digiLocker system are deemed to be at par with physical documents.Chaudhary said the university has also updated its website by making it more user-friendly.Relevant academic, research, and extension education information has been designed in an interactive and dynamic manner at par with international standards.As per the needs of the National Education Policy 2020, students will find it convenient to search the ongoing research programmes and future dimensions.The website is bilingual and includes a dedicated Kisaan portal for transfer of technologies.Now, the farmers will be able to get scientific solutions to their crop, animal husbandry and other problems in Hindi on Kisaan portal, said Chaudhary.Farmers can ask questions and get fast and reliable solutions from the university experts. He said directions have been issued to resolve farmers’ queries on priority basis by a dedicated group of experts.Scientists will provide solutions either by a visit, if necessary, or through telephone or WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hpaus-new-digital-services-for-students-farmers-101629831907714.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Revised plans of IT Park housing project get nod||The UT urban planning department has given its nod to the revised plans submitted by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for its general housing self-financing scheme to come up at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Technology Park.In a letter to the UT estate office, the department has written: “The revised building plan received has been examined and is being recommended technically from the town planning and architectural aspects.”“We are awaiting the nod of the plan approval committee (PAC) headed by the estate officer. The PAC, in addition to a member of the urban planning department, also has officials from other departments, whose nod is required too. After its approval, the requisite environment approvals will also be taken,” said a CHB official. The drawings for PAC’s approval were submitted in January this year.The UT environment department had earlier returned the CHB application for environment clearance and had asked it to resubmit it with proper documentation. A senior CHB official said: “The environment department has asked us to submit approved drawings of the project and proof of application for wildlife clearance.”Also, an application for providing authenticated drawings depicting the distance of project site form wildlife sanctuaries and city bird sanctuary was submitted to the chief wildlife warden in June this year. It is also under scrutiny.UT ADVISER VISITS PROJECT SITEUT adviser Dharam Pal, who is also the CHB chairman, on Tuesday visited the project site. The general housing scheme is planned on the IT Park’s plots 1 and 2, which are spread over 16.6 acres. It will comprise 728 dwelling units. The CHB is also planning to construct flats on behalf of the Punjab and Haryana governments for their MLAs and officers. During the visit, Pal went through the layout plan of the 123-acre land and asked the officials concerned to sort out all issues in both the schemes and start the construction at the earliest. He also directed that the vacant plots for commercial activities, hospital and hotel at the project sire be put on auction after fixing their reserve prices.The adviser also inspected vacant commercial properties at Manimajra and Kajheri in Sector 61. Since these properties were constructed more than 20 years back and could not be sold despite repeated attempts, he directed the officials to place the matter before the board in its next meeting on September 8 for appropriate decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-revised-plans-of-it-park-housing-project-get-nod-101629831904780.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh, Navjot Sidhu aides spar as Punjab crisis deepens||The Congress government in Punjab was thrown into fresh turmoil on Tuesday as ministers close to state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu rebelled against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and leaders loyal to the latter demanded the ouster of Sidhu’s advisers over their controversial remarks.The factional fight appeared to end an uneasy truce between Sidhu and Singh brokered by the Congress leadership after months of tense negotiations and mirrored a similar tussle for control of the party that broke out in May. Punjab goes to the polls early next year.Four cabinet ministers and around two dozen MLAs declared they didn’t have faith in the CM’s ability to fulfil pending poll promises but stopped short of demanding his resignation.“We have lost faith in him (Singh), but changing the CM is the prerogative of the party high command,” said minister for jails and cooperation Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa after meeting the lawmakers at rural development minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa’s official residence in Chandigarh.The meeting was attended by technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi, water resources minister Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Punjab Congress general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh, and around two dozen legislators.The disgruntled leaders also authorised a five-member delegation — four cabinet ministers and Pargat Singh, all known detractors of Singh — to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and apprise her of their sentiment at the earliest.The disgruntled ministers also spoke to All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. They will travel to Dehradun on Wednesday to meet Rawat before heading to Delhi.Sidhu was not present at the meeting but the leaders said they will discuss the matter with him before leaving for Delhi. The Congress has 80 MLAs in Punjab.Channi told reporters that the MLAs who assembled in Chandigarh were worried about unfulfilled poll promises made by the Congress before the 2017 assembly elections. “A lot of promises have been fulfilled, but those promises (the implementation of) which may lead to friction with the opposition remain unfulfilled,” he said.He said that issues were not getting resolved the way the Congress wanted. “We no longer trust that these issues will be resolved. Therefore, we are seeking time from the party high command for a meeting, and we will meet them and put forth our issues so that Punjab’s issues can be resolved,” said Channi, flanked by Randhawa, Bajwa and Pargat SIngh.Sidhu later met some of these ministers and MLAs at the party’s state headquarters here. “Got a call from Tripat Bajwa ji asking for an emergency…Met him along with other colleagues at the PPCC office. Will appraise the high command of the situation (sic),” he tweeted after meeting them.Hours later, Singh and his loyalists hit back, demanding action against two advisors of Sidhu, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, who stirred a row on Sunday with their controversial comments on Kashmir.Five cabinet ministers and one MLA close to Singh called for strong action against Mali and Garg for their “patently anti-national and pro-Pak comments”.“The statements of both these newly appointed advisers of Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu were clearly against India’s interests, and detrimental to national security,” said cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, along with MLA Raj Kumar Verka in a statement.Tuesday’s bitter verbal war is a throwback to a crisis that engulfed the Congress in May, when Sidhu rallied Singh’s detractors and publicly accused the CM of enabling corruption. Tensions between 79-year-old Singh and Sidhu had simmered since the latter quit the state cabinet after the chief minister changed his portfolio in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/captain-amarinder-singh-navjot-sidhu-aides-spar-as-punjab-crisis-deepens-101629831743058.html
25-08-2021||Other||Protest only against BJP leaders, don’t lose focus, SKM tells farmers||Patiala The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday reiterated that its protest against leaders, MPs and MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will continue, and other parties were not its focus. “The BJP is our main target. We can’t compare other political parties with it. I request farmers to stop agitating against other parties’ leaders. This only benefits the BJP,” said SKM leader, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, who was in Patiala with another SKM leader, Darshan Pal. Pal said people can question leaders of other parties in a democratic manner instead of holding protest against them.  “Our call is to boycott BJP leaders and we will stick to it only,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protest-only-against-bjp-leaders-don-t-lose-focus-skm-tells-farmers-101629831844855.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh accident: Ambulance driver who left one dead, six injured held||A day after a 37-year-old man was killed and six people were injured after a speeding ambulance hit six vehicles at the busy Piccadilly Chowk in Chandigarh, police on Tuesday managed to arrest the accused driver. Identified as Ashu Ram, 36, he belongs to Barnala. He will be produced in court on Wednesday. During preliminary questioning, Ashu reportedly told police that he lost control of the vehicle after a child beggar suddenly stepped in front of it. He also claimed that he was rushing a heart patient and an attendant to the PGIMER and was constantly blowing the siren to clear the road amid traffic. However, after he had fled from the spot leaving the ambulance behind, no one was found inside.According to witnesses, the private ambulance came from the Zirakpur side in speed and first hit a stationary autorickshaw that was waiting for the green signal around 10am. It then hit another auto and three scooters and brushed past a car in an attempt to flee. One of the scooterists was killed in the mishap.A case has been registered under Section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 34. Another driver held for smuggling liquor in ambulanceAn ambulance driver was caught smuggling liquor after he was involved in an accident in Sector 32 on Monday night. This was second accident involving an ambulance in the city on Monday. The accused has been identified as Rajan Kumar, 26, of Zirakpur. He was driving an ambulance of the National Highway Authority of India that operates on the Sangrur-Patiala stretch. According to police, the ambulance was returning after dropping a patient at the PGIMER. On the way, Rajan allegedly bought three boxes of countrymade liquor that he intended to sell at higher prices in Punjab.As he was heading towards Tribune Chowk, he suddenly lost control of the vehicle, which overturned after hitting an auto-rickshaw and a motorcycle. A woman passenger in the auto received minor injuries. On reaching the spot, police found liquor boxes in the ambulance. Rajan’s medical examination was conducted, but he was not found under the influence of liquor, said an investigating official. A case under the Excise Act was registered, and the driver was released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-accident-ambulance-driver-who-left-one-dead-six-injured-held-101629831668009.html
25-08-2021||Other||Four-year undergrad, multiple entry-exit, credit system get DU academic council approval||New Delhi: The Delhi University’s Academic Council (AC) on Tuesday night passed with dissent a plan to implement the provisions laid down in the National Education Policy 2020, including the introduction of four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP), multiple entry-exit scheme (MEES), and academic bank of credits (ABC), from the next academic session.The AC, which has about 100 members, passed the agenda after a discussion on the recommendations submitted by a 42-member DU committee formed last year on the new education policy.“The NEP structure has been passed including FYUP, MEES, and academic bank of credit and it will be implemented from next academic session. Yesterday, the standing committee discussed the matter for six hours and today as well, the matter was deliberated upon for two hours,” said Arun Kumar Attree, member of the standing committee for AC members. At least 16 elected AC members recorded their dissented.AC member Mithuraj Dhusiya said the decision to implement the agenda was unfortunate. “It is extremely unfortunate that no substantial discussion was allowed on the matter of FYUP with MEES or on other agenda items. No voting was allowed and the elected members were asked to deposit dissent notes,” he said.In 2014, DU was rocked by controversy after the then administration introduced the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP), which was later scrapped by the government amid protests by students and teachers. Under MEES, students who exit successfully at the first year will be awarded a certificate, and a diploma if they exit after the second year, and such students can rejoin the programme later on.ABC allows students to exit from one course at any point and save their academic credits to use it in other universities. The credit transfer will only be possible within universities that sign up for the ABC system.The AC meeting also discusses other issues related to ad-hoc teachers, pending promotions, and delay in disbursal of grants to Delhi government-funded colleges.During zero hour, prior to the NEP discussion, members raised several demands. The elected teacher representatives of the AC from the teachers’ group, Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), asked DU to intervene in a matter related to repeated non-renewal of contracts of ad-hoc teachers, due to issues in the teaching roster, at Vivekananda College. “The issue of roster needs to be resolved so that teachers are not harassed,” said a statement signed by Rajesh Kumar, Biswajit Mohanty, and Mithuraaj Dhusiya, asking for the removal of the college’s acting principal.Teachers also demanded an intervention into the recent case where a Dalit Hindi teacher was allegedly slapped during a department meeting at Lakshmibai college. “Such incidents are extremely condemnable and violence has no place in education institutions. The principal has so far not been able to resolve this situation, which is unfortunate,” the teachers stated.Several AC members also asked the university to hold dialogues with the University Grants Commission (UGC) to delay the implementation of 2018 order which calls for a mandatory PhD qualification to be eligible to teach in university departments. They also asked for absorption of all ad-hoc teachers and giving them benefits like maternity leave.“DU must also facilitate immediate relief for teaching and non-teaching staff of 12 DU colleges that are 100% funded by the Delhi government. To give relief on a long-term basis, DU must explore options to make proposals for the takeover of these 12 colleges by Delhi University,” the teachers stated.Apart from this, the AC members asked the university administration to finish the pay fixation work immediately to smoothen problems of promotions in some colleges. “Immediately financial relief should be provided to dependents of all working teachers who expired because of Covid,” they said in the statement.Meanwhile, the DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA) also held a one-day strike outside the vice-chancellor’s office on Tuesday to protest against the NEP recommendations.The teachers’ body has asked for wider consultations over the recommendations before placing them in statutory bodies like AC.During the meeting of the Standing Committee on Academic Matters on Monday, several AC members raised their voices against the “loss of workload” that may arise due to the proposed NEP structure.“This document at this stage is not fit for discussion in Academic Council and needs a major overhaul and that is possible only when it is sent for feedback from teachers in committee of courses and staff councils,” said AC member Dhusiya. They also said that before implementing FYUP, the university needs to assess if they have the necessary infrastructure to accommodate students for a longer period.The teachers argued that due to the design of MEES and ABC students can earn credits for non-core courses from other universities thereby reducing the workload.Teachers also said that without giving much clarity on the job prospects for those who leave the institution with a certificate or diploma after their first or second year of the UG programme respectively, the MEES system will encourage more dropouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fouryear-undergrad-multiple-entry-exit-credit-system-get-du-academic-council-approval-101629831666850.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Man shot dead at Dwarka restaurant, hunt on for two assailants||An 18-year-old man was shot dead while working at a restaurant in Dwarka’s Chhawla area on Monday evening. The two men, who allegedly shot him at the entrance of the restaurant, are on the run and efforts are on to arrest them, police said.A senior police officer identified the victim by his first name Aman, a resident of Bawana area. Police said Monday was his first day at the restaurant as he was filling in for his friend, Mahesh (single name), who had gone to his village for Rakshabandhan.Police said the control room was alerted by a man named Vikas Yadav, whose brother owns the restaurant, ‘Heaven On Earth’. Describing the sequence of events, Yadav said he was sitting outside the restaurant when two men went in and placed an order for fried rice and momos.“After sitting inside for some time, the men came out and started pacing about. They got a call and as soon as it ended, they rushed inside. As they were entering, Aman was walking out with their order and they shot him four times. Two bullets missed him, but two hit him in the chest and leg, and left him bleeding profusely,” said Yadav.Yadav said his brother rushed Aman to a hospital, but doctors declared him dead on arrival. “I had made the PCR call and when the police arrived, I told them that my brother had taken Aman to Rao Tula Ram hospital,” he said.Police said when they reached the hospital, they were told that Aman was dead. A case was registered at the Chhawla police station under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act.Police said the two men who shot Aman fled on their motorcycle parked nearby and police are scanning the CCTV footage to identify and nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-shot-dead-at-dwarka-restaurant-hunt-on-for-two-assailants-101629831666352.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||No more curbs on operational hours, restaurants, markets hope to recoup losses||Tuesday was like a normal Friday come early for restaurants, bars and market associations across the city; for the first time since April, these establishments could remain open for their usual business hours, instead of the truncated operating hours that were in place in view of Covid-19.Aiming to recover the losses sustained during the multiple lockdowns and restrictions, many associated with the hospitality sector said they hope to see their businesses returning to normal over the coming days.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in an order on August 23, lifted the restrictions on timings of restaurants, bars, markets and malls, allowing them to operate for their full business hours. However, restaurants are still allowed to take in only 50% of their capacity.The Delhi government had imposed a complete lockdown on April 19, when Covid-19 cases had started to peak amid the second wave of the pandemic. From May-end, as the number of infections started reducing, the government started opening up public places in a staggered manner. From June 14, markets were allowed to open daily but only till 8pm. Restaurants were allowed to function at 50% capacity but only till 10pm.Markets in Delhi are normally allowed to open till 9.30pm, while restaurants and bars are allowed to remain open till 1am. A new policy of the Delhi government, allowing these outlets to open till 3am, is likely to come into effect from October.Restaurateurs said they had been waiting for this day for a long time, as the restricted hours was curtailing their revenue flow — at least 60% to 70% of their business usually came after 10pm.“We have been waiting for this day. The time cap was impacting our business. Most bar-related businesses made around 60% to 70% of their total revenue after 10pm. Since Tuesday is a weekday, business has been slow, but we hope to see it picking up over the coming weekend,” said Priyank Sukhija, founder and managing director, First Fiddle F&B Private Ltd.He said owing to the restricted hours, the staff strength was also reduced by about 30% and most employees took a salary cut, as profit margins had reduced. “From Tuesday, we plan to work at 100% staff strength. Salaries, too will be restored by the month-end,” said Sukhija.Welcoming the move, Kabir Suri, vice-president, National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said restoring full working hours spells big relief for the food and beverages industry. “The restricted timings affected the dinner service. We had to take the last order at 9pm, which meant guests had to hurry up with their dinner and leave the premises. We lost a major window for business. Now , things will be more relaxed and we can also space out guests in two slots,” said Suri.Restaurant owners and market associations also said so far, the curtailed timings had not allowed the recovery of losses suffered during the lockdown periods.Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, traders’ association, Lajpat Nagar, said, “One, it would make operations more relaxed, the way it used to be. Shop owners wouldn’t have to worry about winding up in a hurry. This one hour slot would give everyone a breather and allow the crowd to be more scattered than concentrated.”He further said the market’s usual timing is 11am to 9pm. During the restricted timings, shops would open up early but customers would pour in only after 11am.“With the original timings being restored, we hope that business picks up. Most shoppers visit markets after office hours, especially during this time when the heat and humidity are at a peak. We lost business on festivals such as Rakshabandhan as well. The market will most likely revive over the weekend,” said Ashok Randhawa, president, Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-more-curbs-on-operational-hours-restaurants-and-markets-hope-to-recoup-losses-101629831665775.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Seeking restrictions on drinking age akin to living in ivory tower: Delhi govt||The Delhi government on Tuesday told the high court that when the age of voting in the country is 18 years, seeking restrictions on the legal age for drinking is like living in an agony tower.“Nobody in the right mind supports drunken driving. Today the voting age for voting is 18 and to suggest that people above 18 cannot drink is to live in an ivory tower. Most states around Delhi have 18 (as the legal drinking age)…It does not mean that if you permit people above 18, you will allow drunken driving. There is an element of emotionality in this. Also there are very strict laws to check drunken driving,” senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the Delhi government, said.The submissions were made before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh during hearing on a plea that sought a robust mechanism for mandatory age check at liquor shops, bars and restaurants serving alcohol with government documents such as the Aadhaar card or the voter ID card.The petition also sought to restrain the Delhi government from giving effect to the new Excise Policy 2021-22 which reduced the age of consuming alcohol from 25 to 21 years until a robust age verification mechanism is put in place.Delhi was one of only six states or union territories that pegged the benchmark at 25. An expert committee set up by the government recommended in December that the legal drinking age be changed to 21.Announcing the new legal drinking age in March, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the government will introduce the system of “age-gating” in the city wherein persons below 21 years will not be allowed to enter any restaurant, pub or club that serves liquor by themselves. The change in rules is part of the new Delhi excise policy which aims to reform the city’s liquor business by improving user experience, cleaning up the liquor mafia and eradicating pilferage.On August 9, the Delhi government told the high court that the decision to reduce the legal drinking age was taken to have parity with other states, especially neighbouring cities such as Noida and Ghaziabad.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, also for the Delhi government, told the court on Tuesday that people are trying to stall the new excise policy for one reason or another. He said drunken driving is not permissible under the law and the reduction in the age cannot be connected to it.The court, while issuing notice on the plea by Community Against Drunken Driving (CADD), sought the response of the Delhi government.The organisation, through activist Prince Singhal, has sought mandatory age checks at places selling and serving alcohol including bars, pubs, liquor vends and any food and beverage outlet.“Since the Delhi government introduced the new excise policy and liberalised the alcohol policy bringing down the legal drinking age and increasing alcohol availability making the alcohol policy almost at par with countries in the west, it has become even more pertinent to strictly monitor age of consumer as is done in the western nations,” the petitioner said .It also sought that the Delhi government be restrained from giving effect to the recent amendment made in the Excise Rules which permit the door step delivery of liquor until a robust age verification mechanism is instituted even for door delivery.The matter will now be heard on September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seeking-restrictions-on-drinking-age-akin-to-living-in-ivory-tower-delhi-govt-101629831664172.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Woman who immolated self near Supreme Court, dies||Three days after a 27-year-old man succumbed to burn injuries at the RML hospital, a 24-year-old woman, who set herself on fire along with the man outside the Supreme Court on August 16 over alleged harassment related to a rape complaint she filed against an MP, too died at the hospital on Tuesday morning.The woman, a resident of eastern Uttar Pradesh, was on ventilator support after sustaining 80% burn injuries in the incident. The man had 70% burns on his body.The police said that on May 1, 2019, the woman filed a rape case against Bahujan Samaj Party MP from Ghosi, Atul Rai, at the Lanka police station in Varanasi. After the MP’s anticipatory bail was rejected by the Supreme Court the same month, he surrendered in a Varanasi court in June 2019. He is currently in jail.On the afternoon of August 16, the man and woman, both from Uttar Pradesh, held a Facebook Live session from outside gate D of the Supreme Court before pouring kerosene and setting themselves on fire. In the video, the woman had accused at least five senior Uttar Pradesh police officers of harassing her to save the MP in the case she filed against him. In the 10-minute-long video, she said she was also being framed in a false case.In her complaint to the police, the woman alleged that Rai called her to his house to meet his wife on March 5, 2019, but she claimed he allegedly forced himself on her when she reached there. She also accused the MP of recording the act and allegedly using it to blackmail and threaten her against approaching police.Last week, after reports of the couple’s self-immolation, the Uttar Pradesh (UP) police had said that Rai was arrested on the woman’s complaint and a charge sheet was also filed against him. They also suspended two policemen, Varanasi Cantt SHO Rakesh Singh and sub-inspector Girija Shankar Yadav, and initiated departmental action against them for deficiencies in another case which the woman had alleged was filed to harass her.On August 17, the Uttar Pradesh government had formed a two-member team headed by a DG rank officer to probe all the FIRs pertaining to the alleged rape survivor and her male associate.The state government has also asked the two-member team to investigate allegations levelled by the woman against DG Uttar Pradesh Police Recruitment & Promotion Board (UPPRPB), RK Vishwakarma, and additional director general Neera Rawat in the video, and submit a report within two weeks.A senior Delhi Police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “ We are exploring the legal aspects of the case. The Uttar Pradesh police is already investigating her FIR. They had also gone to the hospital last week but were unable to record her statement. If need be, we will write to Facebook and use the video to file an FIR.”Police said they are in touch with the woman’s mother. Delhi Police are yet to receive a complaint related to the self-immolation incident outside the country’s apex court.When contacted, the woman’s mother did not comment on the incident.The investigation so far has revealed that the two knew each other for the past 7-8 years and were active in politics from their student years.Locals in the 27-year-old man’s village in Ghazipur, Uttar Pradesh, said that he was a witness in the case against Rai.According to police, Rai’s brother, Pawan Kumar, had filed a case against the 24-year-old woman in November 2020 at the Cantonment police station in Varanasi, accusing her of forging documents to alter her date of birth, following which a local court in Varanasi had issued a non-bailable warrant against her earlier this month.Kumar had complained in a 2015 complaint the woman filed against a student leader, she submitted documents in which her date of birth was March 10, 1997, and in the subsequent complaint against his brother in 2019, the woman said her date of birth was June 10, 1997.When HT contacted him for a response on Tuesday after reports of the woman’s death, he said, “The case is sub judice. It will not be appropriate to comment.”Earlier this year, the woman had approached the Supreme Court seeking a transfer of the case against Rai from Uttar Pradesh to a Delhi court. The Supreme Court had on March 9 stayed the trial and issued a notice to the jailed MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-who-immolated-self-near-sc-dies-101629831604723.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||High pollution levels can alter rainfall patterns, Delhi-NCR at risk: Analysis||High pollution levels not only pose a health risk to people but over time, it can also reduce the southwest monsoon rainfall by around 10-15% in the country, a new analysis has found.A recent analysis by Climate Trends, a Delhi based communications initiative building a narrative around climate ambition and low carbon development pathways, highlighted how high pollution levels impacted monsoon patterns in a region. The analysis said with the levels of toxic pollution increasing, in the coming years, monsoon rain may reduce by at least 10%.“Air pollution is likely to decrease the southwest monsoon rainfall by 10%-15% for the entire country. Meanwhile, some places might even see rain drop up to 50%. It will also impact the dynamics of monsoon like cause a delay in onset,” said Dilip Ganguly, associate professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi, who is one of the contributors to the analysis.Explaining the reason, he said, “Air pollution does not allow the landmass to warm up to the required levels. Due to the presence of pollutants, heating of land takes place at a slower rate. For instance, the required surface temperature is 40°C, while the presence of air pollution will result in restricting temperature up to 38°C or 39°C.”Signs of erratic monsoon patterns are already visible in Delhi and the neighbouring areas.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and private weather forecasters said that over the last decade, instead of receiving uniform rains, Delhi has been receiving short and intense rainfall. The number of rainy days has also reduced from around 15-17 between the years 2000 and 2009, to around 10-12 over the last 10 years.This year, Delhi saw only five rainy days in August. But in these five days, the city received 214.5 mm rainfall, a 3% surplus, the bulk of which was concentrated on August 21.The report also reiterated what Delhi is witnessing. The findings said that “although air pollution is impacting mean monsoon rainfall for India, it is the Indo-Gangetic plains which seem to be in a tight spot.”“...From March-May, the land surface gets heated due to which the strength of the inversion layer reduces, bringing down the pollution levels. However, during that time, dust from western Rajasthan and the adjoining desert region of Pakistan reaches the Indo-Gangetic plains. This along with local emissions leads to an increase in summer time pollution,” said Krishnan Raghavan, scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, and lead author on IPCC working group-one report.He said, “The geography of the north-western plains including Delhi-NCR is also not supportive. The entire Himalayan region guards the Indo-Gangetic plains, which does not allow pollutants to escape and acts as a barrier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-pollution-levels-can-alter-rainfall-patterns-delhi-ncr-at-high-risk-analysis-101629831604175.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi drains to be redesigned for lasting relief from waterlogging: Kejriwal||The design of city drains will be changed according to the suggestions by an expert team from IIT-Delhi to ensure smooth flow of water during and after heavy rains and resolve the annual problem of waterlogging on roads during monsoons, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on Delhi Drainage Masterplan.“Today CM Arvind Kejriwal chaired a review meeting on Delhi’s drainage masterplan. Design changes will be introduced in drains in accordance with recommendations of IIT. The focus will be to enable smooth flow of water during and after heavy rains. Waterlogging issues be resolved,” said a tweet from the CM’s office after the review meeting.According to the tweet by the CMO, Delhi, the review meeting was also attended by water minister Satyandar Jain, vice-chairperson of Delhi Jal Board Raghav Chadha and chief secretary Vijay Dev.The meeting came at a time when the national capital was once again brought to its knees after six hours of rainfall on Saturday, throwing traffic into disarray and inundating several key stretches and underpasses. The heavy flooding exposed how badly city needs a comprehensive drainage plan, as well a meticulous road map to ensure that local drains are cleaned properly ahead of monsoon that are managed by a multitude of agencies.On July 19, Kejriwal announced that the Delhi administration will redesign the city’s drainage system and identify more waterlogging hot spots so that area-specific interventions can be made to ensure smooth flow of traffic and people’s safety. The announcement by the chief minister came on a day when a man drowned in the submerged Pul Prahladpur underpass -- one of the perennial problem points -- and at least 39 key road stretches were flooded after heavy rain.The last drainage master plan was drafted by the Delhi administration in 1976. To be sure, Delhi was administered by a metropolitan council between 1966 and 1990. In 2016, the Delhi government commissioned a study of the city’s drainage system by IIT-Delhi. Following the study, a drainage master plan was compiled which had also pointed out to the fact that the city had no single agency to manage and maintain drainage. However, the plan could not be implemented.A senior government official abreast of the developments, said, “There are about 2,846 drains in Delhi with a total length of 3,692 km. Majority of these drains are managed by the Public Works Department (PWD). Delhi is divided into three major natural drainage basins -- Trans Yamuna, Barapullah and Najafgarh. In addition, there are also several small drainage basins connected directly to the Yamuna.”According to a statement by the CM office, the government will rope in consultants to identify and plug the problems in the drainage system. To bolster the drainage system, specific projects will be taken up to implement solutions for fixing slopes of drains, connecting storm drains to the larger drainage system, etc.The statement said that a technical expert committee has been working to decide design parameters and technical inputs like rainfall intensity, return period, run-off coefficient and retention period for the drainage master plan. The experts from IIT-Delhi have been roped in to analyse the drainage systems and suggest solutions.The two panel of experts have given 10 recommendations to the government. These range from removing encroachments on storm water drains to curb drumping of waste and sewage in stormwater drains, preventing construction on drains, rejuvenation of water bodies and designing drains from a broader perspective of the area covered by them, instead of just fixing the local concerns. The panel has also recommended improving flood monitoring and management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-drains-to-be-redesigned-for-lasting-relief-from-waterlogging-kejriwal-101629831544736.html
25-08-2021||Delhi||AAP to launch a month-long campaign ahead of municipal polls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will kick-start a campaign aimed at the Delhi municipal polls next year involving local meetings and door-to-door drives from September 1 to 30, highlighting alleged corruption in the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations (MCD), and their failures in keeping Delhi clean, said AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai.“The Aam Aadmi Party will launch a mega campaign from 1st September to 30th September to make the MCDs free of garbage and corruption. As part of the campaign, nearly 2,500 meetings will be conducted with local residents under the ‘Aapka Vidhayak Aapke Dwaar’ initiative. AAP MLAs will lead the campaign with full force,” said Rai, also a minister in the Kejriwal cabinet, at a press conference on Tuesday.He said, “Ward-wise preparation meetings will be held in all 272 wards of Delhi from 25 to 30 August under the ‘Aapka Vidhayak Aapke Dwaar’ initiative. The people of Delhi continuously gave the BJP chance in the MCD, and in return, the BJP councillors gave garbage and corruption to the people.”“With the support of the people, AAP will bring change in the MCD in the same way it brought change to Delhi (government). The BJP got zero seats in the MCD by-polls earlier this year. They will see the same result in the forthcoming MCD elections,” Rai added.In the bypolls to five municipal wards in February this year, the AAP won four and the Congress got one seat. The BJP drew a blank.Delhi goes to the municipal polls next year.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Like all political parties, the Aam Aadmi Party is free to run its political agenda before the municipal polls but the truth is that the AAP has no interest in improving civic services, it just wants to grab power in the civic bodies.”“It is sad that the AAP has chosen to play dirty politics against municipal corporations at a time when Delhi gets inundated for days after short spells of rains, the water supply and sewage services have almost collapsed due to corruption in the jal board, and today even the Delhi High Court has sought response from the Delhi Jal Board on its accounts balance sheets since 2015. The Delhi government is today answerable to the people on charges of corruption in the DTC bus purchase and scams in the jal board. To divert public attention from these serious allegations, the AAP is trying to mislead people by levelling baseless allegations against the municipal corporations. Mr Gopal Rai is a minister in the Delhi government, and if he really wishes to improve civic services he should shed political bias and make his Delhi government release long withheld municipal funds,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-to-launch-a-month-long-campaign-ahead-of-municipal-polls-101629831544122.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Stray dog issue pitting neighbour against neighbour||The stray dog issue has polarised various neighbourhoods in Chandigarh. A recent case in Sector 8 has once again put the spotlight on this rift between dog lovers who want to feed and care for the strays and those who want an end to the “nuisance” caused by them.Rajbir Rai, the Sector 8 resident who was issued a show-cause notice on his neighbours’ complaint for allegedly keeping around a dozen stray dogs, calls it a “problem between neighbours” in which stray dogs have been made the scapegoat. “I care for the strays and feed them. There has been no instance of dog bites due to them,” he says, while alleging that he had earlier filed a complaint of animal abuse against a neighbour that led to the whole episode.In Sector 22, a woman unwilling to be named, shares how she had rescued a stray dog in February that later gave birth to nine puppies and led to a dispute with her neighbours. “My neighbours even tried to abandon the puppies in a forest area,” she says. In Sector 37, Sameer Gupta, who lives in a corner house next to the park, is among those who have to deal with the stray dog issue on a daily basis. “Some animal lovers have made kennels in the park, which often leads to conflicts. As the kennels were made illegally, I had written to the civic body and got them removed in January. The very next day the other group threatened me and rebuilt the kennels,” he says. A civic body official, who deals with this issue, says on the condition of anonymity: “If the neighbours keep sending us complaints, we have to take action. We often ask people who want to take care of such stray dogs to simply adopt them.”However, the Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs Bylaws allows a family to keep only two pets. A couple of years back there was a proposal to allow a family to adopt two additional stray dogs, but it was not implemented. District animal welfare officer Inder Sandhu says that “de-escalation” is the key here, and the problem would not arise if the civic body does its job properly. According to Sandhu, there have been many instances where the anger towards dogs was found to be misplaced, and after his intervention, some people had even taken back their complaints.In March this year, the Animal Welfare Board of India had issued an advisory to all chief secretaries, police departments and civic bodies on handling of such issues. According to it, resident welfare associations and dog feeders should identify feeding spots in the respective neighbourhoods. It also suggests that the station house officer concerned should be made responsible for ensuring that the feeders and other residents don’t cause any kind of harassment to each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhstray-dog-issue-pitting-neighbour-against-neighbour-101629831485855.html
25-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow SGPGI to substantially increase emergency admissions soon||To accommodate more emergency cases at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), the emergency wing will soon be shifted to the organ transplant centre. The organ transplant centre has 510 beds out of which 110 would be used for the new emergency ward, a substantial increase from the existing 30 beds, SGPGIMS officials said. “Once the emergency wing has more beds, we would be able to accommodate more emergency patients many of whom have to be refused admission as our emergency admission capacity is limited at present,” said director SGPGIMS professor Radha Krishna Dhiman. The remaining section of the organ transplant centre would be used to perform liver transplants, SGPGIMS officials said. The doctors of the institute perform around 120 kidney transplants annually. Minister of health education Suresh Khanna during the Annual Conference of Indian Society of Nephrology at SGPGIMS’s Shruti Auditorium had directed the PGI authorities to increase emergency admission. “We will ensure that patient care at SGPGIMS is improved. The increase in the number of beds will surely improve patient care in the days to come,” professor Dhiman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-sgpgi-to-substantially-increase-emergency-admissions-soon-101629831484728.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Took 2 vax doses, certificates show jabbed once: Couple in Maharashtra||A couple from Badlapur who took both their doses of Covid-19 vaccine have complained that their vaccination certificates mention only one dose completed. As a result, they claimed they were deprived of travelling by local trains.The couple, Razia Khurshid husen Shaikh, 65, and Khurshidhusen Abdulla Shaikh, 65, who got their first dose of Covishield on March 24 in a private hospital in Thane, took their second dose at Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council’s (KBMC) Dubey Hospital on May 20. However, after the second dose, they received a certificate that showed their second dose of vaccine as the first dose.“Now, I have two certificates that show first dose of vaccination. I have been visiting the civic hospital to update it since May. However, they have not done anything about it. Now, since one can travel in local trains after full vaccination, we are deprived of this even after taking our full dose,” said Shaikh. “I want to travel by train to my daughter’s place in Mulund. Taking the road is a nightmare now-a-days due to the traffic situation. One day, it took four hours from Badlapur to Mulund,” said Shaikh.The couple had approached the KBMC to make the correction on the CoWIN app and help them update the certificate. The KBMC staff had made the correction on the receipt provided to the couple. However, the same is not updated on the app yet.“When I went to take the second dose, the staff there did not even bother to ask me about my first dose. They simply filled the form. It was very crowded too. It is not convenient for us to keep visiting the hospital to get this issue resolved,” added Shaikh, who is a retired person. Chief officer of KBMC, Yogesh Ghodase, said, “I will look into this matter and help it get solved after checking with my staff.”In Badlapur, there are three civic-run vaccination centres – Dubey Hospital, a rural hospital and a primary health centre in Badlapur gaon. Badlapur residents complained about lack of vaccines in the civic-run hospitals and had to go to other cities to get vaccinated. Some also complained about mismanagement at the centres.“When I went for the second dose on Monday afternoon, they said there is no stock available. I thought of waiting to see if there was a chance, and after some time, an employee came and allowed everyone in for the dose” said Sudha Nambiar, 56.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/took-2-vax-doses-certificates-show-jabbed-once-couple-in-maharashtra-101629831304706.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: NHAI’s ₹700-cr project hits roadblock||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)’s ambitious project to build a greenfield alignment to decongest the Airport Road in Mohali besides Chandigarh and Zirakpur has hit a hurdle.Even though the authority has released ₹450 crore to acquire 400 acres of land to construct the 32-kilometre road, affected landowners in Nagiari, Devi Nagar and other villages have raised objections to the compensation being provided for acquisition. The amount ranges from ₹24 lakh to ₹4.12 crore per acre depending upon the location.A greenfield road is built in an area that has never been developed. The planned road from IT Chowk near the Chandigarh International Airport to the Kurali-Chandigarh road will provide an alternative route to traffic moving between the Delhi side and parts of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. The NHAI will be acquiring around 400 acres of land in 28 villages for the ₹700-crore project. According to a senior NHAI official, Ashoka Buildcon Limited has been finalised to construct the project. “We have already released ₹450 crore, as per the rate fixed by the land acquisition collector,” he said.Mohali district revenue officer Gurjinder Singh Benipal said some of the landowners have raised objections over the amount of compensation, as at some places it is just ₹24 lakh per acre. “They have also given a representation to the authorities concerned, and now the state government is holding talks with the NHAI to increase the compensation. For the time being, we have put the disbursal of money on hold and we are hopeful that the issue will be resolved soon,” he said.The NHAI had come up with this project after scrapping the project to widen the 40-km Kharar-Banur-Tepla road in July 2019, owing to its high cost. Even MP Manish Tewari had taken up the need for an alternative route with Union minister Nitin Gadkari in February 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-nhai-s-700-cr-project-hits-roadblock-101629831184601.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Row over Rane’s remarks: 3 FIRs in Mumbai after clashes between Sena, BJP workers||Mumbai Police on Tuesday evening registered three first information reports (FIR) following protests and clashes between Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) workers that erupted after Union minister Narayan Rane’s objectionable comments on Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray.Santacruz police station has registered two cross FIRs under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act against eight known accused and some unknown persons in the both cases.Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order), said that a large crowd had gathered outside Rane’s Juhu residence and started shouting slogans against the Shiv Sena. Workers from the Sena also reached the spot and began abusing BJP workers, after which a clash took place between the two groups. The police tried to restrain the crowd and disperse them to avert any injuries.“There was adequate police force to prevent the clashes but a mob came and resorted to stone pelting. We, however, dispersed the crowd before any untoward incident took place,” said Patil.The third FIR was registered at Kasturba Marg police station in Borivli (East) under the relevant sections of IPC and the Bombay Police Act against six people and 80-90 unidentified people. The officers said that the accused were detained at the respective police stations later in the evening.Another FIR against RaneMeanwhile, Rane faces another FIR after a case was registered against him in Thane on Tuesday afternoon for his remarks against Thackeray. According to Naupada police, the FIR was filed on the basis of a complaint by Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske, who reached the police station around 11.30am on Tuesday. “I believe that Rane’s statement has the potential to create disharmony and enmity in the society as well as harm the image of the CM. What he has said can lead to clashes between activists of different parties,” Mhaske told the police in his statement. An officer with Naupada police said, “Based on Mhaske’s statement, an FIR on defamation and making statements amounting to public mischief under the Indian Penal Code has been filed against Rane.” Rane’s statement has led to clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP members in Thane too. Shiv Sainiks pelted stones and threw ink bottles at BJP office in Khopat. BJP workers raised slogans against the Shiv Sena. In Kalyan (West), several Shiv Sena leaders thronged outside BJP office and vandalised its window. They also put a footwear garland on Rane’s effigy. Shiv Sena party workers also staged a protest outside the Kalyan tehsildar’s office. The BJP office at Ahilya Bai Chowk in Kalyan (West) was vandalised and a BJP worker was manhandled. In Kalyan (East), some Shiv Sena workers were detained during their protest. Protests were organised in Vashi, where the Shiv Sena resorted to rasta rook. In Airoli, Rane’s effigy was thrashed with footwear and burnt, while in Kharghar, the protestors marched to the police station, demanding that a case be registered against him. Former opposition leader Vijay Chougule of Shiv Sena said, “If anyone thinks that we will sit quietly on challenging our leader Uddhav Thackeray and the Shiv Sena, we will teach them a lesson. Narayan Rane is a senior politician who should know what language he should be used.” As reports of Rane’s arrest began coming in, Shiv Sena’s Raigad district advisor Baban Patil led the party’s celebrations in Panvel and by bursting crackers. Meanwhile, the BJP protested against Rane’s arrest. Protest on Mumbai-Goa roadThe women’s cell of Shiv Sena from Raigad staged a protest on the Mumbai- Goa road and in Mahad, claiming that if Rane ever steps foot in Raigad, they would make him wear bangles. The cell had conducted protests at various places in Raigad. Before Rane’s arrest, Sena workers had blocked the Mumbai-Goa highway, demanding an apology by the Union minister over his comment, and also organised a protest at Shivaji Chowk in Mahad. Sapna Malusare, Mahad panchayat samiti chairman, said, “Rane got his identity because of [late Sena founder] Balasaheb Thackeray. Rane could reach such heights because of the Thackeray family, and today he dared to speak ill of Uddhav Thackeray. If he ever steps in Raigad, we will make him wear bangles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/row-over-rane-s-remarks-3-firs-in-mumbai-after-clashes-between-sena-bjp-workers-101629831065087.html
25-08-2021||Other||Solvers’ gang busted by UP STF in Kaushambi, four held||Prayagraj unit of Special Task Force (STF) claimed to have busted a solvers gang after the arrest of four persons from Kaushambi on Tuesday.STF officials said the accused were involved in helping aspirants of Preliminary Eligibility Test 2021 (PET) through solvers and electronic devices. Large number of electronic equipment and documents were recovered from their possession, police said.Circle Officer (CO) STF, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Navendu Kumar said, a tip off was received about members of solvers gang planning to provide solvers in Group B and C vacancies of PET-2021 examinations.Subsequently a raid was carried out near Osa Crossing in Manjhanpur area of Kaushambi from where three persons identified Rahul Singh, Abhishek Singh and Uday Shankar Singh of Koraon area of Prayagraj were arrested.Later, police arrested a solver Pankaj Kumar of Bihar’s Rohtas district from examination centre at Durga Devi Intermediate College at Osa. Pankaj was to appear in the examination in place of original aspirant Deepak Singh of Koraon.The arrested persons informed police that they used to arrange for solvers for a price. STF officials said the gang also used to leak question papers and provide unfair means to aspirants through different means including bluetooth and other electronic devices. The charges depended on the kind of help they provided, STF officials said. Forged adhaar cards were used to provide solvers. “The gang was going to use solvers at some examinations centres at Kanpur and Varanasi,” The STF CO Navendu Kumar said.“Solver Pankaj Kumar used to take ₹40,000 for appearing in the examination and out of which he took ₹20,000 as advance. An FIR has been lodged against the accused under relevant sections of IPC at Manjhanpur police station of Kaushambi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/solvers-gang-busted-by-up-stf-in-kaushambi-four-held-101629830884842.html
25-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana:Rival factions lock horns over appointment of presiding officer for cycle body’s upcoming elections||With the election committee of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) announcing the draft voter list ahead of upcoming elections, the two factions of the executive committee are again at loggerheads over the appointment of Gurmeet Singh Kular as presiding officer. The elections are to be held on September 3.The current executive body is divided into two groups. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimerjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of six executive members, including general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva, senior vice-president Gurcharan Singh Gemco, vice-president Satnam Singh Makkar, joint secretary Walaity Ram Durga; press secretary Rajinder Singh Sarhali and finance secretary Achhru Ram Gupta.Chawla, who got an FIR registered against Kular and 30 others for allegedly attacking him and tossing his turban during the annual general meeting of the association on August 18, stated that the appointment of Kular as presiding officer is against the constitution of the association and he will file a complaint with the competent authorities to get him removed from the election committee.He added that Kular was also campaigning for his rival group, and he cannot be a part of the committee.Meanwhile, the United Alliance Group, led by Manjinder Sachdeva, stated that Kular was appointed the presiding officer by the managing committee during its meeting on July 28.Both groups had also locked horns with each other over the appointment of the presiding officer after the meeting of the managing committee held last week. While Chawla had announced Ghumman’s name, Sachdeva had announced Kular’s. Sachdeva group had afterwards stated that both Ghumman and Kular will be the presiding officers as the managing committee had approved Kular’s name too.Chawla said, “As per the association’s constitution, there can be only one presiding officer and four members, including, president and general secretary. If any changes have to be made, then a special general meeting has to be convened by giving prior notice to members. The managing committee had appointed Ghumman as presiding officer, and a video of that is also available.”Sachdeva claimed that the managing committee had appointed Kular as the presiding officer, and he also has a video regarding the same. Kular said that both Chawla and Sachdeva were removed from the election committee by the managing committee as they will be contesting elections.Meanwhile, the election committee of the association released the draft voter list on Tuesday. As many as 1,668 out of a total of around 2,700 registered members are a part of it.Only those members, who have paid the annual subscription, have voting rights. Objections have been sought against the draft list till 5 pm on Wednesday, following which the final voter list will be released on Thursday. Four members submitted their fee 10 minutes after the deadline. Objections have also been sought for their inclusion in the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianarival-factions-lock-horns-over-appointment-of-presiding-officer-for-cycle-body-s-upcoming-elections-101629830825777.html
25-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC employees’ union seeks promotion of Class IV staffers||Ruing excessive burden on the officials due to around 400 posts of clerks lying vacant in the Municipal Corporation (MC), the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee has sought the promotion of eligible Class IV employees to clerks.The members submitted a memorandum regarding the same with mayor Balkar Sandhu at MC Zone A office on Tuesday.They rued that workload and stress are taking a toll on officials’ health, due to which they are trying to get a posting at some other MC in the state. The public also faces harassment as the work gets delayed, they added.Association chairman Ashwani Sahota said that the MC should either recruit more clerks or promote the educated Class IV employees to the post of clerks to fill the vacancies.Further, they also demanded that the MC expedite the process of providing jobs to the kin of the deceased contractual employees on compassionate grounds.The mayor said that MC is already in talks with the local bodies department to recruit staff.The union’s demand regarding the promotion of Class IV employees will also be taken up at the state level, he added,‘Roll back MC secy’s transfer orders’The association also sought the rollback of transfer orders of MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon.Earlier on August 9, the association members said that the abrupt transfer was a ‘punishment posting’ for Sekhon, who had tightened the noose around the plastic industry after the mayor announced a complete ban on plastic bags in the city from August 1.Sekhon was transferred to MC Abohar on August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-employees-union-seeks-promotion-of-class-iv-staffers-101629830824649.html
25-08-2021||Other||Solid waste management: Ludhiana MC initiates work on implementation of Chandigarh model in city||Struggling with solid waste management, the municipal corporation (MC) has commenced work on the implementation of the Chandigarh model of door-to-door collection of garbage in the city. The civic body is taking steps to involve the informal sector, which is currently collecting waste from the households along with the MC. It will also purchase e-rickshaws for door-to-door collection.Further, the civic body is conducting a micro survey in the city to determine the number of kitchens in each building. Based on this, it will fix the waste collection charges. The officials stated that the MC has completed 25% of the survey. The MC is also gathering information about the garbage collectors of every area. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also conducted a review meeting regarding the same with MC officials on Tuesday. Citing the census 2011 data, the MC officials stated that there were around 3.5 lakh properties in the city at that time but, there is no data available regarding the number of the same at present. The MC has not been able to streamline door to door collection of garbage in the city due to the presence of the informal sector. The informal sector, which charges a certain fee from the residents for the collection of waste without any regulation, raises agitation whenever MC tries handing it over to the private sector. Even in 2011, when the MC appointed A2Z company for solid waste management in the city, the informal sector had raised concern. Under the Chandigarh model, the civic body has decided to involve the informal sector and to ensure a certain amount to the collectors involved.MC commissioner Sabharwal said,” MC is working to streamline solid waste management in the city, and tenders are also being floated for processing over 1,100 metric tonnes of waste generated in the city daily.”“A team of MC officials also visited Chandigarh last month to study the waste management model there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/solid-waste-management-ludhiana-mc-initiates-work-on-implementation-of-chandigarh-model-in-city-101629830767779.html
25-08-2021||Other||PAU develops five varieties of three crops||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has developed and recommended three new varieties of wheat and one each of berseem (clover) and oats for general cultivation in Punjab. These include PBW 803, PBW 824, and PBW 869 of wheat, BL 44 of berseem, and OL 15 of oats.The varieties were approved during the meeting of the state variety approval committee held under the chairmanship of Dr Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, director, agriculture, Punjab.According to Dr Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, and Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director (Extension education), PAU, the variety PBW 803 has been recommended for cultivation in the south-western region (Bathinda, Faridkot, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Mansa, and Muktsar) under irrigated timely sown conditions.“Its average height is 100 cm, and it matures in about 151 days. It is resistant to brown rust and moderately to yellow rust. Its average yield is 22.7 quintals per acre,” said Dr Bains.The variety PBW 824 has been recommended for general cultivation in Punjab under irrigated timely sown conditions. Its average plant height is 104 cm and matures in about 156 days.The PBW 869 variety has been recommended for sowing with happy seeder/super seeder in in-situ rice residue-managed fields, based on research and adaptive trials conducted by the Borlaug Institute for South Asia and PAU. Its average height is 101 cm, and it matures in about 158 days. It is resistant to brown rust and moderately to yellow rust. Its average yield is 23.2 quintals per acre. It possesses a high 1000-grain weight and longer coleoptile.Clover variety BL 44 grows quickly and has more tillers. It out yielded the check variety BL 43 by 5.9% for green fodder yield and also possessed better nutritional characteristics.The oats variety OL 15 is a single-cut oats variety for irrigated areas of Punjab. Its plants are tall, have long and broad leaves with more leafiness and tillering ability. On average, it yields about 309 quintals of green fodder per acre. Its seed yield is about 9.8 quintals per acre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-develops-five-varieties-of-three-crops-101629830766772.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Khanna: 5 booked for helping candidates pass exams by fraudulent means||Khanna’s City 2 police on Tuesday booked five persons for helping candidates pass various competitive exams through electronic devices. According to the police, the accused also prepared forged examination cards and appeared on behalf of candidates. The accused are Vikas Kumar, Ankit Kumar, and Rakesh Kumar of Sangrur and Jatinder Kumar and Amit Kumar of Haryana’s Hisar.City 2 SHO Vinod Kumar said the accused used to approach aspirants who had applied for different examinations conducted by Punjab and Haryana. They would take money from these candidates for helping them in attempting the tests through electronic devices, he added. The accused also offered provision of taking the tests on the behalf of candidates, the SHO said. A case under sections 420, 467, 468, 471, and 120-B of the IPC and sections 66 and 66 C of the Information and Technology Act has been registered against the accused, who will be arrested soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khanna-5-booked-for-helping-candidates-pass-exams-by-fraudulent-means-101629830765690.html
25-08-2021||Other||GADVASU experts create awareness on parasitic infections in livestock||Parasitic infections in dairy animals can cause economic losses to the tune of hundreds of crores every year, said Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.He was speaking during a workshop organised to create awareness on control and mitigation strategies for parasitic diseases. The directorate of extension education, GADVASU, in collaboration with the department of veterinary parasitology, organised the workshop. The V-C spoke about the importance of scientific knowledge regarding diagnosis, control, and specific treatment of parasitic diseases. He further said the farmers should adopt diversified integrated animal husbandry practices to increase the profits from the dairy sector. JPS Gill, director of research, spoke about the menace of parasites in the light of public health. He said that parasitic problems can be transmitted from animals to humans and vice-versa.PS Brar, director of extension education, GADVASU, shared his views on the economic losses in terms of lower productivity, feed efficiency as well as frequent reproductive failures and issues of drug resistance, especially in the gastrointestinal parasites, and tick infestations. SPS Ghuman, dean, College of Veterinary Science, emphasised the management of diseases to enhance livestock productivity.LD Singla, professor-cum-head, department of veterinary parasitology, urged the farmers to adopt a combination of surveillance, good management, and control measures to reduce the menace.Anish Yadav from Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Jammu; Sukhdeep Vohra and Dr Aman Dev Moudgil from the Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences of Hisar; LD Singla and NK Singh from GADVASU delivered expert talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gadvasu-experts-create-awareness-on-parasitic-infections-in-livestock-101629830764688.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Silver ornament worth ₹70,000 stolen from Ludhiana temple||A man stole a silver ornament from a temple in Naseeb Enclave, police said on Tuesday. The stolen item was a snake made of silver and installed on the ‘shivling’, which was worth ₹70,000. Haibowal police have launched an investigation and identified the man after scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the temple.The accused is Prince, a resident of Chandan Nagar in Haibowal. The FIR in the case was lodged on the statement of Des Raj, a devotee. He told the police that he noticed the missing silver snake from the shivling when he went to the temple to pay obeisance on Monday. He said the priest and members of the temple management committee were immediately informed, who further alerted the police. The priest of the temple estimated the cost of the silver snake around ₹70,000. He added that renovation work was going on in the temple. “Labourers were painting the walls on the first floor,” he added. On scanning the CCTV footage, they found that a man wearing a cap entered the temple around 1.30pm and stole the snake before fleeing on the scooter he had parked outside the temple.Sub-Inspector Bhajan Singh, who is investigating the case, said they have identified the accused through the CCTV footage. A hunt is on to arrest the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/silver-ornament-worth-70-000-stolen-from-ludhiana-temple-101629830707901.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees no new Covid case after more than a year||It was on May 27, 2020, when Ludhiana had seen no new case of Covid-19 ever since the pandemic began. On Tuesday, the feat was achieved again after more than a year, when the district added no fresh patient to its tally. Only one person each had tested positive for the viral disease on August 9 and August 23, which was the lowest count reported since August 1, 2020, when the health department began maintaining the list of daily Covid cases.During the peak of the first wave, 438 fresh cases were reported in the district on September 15. As the first wave subsided, the least number of cases the district had logged was five on November 11. When the second wave of the contagion had peaked in Ludhiana in May this year, the daily case count had hit the all-time high of 1,729 on May 9 and a record 30 deaths were registered twice, on May 10 and 11. The district had registered 29,529 cases and 624 deaths in May, highest since the pandemic started last year, leaving the health infrastructure crumbling. However, the situation started improving with the imposition of stricter curbs and restriction on public movement.Compared to May, June accounted for 2,849 infections and 87 casualties. While only 334 cases and five deaths surfaced in July, 159 cases and three deaths have been reported till August 24, lowest in 16 months. The elusive zeroDistrict epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said it was satisfying to hit the elusive number zero. “I have been waiting for this day since March 24, 2020, when the first case was reported in the district. Since then, we have been striving to bring down the cases to zero. I want to congratulate the health department, administration, police and especially the people of Ludhiana for helping in reaching this point,” he added. Experts caution against complacencyDespite the respite from the worrisome numbers, health experts have cautioned that no Covid case doesn’t mean no responsibility.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said, “Zero case does not mean that coronavirus has vanished. The residents must continue to adhere to safety protocols and also get vaccinated at the earliest. Only by following simple rules of wearing masks, sanitising hands and maintaining social distance that this virus could be defeated.”Dr Bishav Mohan, member of the Punjab Covid task force, said, “We have achieved a milestone but at the same time, we can’t lower our guards. It is important that more and more people get vaccinated and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. People should come forward to get tested if symptoms appear as the virus is still deadly. Timely response can save lives.”No patient admitted in hospitalCurrently, no Covid patient from Ludhiana is undergoing treatment at any government or private hospital in the district. There are 35 active cases in the district and all of those are under home isolation. The health department has collected 8,695 samples on Tuesday. While the total number of positive cases in the district stands at 87,457, as many as 85,326 patients have recovered.Five fresh infections take district’s dengue count to 23Five more people were found suffering from dengue on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 23. There are 430 suspected patients, who had been suffering from dengue-like symptoms.According to district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat, as many as 21 cases of the vector-borne disease were reported from the urban areas, while one case each was reported from Sidhwan Bet and Jagraon.He said that majority of the cases were reported from Kailash Chowk, Bhamia Road, Chander Nagar, Janata Nagar, Model Town, Basti Jodhewal, Rani Jhansi Road, Ferozepur Road, Ashapuri and Civil Lines areas.He said that 20 residents from other districts have also tested positive of dengue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-no-new-covid-case-after-more-than-a-year-101629830706785.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two booked for sodomising, threatening 17-year-old boy||Ludhiana’s Salem Tabri police have booked two men for allegedly sodomising a 17-year-old boy and recording the act. The accused also circulated the video in various WhatsApp groups, it has been alleged. Father of the victim told the police that the accused had been sexually assaulting and threatening his son for the past few months. “Fearing humiliation, my son could not share his trauma with anyone. The matter came to light when the accused shared the video on the instant messaging app,” the father added. The accused, aged 32 and 25, have been identified as two of the boy’s friends.The fist information report (FIR) has been registered following the statement of the father of victim.He further mentioned in his complaint that on August 21, he saw his son crying. “On asking, he shared with us how the accused, who are his friends, took him to their house and sodomised him. The accused also recorded the crime in their mobile phones and circulated the video among other common friends,” he added. Inspector Gopal Krishan said that during the probe, it was found that the accused had been assaulting the boy sexually for a long time by threatening him with dire consequences. The FIR against the duo has been registered under sections 377 (sodomy) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Section 68 of the Information and Technology Act. A hunt is on to nab the accused, the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-booked-for-sodomising-threatening-17-year-old-boy-101629830705743.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bitumen contractors to stall work citing ‘corruption, wrong policies’ of Ludhiana MC||Compounding troubles for the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and the Congress ahead of the assembly elections, bitumen contractors in the city have announced to boycott road construction projects in the city citing “corruption and wrong policies adopted by the civic body for allotment of such projects”. During a meeting held at a hotel on Ferozepur Road on Tuesday, members of Ludhiana Hotmix Plant Welfare Association said projects worth around ₹200 crore will be affected if the MC failed to take corrective measures. These include the projects which have already been allotted by the MC besides those for which tenders have been floated. Among their other concerns is the condition imposed by the MC wherein the bitumen contractors have been directed to quote and complete the road construction projects within 6% lesser amount in comparison to the estimate prepared by the civic body. President of the association, Vinod Jain said, “It is not feasible for a contractor to complete the project and earn a marginal profit by quoting 94% of the estimated amount. We need to quote at least 98% of that amount. The government has fixed the estimates for completing different works and tenders are floated online. Even if a contractor submits a bid to complete the project in one percent lesser than the estimate amount, the MC has no right to force him to quote at least 6% lesser rate as the contractor has got the tender by quoting the lowest amount among other bidders. If the contractor does not quote the lower rate, then the contract is given to some other contractor of their choice.”The contractors, including association’s chairperson Amrik Singh, vice-president Bhagwan Das and Sunil Kumar among others, stated that due to the “prevalent corruption” in the MC, tenders were not allotted to the lowest bidder, but the second lowest bidder in “exchange of commission”. They also claimed that the projects under the Smart City Mission were being given to the contractors who did not even meet the requirements. “If any contractor raises objection, officials initiate a process to blacklist him. Security amount submitted by contractors in the last two years has not been refunded even after the completion of projects. MC officials even ask for a commission for releasing the payment for completed works. We will not operate the hotmix plant until the issues are resolved. We also urge Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh to take corrective steps and initiate action against corrupt officials,” Jain added. ‘Public representatives also involved’The association of contractors alleged that public representatives, especially from the Congress, were also involved in the nexus due to which, no action was taken against officials. Without naming anyone, the contractors said that they had also submitted a complaint to the mayor in the past, but to no avail. Will not succumb to pressure mounted by contractors: Mayor Accusing the contractors of looting the MC by forming a pool and quoting lower rates for road construction projects and further employing tactics such as a boycott, Ludhiana mayor Balkar Sandhu said the civic body will instead use ready mixed concrete for road construction projects and would not succumb to the pressure being mounted by the contractors.“The bitumen projects will be converted into ready mixed concrete ones after approval in the F&CC meeting. The MC might have to spend a little more, but we will neither compromise with the quality nor allow the contractors to loot the hard-earned money of the taxpayers,” he added. Public to face harassmentWith residents already facing inconvenience due to poor condition of roads in different parts of the city, the tussle between the civic body and the contractors is further set to harass the public as the road projects will get delayed. Deep potholes can be seen even on main roads of the city, including Gill Road, Dugri Road, Model Town-Jawaddi Road, Haibowal, Giaspura and BRS Nagar areas among others, while waterlogging during the rainy season adds to the woes of commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bitumen-contractors-to-stall-work-citing-corruption-wrong-policies-of-ludhiana-mc-101629830704687.html
25-08-2021||Mumbai||No Bombay HC relief for Narayan Rane||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to grant urgent hearing on the appeal against the rejection of the anticipatory bail application of Union Minister and Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane by the Ratnagiri sessions court. The HC also did not hear a separate petition seeking quashing of the three first information reports (FIR) registered against Rane at various police stations for making inappropriate comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during a speech at Raigad on Monday in the course of the Jan Ashirwad Yatra.According to sources, the registry of the HC sought the original copy of the order by the Ratnagiri court, before allowing the filing of the appeal. Sources also said that after getting the original copy of the court order, attempts would be made to file the appeal and get an urgent hearing on Wednesday. The appeal filed by advocate Aniket Nikam was mentioned before a bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, even as Rane was taken into custody by Sangameshwar police station. However, the court directed Nikam to follow due procedure before approaching the court. Nikam approached the bench of HC soon after the lunch hour concluded at 2.30pm, and mentioned the two applications seeking anticipatory bail and quashing of the FIRs filed against Rane at Pune, Nashik and Mahad. Rane has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code which including section 500 (defamation), 505(2) (intent to incite), 153 (b) (1) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration).While speaking to the media, Nikam said as the maximum sentence for the offences under which Rane was booked was seven years, the MP was eligible for bail. He further added that the police failed to issue a notice, as stipulated under section 41 A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), before taking Rane into custody, which was a procedural lapse. The offence at Nashik has been registered by the cyber police under sections 500, 505(2), 153 (b) (1) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) based on the complaint of the local unit chief of Shiv Sena. Following the registration of the complaint, the police commissioner of Nashik issued an order to arrest the minister and formed a team. In Pune, the FIR has been registered under sections 153 and 505 of the IPC, following a complaint by a member of the Yuva Sena and the third FIR in Mahad was also registered on a complaint from Siddesh Patekar, a Yuva Sena office holder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-bombay-hc-relief-for-narayan-rane-101629830649309.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: SUV driver hits biker, thrashes him after he refuses to strike a compromise||Three men have been booked for allegedly assaulting a man after he refused to comply with their demands. As per complainant Navdeep Singh, one of them was the driver of an SUV, which had hit his bike on Chakkar village road and he had suffered injuries in the accident. The driver later called his two accomplices, who forced Navdeep to consume liquor and when he refused, the trio thrashed him.The victim told the police that the accused wanted him to consume liquor so that they could reach a compromise. Following the complaint of Navdeep, who is a resident of Badhni Kalan village in Moga, Hathur police have booked Deesa, Preet and Soni of Malla village. Navdeep said he was going to Rama village from Jagraon. “On reaching Chakkar village, I stopped on the roadside after seeing a Toyota Fortuner SUV coming from opposite side which was being driven recklessly,” he told the police. “The SUV, however, hit my motorcycle and left me with injuries in the right knee and wrist. The accused fled from the spot, but returned after some time with his two aides. They then tried to make me consume liquor and when I refused, they beat me up,” Navdeep added. The victim was taken to a hospital by a few passersby.ASI Rashpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under sections 279, 337, 338, 427, 324 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused and efforts are on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-suv-driver-hits-biker-thrashes-him-after-he-refuses-to-strike-a-compromise-101629830647182.html
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding car mows down elderly woman, youth in Ludhiana||A car reportedly being driven at a high speed mowed down a 19-year-old youth and an elderly woman riding pillion on his motorcycle at Hariyon village bypass near Samrala on Monday evening. As per the eyewitnesses, after hitting the motorcycle, the car driver dragged the woman for at least 50 metres. While the woman died on the spot, the youth succumbed to his injuries at a hospital. After the accident, the driver of the car managed to flee from the spot, leaving his vehicle on the road. The victims have been identified as Karanvir Singh of Samrala’s Khirniyan village and Malkit Kaur, 75, of Hariyon. Karanvir was a student of Class 12, while Malkit was a widow, police said. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Shamsher Singh, who is investigating the case, said the incident took place around 7.30pm on Monday. “Karanvir was going to Samrala to meet his maternal uncle and grandmother. When he reached near Hariyon, Malkit took a lift from him and asked him to drop her to Samrala,” he added. As they reached Hariyon bypass, a speeding Maruti Suzuki Brezza coming from the Chandigarh side hit their motorcycle, the ASI said. “Such was the impact of the collision that both of them were tossed into the air for at least six feet. Karanvir fell on the roadside, while the woman fell in front of the car. Instead of stopping the car, its driver dragged the woman for at least 50 metres. The accused left the car on the spot and fled. Few passersby rushed Karanvir to a hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries,” he added. According to the eyewitnesses, body of the woman was not taken away from the accident spot for more than one hour as ambulance arrived ‘late’.The investigating officer said that a case under sections 279, 427 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the driver of the car, who has not yet been identified. A hunt is on to nab him, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-car-mows-down-elderly-woman-youth-in-ludhiana-101629830644668.html
25-08-2021||Other||Demand for Article 370 restoration : PAGD leaders befooling Kashmiris, says ex-deputy chief minister Gupta||Jammu Senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta on Tuesday took a swipe at the leaders of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), who, he claimed, “They bowed before the Prime Minister at the all-party meeting, but now raking up the demand of the restoration of Article 370 to befool Kashmiris.” The PAGD leaders met at Farooq Abdullah’s residence in Srinagar and demanded the restoration of Article 370 and 35-A on Tuesday.Gupta added, “The same leaders performed Dandvat Pranam before PM Modi during the all-party meeting. Then, none of them uttered a single word on Article 370. The PAGD leaders know that restoration of Article 370 is next to impossible but to mislead the people of Kashmir again and again they are using the age-old tactics of deceit and deception to create an atmosphere against the policies of the BJP government.” Expressing surprise over the ‘acumen’ of PAGD leaders demanding the restoration of Article 370, the senior BJP leader claimed this contentious Article gave J&K unemployment, terrorism, under-development, poverty, hunger and all other ills plaguing the region.“If the PAGD leaders really wanted upliftment of the people of UT of J&K, they would have demanded more industry, avenues to promote tourism especially international as it is the mainstay of the UT and government jobs for educated youth. The alliance is seeking a return of the dark era in Kashmir. The Centre will never allow this to happen,” he claimed, adding, “People are now wary of the destructive game-plan of the PAGD. They will not fall prey to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/demand-for-article-370-restoration-pagd-leaders-befooling-kashmiris-says-ex-deputy-chief-minister-gupta-101629830585021.html
25-08-2021||Other||PAGD passes restoration seeking original status of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Tuesday passed a resolution demanding the restoration of the original constitutional position of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh; it also demanded that Articles 370, 35A and full statehood be restored.The meeting, the first extended deliberation of the alliance, was held at the residence of National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah. Political workers from across J&K attended, with top leaders like Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti addressing the gathering. Leaders and workers of the NC alliance; Peoples Democratic Party; Communist Party of India (Marxist); J&K Awami National Conference and the J&K People’s Movement participated.PAGD spokesman and the general secretary of CPI(M), Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, said, “Unconstitutional decisions of August 5, 2019 taken in Parliament to nullify Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution of India and the damaging legislation which dismembered the historic state and created two Union Territories – Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh - has created a big political void. It is extremely unfortunate that judicial challenges to the abrogation, as a violation of the Constitution, continue to remain pending before the Supreme Court even after two years.”Tarigami, who was flanked by top leaders of the alliance, claimed that the suppression of civil liberties and democratic rights continues unabated in J&K.“Attack on democratic rights under draconian laws like UAPA/PSA continues; hundreds remain under detention without even charges being framed. New orders are being passed like non-clearance of passports and no government services to anyone involved in ‘law and order’ or ‘stone pelting cases’. This negates the principle of natural justice by equating a police report with being guilty. Jurisprudence underlines that everyone is innocent till proven guilty. “He said that by making the status of permanent residents of erstwhile state redundant, the protection of jobs and land rights were snatched arbitrarily.“The economy of the region is getting from bad to worse by the day, as promises of development, investment and job creation of the government have fallen flat. Instead of creating new employment opportunities, daily wagers, casual labourers, scheme workers and other contractual employees are either not getting wages regularly or are being denied their wages. Agriculture and horticulture, tourism, handicraft, transport and other sectors are in deep crisis.”Tarigami said that successive executive orders post August 2019 like domicile laws, curbs on media, intimidation of government employees, discriminatory rules on employment were just some authoritarian diktats that had been imposed on J&K residents .“Termination of some employees without giving them a chance to be heard, has created a fear psychosis. Local officers are being sidelined. The abolition of state cadre is one more step towards disempowerment of the people,” the PAGD spokesperson said, adding, “Leaders condemned the killings of unarmed persons, including political activists. It is imperative J&K residents remain united and not fall prey to false campaigns to divide them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pagdpasses-restoration-seeking-original-status-of-jammu-kashmir-and-ladakh-101629830164633.html
25-08-2021||Other||Former Meghalaya MLA sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for raping minor||A court in Meghalaya on Tuesday sentenced former Mawhati legislator and Hynñiewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) surrendered founding chairman, Julius Dorphang, to 25 years in imprisonment for raping a minor girl, officials said. The sentence was pronounced by Special Judge Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), FS Sangma, in Ri-Bhoi district. Dorphang’s counsel, Kishore Ch Gautam, said the verdict would be challenged in the Meghalaya High Court.“Yes, he (Dorphang) has been convicted and I will be filing an appeal in the Meghalaya High Court, I do not agree with the finding of the trial court,” advocate Gautam said while informing that he is yet to receive a copy of the order that has sentenced his client to 25 years imprisonment.Dorphang was the founder and chairman of the proscribed outfit before he surrendered before the police in 2007. He later contested assembly elections and won from Mawahati assembly election in Ri-Bhoi district in 2013.However, he was accused of raping a 14-year-old in 2017 while he was a sitting MLA. Following the allegation of rape, Dorphang absconded and was nabbed from Guwahati ISBT.The legislator was arrested and booked under the POCSO Act and Immoral Trafficking Prevention Act. He was lodged at the Nongpoh district jail but was granted bail on medical grounds from the Meghalaya High Court in 2020 by a single bench.He was rearrested and convicted again on August 13 this year and tried at the POCSO court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-meghalaya-mla-sentenced-to-25-years-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-101629829985773.html
25-08-2021||Other||Shadow of 3rd wave of Covid: Cabinet limits number at political events; approves hiring 4,000 teachers||Shimla In a meeting of the state cabinet on Tuesday, where important decisions affecting the common man like the recruitment of 4,000 teachers was taken and improving the water supply and sewerage in capital Shimla was taken, Himachal Pradesh has decided to limit the number of persons allowed at political gatherings. Though the number has been clarified yet, this decision comes a day after Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur concluded his five-day Jan Ashirwad Yatra that traversed four parliamentary segments. The yatra received an overwhelming response. Both the Congress and the BJP have been holding meetings and public rallies to muster support for by-elections to three assembly and one Parliamentary segment. “We had a discussion on the Covid-19 situation and have decided to the limit the numbers of people in official and political events,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said after the meeting, adding, “Prohibition on social gathering will continue. Over the past four days, the number of Covid cases has declined.” Of the 4,000 teachers, 2,640 will be hired for elementary education and 1,360 in higher education. The posts approved to be filled in elementary education include 820 posts of drawing teachers and 870 of physical education teachers.The cabinet also approved a draft negotiation package that envisages improvement of Water Supply and Sewerage project in the Greater Shimla Area with financial assistance from the World Bank. The total outlay of the project is $250 million ( ₹1,813 crore). The World Bank will provide ₹1,160 crore, with the Himachal government providing ₹653 crore. For this project, principal secretary, department of urban development will finalise and sign the negotiation package on the behalf of the state government. Augmentation of Shimla’s water supply from the Sutlej river with an additional 67 MLD to meet demand till 2050 is the key aim of this project. It also seeks to replace the distribution pipe network across municipal corporation Shimla to upgrade it to 24x7 water supply system. Additionally, sewerage network in areas of Mehli-Panthaghati, Totu and Mashobra will also be provided.NO NEW CURBS; SCHOOLS CLOSED TILL SEP 4Schools will remain closed till September 4 in the wake of the looming threat of the third wave of Covid-19. No new curbs have been imposed. The Cabinet gave its nod to open new Industrial Training Institute at Ladaghat in tehsil Sadar of district Bilaspur.The cabinet decided, in principle, to extend benefits of retirement gratuity and death gratuity to the employees of Urban Local Bodies who have been covered under the New Pension Scheme. A new Development Block Office will be built at Churag in Mandi district, while it has also been decided to open Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya at Bagsiad (Sharan) in Seraj Vidhan Sabha area of Mandi district.The cabinet decided to engage 24 Non-Residential Special Training Instructors (NRSTI), with qualification on a par with JBT on contract. Primary Health Centre, Baldhar, in Karsog area of Mandi district will be upgraded to 30-bed Community Health Centre and Community Health Centre Rakkar in Kangra district as a 24x7 emergency health institution.The cabinet decided to give the construction of additional building work of blood bank, mortuary, space for holding/handling of biomedical waste, cafeteria and canteen in the super-specialty block of Indira Gandhi Medical College at Chamiyana to HSCC Pvt India Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shadow-of-3rd-wave-of-covid-cabinet-limits-number-at-political-events-approves-hiring-4-000-teachers-101629829804476.html
25-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Two district hospitals now self-reliant in oxygen supply||The district hospitals in Ghaziabad -- MMG District Hospital and Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital -- now have provision to supply oxygen to all the beds available in the two facilities, officials said on Tuesday.Overall, the district is supposed to set up 11 oxygen plants at different government facilities, and only two such plants, one at the Women Hospital and the other at community health centre in Muradnagar, are pending, the officials said.“The two facilities will soon get the plants. The district will have all 11 plants by end of this month,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer and nodal officer for new oxygen plants in Ghaziabad.The 166-bed MMG District Hospital, which served as a dedicated Covid facility during the first wave of the pandemic, had to rely on oxygen cylinders.“We have got installed a 150 litres per minute (lpm) capacity oxygen plant, and another 1000 lpm capacity plant is being installed. With the two plants, our reliance on oxygen cylinders can now be done away with. Our hospital now has fully oxygenated beds,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of the hospital.Likewise, the officials of the 100-bed Sanjay Nagar hospital said that they have got installed two new oxygen plants of 150 lpm and 500 lpm capacity.“Both the plants will be able to provide sufficient oxygen to all the beds in case of any third Covid-19 wave. We also have one old plant that provides oxygen to just 25 beds. Now, with the two new plants, our hospital has a centralised oxygen supply,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the hospital.The Sanjay Nagar hospital served as a dedicated Covid facility during the first and the second waves of the pandemic. It resumed normal services about a fortnight ago.According to official records of the state health department, the six districts under the Meerut division have sanction of 55 new oxygen plants in government health care facilities and 36 of them have been made functional so far.The enhancement of oxygen supplies is part of directions from the UP government, which is upgrading the health care infrastructure before any eventuality of a third Covid wave.According to the officials in Lucknow, the state has about 56,000 isolation beds and 18,000 intensive care unit (ICU) beds (including 6,600 paediatric ICU beds) as part of the plan to deal with any third wave.They said that installation of oxygen plants is one of the measures and 336 of the overall new 552 sanctioned oxygen plants have come up so far.“To check the preparedness before any third wave, senior state health department officials will conduct inspections in all the districts on August 27 and 28. They will inspect the Covid vaccination facilities, functionality of PICU and isolation beds, besides operationality of the oxygen plants and other equipment,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-two-district-hospitals-now-self-reliant-in-oxygen-supply-101629827763703.html
25-08-2021||Pune||We will have our fully ‘Made in India’ PSA unit ready within a month, says Dr Ashish Lele, director, NCL Pune||Dr Ashish Lele, director, National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) in Pune to Dheeraj Bengrut about the role NCL played during the pandemic and new research projects going on at the institute. Dr Lele was former chief scientist at CSIR-NCL and took charge of NCL on April 1, 2021. Dr Lele has also served as senior VP and head, Advanced Materials and Alternative Energy Group, Reliance Industries, prior to take this posting.How do you plan to take NCL forward now that you are director?In last five months since I have joined NCL, there are few things I am trying to bring in. I am trying to re-emphasise this. These are fundamental things, as there is a purpose for this laboratory, which is why it was started. It is to advance knowledge and use chemical science for the good of people. We actively encourage our scientists and our research students to take a leadership role in science in their own areas. And the second part is to apply science for the good of people, which means we need to take science and convert it for uses for our country, as well globally. The other thing which we do is work with the industry... we interact with them, work and develop technologies with them. How do we make this happen? For that first we have to choose the right problems to work upon. There are certain important trends happening in India and the planet, for example climate change is a problem. All these are difficult problems and we have to break it up in different parts to work on. We then protect that knowledge of good science, and work towards converting it for real life usage. It is worked in stages - laboratory, bench, pilot experiment and then scale for production. What new research projects and initiatives are currently related to the Covid pandemic? NCL developed Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) technology which allows continual supply of oxygen taken from the air. CSIR NCL has developed this technology and we have set up more than 200 PSA units across the country, which is saving lives of patients in this critical times. There is a material in that PSA unit which actually separates oxygen from air - it is called zeolite, and we are currently importing it from other countries. So we are bujilding the entire plant, but its heart - the zeolite is brought from outside. We took up the challenge to develop zeolite on our own. After I joined, we put a team of 10 to 12 scientists from different divisions on the project. I am happy to tell that we are finally made the ‘zeolite’ material as a pilot and there are many aspects of technology which we called basic engineering. So we will have our fully ‘Made in India’ PSA unit in our country and within a month it will be on the market. This will not stop here and we will continue to develope multiple zeolites and other products. Another important project which we are working or rather participating in which is done across the country is genome surveillance. It is an all India effort, several institutions are participating in it and every week we collect around 200 Covid samples and we upload data. This surveillance helps us understand the spread of the virus, and who are more vulnerable, among other things. Any new academic courses or skill development projects for research students coming up at NCL?We want to go beyond our research Phd students and for that we are offering skilling programmes for industry professionals. So industries send their engineers and young people for traininig and we have a year long calendar every year. This year two new skill development programmes would be added. One about green hydrogen technology to generate energy. And also the sewage surveillance system which we are currently doing for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). We can always help other research institutes to set up a course and call other scientific institution students to the NCL for training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/we-will-have-our-fully-made-in-india-psa-unit-ready-within-a-month-101629824705496.html
25-08-2021||Pune||Punekars make Ganesh idols at home to keep Covid threat at bay||With the Covid threat still in the air, and to avoid going crowded places in the city, citizens are re-creating their observances and celebrations of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival.Ganesh Chaturthi is on September 10.The Ganesh festival will end on September 21 and Punekars have increasingly opted to make their own idols this year.The Pune Municipal Corporation has not allowed the setting up of stalls to sell idols of Ganpati on roads, to avoid crowds.“Last year with Covid at its peak, we decided to make a Ganesh idol of shadu mati (clay) at home. It was my first attempt and I made a small idol,” said Trupti Marne, a housewife and resident of Kothrud.This year she pre-planned the making of a colourful Ganesh idol.“On August 28, I will start making the idol. It takes two-three days to dry the structure completely. Once it is dried , one can colour it. Between August 1-3, I will colour it so our Idol will be ready before the chaturthi,” said Marne. Making the idol at home has increased family bonding time for many.“Me and my son have decided make the Ganesh idol at out home. Our society has decided to not have a Ganesh idol due to the Covid threat. I used to do eco-friendly decorations in our society every year. My father used to make Lord Ganesh from shadu mati. Now I will be doing it for the first time,” said Namrata Jawale, a Balewadi resident.“The last one-and-a-half year was tough for all of us. Because of the pandemic, there are restrictions. So this year we decided to do everything at home. We decided the theme, and went shopping for all the required material to make an eco-friendly Ganpati,” added Jawale, who has already completed the basic idol.“Our Ganesh idol is drying. My son is going to decorate it with natural colors and some ornaments and natural flowers,” added Jawale.Seema Pradhan, a 65-year old retired teacher who was fond of paintings was urged by her son Bhushan Pradhan, an actor to make an idol of shadu mati this year.“Being a teacher by proffession, I never got time to celebrate the Ganesh festival with complete devotion. In 2016, I was told my son to make an idol for our home, from then on, I started to make the idol at home,” said Pradhan, who has also received orders of 12 of his clay idols this year.“During lockdown in 2020, while I was making the idol, my 85-year old mother wanted me to do it as a business. She passed away last December and in her memory, for the first time, I took orders ,” added Pradhan, who decotes seven hours a day to making the idols.“I close my eyes and seek his blessing before making the idol. Moulding it properly gives satisfaction ,” added Pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punekars-make-ganesh-idols-at-home-to-keep-covid-threat-at-bay-101629824163263.html
25-08-2021||Patna||HC asks petitioner to move Lokayukta with complaint against BRABU V-C||The Patna High Court on Tuesday directed a petitioner to approach the Lokayukta with his complaint alleging serious irregularities in appointments and financial lapses by BRA Bihar University (Muzaffarpur) vice-chancellor Hanuman Prasad Pandey, registrar Dr RK Thakur and CCDC Dr Amita Sharma.The petitioner, Md Umer Shekh, has accused the V-C and his associates of regularisation of over 500 illegal appointments and making illegal payments, 37 illegal appointments in Nalanda Open University, where Pandey held additional charge till a couple of days ago, handing over charge of eight full-time posts to Sharma, who also allegedly carried out illegal appointments for vocational courses, tampering with the merit list for M.Ed to change names of 70 candidates, no reservation roster compliance in the appointment of guest teachers for history, double payment to some teachers from two places and discrepancies in tender allotment for printing.The petitioner had sought direction to the state government to hold a proper inquiry into the entire affairs of Pandey and his associates by an independent agency or a special investigation team (SIT). The petitioner said he had also approached the Chancellor’s office, the state government, the member of Parliament of Muzaffarpur and the members of the Legislative Assembly in April itself to apprise them of the arbitrary functioning of the V-C in connivance with his trusted officials.“The university seems to have become a den of corruption and it calls for a thorough probe,” senior advocate PK Shahi, appearing for the petitioner, told the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kunar, who asked the petitioner to move Lokayukta.“The complaint petition will soon be filed before the Lokayukta in the light of the court observation,” Shahi said.In the recent past, Raj Bhawan had also set up inquiry against three present V-Cs — Magadh University V-C, JP University V-C and Pandey.Earlier, several V-Cs and proV-Cs had to resign or were removed on corruption charges.Pandey was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hc-asks-petitioner-to-move-lokayukta-with-complaint-against-brabu-vc-101629822309384.html
25-08-2021||World||Afghanistan crisis: 19,000 people evacuated from Kabul in last 24 hours, says US||In its latest update on the ongoing evacuation efforts in Afghanistan, the United States said on Wednesday approximately 19,000 people boarded 90 evacuation flights out of Kabul in the latest 24-hour period. These flights, the US government said, included those operated by the US military and the ones operated in coalition with its allies.Also Read | Tajikistan says Taliban have abandoned pledges to form broad-based interim government“From 3am Eastern Time on August 24 to 3am Eastern Time on August 25, 42 US military flights carried approximately 11,200 evacuees and 48 coalition flights carried 7800 people,” the White House shared on its official Twitter handle. On the United States’ own evacuation efforts till now, it said, “Since August 14, the US has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 82,300 people on US military and coalition flights. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 87,900 people on US military and coalition flights.”Since August 14, the U.S. has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 82,300 people on US military and coalition flights. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 87,900 people on US military and coalition flights.The update came as the August 31 deadline to complete the evacuation process drew closer, with president Joe Biden resisting requests from G7 allies to extend the evacuations beyond the said date.Also Read | Joe Biden decides to stick to August 31 pull-out deadline, say reportsEarlier, the Taliban, which, by capturing Kabul on August 15, seized power in Afghanistan for a second time, had also warned the US against extending the deadline. It is the return to power of the Taliban which has led to the current crisis in Afghanistan. The Kabul Airport, in particular, has witnessed dramatic scenes as Afghans, desperate to leave their country, have thronged it, hoping for a way out.Also Read | Why did Biden choose August 31 as deadline for US withdrawal? Here's a timelineIn April this year, president Biden had announced all American troops in Afghanistan will have left by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. In July, however, he brought the date forward to August 31. The Americans have been in Afghanistan since 2001 when they arrived here following the 9/11 attacks, and defeated the Taliban. The insurgents first took power in 1996.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-crisis-19-000-people-evacuated-from-kabul-in-last-24-hours-says-us-101629912208379.html
25-08-2021||World||'Afghan army lost its will to fight because...': Commander Sami Sadat on why they failed in front of Taliban||In an opinion piece for the New York Times, Sami Sadat, the Lieutenant-general of the Afghanistan army which was decimated in front of the Taliban, said the Afghan army lost its will to fight because of the "growing sense of abandonment" by the American partners. In a first such disclosure after the Taliban completed its capture of the country on August 15 raising question over the efficiency of the Afghan army, the commander said his army was fighting cronyism and bureaucracy, but when US president Joe Biden said that US troops can not and should not be fighting for Afghanistan, the Afghan army lost the will to fight."I am a three-star general in the Afghan Army. For 11 months, as commander of 215 Maiwand Corps, I led 15,000 men in combat operations against the Taliban in southwestern Afghanistan. I’ve lost hundreds of officers and soldiers. That’s why, as exhausted and frustrated as I am, I wanted to offer a practical perspective and defend the honour of the Afghan Army. I’m not here to absolve the Afghan Army of mistakes. But the fact is, many of us fought valiantly and honourably, only to be let down by American and Afghan leadership," the 36-year-old chief wrote at a time when the victory of the Taliban is being seen as "without resistance".Also Read | Taliban take control of Afghanistan: Why the country's army melted away#AFG Afghan army fought with honor and sacrificed 66,000 men and women in the war on terror. Terrorism is a global threat and must be dealt with globally in harmony. https://t.co/pyVcksfbwYSami says he was in the battle at Lashkar Gah when Ashraf Ghani named him the commander of Afghanistan special forces. He had to leave his troops there to come to Kabul. It was August 15. It was too late as the Taliban had already reached Kabul. Then Ghani entrusted him with the task of securing Kabul and left the country. "But I never even had a chance: The Taliban were closing in, and Mr Ghani fled the country," Sami wrote, depicting what unfolded on August 15. On that very night, Ghani left the country. Later, Ghani clarified that it was not an act of escape. He was forced to leave the country to avoid bloodshed, he said. With Ghani leaving the country, there was no chance of negotiation for an interim set-up, Sami wrote asserting that unlike what the world may believe, the Afghan army resisted, day in and day out.Still, the army failed and, according to Sami, there are three reasons for this failure. The first begins with the US and Donald Trump's Doha peace deal. Second, the Afghan army lost contractor logistics and maintenance support and the third is the corruption of the Ashraf Ghani government, the army chief wrote"The US air-support rules of engagement for Afghan security forces effectively changed overnight, and the Taliban were emboldened. They could sense victory and knew it was just a matter of waiting out the Americans. Before that deal, the Taliban had not won any significant battles against the Afghan Army. After the agreement? We were losing dozens of soldiers a day," Sadat wrote. By July, most of the 17,000 support contractors had left, he said.Recounting the final days of the war, Sadat said that it was surreal-- while the afghan army was fighting with its depleting resources against the Taliban, the US pilots were circling overhead as they were apparently not in a position to help them. Terming the war as an international one, Sadat wrote that it was not possible for any single army to fight. It was a military defeat but the reason is political failure. "We were betrayed by politics and presidents," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-army-lost-its-will-to-fight-because-sami-sadat-on-why-they-failed-in-front-of-taliban-101629910510245.html
25-08-2021||World||Tajikistan says Taliban have abandoned pledges to form broad-based interim government||Pakistan’s efforts to forge a common front with regional countries on Afghanistan didn’t find takers in Tajikistan, with President Emomali Rahmon saying on Wednesday the Taliban had abandoned promises to form a broad-based interim government with other political forces. Rahmon told visiting Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi during a meeting that Tajikistan wouldn’t recognise any government formed through oppression in Afghanistan. He called for an inclusive government with the participation of all minorities, especially Tajiks who make up more than 46% of the Afghan population. On Tuesday, Qureshi began a four-nation tour to Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Iran. He will interact with the leaders of these countries on the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover. The Foreign Office in Islamabad said Pakistan believes regional countries have a vital stake in the security and stability of Afghanistan and coordinated efforts are needed to address common challenges. A statement from the Foreign Office on Wednesday said Qureshi, during his meeting with Rahmon, underlined the importance of a coordinated approach to realise shared objectives. Tajikistan’s foreign ministry said Afghanistan is on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe because of the withdrawal of foreign forces and the situation there is “one of the major threats to regional security”. The Taliban’s “rise to power has further complicated the geopolitical process in the region”, it added. “Evidence clearly shows that the Taliban are abandoning their previous promises to form an interim government with the broad participation of other political forces in the country and are preparing to establish an Islamic emirate,” the foreign ministry said in a statement. Tajikistan condemned all forms of lawlessness and persecution of Afghan people, especially Tajiks, Uzbeks, and other minorities, and called for the setting up of an inclusive government with the participation of all minorities, especially Tajiks who make up more than 46% of the Afghan population. The statement further said, “Tajikistan will not recognise any other government that is formed in [Afghanistan] through oppression, without taking into account the position of the entire Afghan people, especially all its minorities.” Tajikistan also called for urgent measures by the world community to ensure peace and stability in Afghanistan and to “stabilise its difficult political and security situation through negotiations as soon as possible”. It warned the international community’s “indifference to the current situation in Afghanistan could lead to a protracted civil war”. Rahmon proposed several ways to the Pakistani side for ensuring peace, stability, and sustainable development in Afghanistan. Since the Taliban took over several districts and crossings along the borders with Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, concern has grown among the Central Asian states. They have turned to Russia to help bolster security along their frontiers. The Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe and the airbase at Ayni have played a key role in India’s efforts to evacuate its nationals and others from Afghanistan. Indian civilian and military aircraft have conducted several flights from Dushanbe to bring back hundreds of evacuees. Pakistan is among the few countries with extensive contacts with the Taliban leadership and has been seeking to coordinate with regional countries in influencing the formation of the next government in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tajikistan-says-taliban-have-abandoned-pledges-to-form-broad-based-interim-government-101629909853503.html
25-08-2021||World||Johnson & Johnson says its booster shot increases antibodies||Johnson & Johnson says a booster shot of its COVID-19 vaccine appears to produce “a rapid and robust” increase in antibodies needed to fight the coronavirus.The drugmaker says researchers saw an increase in antibodies nine-fold higher than levels seen about a month after the first dose of the vaccination was administered. The company cited early results from studies looking at people who received the booster after getting an initial dose of J&J's single-shot vaccine.J&J says researchers saw increases in antibodies in people ages 18 to 55 and in study participants 65 and older who received a lower booster dose.US health officials announced last week plans to dispense COVID-19 booster shots to all Americans to shore up protection amid the surging delta variant of the virus. Officials say the protection against infections wanes over time among various vaccines but remains strong at preventing hospitalizations and deaths.J&J says it is talking with regulators in both the U.S. and Europe about booster shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnson-johnson-says-its-booster-shot-increases-antibodies-101629909014520.html
25-08-2021||World||'Specific threat' from ISIS-K outside Kabul airport leaves US worried: Report||While the Taliban might have promised security to Afghans and foreign embassies, US officials are concerned about "a very specific threat stream" from ISIS-K against crowds outside the Kabul airport, according to a CNN report. US President Joe Biden on Tuesday acknowledged the growing threat posed by the Afghanistan affiliate of the Islamic State group.“Every day we’re on the ground is another day that we know ISIS-K is seeking to target the airport and attack both us and allied forces and innocent civilians,” Biden said at the White House.ISIS-K is reportedly planning to carry out multiple attacks as desperate Afghans are thronging the Hamid Karzai International Airport to flee the Taliban-controlled nation. Concerns about their security have increased after dozens of prisoners loyal to ISIS-K escaped two prisons near Kabul as the Taliban advanced to capture Afghanistan's national capital, reported CNN.Also Read | Badri 313: Will Taliban be able to maintain military 'show off', ask expertsAccording to a recent report by the UN Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team, ISIS-K fighters have formed sleeper cells in many Afghan provinces, Nuristan, Badghis, SariPul, Baghlan, Badakhshan, Kunduz and Kabul. The report suggests that ISIS-K, a sworn enemy to the Taliban, has strengthened its positions in and around Kabul. The group has mostly been targeting minorities, activists, government employees and personnel of the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces.The leaders of ISIS-K also hope to attract intransigent Taliban and other militants who reject the deal between insurgents and the United States signed in Doha last year. The report estimates the strength of ISIS-K fighters anywhere could rise up to 10,000 “over the medium term.”“One UN Member State stressed that ISIL-K was largely underground and clandestine. Its leader, Shahab al-Muhajir, alias Sanaullah (not listed), cooperates with Sheikh Tamim (not listed), head of the al-Sadiq office. Tamim and his office are tasked by ISIL core to oversee the network connecting ISIL-K with ISIL presences in the wider region,” the report states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/specific-threat-from-isis-k-outside-kabul-airport-leaves-us-worried-report-101629905189164.html
25-08-2021||World||Attacker kills three police and security guard near French embassy in Tanzania||An attacker wielding an assault rifle was shot dead after killing three police and an employee of a private security company near the French embassy in the Tanzanian commercial capital Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, President Samia Suluhu Hassan said.Hassan said on Twitter that the attacker had been "neutralised" and "calm has returned"."I send my condolences to the police service and the families of three policemen, and one officer of the SGA security company, who lost their lives after an armed person attacked them in the Salenda area of Dar es Salaam," Hassan said in a tweet.Police gave no immediate details on the motive or target of the attacker. Video footage posted online, which could not immediately be verified, showed the gates of the French embassy in Dar es Salaam, a man outside of the gate, and the sounds of gunfire crackling.Tanzanian television aired footage showing police officers in bullet-proof vests who appeared to be wrapping a dead body outside the embassy in white material to remove it from the scene.Inspector-General of Police Simon Sirro, police spokesperson David Misime and SGA Security, which describes itself as a major security services provider in East Africa, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/attacker-kills-three-police-and-security-guard-near-french-embassy-in-tanzania-101629906743284.html
25-08-2021||World||Moderna says has completed filing process for FDA's full approval to its Covid-19 vaccine||Two days after the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted full approval in the United States to Pfizer-BioNTech’s coronavirus vaccine, Moderna announced on Wednesday that it, too, has completed the real-time review process needed for full approval of its jab. The American drugmaker has, so far, released 300 million doses of its vaccine to the US government.Also Read | US health agency fully approves Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine“The completed submission process includes data from a late-stage study that showed 93% efficacy, even through six months after the administration of the second dose,” Moderna said in a statement. The company’s submission includes a priority review designation for its vaccine, for which an Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) was granted by the FDA in December last year. Currently, the shot is administered to people aged 18 and above.The White House, in its statement welcoming the full FDA approval for Pfizer, had also mentioned it is looking forward for the same authroisation to the other two vaccines as well. “The Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines remain safe and effective options. Both have undergone rigorous and methodical scientific testing before being authorised for emergency use,” the White House had said.Also Read | 'After a thorough and rigorous review process..': White House welcomes FDA's full approval for Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccineModerna's messenger RNA (mRNA)-based jab, called mRNA-1273, is among the three vaccines that are currently being administered in the US, the other two being those of Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, respectively. It is administered in two doses, within a 28-day gap, while a third or booster shot is recommended for people who are immunocompromised.According to Fox News, Moderna announced on June 1 the beginning of its rolling admission process with the top drugs panel for a full approval for its vaccine.In medical terms, a full approval is called “Biologics License Application” (BLA). For a successful BLA, a company needs to provide a comprehensive document with information on specific requirements to the regulator. An EUA, as the name suggests, is authorised for use in emergency situation. It is given on the basis of interim clinical trial results, if the regulator is of the opinion that benefits “far outweigh” risks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-says-has-completed-filing-process-for-full-fda-approval-to-its-covid-19-vaccine-101629904344645.html
25-08-2021||World||US intel report on Covid-19 origin inconclusive||US President Joe Biden has reportedly received a report from the intelligence community that is “inconclusive” on the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic, whether the virus transmitted from animals to humans or accidentally escaped a laboratory in China, according to a news report.Tasked by Biden in May to produce a report in 90 days to “bring us closer to a definitive conclusion”, the intelligence community failed to arrive at a consensus, the Washington Post reported citing US officials.A decision is expected on the public release of elements of the report in the coming days.The debate over the origin of SARS-CoV-2 has raged around the world especially after former US president Donald Trump supported those who argued it emerged from a virology lab in Wuhan city of China, where the epidemic started at the end of 2019 and then spread rapidly around the world.Trump’s action was motivated by a desire to shift blame of his mishandling of the fightback in the US, but it was also backed by many scientists such as Robert Redfield, former chief of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). He said he believed the coronavirus “most likely” escaped a lab.A WHO report had earlier said the virus most likely travelled from animals to humans and that the possibility of a lab leak was “extremely unlikely”.Efforts to conclusively ascertain the origin of the virus that has killed over 4mn people around the world, causing the largest global public health crisis in 100 years, have been marred by the lack of transparency and cooperation by China.The US intelligence community was divided as well. Biden had said in May that two agencies believed in the animal-to-human theory and a third agency went with the lab-leak possibility.“The majority of elements do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one to be more likely than the other,” the US president had said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-intel-report-on-covid-19-origin-inconclusive-101629903192782.html
25-08-2021||World||China, Russia agree to cooperate on Afghanistan||China and Russia on Wednesday projected a united front on the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan with the top leadership of the two countries pledging to enhance cooperation on handling the aftermath.In a phone call to Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping reiterated China’s position of non-interference and respecting Afghanistan’s sovereignty and independence.According to official media reports, Putin told Xi that he shares China’s positions and interests in Afghanistan and is willing to work together to “prevent foreign forces from interfering and destroying” Afghanistan.During the phone call, Xi told Putin that China is calling for “…concerted efforts to encourage all factions in Afghanistan to build an open and inclusive political structure through consultation, implement moderate and prudent domestic and foreign policies”.Xi also called for the new Taliban dispensation to “…thoroughly dissociate from all terrorist groups, and maintain friendly relations with the rest of the world, especially neighbouring countries”.According to national broadcaster China Central Television, Xi said: “We intend to establish a political framework for open and tolerant interaction with all interested parties in Afghanistan.”Putin said Russia also wants to work with China to fight terrorism and drugs smuggling and to prevent the security risks from “spilling out” of Afghanistan.Their talks came in the backdrop of Beijing attempting to bolster its influence in Afghanistan and keeping its line of communication open with the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-russia-agree-to-cooperate-on-afghanistan-101629902232669.html
25-08-2021||World||Peace deal with Panjshir Resistance? Taliban 80% confident, claims report||The Taliban are likely to strike a peace deal with the Panjshir Resistance as top leaders of both the groups are in talks, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said to Shamshad News Outlet, news agency ANI reported. The Taliban leader said he is 80 per cent confident of a solution without war in the Panjshir Valley, the free land in Afghanistan. If a peace deal is struck between the Taliban and the anti-Taliban forces, Panjshir will again remain free from the Taliban like it was between 1996 and 2001 when the rest of the country was under Taliban rule."We are in contact with people of Panjshir. We are in talks with the elders, influencers, and Jihadist commanders. The talks will soon solve the problem without war. I am 80 per cent confident that there will not be a need to go to war. According to our information, a peace agreement will be reached soon," Mujahid said.'Do not want war': What Massoud said on Panjshir Resistance, deal with TalibanThe Taliban and the National Resistance Front (the Panjshir Resistance army) are up in arms over the Panjshir province as NRF leaders Massoud, son of legendary Ahmad Shah Massaoud, and acting president Amrullah Saleh have refused to surrender before the Taliban. The NRF has also captured Pol-e-Hesar, Deh Salah and Banu districts after Kabul caved in.But what does a peace talk between the Taliban and the Panjshir resistance mean? Does it mean failure on part of the anti-Taliban forces? Massoud in his first interview given after the Taliban captured Kabul said the priority is to avoid bloodshed. He asserted that the NRF is in favour of a peace deal with the Taliban but if the Taliban do not agree to talks, then the anti-Taliban force is ready to go on a long war.The probable peace deal between the Taliban and the Panjshir Resistance is not yet clear. Neither it is known whether the Resistance is negotiating only for the Panjshir province or for Afghanistan. Massoud earlier said that Panjshir resistance is not only for Panjshir as forces from all across the country have converged in Panjshir and that they will push for an inclusive government -- not a totalitarian government ruled by the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peace-deal-with-panjshir-resistance-taliban-80-confident-claims-report-101629891579972.html
25-08-2021||World||Communication with Taliban open and effective: China||China on Wednesday said it has a smooth and effective communication channel with the Taliban following a meeting between representatives of the group and the Chinese ambassador to Kabul on Tuesday.Abdul Salam Hanafi, the deputy head of the Taliban political office in Qatar, met Chinese ambassador to Afghanistan Wang Yu in Kabul on Tuesday.The Chinese foreign ministry did not share details about the meeting, the highest level one since the upheaval in Afghanistan.It was the latest instance of Beijing seeking to establish smooth ties with the insurgent group that swept to power following the pullback by western military forces.Earlier in the day, Russian news agency, Sputnik quoted a Taliban spokesperson Mohammad Naeem as tweeting: “They discussed the security of the Chinese embassy and diplomats, the current situation in Afghanistan, bilateral relations and China’s humanitarian assistance.”Asked about the meeting in Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin said Kabul is an important channel for the two sides to discuss various important issues.Wang described it as “open and effective communication and consultation with the Afghan Taliban”.“We have always respected Afghanistan’s sovereign independence and territorial integrity, pursued a policy of non-interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs and adhered to a policy of friendship towards the entire Afghan people,” Wang said on Wednesday in Beijing.“China respects the Afghan people’s independent decision on their own future and destiny, supports the implementation of the Afghan-led and Afghan-owned principle, and stands ready to continue to develop good-neighbourly relations of friendship and cooperation with Afghanistan and play a constructive role in the peace and reconstruction of the country,” Wang said.On Tuesday, the Chinese foreign ministry had said that imposing sanctions on the Taliban in Afghanistan will prove counterproductive, and had urged the international community to support chances for positive developments in the country.“Imposing sanctions and pressure at every turn cannot solve the problem and will only be counterproductive,” spokesperson Wang had said.Meanwhile, senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi, member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs, has stressed on the political settlement of the turmoil in Afghanistan.Attending the 11th BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) Meeting of National Security Advisers on Tuesday via video link at the invitation of India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Yang stressed that political settlement is the only way out“The international community should respect the will and choice of the Afghan people and encourage Afghanistan to build a broad and inclusive political structure that suits its national conditions,” Yang was quoted as saying by Chinese state media.“Efforts must be made to fight terrorism in all its forms, and Afghanistan must never again become a gathering place for terrorist and extremist forces,” Yang noted.Commenting on the Taliban’s relationship with China, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid recently told national broadcaster CGTN: “We want good relations with China and all countries and we are looking for economic relations and friendly relations with China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/communication-with-taliban-effective-smooth-china-101629889931278.html
25-08-2021||World||Amrullah Saleh says Pakistan is not just a sanctuary for Taliban but their support base||Afghanistan's self-proclaimed acting president Amrullah Saleh has said that Pakistan was not just a sanctuary or safe haven for the Taliban in all these years. The entire country was at the service of the Taliban who used the neighbouring country as their support base. And the United States kept on paying money to Pakistan. The more they paid, the more Pakistanis became benevolent to the Taiban, Amrullah said in an exclusive interview to a television channel on Wednesday when he was asked why the Afghan army crumbled so easily in front of the Taliban offensive.Pakistan is internationally criticised for having provided sanctuaries to the Taliban in all these years. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has always remained a staunch supporter of a government in Afghanistan that has Taliban participation. In a recent interview, before the fall of Kabul, Imran Khan said that the Taliban are not a military outfit that the Pakistan army can hunt them down. Saleh in his interview claimed that there were not a few pockets or sanctuaries in Pakistan for the Taliban as the entire country was serving the Taliban.Also Read: Afghanistan too big for Pakistan to swallow, for Talibs to govern: Amrullah SalehThe former vice president, who is now one of the faces of the Panjshir Resistance, the anti-Taliban force of the country along with Ahmad Massoud, said the United States threatened the former Afghanistan government to released the prisoners, who have now ended up being the Taliban frontliners. "We said are you sure that these people will not end up at the frontlines? Their answer was no but they all ended up at the frontlines. So it was not prisoners’ release but gifting Taliban a division of highly radicalised fighters," Saleh told CNN-News18. This holds true for Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar, who was released in 2018 after the United State brokered for his release.What Amrullah Saleh implied is that while Afghanistan was under the pressure from the United States, the Taliban increased strength making Pakistan their base and receiving indirect help from the United States.As the anti-Taliban force of Afghanistan is confident to put up a fight against the Taliban, Saleh has recently said that he will not leave Afghanistan and nobody except God can evacuate his soul from the country's soil. "I own Afghanistan & it owns me. We are one. It speaks to me every day," he tweeted.Amid global criticism of Pakistan's no-secret help to the Taliban, Pakitan leader Neelam Irshad Sheikh has recently said that the Taliban are with Pakistan to help "liberating Kashmir". Unlike Massoud who has no qualms to seek help from Pakistan against the Taliban, Amrullah Saleh is a strong Pakistan-hater. Afghanistan is too big to be swallowed by Pakistan, Saleh recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amrullah-saleh-says-pakistan-is-not-just-a-sanctuary-for-taliban-but-their-support-base-101629885028755.html
25-08-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccine Efficacy came down as Delta variant arose: CDC report||The effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines among front-line workers declined to 66% after the delta variant became dominant, compared with 91% before it arose, according to a report from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The vaccines are still protective, the CDC said, and the finding must be interpreted with caution, as vaccine effectiveness might wane over time and the estimates of efficacy were imprecise.“Although these interim findings suggest a moderate reduction in the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines in preventing infection, the sustained two-thirds reduction in infection risk underscores the continued importance and benefits of Covid-19 vaccination,” researchers wrote in the agency’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.The findings echo earlier evidence from Israel and the UK suggesting Covid vaccines lost some potency in preventing infections over time as the delta variant spread. These and other research results will be under scrutiny next week as CDC advisers weigh the Biden administration’s plan to administer booster doses to most vaccine recipients in the US.The booster campaign, still awaiting the sign-off of the Food and Drug Administration, is set to begin Sept. 20. CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices will consider the extra-dose plan during a two-day meeting that starts Monday. The finding of diminished effectiveness when delta was the dominant virus strain comes with an important caveat: The range of that estimate is highly uncertain. Researchers reported 95% confidence that the efficacy was between 26% and 84% in that period.The observational study tracked more than 4,000 health-care workers, first responders, and other front-line personnel in eight US locations across six states from December 2020 to August 2021. They were tested weekly for Covid infection, and about 83% were vaccinated. About two-thirds of those vaccinated had received the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE shot, 2% received Johnson & Johnson’s, and the rest received the Moderna Inc. vaccine.Overall, vaccinations were estimated to be 80% effective in preventing infection during the study period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-efficacy-came-down-as-delta-variant-arose-cdc-report-101629875837614.html
25-08-2021||World||Thailand develops robotic system to squeeze out more AstraZeneca vaccine doses||As Thailand struggles with its worst coronavirus outbreak yet, researchers in the country have developed a machine to draw out Covid-19 vaccine doses more efficiently and optimise lower-than-expected supplies.Using a robotic arm, the "AutoVacc" system can draw 12 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine in four minutes from a vial, according to researchers at Chulalongkorn University, who made the machine that has been used at the university's vaccination centre since Monday.That is up 20% from the standard 10 doses drawn manually, they said. The machine only works on AstraZeneca multi-dose vials currently and labels show each vial can provide 10 to 11 doses."The machine guarantees with accuracy that we can gain an extra 20% from each vaccine vial - from 10 to 12 doses," said Juthamas Ratanavaraporn, the lead researcher of the team at the university's Biomedical Engineering Research Center.  "The extra 20% that we get means that if we have AstraZeneca for 1 million people, this machine can increase the number of doses to 1.2 million people," said Juthamas.While some health workers using low dead space syringes (LDSS) that aim to reduce wastage can draw up to 12 doses per vial, it requires manpower and a high level of skill, she said."This could drain a lot of the health workers' energy. They would have to do this every day for many months," Juthamas said.Thailand had kept Covid-19 largely under control for much of the pandemic, but more virulent variants like Delta have sent cases and deaths soaring since April, ramping up pressure on authorities to increase the pace of vaccinations.So far, around 9% of Thailand's population of more than 66 million have been fully vaccinated, with the rollout hindered by lower-than-anticipated vaccine supplies.The research team say they should be able to produce 20 more AutoVacc units within three or four months, but that government funds and support would be needed to expand across the country.The prototype machine costs 2.5 million baht ($76,243), including other materials like syringes, said Juthamas, adding that while they were open to export opportunities, that was something for the future.They also plan to make similar machines to use with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, she added.Juthamas said the machine was aimed at removing burdens on health workers. Thailand has reported around 1.1 million Covid-19 infections and 10,085 deaths in total, pushing parts of the health system to the brink."When the health workers are too tired, there are also chances of human error, so we should let the machines work on this," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-develops-robotic-system-to-squeeze-out-more-astrazeneca-vaccine-doses-101629878403390.html
25-08-2021||World||Can singers, filmmakers in Afghanistan do their job? Taliban spokesman answers||As the Taliban took control of Afghanistan last week and ousted the Ashraf Ghani-led government, the Islamist insurgents started attacking civilians, singers and filmmakers, HT’s sister publication, Livehindustan, said in a report on Wednesday.Last month, the Taliban admitted to killing comedian Fazal Mohammad, popularly known as ‘Khasha Zwan’. According to news agency AFP, Khasha Zwan was also a police officer and was stationed in southern Kandahar province. “He was not a comedian, he fought against us in several battles. He had tried to flee when we detained him, prompting our gunmen to kill him,” Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told AFP on July 29.Now, the Taliban gave an order to all the singers and filmmakers in the war-raved country. On Tuesday, Mujahid was asked whether the Taliban would allow the artists to continue with their work. Mujahid answered that singers and filmmakers will have to switch their profession if assessed against the Shariah.Also Read| Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed says India 'true friend', slams PakistanOver the past few days, many prominent filmmakers and singers in Afghanistan left their home country in the aftermath of the Taliban's siege of Kabul. Aryana Sayeed, a pop star, who had a harrowing escape from the capital city, told news agency ANI on Tuesday that there is no future for women under the Taliban’s rule and urged them to treat civilians in a more humane manner.“I am worried for women who will be stuck inside houses and they will not be given their basic rights. While out, they will need to have a male relative accompanying them. They won’t be allowed to go to school,” she said.Sahraa Karimi, one of Afghanistan’s most popular women filmmakers and the first woman to head the state-run Afghan Film Organization, who also escaped from the country, shared a nine-minute-long video on her Instagram profile on August 15, where she was seen running on a street in Kabul amid the mayhem. She said that the Taliban don’t support art or value culture, and stressed they are afraid of educated and independent women.The Taliban, meanwhile, claimed that they will respect women’s rights within the framework of the Islamic law and also urged them to join their government.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-singers-filmmakers-in-afghanistan-do-their-job-taliban-spokesman-answers-101629872558947.html
25-08-2021||World||Former Afghan minister Syed Ahmad Sadat works as pizza delivery guy in Germany||A former minister in Afghanistan is working as a pizza delivery person in Germany. The photos of Syed Ahmad Shah Sadat, who worked as communications and technology minister in Afghanistan, were posted by Al-Jazeera Arabia on Twitter.Sadat lives in Leipzig, where he reached in December last year after leaving Afghanistan.وزير الاتصالات والتكنولوجيا الأفغاني السابق سيد أحمد سادات يلجأ لمهنة توصيل طلبات الطعام على متن دراجة هوائية في مدينة لايبزيغ الألمانية التي وصلها نهاية عام 2020، بعد تخليه عن منصبه pic.twitter.com/zfFERbqCmDSadat joined Ashraf Ghani's cabinet in 2018, but resigned from his post in 2020 due to differences with him. He subsequently left Afghanistan and went to Germany.Sky News said it spoke to Sadat and he confirmed that these are his photos. He started working as a food delivery professional for German company Livrando after his money ran out, according to Sky News.He further told the news channel that his story will serve as a "catalyst" to change the way high-ranking people live their lives in Asia and the Arab world. Once surrounded by security personnel, Sadat is now delivering pizza on a bicycle.Sadat holds two master's degrees in communications and electronic engineering from Oxford University. He worked for 23 years in the field of communications with more than 20 companies, in 13 countries, including Saudi Arabia, for Aramco and the Saudi Telecom Company.In his over two decade experience, Sadat worked as technical advisor to Afghanistan's communication and information technology ministry from 2005 to 2013. He also served as CEO of Ariana Telecom in London from 2016 until 2017.Afghanistan came fully under the control of Taliban on August 15, when the insurgent group captured the capital city of Kabul. Ghani, who was the president, left the country the next day and is believed to be in the UAE.Reacting to the developments in Afghanistan, Sadat told Sky News that he never expected the civilian government to fall so quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-afghan-minister-syed-ahmad-sadat-works-as-pizza-delivery-guy-in-germany-101629876210132.html
25-08-2021||World||Houses being sold in Italy town for less than a burger's price||Italy is offering a massive discount on homes in the town of Maenza. It is one of those places where people can buy a house for as low as - hold your breath - one euro (approximately ₹87). This is less than the price of a burger offered by McDonald's.The only catch is that the buyer will have to restore the houses.Maenza, 70 kilometers south of Italy's capital Rome, and has become the first in the Latium region to begin selling homes for just over a dollar. The scheme was launched by Italy last year to help stabilise the dwindling population in villages.The town boasts of scenic views and has a long history of being the home to fiery tribes. Maenza is located high up on the wild Lepini hills south of the capital and is the latest to join Italy's one euro a home project.Mayor Claudio Sperduti said the plan is to breathe new life into the quite alleys of the town."We're taking it one step at a time. As original families get in touch and hand over to us their old houses, we place these on the market through specific public notices on our website to make it all very transparent," Sperduti told CNN.There are at least 100 neglected properties in Maenza which are in need of restoration.The offer, according to authorities in Maenza, is currently open for a few houses till August 28, but the mayor has assured that more such properties will be made available soon.A person buying the house do not have to live there compulsory, but submit a plan about how they want to use it - as a home, a restaurant or a shop. The initial deposit will be €5,000 (about $5,840), which will returned once work is completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/houses-being-sold-in-italy-town-for-less-than-a-burger-s-price-101629872586159.html
25-08-2021||World||'There is no internet': Afghan youth, who wanted to mine Bitcoin, fled country after Taliban takeover||Muhammad Ali said he dreamt of building a cryptocurrency business before the Taliban began its sweep through Afghanistan, forcing him into a daunting journey west through Iran and Turkey, evading border guards and security searches as he went.The Taliban victory in Afghanistan has raised concern in Turkey, a staging post for many migrants trying to reach Europe and already home to nearly 4 million Syrians, of a new influx of refugees. It has ramped up security on its border with Iran - but some Afghans are still getting through.Sheltering in a drainage tunnel outside the Tatvan district of Turkey's eastern Bitlis province, Ali, a young man in his 20s from Afghanistan's Khost province, said he was waiting for transport west and wanted to go on to Europe. Around 50 others were sheltering with him.Ali said he had studied computer science and taught web and graphic design in Afghanistan. He said he had a YouTube channel where he posted videos on topics including how to make money online."I was planning a bitcoin or ethereum mining business... Suddenly everything changed and the Taliban took over all of Afghanistan," he said."There is no internet. If there is no internet, I cannot do my job there. If we had smartphones that had a camera, the Taliban wouldn't allow it."After trekking for weeks through Iran, migrants who enter Turkey's eastern province of Van make their way by foot, bus or boat to the town of Tatvan on the western shores of Lake Van.On their way, they try to evade police checkpoints, raids on their hideouts, and coast guard vessels that patrol the huge lake, where a boat carrying around 60 migrants sank last year, killing them all.Wais Muhammad Shehrzad, 30, said he left Afghanistan a month ago, paying $1,000 to traffickers and walking up to 50 hours at a time with little sustenance on the way."Our feet are blistered, we have no clothes, no food," he said, taking off his shoes to show a bruised ankle, and telling others in the group to sit down to avoid being seen.Shehrzad said he was from Kabul and had worked as a shoemaker and previously as an English teacher. He wanted to get to Istanbul, find work, and send money back to his family.In recent weeks Turkish police have detained thousands of Afghan migrants among an estimated 300,000 in the country. Those caught in Bitlis are sent to a repatriation center in Van, although Afghans are currently not sent back to their country because of the turmoil there.A day after he spoke to Reuters, Ali sent a text message. "We are arrested by police," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/there-is-no-internet-afghan-youth-who-wanted-to-mine-bitcoin-fled-country-after-taliban-takeover-101629872227511.html
25-08-2021||World||Kamala Harris calls on Vietnam to join US opposing China 'bullying'||Vice President Kamala Harris called on Vietnam to join the US to challenge China's “bullying” in the South China Sea, a continuation of her sharp rhetoric against Beijing as she tours Southeast Asia this week.“We need to find ways to pressure and raise the pressure, frankly, on Beijing to abide by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and to challenge its bullying and excessive maritime claims,” she said, in remarks at the opening of a bilateral meeting with Vietnamese President Nguyen Xuan Phuc.Her comments follow sharp words towards Beijing during a speech in Singapore Tuesday, where she said their actions in the South China Sea amount to “coercion” and “intimidation."Also Read| 'Dysfunction' in Kamala Harris' office: 2024 is elephant in the roomOn Wednesday in Vietnam, Harris also said that the US supports sending the country an additional US Coast Guard cutter, to help defend its security interests in the South China Sea. And she embraced elevating the relationship with Vietnam from a comprehensive partnership to a strategic partnership, a diplomatic designation that would reflect the deepening relationship between the two former foes.They're the latest moves by the Biden administration to strengthen its alliances in the Indo-Pacific region in an effort to counter China's influence. Harris' trip there, which included a stop in Singapore earlier this week, is aimed at broadening US engagement with both nations and affirming the US commitment to the region.Harris, who is the first US vice president to visit Vietnam, told the nation's president that “our relationship has come a long way in a quarter of a century.”She also announced the launch of a new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Southeast Asia regional office. The new CDC office will be one of four regional offices globally, and it's focused on collaborating with regional governments on research and training to deal with and prevent global health crises.The announcement comes as Vietnam is grappling with record high coronavirus infections in Vietnam driven by the delta variant and stubbornly low vaccination rates in the country. The surge in cases prompted a recent lockdown in Ho Chi Minh City, the nation's business hub and the epicenter of the latest outbreak.Harris is expected to offer further US support to help the nation expand its vaccination rate, which hovers around 2%. She'll also emphasize the opportunity for greater collaboration to address climate change and economic aid to the country.In the afternoon, Harris will join a health security event with the health ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations group and Papua New Guinea, where she'll speak more about the launch of the CDC center.But even as Harris hopes to keep her focus squarely on those key agenda items in Vietnam, her visit will be shadowed by a recent security scare in Vietnam and the ongoing developments in the US exit from Afghanistan.Also Read| Speed of Taliban advance stuns countries as US scrambles to airlift embassy staffHarris' flight to Vietnam was delayed for hours Tuesday afternoon after the vice president's office was made aware of an investigation into two possible cases of the so-called Havana Syndrome in Hanoi, according to administration officials. The Havana Syndrome is the name for a rash of mysterious health incidents first reported by American diplomats and other government employees in the Cuban capital beginning in 2016.Harris has yet to comment publicly on the developments, but they'll weigh heavily on officials while she participates in a lease signing for the US Embassy in Hanoi, with embassy staff attending.And her swing through Vietnam is certain to draw some unwanted comparisons between the humiliating withdrawal of US troops in 1975 and the tumultuous effort this week to evacuate Americans and allies from Afghanistan.US Sen. Bill Hagerty, a Tennessee Republican and a former US ambassador to Japan, noted that those images are unavoidable for many Americans as Harris stops in the country.“She's going to have a challenge from a domestic public relations standpoint, because everyone in America right now is associating the images that they're seeing on TV with the collapse of Kabul, with the images of Americans being lifted from the rooftop of our embassy in Saigon,” he said.Hagerty also said that Harris will need to reassure the Vietnamese that America remains a “beacon of liberty and freedom in the world” and a “strong partner” in the region.But Gregory Poling, a senior fellow for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, suggested that Vietnam could offer the vice president an opportunity to offer a more optimistic vision for what a relationship with a former foe can become.“Simply by being there and engaging in this process, it shows the remarkable progress in rapprochement between the US and Vietnam,” Poling said. “It's possibly marginally good for them to show that — who in 1975 would believe that this is where the US economic relationship would be?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-calls-on-vietnam-to-join-us-opposing-china-bullying-101629870665102.html
25-08-2021||World||Opposition narrows gap with Canada’s ruling party, two pollsters say||As the troops’ withdrawal fiasco in Afghanistan continues to dominate the news in Canada, it may be having an effect on Justin Trudeau’s attempt to garner a parliamentary majority in the September 20 elections. For the first time in months, Trudeau’s ruling Liberal Party is in a statistical tie nationally with the principal opposition Conservative Party. Trudeau has had to address the crisis in Afghanistan at every election stop, and that was also the case on Tuesday. After a virtual G7 summit, he told reporters that Canada was “ready to stay beyond the (August) 31st deadline if it’s at all possible, because we want to save as many people as possible.” That, however, will depend on whether the United States remains in Kabul beyond that date, as a prime minister’s office spokesperson told the outlet CBC News such a call was “contingent on the extension of the US military presence”.While Trudeau said nearly 2,000 people have been evacuated from Kabul thus far by the Canadian Armed Forces, his government has faced criticism for its lack of planning and tardy action in this regard. Among the critics are those associated with the World Sikh Organisation who have expressed their “disappointment” over Canada’s inability to rescue minorities from Afghanistan.All of this is having an impact on Trudeau’s electoral ambition as the outlet Global News pointed out the “first week of the campaign has been dominated by criticisms over the Trudeau government’s slow evacuation”.That comment came with a poll by the agency Ipsos for the outlet which showed that the Liberals have lost 3 points over a week and now have 33% support nearly the same as the Conservatives, who are at 32%.Another national poll conducted by the non-profit Angus Reid Institute underscored that trajectory, as it also found a statistical tie, with the Liberals again at 33%, a lead of just 2 points over the Conservatives.However, the good news for Trudeau could be that foreign affairs is rarely a decisive element in an election outcome in Canada. In an interview last week, political scientist professor Nelson Wiseman said that “it doesn’t end up being a factor in voters’ decisions”. Later in the campaign, he said, “It’s not something that people will be paying attention to unless something really dramatic happens.”In weeks from now, he felt, leaders will not be talking about such issues because their pollsters will be telling them what’s top of mind for voters and “foreign policy isn’t”. For now, however, it may well be and Trudeau has to address the matter every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/opposition-narrows-gap-with-canada-s-ruling-party-two-pollsters-say-101629868509094.html
25-08-2021||World||'Afghanistan has what China most prizes': Beijing eyes access to $1 Trillion of untapped minerals||When the US invaded Afghanistan in 2001, the global economy looked a lot different: Tesla Inc. wasn’t a company, the iPhone didn’t exist and artificial intelligence was best known as a Steven Spielberg film.Now all three are at the cutting edge of a modern economy driven by advancements in high-tech chips and large-capacity batteries that are made with a range of minerals, including rare earths. And Afghanistan is sitting on deposits estimated to be worth $1 trillion or more, including what may be the world’s largest lithium reserves -- if anyone can get them out of the ground.Four decades of war -- first with the Soviet Union, then between warring tribes, then with the US-- prevented that from happening. That’s not expected to change anytime soon, with the Taliban already showing signs they want to reimpose a theocracy that turns back the clock on women’s rights and other basic freedoms rather than lead Afghanistan to a prosperous future.But there’s also an optimistic outlook, now being pushed by Beijing, that goes like this: The Taliban form an “inclusive” government with warlords of competing ethnic groups, allows a minimal level of basic human rights for women and minorities, and fights terrorist elements that want to strike the US, China, India or any other country.“With the US withdrawal, Beijing can offer what Kabul needs most: political impartiality and economic investment,” Zhou Bo, who was a senior colonel in the People’s Liberation Army from 2003 to 2020, wrote in an op-ed in the New York Times over the weekend. “Afghanistan in turn has what China most prizes: opportunities in infrastructure and industry building -- areas in which China’s capabilities are arguably unmatched -- and access to $1 trillion in untapped mineral deposits.”For that scenario to have even a remote possibility, much depends on what happens the next few weeks. Although the US is racing to evacuate thousands of Americans and vulnerable Afghans after a rushed troop withdrawal ending 20 years of war, President Joe Biden still has the power to isolate any new Taliban-led government on the world stage and stop most companies from doing business in the country. In a statement on Tuesday, the Group of Seven nations said the legitimacy of any Afghan government hinges on its adherance to international obligations including ensuring human rights for women and minorities. “We will judge the Afghan parties by their actions, not words,” the group said after a virtual leaders meeting.The US maintains sanctions on the Taliban as an entity, and it can veto any moves by China and Russia to ease United Nations Security Council restrictions on the militant group. Washington has already frozen nearly $9.5 billion in Afghanistan’s reserves and the International Monetary Fund has cut off financing for Afghanistan, including nearly $500 million that was scheduled to be disbursed around when the Taliban took control. To have any hope of accessing those funds, it will be crucial for the Taliban to facilitate a smooth evacuation of foreigners and vulnerable Afghans, negotiate with warlords to prevent another civil war and halt a range of human-rights abuses. Already tensions are growing over an Aug. 31 deadline for troops to withdraw, with the Taliban warning the US not to cross what it called a “red line.” Still, the Taliban have several reasons to exercise restraint. Kabul faces a growing economic crisis, with prices of staples like flour and oil surging, pharmacies running short on drugs and ATMs depleted of cash. The militant group this week appointed a new central bank chief to address those problems, just as his exiled predecessor warned of shocks that could lead to a weaker currency, faster inflation and capital controls. ‘Nothing Is Unchanged Forever’The Taliban also want sanctions lifted, with spokesman Suhail Shahee telling China’s state-owned broadcaster CGTN this week that financial penalties would hurt efforts to rebuild the economy. “The push for more sanctions will be a biased decision,” he said. “It will be against the will of the people of Afghanistan.” Leaders of the militant group have said they want good international relations, particularly with China. Officials and state-run media in Beijing have softened the ground for good relations, with the Communist Party-backed Global Times reporting that Chinese investment is likely to be “widely accepted” in Afghanistan. Another report argued the “the US is in no position to meddle with any potential cooperation between China and Afghanistan, including on rare earths.”“Some people stress their distrust for the Afghan Taliban -- we want to say that nothing is unchanged forever,” Hua Chunying, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said last week. “We need to see the past and present. We need to listen to words and watch actions.”For China, Afghanistan holds economic and strategic value. Leaders in Beijing have repeatedly called on the Taliban to prevent terrorists from plotting attacks against China, and view strong economic ties as key to ensuring stability. They also see an opportunity to invest in the country’s mineral sector, which can then be transported back on Chinese-financed infrastructure that includes about $60 billion of projects in neighbouring Pakistan.US officials estimated in 2010 that Afghanistan had $1 trillion of unexplored mineral deposits, and the Afghan government has said they’re worth three times as much. They include vast reserves of lithium, rare earths and copper -- materials critical to the global green-energy transition. But flimsy infrastructure in the landlocked country, along with poor security, have hampered efforts to mine and profit off the reserves.The Taliban takeover comes at a critical time for the battery-materials supply chain: Producers are looking to invest in more upstream assets to secure lithium supply ahead of what Macquarie has called a “perpetual deficit.” The US, Japan and Europe have been seeking to cut their dependence on China for rare earths, which are used in items such as permanent magnets, though the moves are expected to take years and require millions of dollars of government support.One major problem for the Taliban is a lack of skilled policy makers, according to Nematullah Bizhan, a former economic adviser to the finance ministry. “In the past they appointed unqualified people into key specialized positions, such as the finance ministry and central bank,” said Bizhan, now a lecturer in public policy at the Australian National University. “If they do the same, that will have negative implications for the economy and for growth in Afghanistan.”China BurnedOfficially, Afghanistan’s economy has seen rapid growth in recent years as billions in aid flooded the country. But that expansion has fluctuated with donor assistance, showing “how artificial and thus unsustainable the growth has been,” according to a recent report from the US Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction.China has been burned before. In the mid-2000s, investors led by state-owned Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. won an almost $3 billion bid to mine copper at Mes Aynak, near Kabul. It still hasn’t seen any output due to a series of delays ranging from security concerns to the discovery of historical artifacts, and there’s still no rail or power plant. MCC said in its 2020 annual report it was negotiating with the Afghan government about the mining contract after earlier saying it was economically unviable.The Taliban are trying to show the world it has changed from its oppressive rule in the 1990s, saying it welcomes foreign investment from all countries and won’t allow terrorists to use Afghanistan as a base. Janan Mosazai, a former Afghan ambassador to both Pakistan and China who joined the private sector in 2018, sees “tremendous opportunities for the Afghan economy to take off” if the Taliban prove they’re serious about “walking the talk.” But not many are optimistic. Reports have emerged of targeted killings, a massacre of ethnic minorities, violent suppression of protests and Taliban soldiers demanding to marry local women. “Everyone’s just in crisis mode,” said Sarah Wahedi, a 26-year-old tech entrepreneur from Afghanistan who recently fled the country. “I don’t see the entrepreneurs getting back to business unless there’s a huge overhaul in the Taliban’s behavior. And there’s nothing I’ve seen that makes me think that’s going to happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-has-what-china-most-prizes-beijing-eyes-access-to-1-trillion-of-untapped-minerals-101629867136786.html
25-08-2021||World||Trump slams Biden on Afghanistan issue, says 'thousands of terrorists' airlifted out of Kabul||Former US President Donald Trump has slammed his successor Joe Biden on his Afghan policy and expressed concerns that thousands of terrorists might have been flown out of Afghanistan as part of the evacuation process.“Biden surrendered Afghanistan to terrorists and left thousands of Americans for dead by pulling out the military before our citizens,” Trump said in a statement on Tuesday.“Now we are learning that out of the 26,000 people who have been evacuated, only 4,000 are Americans. You can be sure, the Taliban, who are now in complete control, didn’t allow the best and brightest to board these evacuation flights.“Instead, we can only imagine how many thousands of terrorists have been airlifted out of Afghanistan and into neighbourhoods around the world. What a terrible failure. NO VETTING. How many terrorists will Joe Biden bring to America? We don’t know!” he said.Meanwhile, Republican Congressman Mike Waltz, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan, introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives, condemning Biden’s failure to heed the advice of military and intelligence advisors about the speed and nature of the Taliban offensive, failure to present a coherent counter-terrorism or evacuation plan to the American people, and the damage done to the US credibility as a result of the president's abandonment of America's Afghan allies.The resolution was co-sponsored by Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Minority Whip Steve Scalise, and Conference Chairwoman Elise Stefanik.“President Biden has embarrassed the United States on the world stage and created the worst foreign policy blunder in our modern history,” Waltz said.Rather than heeding the advice of military leaders and lawmakers, Biden created a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan that he alone owns – all for the sake of seeking a headline that he would withdraw US troops prior to the 20th anniversary of September 11, he said.“Now, we will have shamefully given away the freedoms of Afghans, our military equipment and infrastructure, and countless other resources to the hands of Taliban terrorists because of the President’s cluelessness and stubbornness,” Waltz alleged.“Additionally, it is growing more likely by the day we will have broken our promise to thousands of Afghan allies who stood should-to-shoulder with our troops on the battlefield that have now been handed a death sentence for our failure to safely evacuate them in a timely fashion," he said.The intelligence community has made it clear that Al Qaeda 3.0 will come roaring back as the Taliban have made no indication they have cut ties with the perpetrators of September 11, Waltz said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-slams-biden-on-afghanistan-issue-says-thousands-of-terrorists-airlifted-out-of-kabul-101629866920947.html
25-08-2021||World||Chinese prez’s ‘thoughts’ to be taught from primary schools to varsities||China will include “Xi Jinping Thought”, a collection of the Chinese president’s policies and opinions, in its national curriculum, to be taught from primary schools all the way to university, the education ministry has said.The integration of Xi’s ideas into the curriculum will help establish “Marxist beliefs” among the country’s youth, the ministry said in a set of new guidelines issued on Tuesday.“The ‘Guide’ clearly requires that Xi Jinping’s thoughts on socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era be fully integrated into the curriculum and teaching materials. It should cover basic education, vocational education, and higher education,” the ministry said.While some universities in China have already included Xi’s thoughts and analysis on political thought and diplomacy in its curriculum, it’s the first time that the president’s ideas and ideals are being included for all students of all ages in the national curriculum.Formally known as “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”, it is headlined by the central principle of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) leadership over all aspects of Chinese life.“Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era” was added to the country’s constitution in 2018.Inclusion in the national curriculum is an indication of how Xi’s personal power has also been strengthened - not least by the abolition of presidential term limits - since he became the general secretary of the CPC and the president 2012.In a speech to mark CPC’s 100 years, on July 1, Xi vowed to “enhance” the party’s leadership, uphold his own “core” leadership, and strengthen the unity of the Chinese people.Xi’s opinions will now likely be the guiding principle of China’s academic curriculum.Broadly, primary schools will focus on loving the CPC and country; middle and high schools will promote forming of basic political opinion and judgements while in university, emphasis will be on theoretical thinking, propagating socialist ideas and on researching new ideas.The ministry is now preparing the “Student Reading Book of Xi Jinping’s New Era of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics” and “The Handbook of Xi Jinping’s Important Education Discourses” to be distributed in schools and colleges.Han Zhen, a member of the National Textbook Committee, the ‘Guide’ fully integrates Xi Jinping’s thoughts into the curriculum and textbooks. It has been systematically arranged and overall designed, and has made detailed regulations on the spread of subjects and the promotion of sub-subjects.The guide also says that abstract concepts and theories should be explained with “vivid examples” so that students can understand the theories and relate them to the realities of their lives; theoretical examples should be converted to relatable teaching material, it says.The ministry is working on the inclusion of other major thematic contents, such as party leadership, national defence education, education on life safety and health, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-prez-s-thoughts-to-be-taught-from-primary-schools-to-varsities-101629867309055.html
25-08-2021||World||Biden commits to Aug 31 deadline, but seeks backup plans||President Joe Biden has said the US is “currently on pace” to finish the Afghan evacuation process by August 31 but he has also asked officials for “contingency plans to adjust the timetable” should that become necessary, leaving the door open thus for a rethink, and an extension.The American president made clear at the same time that the US’s ability to meet the August 31 deadline “depends upon the Taliban continuing to cooperate” allowing access to the airport to those wanted to be evacuated. The Taliban have been blocking Afghans from reaching the airport.“We are currently on pace to finish by August the 31st,” Biden said in an address to the nation from the White House on Tuesday. “But the completion by August 31 depends upon the Taliban continuing to cooperate and allowing access to the airport for those who are being evacuated, and no disruption to our operations.”He added: “I’ve asked the Pentagon and the state department for contingency plans and adjust the timetable, should that become necessary.”Biden’s key worry about staying longer was the risk of a terrorist attack. “The longer we stay, starting with the acutely growing risk of an attack by a terrorist group known as ISIS-K, which is an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan,” he said.The US will start withdrawing the 6,000 troops deployed to Kabul to secure the airport and facilitate the evacuation later this week and will continue the flights till close to the August 31 deadline. The last few days will be focused on removing the remaining troops and equipment and American citizens.Biden’s remarks came after the meeting of leaders of G7 countries, the United Nations, the European Commission, the European Council and Nato. The Europeans had sought more time to complete their evacuation process but were unable to convince the US president, for now.The meeting was called by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who holds the annually rotating chair of the group. He was joined by Biden Canada’s Justin Trudeau, France’s Emmanuel Macron, Germany’s Angela Merkel, Italy’s Mario Draghi, Japan’s Suga Yoshihide, European Commission’s Ursula von der Leyen, European Council’s Charles Michel, UN’s António Guterres and Nato’s Jens Stoltenberg.In a joint statement, the G7 countries said, “The Taliban will be held accountable for their actions on preventing terrorism, on human rights in particular those of women, girls and minorities and on pursuing an inclusive political settlement in Afghanistan. The legitimacy of any future government depends on the approach it now takes to uphold its international obligations and commitments to ensure a stable Afghanistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-commits-to-aug-31-deadline-but-seeks-backup-plans-101629866108759.html
25-08-2021||World||Why did Biden choose August 31 as deadline for US withdrawal? Here's a timeline||United States president Joe Biden on Tuesday reaffirmed his commitment to complete its evacuation mission in Afghanistan by August 31, the date laid out earlier to pull American troops out from the war-torn country. But why was August 31 chosen by the Biden administration to bring the operations, which spanned two decades, to an end? As debate rages on in the US over a potential extension to the deadline for the massive two-week airlift from the Kabul airport, here's a brief explainer on the events which led to August 31 being fixed as the final date for the US.The timelineDonald Trump, Biden's predecessor to the White House, had in February last year settled on an agreement with the Taliban, deciding that May 1, 2021, would be the date when all US forces would withdraw from war-torn Afghanistan.Also Read | 'We'll judge them by their actions,' says Biden after G7 leaders discuss Taliban approachHowever, when Biden succeeded Trump in January this year, one of the first things he did was order a review of the deadline that the previous administration had set. On April 14, Biden announced a four-month postponement of Trump's deadline, saying that the troops "will be out of Afghanistan" before Americans mark the 20th anniversary of "that heinous attack on September 11th." Critics, however, warned that the conjunction of the US pullout and commemorations of the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attack might not look good.Finally, in early July, Biden announced that the US military mission in Afghanistan will conclude on August 31. As many as 25,000 US troops, several thousand Nato soldiers, and some 16,000 civilian contractors who remained in the country will be brought back, the US president announced.What was the issue with the earlier deadline?According to news agency AFP, the deadline to complete the evacuation mission was extended since Washington wanted to provide the erstwhile Ashraf Ghani-led Afghan government more time to set up a fight against the Taliban. The US also needed a considerable time period to hand over previous US-controlled military bases and tactical equipment to the Afghan forces.Washington and Nato partners expected that Afghan forces would at the very least be able to slow, if not completely stop, the Taliban offensive. The country's intelligence sources said that Afghan government forces should be able to hold on at least six months after the US departure, AFP reported.Also Read | India, Russia to assess Taliban actions before any recognition moveThe delay, the State Department believed, was also enough time for the departure of US citizens and tens of thousands of Afghans and their families who worked for US forces and were promised "special immigrant visas" (SIVs) to resettle in the United States, according to the news agency.However, as it later turned out, Afghan forces were overwhelmed by the lightning-fast Taliban campaign, which won the militants a series of provincial capitals in July and August, and soon they were knocking at Kabul's door on August 15.Suddenly time was short.Is the August 31 deadline sufficient?The Pentagon, which is managing all Kabul airport operations, says it actually has to wind down evacuations several days before August 31, to remove its own 6,000-plus troops on the ground, hundreds of US officials, 600 Afghan security troops guarding the airport, and significant amounts of equipment.Officials of Britain, France, and Germany, allies of the United States, have however signalled that they probably cannot complete all of their planned evacuations by August 31 and want the US to extend the deadline into September.As debates on the extension of the August 31 deadline to finish evacuation rage in the United States, president Joe Biden, however, said on Tuesday that he was sticking to the end-of-August target and that his country was "on pace" to finish the US mission on that date. The statement from the US president came after G7 leaders held a video summit earlier in the day to discuss the matter of staying in Afghanistan beyond August 31."We are currently on a pace to finish (the evacuation) by August 31, the sooner we finish the better," said the US president. "But completion by August 31 depends on the Taliban continuing to cooperate and allowing access of the airport to those who are transporting out and no disruptions to our operation."The US president stressed that the situation in Afghanistan could deteriorate the longer the US remains, and said that "contingency plans" are in place in case more time is needed. He also pledged that the US would be "a leader in these efforts" and will look to international partners "to do the same".(With inputs from the AFP news agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-did-biden-choose-august-31-as-deadline-for-us-withdrawal-here-s-a-timeline-101629861240721.html
25-08-2021||World||Covid: Japan set to expand state of emergency as Delta variant spreads||Japan is set to expand a state of emergency to eight more prefectures, taking the total to 21, the minister in charge of coronavirus countermeasures said on Wednesday, as a surge in Covid-19 cases overwhelms its hospitals.Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said the expansion, which would cover almost half the country's 47 prefectures, was approved by a panel of external experts. It is expected to be formally approved at a government task force meeting later on Wednesday."The most important task is to beef up the medical system," Nishimura said, adding that securing oxygen stations and nurses was among the priorities.With the Delta variant spreading fast, the government has struggled to bring infections under control as citizens grow weary of life under restrictions and many companies ignore repeated requests to promote work-from-home.Public broadcaster NHK reported 21,570 new cases and 42 deaths on Tuesday. Japan's case fatality rate stands at about 1.2%, compared with 1.7% in the United States and 2.0% in Britain.Months of emergency curbs in the capital, Tokyo, and surrounding areas have failed to reverse a surge in infections and about 90% of the city's critical care beds are occupied."The working-age demographic is the driving force (behind the rise in infections)," Nishimura said. "We need to halve the movement of people."With hospital beds filled to or nearing capacity, many people have been forced to convalesce at home - some dying before they are able to get treatment.The latest state-of-emergency expansion will add Hokkaido, Aichi, Hiroshima and five other prefectures spanning the Japanese archipelago from Friday through Sept. 12.Another four prefectures are expected to be added to the more limited "quasi-emergency" measures, bringing the regions under those curbs to a total of 12.Restrictions in Japan have been looser than lockdowns seen in some countries and have centred on mandates for restaurants to close by 8 p.m. and stop serving alcohol, and requests for companies to have 70% of staff working from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-japan-set-to-expand-state-of-emergency-as-delta-variant-spreads-101629861513876.html
25-08-2021||World||'Locals never raised their voices': Former Afghan mayor on Taliban takeover||Afghanistan's first woman mayor, who fled to Germany recently, has blamed the people of her country for the Taliban's return to power. Zarifa Ghafari said the people did not raise their voices against terrorism."For whatever Afghanistan is facing today, everyone is to be blamed including local people, politicians, children, and the international community. The local people never raised their voices unitedly against all wrong including terrorism," Ghafari told news agency ANI.Also Read: Pak has clear role in current situation in my country, says former Afghan mayorThe 26-year-old said she is now considering meeting high-ranking officials, politicians and women of different countries to draw attention to the crisis in Afghanistan."My aim is to meet high-ranking officials, politicians and women of different countries to make them aware of the real situation in Afghanistan, and ask them to join me for the start of a movement."Ghafari was Afghanistan's first woman mayor of Maidan Shahr city that lies west of Kabul. She is among those who fled from war-torn Afghanistan following Taliban takeover.Ghafari said that Taliban fighters have a list of people who took a liberal approach and were killing off people one by one. She claimed the insurgents even visited her house and beat up her security guards."Taliban have been to my house, they were asking for me, and they grabbed my car away, they have beaten my guards. They were all searching for me," she told ANI.The Taliban seized control of Afghanistan in the wake of the withdrawal of US forces. Their offensive, launched in May, culminated with capturing of Kabul after which the civilian government fled the war-torn country.The US has said that they will withdraw Afghanistan by August 31, an president Joe Biden refused to extend it further on Tuesday. The Taliban had warned of consequences if the withdrawal of American forces is delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/locals-never-raised-their-voices-former-afghan-mayor-on-taliban-takeover-101629858708027.html
25-08-2021||World||US Supreme Court snubs Biden, asks to revive Trump-era 'remain in Mexico' immigration policy||The US Supreme Court on Tuesday denied President Joe Biden's bid to rescind an immigration policy implemented by his predecessor, Donald Trump, that forced thousands of asylum seekers to stay in Mexico awaiting US hearings.The court, with three liberal justices dissenting, rejected the Biden administration's effort to block a Texas-based judge's ruling requiring the government to revive Trump's "remain in Mexico" policy, formally known as the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) program.The Supreme Court's 6-3 conservative majority includes three justices appointed by Trump.The brief order by the justices means that US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk's ruling now goes into effect.The court's decision referenced its 2020 ruling that thwarted Trump's bid to end a program introduced by Democratic former President Barack Obama that protects from deportation hundreds of thousands of immigrants - often called “Dreamers” - who entered the United States illegally as children.Both cases concern whether the government followed the correct legal process in unwinding a previous administration's policy.Biden, who has sought since taking office in January to reverse many of Trump's hardline immigration policies, rolled back the MPP program. Republican-led Texas and Missouri challenged the Democratic president's move.Biden's administration turned to the Supreme Court after Kacsmaryk ruled that the Trump policy would have to be reinstated and the New Orleans-based 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals on August 19 denied the government's request for a delay.The 5th Circuit's decision said the Biden administration must implement the MPP program in "good faith," which leaves the government some discretion in how to move forward.Democrats and immigration advocates criticized MPP, saying the policy subjected migrants, primarily from Central America, to dangerous conditions in Mexican border cities.Trump's administration cited a "security and humanitarian crisis" along the US-Mexican border in refusing to allow migrants seeking asylum, because of a fear of persecution in their home countries, to enter the United States ahead of hearings before immigration judges.Reacting to the Supreme Court's order, Omar Jadwat, a lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union, which challenged the Trump policy during the previous administration, said the Biden administration must "take all steps available to fully end this illegal program, including by re-terminating it with a fuller explanation."Arrests of migrants caught crossing the US southern border have reached 20-year highs in recent months, a development that Republicans blame on Biden's reversal of MPP and other Trump immigration policies.Biden's administration has left in place a separate Trump-era order that lets U.S. border authorities, because of the Covid-19 public health crisis, rapidly expel migrants caught at the border without giving them a chance to seek asylum in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-snubs-biden-asks-to-revive-trump-era-remain-in-mexico-immigration-policy-101629854262343.html
25-08-2021||World||'Deeply concerned': World Bank freezes aid to Afghanistan after Taliban takeover||The World Bank has suspended aid to Afghanistan, saying it is "deeply concerned" by the situation there, especially regarding women's rights, after the Taliban seized power, a bank spokesperson told AFP."We have paused disbursements in our operations in Afghanistan and we are closely monitoring and assessing the situation," the official said."We are deeply concerned about the situation in Afghanistan and the impact on the country's development prospects, especially for women."The suspension follows the Taliban's swift takeover of Afghanistan, as US forces prepared to complete a withdrawal with a deadline of August 31.Washington last week announced it would deny the Taliban access to the country's gold and cash reserves, most of which is held overseas.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) also suspended operations with the country, including an existing $370 million loan program, as well as $340 million Kabul was due to receive from Monday's release of Special Drawing Rights (SDR), the lender's basket of currencies.The swift takeover has led to heart-wrenching scenes of people trying to flee the country, including women fearing a return to the kind of Taliban rule of their 1990s regime that saw women confined to their homes, most entertainment banned, and stonings and public executions used as punishments.The World Bank held off on making a statement until it had pulled all of its personnel out of the country, an operation completed on Friday, according to a bank source.The spokesperson said the development lender "will continue to consult closely with the international community and development partners.""Together with our partners, we are exploring ways we can remain engaged to preserve hard-won development gains and continue to support the people of Afghanistan."The World Bank has more than two dozen development projects ongoing in the country and has provided $5.3 billion since 2002, mostly in grants, according to the bank's website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deeply-concerned-world-bank-freezes-aid-to-afghanistan-after-taliban-takeover-101629853392102.html
25-08-2021||World||'We'll judge them by their actions,' says Biden after G7 leaders discuss Taliban approach||US president Joe Biden said on Tuesday that the G7 leaders, the European Union (EU), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Nato), and the United Nations (UN) have all decided to stand united in their approach to the Taliban. "We'll judge them (Taliban) by their actions and we'll stay in close coordination on any steps that we take moving forward in response to Taliban behaviour," Biden said in a statement at the White House, adding that the global leaders have collectively decided to support refugees and evacuees currently fleeing Afghanistan.Notably, the United States is evacuating thousands of people every day from Afghanistan on flights operating out of the Kabul airport. Debates on the extension of the August 31 deadline to finish evacuation have raged in the United States, with its allies, too, urging Biden to reconsider his decision.However, Biden on Tuesday reaffirmed his commitment to complete the US evacuation process from Afghanistan by August 31, as previously laid out. He warned, though, that that the deadline is dependant on "cooperation" from the Taliban."We are currently on a pace to finish (the evacuation) by August 31, the sooner we finish the better," said the US president. "But completion by August 31 depends on the Taliban continuing to cooperate and allowing access of the airport to those who are transporting out and no disruptions to our operation."Biden's latest statement comes in the wake of his meeting with other world leaders on the evacuation efforts. The US president stressed that the situation in Afghanistan could deteriorate the longer the US remains, and said that "contingency plans" are in place in case more time is needed. He also pledged that the US would be "a leader in these efforts" and will look to international partners "to do the same".The US has evacuated or facilitated to get around 70,700 people out of Afghanistan since the Taliban seized control of the war-torn country, according to Biden. Since the end of July, nearly 75,900 people were evacuated, he said, adding that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has been directed to provide an update on Wednesday about the number of Americans who are still in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/well-judge-them-by-their-actions-says-biden-after-g7-leaders-discuss-taliban-approach-101629851407061.html
25-08-2021||World||Joe Biden decides to stick to August 31 pull-out deadline, say reports||US President Joe Biden has reportedly decided to stick to the self-imposed deadline of August 31 to wrap up the evacuation process in Afghanistan and eventually pull all troops out of the country, withstanding pressure from G7 allies who had been very publicly asking for more time.Reports also suggested that the American president’s decision to stick with the current troop withdrawal deadline does not preclude a change in plans later. Biden has asked the Pentagon to prepare a contingency plan should an extension become necessary.Biden met virtually on Tuesday morning with G7 leaders and heads of the European Union, the United Nations and Nato to discuss the unfolding situation in Afghanistan.The G7 meeting on the Afghanistan crisis was attended by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Italy’s PM Mario Draghi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen, European Council head Charles Michel, UN secretary-general António Guterres, and Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-decides-to-stick-to-august-31-pull-out-deadline-say-reports-101629833644838.html
25-08-2021||World||Malala expresses concern for women in Afghanistan under Taliban rule||Nobel Laureate Malala Yousufzai on Tuesday expressed her concern for the women in Afghanistan and recounted her own ordeal with the terrorist group which currently governs Afghanistan. In a blog post, Malala said that she was closely observing the developments in Afghanistan from Boston where she underwent a surgery for facial paralysis caused after she was hit by a bullet fired by a Pakistani Taliban terrorist in October 2012 while on her way to school.Malala also said that several women may go through a terrible fate due to the Taliban siege of the country. “Nine years later, I am still recovering from just one bullet. The people of Afghanistan have taken millions of bullets over the last four decades. My heart breaks for those whose names we will forget or never even know, whose cries for help will go unanswered,” Malala said.“I was making phone calls, writing letters to heads of state around the world and speaking with women’s rights activists still in Afghanistan. In the last two weeks, we’ve been able to help several of them and their families get to a safe place. But I know we can’t save everyone,” she further added.The Nobel Laureate also said that she speaks to two of her other friends who were with her on the day the Pakistani Taliban terrorist shot her in the skull. She said that her best friend told her that she looked at the terrorist in a ‘defiant’ manner and said that she still has nightmares to this day.The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan continues to create widespread concern regarding the rights of women. During the last Taliban regime between 1996 to 2001, Afghan women suffered under the regressive rule of the terrorist group. Earlier today, the Taliban government asked Afghanistan government’s women workers to remain indoors until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malala-expresses-concern-for-women-in-afghanistan-under-taliban-rule-101629831225925.html
25-08-2021||World||UN raises alarm over reports of executions in Afghanistan||The UN human rights chief said on Tuesday that she had received credible reports of serious violations committed by the Taliban in Afghanistan, including “summary executions” of civilians and Afghan security forces who have surrendered.Michelle Bachelet gave no details of the killings in her speech to the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC), but urged the Geneva forum to set up a mechanism to closely monitor Taliban actions.The Taliban group’s treatment of women and girls would be “a fundamental red line”, she told the council’s emergency session, held at the request of Pakistan and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).Afghanistan’s diverse ethnic and religious minorities were also at risk of violence and repression, she said, citing reports of killings and targeted attacks in recent months.Nasir Ahmad Andisha, a senior Afghan diplomat from the deposed government, called for accountability for Taliban actions, describing an “uncertain and dire” situation where millions of people fear for their lives.Independent UN human rights experts, in a joint statement, said that many people were in hiding as “the Taliban continues to search homes door-to-door” and that seizures of property and reprisals were being reported.But China’s ambassador to the UN in Geneva, Chen Xu, said that the US army and the militaries of other coalition partners, including Britain and Australia, should be held accountable for alleged rights violations their forces committed in Afghanistan.The United States condemned attacks that it said were being carried out against civilians, journalists, activists and minority groups, but did not name the Taliban.In a separate development, prominent Afghan women’s rights activist Zarifa Ghafari arrived in Germany together with her family members. Ghafari landed at the Cologne-Bonn airport late on Monday after fleeing Afghanistan to Pakistan last week. Armin Laschet, the governor of Germany’s North Rhine-Westphalia state who met Ghafari, said it was important to help as many women as possible to leave Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-raises-alarm-over-reports-of-executions-in-afghanistan-101629830838168.html
25-08-2021||World||Taliban appoint ex-detainee at Guantanamo as acting defence min: Report||Afghanistan’s new rulers have appointed former Guantanamo detainee Abdul Qayyum Zakir as the new Taliban regime’s acting defence minister, Qatar-based Al Jazeera news channel reported on Tuesday, citing a source in the Islamist movement.Earlier in the day, the Taliban appointed a new finance minister, an intelligence chief, and an acting interior minister in Afghanistan, the Pajhwok news agency reported. It said Gul Agha would be the finance minister and Sadr Ibrahim would be the acting interior minister. Najibullah would be intelligence chief, while Mullah Shirin would be Kabul governor and Hamdullah Nomani the mayor of the capital.The reported appointments came even as the World Health Organization (WHO) warned that the country only has enough supplies to last for a week after deliveries of medical equipment from abroad were blocked by restrictions at Kabul airport.The WHO was also concerned the current upheaval in Afghanistan could push up Covid-19 infections, with testing dropping by 77% in the past week and vaccinations also down, officials from the WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean office said.WHO officials said 95% of health facilities in Afghanistan remained operational but some female staff had not returned to their posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-appoint-ex-detainee-at-guantanamo-as-acting-defence-min-report-101629830640494.html
25-08-2021||World||CIA boss held secret meeting with Taliban leader in Kabul||US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns held a secret meeting with top Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar in Kabul on Monday in what is being seen as the highest level contact between President Joe Biden’s administration and Afghanistan’s new rulers.While details of Burns’ discussion with Baradar were not released, the secret meeting represented an extraordinary moment for the CIA that for two decades had targeted the Taliban in paramilitary operations. And it gives a sense of the extent of the wrangling happening ahead of the end of America’s two-decade war in the country.The CIA partnered with Pakistani forces to arrest Baradar in 2010. He spent eight years in a Pakistani prison before the Trump administration persuaded Islamabad to release him in 2018 ahead of peace talks.The Washington Post first reported Burns’ meeting with Baradar in Kabul. A US official later confirmed the report on condition of anonymity. A Taliban spokesman said he was not aware if Baradar met the CIA chief.In Moscow, President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday Russia would not interfere in Afghanistan and that Moscow had learned from the Soviet occupation of the country.“We’re not going to meddle in Afghanistan’s domestic affairs or involve our military in a conflict where everyone is against each other,” Putin said at a gathering of officials from the ruling United Russia party. “The Soviet Union had its own experience in this country. We have learned the lessons we needed,” he said.Moscow had invaded Afghanistan in late 1979 to support a communist government. The decade-long war there left up to two million Afghans dead and forced seven million more from their homes.Putin’s comments about Afghanistan came after Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said that US forces were “pawning off” Afghans fleeing the Taliban to Moscow-allied Central Asia.China: Sanctions will be counterproductiveChina on Tuesday said imposing sanctions on the Taliban in Afghanistan will prove counterproductive, and urged the international community to support chances for positive developments in the country.“Afghanistan is an independent and sovereign country. The US and its allies should learn from the lessons of history, reflect and act prudently on issues related to Afghanistan,” said Wang Wenbin, China’s foreign ministry spokesperson. “Imposing sanctions and pressure at every turn cannot solve the problem and will only be counterproductive.”Wang also said the “international community should encourage the development of the situation in Afghanistan in a positive direction”.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-boss-held-secret-meeting-with-taliban-leader-in-kabul-101629830490869.html
25-08-2021||India||Law and order in Bengal not conducive to polling in 7 assembly seats, says state BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit on Wednesday officially informed the central leadership in Delhi that the situation in the state was not conducive to polling in the seven assembly seats that are lying vacant since May. Bengal BJP leaders held an organisational meeting during the day and informed the central leadership that they cannot organise campaigns as post-poll violence is continuing. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “The Election Commission of India sought our party’s opinion on holding assembly polls and by-polls in Bengal. BJP central leaders asked for a feedback from the state unit. We said our workers are facing threats and our leaders are being arrested on various charges. Campaigns cannot be held under these circumstances.” “We have not said polls should not be held. That decision will be taken by the ECI,” Bhattacharya added. In the March-April polls, the BJP bagged 77 seats while the Trinamool Congress (TMC) won 213. However, polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 seats as two TMC candidates died of Covid-19 in Murshidabad district before the polls. Two TMC candidates from North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas died of Covid-19 after the polls and it was found that they had won. Though the BJP wrested 77 seats, its score came down to 75 as two legislators resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. One of them is Nisith Pramanik who took oath as Union minister of state for home affairs during the cabinet reshuffle on July 7. The seventh seat where polls will be held is Bhawanipore in south Kolkata. It is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s old seat but this year she contested from Nandigram in East Midnapore district and was defeated by her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari who is now leader of the opposition in the state assembly. Adhikari won the Nandigram seat in 2016 and was made a cabinet minister. State power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay contested the Bhawanipore seat and won it. However, he stepped down so that Banerjee can contest again and return to the assembly. To continue as chief minister, she has to win a seat within six months from the date of announcement of the poll results. Since the Left parties and Congress could not win even a single seat, the contest in these seven seats is likely to be bi-polar. The TMC is keen to face the polls. “The ECI should announce the election schedule by August 31. Only four months are left. The assembly polls and by-polls can be held as these seats are located in areas where the Covid-19 pandemic is under control,” Banerjee said on Monday. TMC leaders said Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy will move the ECI in Delhi later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-and-order-in-bengal-not-conducive-to-polling-in-7-assembly-seats-says-state-bjp-101629915795205.html
25-08-2021||India||Rane’s arrest justified but custody not needed: Court||The arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane over his derogatory remark against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was justified but his custodial interrogation is not needed, a court at Mahad observed as it granted bail to the 69-year-old late on Tuesday.“Considering the reason for arrest and other reasons, I found that the arrest is justified,” magistrate S S Patil said in the order, a detailed copy of which was made available on Wednesday. Noting that while a few sections under which Rane was booked were non-bailable, they were not punishable with life or death. “Considering these factors, no prejudice would be caused to the prosecution if the accused is released on bail,” the court said, adding that “the accused shall not commit a similar type of offence”. Rane was arrested on Tuesday from Ratnagiri district following his remarks that he wanted to slap the chief minister for allegedly confusing the number of years since India got independence during the latter’s August 15 address.The police sought his custody for seven days, which the court refused and remanded him to judicial custody till September 4. Rane’s advocates then moved a bail application. The plea was heard and Rane was granted bail on a surety of ₹15,000. He was directed to appear at the office of Superintendent of Police in Alibaug (Raigad) on August 30 and September 13.Meanwhile, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday adjourned till September 17, the hearing of Rane’s plea for quashing of cases filed against him after the Maharashtra government said it would not take any “coercive action” against the Union minister in connection with a first information report (FIR) registered in Nashik.Nashik Cyber Police has booked the Union minister under sections 500 (defamation) and 153 (b) (1) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Information Technology Act. Cases against Rane were also filed in Pune and Mahad.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ranes-arrest-justified-but-custody-not-neededcourt-101629915794122.html
25-08-2021||India||Odisha man jumps into wife’s funeral pyre, succumbs to burn injuries||Unable to bear the loss of his wife who died of a cardiac arrest, a 60-year-old tribal man from Kalahandi, who was an elected member of the local gram panchayat, jumped into the burning pyre of his wife hours after her death. He later succumbed to his injuries.Kalahandi SP Vivek Saravana said, Raibati Sabar, 57 of Sialjodi village of Kalahandi district, passed away on Tuesday after suffering a cardiac arrest. Her husband Nilamani and four sons along with other relatives took her remains to the village crematorium for the last rites. After completing the customary funeral rituals, Raibati was laid to rest on the pyre.As the family members were on their way home from the crematorium, Nilamani took everyone by surprise and ran back to the pyre. “By the time the family members could react, Nilamani had suffered severe burns,” said Saravana.Incidentally, Sabar and his wife lived separately. SDPO of Dharmagarh D Chopdar said he is looking into the incident. “Not much can be revealed at this stage. Police are still investigating,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-jumps-into-wife-s-funeral-pyre-succumbs-to-burn-injuries-101629911473770.html
25-08-2021||India||India, Brazil and South Africa NSAs slam cross-border terrorism||Top security officials of India, Brazil and South Africa on Wednesday said terrorism, particularly cross-border terror activities carried out through state sponsorship, continues to be the most potent threat to global peace and security, in a veiled reference to Pakistan. The issue figured at a virtual meeting of National Security Advisers of the IBSA hosted by NSA Ajit Doval. The IBSA (India, Brazil, South Africa) has emerged as a key tripartite grouping for the promotion of cooperation in a range of areas. It was the first meeting of the NSAs of the member state of the grouping. The meeting was convened as part of the preparations for the next IBSA Summit. India is the current chair of the IBSA. "Participants agreed that terrorism, in particular, cross-border terrorism undertaken through state sponsorship, continues to be the most potent threat to global peace and security and must be fought through united efforts," the MEA said in a statement. It said the three countries also resolved to enhance cooperation in intelligence sharing, exchange of best practices amongst concerned national agencies and focus on capacity building. The meeting identified maritime security as an important area of future cooperation. "It was agreed to strengthen mechanisms to combat piracy and drug and human trafficking and ensure the security of sea lanes of communication and energy and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, including fishing," the MEA said. It said the next round of the trilateral 'IBSAMAR' maritime exercise will be held at the earliest."India also invited Brazil and South Africa for the MILAN naval exercise in 2022. India proposed cooperation among the defence industries based on respective strengths of each country and pooling of resources for joint development of platforms, including naval platforms," the MEA said. It said the NSAs also agreed to enhance practical cooperation in cyber security and accepted India's offer to organise an 'experts group meeting' on cyber security. They also agreed to further strengthen coordination within the UN on cyber and ICT issues. "During the meeting, discussions were held on maritime security, fight against terrorism and transnational organised crime, and cyber security," the MEA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-brazil-and-south-africa-nsas-slam-cross-border-terrorism-101629906966047.html
25-08-2021||India||‘Be more practical’: SC nudges UP govt, Allahabad HC to reduce appeal pendency||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday described the pendency of 1.83,000 criminal appeals in the high court of Allahabad and its Lucknow bench as “astronomical” and nudged the court administration and the Uttar Pradesh government to look at ways to remedy the situation.“These are astronomical figures. We would like the high court to iron out the issues causing the pendency. We don’t think this kind of a problem exists in any other high court,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said on Wednesday.The bench, which has been hearing bail petitions of 18 life convicts who have spent over 10 years in jail in Uttar Pradesh, on July 26 sought broad parameters to expedite bail hearings in cases where the appeals have been pending for a long duration. Only one among the 18 has undergone a jail sentence of fewer than 10 years.On Wednesday, the judges said they wanted some norms to be laid down to ensure the period spent behind bars can be considered while ruling on bail pleas.“These matters are coming to us only because the appeals are not being heard for decades together. People can’t be in jail for such a long time,” the bench observed.Uttar Pradesh additional advocate general Garima Parshad echoed the state’s reservations on a proposal suggested by the high court for release of prisoners who have served 10 years in jail.Parshad said there were 7,214 convicts serving time who have been in jail for 10 years or more.“If this bracket is taken, more than 7,000 convicts will be released. A large number of such convicts are hardened criminals, rapists, repeat offenders, kidnappers, massacre, more than three murders, habitual criminals who do not deserve to be released on bail.”The two-judge bench asked the government to look at it from a “different angle”.“More than 7,000 persons are crowding your jails. They may be people who have had no parole. You can always segregate the cases of hardened criminals or others by specifying categories. Be more practical, this will ultimately decongest your jails,” the top court said. It added that the high court can devise a policy to be adopted for this purpose since it would be difficult for the Supreme Court to prescribe a uniform policy for all high courts.Senior advocate Viraj Datar who appeared for some of the 18 convicts told the court that most convicts have spent a minimum of 10 years in jail. He complained that some of the parameters suggested by the UP government were more onerous compared to the probation rules which entitle a prisoner for early release on good conduct.Datar also underscored that UP did have a sentence review board to consider the premature release of prisoners who have served 14 years but this is hardly done. The UP government rebutted this charge, insisting that lawyers of convicts had to share the blame since they sought adjournment by filing bail pleas.Once bail is granted, some convicts are untraceable, Garima Parshad added.The bench, however, did not appear convinced that the government was doing enough.“What prohibits the state from classifying the prisoners and releasing them on parole. A person cannot remain a habitual criminal after 15 years in jail. People who have resources move for bail. There may be several within the 10-year category who cannot afford the resources and have not been once out on parole.”The bench asked the UP government to take proactive action, including the processing of remission applications of eligible prisoners without waiting till September 22, the next date of hearing.The top court also took the Allahabad high court on board and asked them to independently consider the suggestions given by the state and the petitioners. Once the process of hearing bail pleas of life convicts is ironed out, the court said it intends to remit the pending pleas of the 18 convicts to the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-more-practical-sc-nudges-up-govt-allahabad-hc-to-reduce-appeal-pendency-101629907033160.html
25-08-2021||India||Quad to kick off Malabar tomorrow, 1st tri-service drills with UK in October||India, the United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the latest edition of the Malabar naval drills off the Pacific Ocean island of Guam on Thursday, with the exercise involving destroyers, frigates, corvettes, submarines, helicopters, long-range maritime patrol aircraft and elite special forces elements including the US Navy SEALs and the Indian Navy’s marine commandos (MARCOS), top officials familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. India is also preparing to conduct its first tri-service exercise with the United Kingdom in the Arabian Sea in October-end, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. The Royal Navy will send a carrier strike group led by HMS Queen Elizabeth for the drills that will be conducted from October 21 to 27. India has so far conducted tri-service drills only with two other countries --- the US and Russia. The Quad navies had carried out complex naval drills under the Malabar banner in November 2020 in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. Two Indian warships, INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt, will be taking part in the 25th edition of the Malabar exercise along with the P-8I maritime reconnaissance aircraft and MARCOS. “A wide range of surface, sub-surface and air operations will be carried out by the participating navies during the exercise. Special operations teams --- US Navy SEALs, Indian MARCOS and Special Boarding Units of the Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force (JMSDF) --- will carry out visit, board, search and seizure (VBSS) training and simulated hostage rescue operations,” said a second official. The US Navy will be represented by an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer, two tankers and P-8A long-range maritime patrol aircraft, the JMSDF will field a helicopter carrier, two destroyers, a submarine and Kawasaki P1 maritime patrol aircraft, and the Royal Australian Navy is taking part in the drills with a frigate. The exercise ends on August 29. China has been monitoring the activities of the Quad countries. Beijing has been wary of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Speaking at an Observer Research Foundation (ORF) event in New Delhi on the eve of the Malabar exercise, Admiral John C Aquilino, commander, US Indo-Pacific Command, said, “There is no better ally and no worse adversary than the US (in the Indo-Pacific region).” An official release issued by US INDOPACOM on Aquilino’s India visit quoted him as saying, ‘Our network of allies and partners are our greatest strength and a centre of gravity in the Indo-Pacific. Our relationship with India is based on aligned values and presents an important model for building enduring partnerships. As we increase interoperability, information-sharing, and access with allies and partners across the globe, this partnership enhances our capabilities, improves our coordination, and shows that we are stronger when we stand together.” The exercise will involve the participation of the US Navy’s MH-60R helicopters, which the Indian Navy is also inducting to modernise its ageing helicopter fleet. A month ago, the US delivered two MH-60R helicopters to the Indian Navy at the Naval Air Station North Island, San Diego. Last year, India ordered 24 Lockheed Martin-Sikorsky MH-60R helicopters from the US to strengthen the navy’s anti-submarine/anti-surface warfare and surveillance capabilities. The government-to-government contract for the helicopters is worth around ₹17,500 crore. The drills planned with the UK in the tri-service format in October will include air defence exercises, anti-submarine warfare drills, anti-surface operations, amphibious operations, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations (HADR) in a contested environment and other joint manoeuvres, said a third official. India and France are also laying the groundwork for a new format of military exercises involving their armies, navies and air forces in what will be a major boost for defence cooperation between the two countries. In April 2021, France, India, the US, Japan and Australia carried out complex maritime drills, Exercise La Pérouse, in the eastern Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to enhance interoperability among their navies. “The frequency of our bilateral and multi-lateral exercises has gone up over the years. We are now conducting up to 30 such exercises annually,” said the second official. From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), the Indian Navy is focusing on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean. “We are carefully monitoring Chinese presence in the IOR, including the movement of their warships for anti-piracy deployment in the Gulf of Aden, research ships and intelligence-gathering vessels. On Wednesday, the Indian Navy tracked a Chinese space-tracking ship enter the IOR,” the official added. Last November, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said a “great power competition” was playing out vigorously in IOR, where the navy has stepped up surveillance to check China’s ambitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-to-kick-off-malabar-tomorrow-1st-tri-service-drills-with-uk-in-october-101629906793616.html
25-08-2021||India||P Chidambaram arrives in Goa to ‘strategise’ for assembly polls||PANAJI: Former Union finance and home minister P Chidambaram arrived in Goa on Wednesday to hold talks with the state Congress leadership and take stock of the party’s preparations for the assembly elections slated for early next year. Chidambaram, who was appointed as the senior All India Congress Committee (AICC) election observer for Goa on 9 August, met AICC desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC observers Prakash Rathod and Mansoor Khan, state party president Girish Chodankar, and leader of opposition in the Goa assembly Digambar Kamat among others. The former finance minister, who is on a two-day visit, didn’t speak to the media. But later, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee secretary M K Shaikh said Chidambaram will meet various leaders and party functionaries. “He will interact with PCC office-bearers, frontal organisations, district and block presidents, and will take inputs to work out strategies for the forthcoming assembly elections. He is specially appointed by AICC to oversee election strategies for the Goa assembly elections,” Shaikh said. The task ahead is arduous for the former FM as the state Congress has been weakened by the departure of most of its elected MLAs to the Bharatiya Janata Party .The party had won 17 seats in the 2017 assembly elections and also won another seat in 2019 that became vacant due to the death of former defence minister Manohar Parrikar of the BJP. But between 2017 and 2019, 13 Congress MLAs deserted the party and joined the BJP, bringing down the MLA count to just five. Of the five, four are former chief ministers and senior figures in Goa’s political circuit. The party also suffers from a lack of cohesion, with several leaders expressing lack of faith in state president Girish Chodankar, and the fear is this will only worsen as the elections come nearer. This is Chidambaram’s first visit to the state after his appointment, and he is expected to help iron out differences among the party’s rank and file. The ruling BJP has, however, said it is unfazed by the senior leader’s visit. “Somebody asked me, ‘Chidambaram has been appointed (by the Congress) for strategy. What about you all?’ I told them that even if Rahul Gandhi is sent here, it will not make any difference, because we have a Rahul Gandhi in every booth. They have only one Rahul Gandhi, we have many. All of our workers are masters at their jobs,” Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pchidambaram-arrives-in-goa-to-strategise-for-assembly-polls-101629906073149.html
25-08-2021||India||HT This Day: August 26, 1984 — All passengers, crew of jet freed||Twelve pro-Khalistani hijackers of the Indian Airlines Boeing-737 surrendered to authorities in the United Arab Emirates this evening and released all 68 passengers and six crew members unharmed, about 38 hours after they had seized the aircraft over Pathankot. The released hostages are expected back in the Capital early tomorrow morning. Seven hostages, including five women and an infant, freed at Lahore and Karachi, have already arrived in Delhi this evening. The hijackers were taken into custody by the local authorities and whisked away. The welcome development followed nearly eight hours of nonstop negotiations between the hijackers and leaders of the UAE Government led by Defence Minister, Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, who were ably assisted by Indian Ambassador, Mr Isharat Aziz, and Capt. B. K. Bhasin, Director of Flight Safety of the Indian Airlines. India’s Minister of State for External Affairs, who was in Dubai was returning home from Rumania, also joined the talks. During the negotiations which appeared to be on the verge of collision on several occasions, the hijackers stuck to their demands, including safe passage to the Untitled States and assurance that the UAE Government would respect its promises. The UAE authorities in consultation with other concerned parties is understood to have promised a seven-day asylum to the pro-Khalistani Sikh hijackers before their departure to the United States. The passengers were allowed to leave the aircraft .soon after the hijackers and the UAE Government came to a workable understanding. First a batch of 25 passengers came out of the Boeing and they were almost immediately followed by the remaining passengers and members of the crew. The released hostages were taken in two airport authority buses to the air-conditioned international transit lounge for rest and refreshments.The Delhi-Chandigarh-Srinagar plane, which was seized by 12 kirpan-wielding Sikh extremists soon after it left Chandigarh yesterday morning was taken to Lahore, where it was refuelled after nine and a half hours. The hijackers then forced it to fly to the Gulf via Karachi. At Karachi, it was again given jet fuel. The Dubai airport authorities switched off the runway lights and raido contact and refused landing permission. The plane hovered over the Dubai airport for 40 minutes before it landed on the darkened runway with fuel running low. After landing the plane was cordoned off by security personnel at an isolated spot on the airport. An Indian Airlines relief aircraft carrying senior officials of the Government of India and Indian Airlines including Capt. Bhasin, also landed at Dubai airport within minutes of the landing of the hijacked aircraft. New Delhi was constantly in touch with Dubai and a special committee functioning under the Cabinet kept reviewing the minute to-minute changing situation. This was the second hijacking of an Indian Airlines aircraft within seven weeks. On July 5, an Indian Airlines airbus on a Srinagar-Delhi flight was hijacked to Lahore, where pro-Khalistan hijackers had released all passengers unharmed. The Boeing, initially carrying 122 passengers, was on a Delhi-Srinagar hopping flight via Chandigarh and Jammu. Sixty seven passengers had disembarked at Chandigarh and 31 joined the flight for Jammu and Srinagar. The plane was hijacked minutes after it took off from Chandigarh. Some of the hijackers were believed to have boarded the plane at Chandigarh as four passengers had given fake addresses. The hijackers allowed five passengers, including a three-member family, to leave the aircraft at Lahore and two women, holding British passports at Karachi. It was the second hijacking experience for Capt. V. K. Mehta and the third for steward D. K. Mehta. WASHINGTON: The State Department refused to comment on reports from Dubai that as part of the deal for the release of the passengers and crew of the hijacked Boeing the hijackers would be allowed to come to the US and that when they arrived they would be arrested. US officials said the negotiations at the Dubai airport were done by local authorities not by the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-august-26-1984-all-passengers-crew-of-jet-freed-101629905893602.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: K'taka CM orders probe on Mysuru gangrape and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.College girl, on bike with friend, allegedly gangraped in Mysuru, CM orders probeReports said the girl is not from Karnataka and stays there for studies. The incident took place on Tuesday at around 7pm when she was returning from Chamundi hills along with her friend. Read more here.US intelligence report on coronavirus origin inconclusiveA WHO report had earlier said the virus most likely travelled from animals to humans and that the possibility of a lab leak was ‘extremely unlikely’. Read more here.Former India and England cricketers react after India's 78 all out in first innings in LeedsThe likes of Wasim Jaffer, Irfan Pathan, Michael Vaughan, Kevin Pietersen took to Twitter to express their views after England seamers ran through the Indian batting line-up, bowling them out for 78. Read more here. Zeeshan Khan evicted from Bigg Boss OTT after violent fight with Pratik Sehajpal, shows injuries on InstagramActor Zeeshan Khan was evicted from the Bigg Boss OTT house on Wednesday after he got violent with Pratik Sehajpal and Nishant Bhat during a task. Read more here. Shashi Tharoor’s pic of smashing coconut sparks meme fest, MP shares his ‘favourite ones’Shashi Tharoor took to Facebook to share his ‘favourite’ memes inspired by his pic of smashing coconut. Read more here. Not just Apple Music, your HomePod can now play music from Gaana, JioSaavnThe Apple HomePods can now do more. While you can still use the HomePod to AirPlay content from your smartphone, Apple Music and Apple Podcasts are not the only content streaming services you can take advantage of by asking Siri to pull up what you want to listen to. Read more here. Amid Sidhu-Amarinder fight, Congress reveals who will lead party in Punjab elections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-k-taka-cm-orders-probe-on-mysuru-gangrape-101629904349061.html
25-08-2021||India||Food for 82.3 million poor lost during transit in 4 years, Parliament panel says||Around 411,810 tonnes of wheat and rice were wasted as transit and pilferage losses in the past four years, a Standing Committee report on food, consumer affairs and public distribution, tabled in Parliament earlier this month, revealed.The report also highlighted that the loss of foodgrains led to an estimated ₹1,109.82 crore in the past four years, till October 2020, and subsidised commodities were enough to feed 82.3 million people if distributed properly. The Centre provides around 5kg of wheat of rice at subsidised rates under its Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.“The government should take significant steps to mitigate transit and storage losses and save taxpayers’ money,” the committee stated in its report.The report also showcased the condition of the country’s food storage and transit infrastructure, as well as the decentralised procurement scheme (DCP).Under the DCP, the states procure, store and distribute foodgrains themselves under the Centre’s targeted public distribution system (TPDS) and other welfare schemes. The decentralised system of procurement has the objectives to ensure that Minimum Support Price (MSP) is passed on to the farmers, to enhance the efficiency of procurement and to encourage procurement in non-traditional states, thereby extending the benefits of MSP to local farmers as well as to save on transit losses and costs.The Standing Committee report shows that so far only 23 states have implemented it – 15 to procure rice and eight to procure wheat – despite the scheme being in place for the past 23 years.The Parliament panel raised questions on the actions taken against the officials responsible for the transit losses. It found out that around 153 cases were filed in 2018-19 while 144 were lodged in 2019-20 and 44 in 2020-21 (till September 2020). Of these, 18 cases of unjustifiable losses are still pending while a total of 89 cases of storage losses registered till September 2020 are pending.ALSO READ | Ration scheme in all states soon: CentreReacting to the findings, the Standing Committee suggested the Food Security of India (FSI) come up with new standards, guidelines and checklists to mitigate the transit and pilferage losses of foodgrains and make officials and workers more aware. Moreover, it asked for a framework to deal with pending cases of corruption, excise duty and related matters against the officials.Meanwhile, the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution responded to the report in Parliament to say that it has taken several steps to check corruption in FCI godowns.“Farmers are now provided with the MSP online while the agencies are paid through an online system. The quality-related parameters of cereals are put up on public domain,” Union minister Piyush Goyal said, adding, “Procurement process is being inspected regularly and action taken against those who are found guilty of adulteration. The produce is tagged at every step of the process – from the mills to depot.”Several steps have also been taken to monitor the distribution including regulating selling in the open market by limiting it through a modulated e-auction, Down To Earth reported quoting the ministry. “CCTV cameras are also installed in all the godowns. In addition, committees have been formed to redress the grievances of the contractors.”However, despite measures taken by the Centre, losses to the tune of ₹280.94 crore was incurred due to transit wastage in 2020-21 (till October 2020), the committee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-security-public-distribution-system-foodgrain-parliament-standing-committee-101629902146626.html
25-08-2021||India||Govt hikes cane prices, but rules out increase in sugar rates||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a 1.7% increase in the assured price millers pay to sugarcane growers in the 2021-22 season to ₹290 per quintal (100 kgs), a move that will benefit about 50 million farmers in the country. The government also ruled out any immediate increase in sugar prices for household consumers. Consumer affairs and food minister Piyush Goyal announced the new cane rates but when asked if there would be a commensurate hike in the sugar selling price, he answered: “Not necessarily.” India is the world’s largest sugar consumer, but 90% of the sweetener goes into commercial food products while 10% is bought by households. Sale and output of the commodity is tightly regulated by the government. India has produced ample sugar in the range of 28-31 million tonne of sugar in the past couple of years, while domestic consumption is about 26 million tonne. Cane prices are a big issue for farm unions, who are an influential voting bloc especially in western Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly polls are due. Extreme weather in Maharashtra in the past two months could affect domestic prices in the new season, experts say. “Maharashtra is a key monitorable for domestic sugar production and prices. Currently, over 20% of the area under sugarcane in Maharashtra has been affected because of heavy rainfall,” said Hetal Gandhi, an economist with Crisil Research Ltd. The so-called fair and remunerative price of ₹290 per quintal, the price which millers mandatorily pay to farmers, will be applied for a basic recovery rate of 10%, which is the amount of sugar extracted from a given quantity of raw cane. If mills are able to extract less than 9.5% of sugar from cane, farmers would be paid ₹275 per quintal. White sugar prices reached $504 per tonne in August 2021, according to industry trade data, because of which exporters were able to earn ₹37 per kg without any subsidy against the domestic price of ₹31-32 per kg. “That has led them to sign export contracts above the target of 6 million tonne set by the government for sugar season 2021, which ends in September,” Gandhi said. The Cabinet in 2020 had approved a ₹3,500 crore subsidy package for sugar export by millers amid a glut, a farmer-friendly move amid a persistent stand-off between large farm unions and the government over three recent farm-reform laws. India is expected to export over 7 million tonne of sugar till September. Hence, there would be no need for subsidy by the government for the additional 1 million tonne. India has offered sugar export subsidies for a third year in a row to pare surplus stocks and ensure domestic prices don’t crash. Export subsidies are necessitated when exports becomes unviable because international prices are lower than domestic prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-hikes-cane-prices-but-rules-out-increase-in-sugar-rates-101629902416872.html
25-08-2021||India||CDS flags concerns about terror spillover from Afghanistan to India||India is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the Taliban takeover and contingency plans are in place to deal with the scenario, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said on Wednesday. The CDS’s comments came days after Taliban wrested control of the Afghan capital Kabul, capping a swift takeover of most major cities in that country. Rawat, the country’s senior-most military commander, said India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but its rapid pace delivered a surprise. “From the Indian perspective, we were anticipating the Taliban takeover. We were concerned about terrorist activity overflowing into India from Afghanistan. Our contingency planning is ongoing, and we are prepared for that,” Rawat said. He was speaking at an Observer Research Foundation (ORF) seminar on India-US Partnership: Securing the 21st Century, sharing stage with Admiral John C Aquilino, commander, US Indo-Pacific Command. The two military leaders held a separate meeting on Wednesday and discussed matters related to peace and security in the region as well as bilateral military defence cooperation. “Everything that has happened (in Afghanistan) was anticipated. Only the timelines changed and certainly surprised us because we were anticipating this (takeover) happening a couple of months down the line,” Rawat said at the ORF event. In an assessment done as recently as last month, the Indian side had concluded that the Taliban would shift its campaign to capture territory from rural areas to urban centres and provincial capitals only by the end of August, after the completion of the withdrawal of US forces. The Indian side had also expected that there would be air support for Afghan security forces from the US if the Taliban entered urban areas. Assessments done by both the Indian and Afghan sides also suggested that the fighting would continue for at least two to three months, till winter set in. However, the Taliban rapidly stepped up its offensive this month, seizing one provincial capital after another, both in the southern part of Afghanistan, the traditional stronghold of the group, and the north, where it had faced greater resistance in the past. This was done by concluding agreements with warlords and commanders of the security forces, and thousands of troops simply surrendered without a fight at a time when the Ashraf Ghani government showed no indication of taking the fight to the Taliban. Rawat said the group, which was ousted from power in Afghanistan by US-led coalition forces in 2001, was the same Taliban that existed 20 years ago. “All that has happened is that partners have now changed. It is the same Taliban with different partners…We will make sure that any activity which is likely to flow out of Afghanistan and find its way into India will be dealt with in the manner in which we are dealing with terrorism in the country,” the CDS added. India should stay prepared for terror spillover from Afghanistan into Jammu and Kashmir via Pakistan, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). “But working on a matrix of probability and possibility, the probability is there but possibility of terror inflow in J&K in the near future appears distant. The reason is that taking over control of Afghanistan by Taliban was easy but establishing control will be difficult. The group will channelise its energy to establish control there,” Jaswal said. He said India has a window of opportunity to finish off home-grown terrorism is J&K before the Taliban attempts to send a few leaders to exploit that network in India. With the Taliban now firmly in control of most of Afghanistan, the biggest concern for Indian security agencies is the presence of between 7,000 and 10,000 terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan. These groups have targeted Indian interests in Afghanistan in the past, and some like LeT had carried out attacks on Indian soil. Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammed Omar and the head of the group’s military operations, is believed to work closely with both LeT and JeM commanders. These two terror groups have also helped the Taliban with fund-raising, recruitment and military advice. The ORF event on India-US partnership also put the spotlight on China expanding its military capabilities at a swift pace, including strategic weapons and building a fleet of aircraft carriers to operate and dominate waters thousands of miles away from its shores. “It is the largest military buildup since World War II, both in the conventional and the nuclear domain. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s words don’t really match their deeds,” said Aquilino, raising questions about Beijing’s intentions. Rawat said India was quite capable of dealing with China and Pakistan in the conventional domain. “Strategic weapons are weapons of deterrence, not for engaging nations in combat. We have two neighbours armed with strategic weapons. India is evolving its own strategies and has a triad,” he said. India’s nuclear triad gives it the capability to carry out nuclear strikes from land, air and sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-flags-concerns-about-terror-spillover-from-afghanistan-to-india-101629899532429.html
25-08-2021||India||Onam spike? Kerala records 31,445 fresh Covid infections, highest since May 20||Kerala on Wednesday reported 31,445 new Covid infections, which is an over 30 per cent spike from Tuesday's 24,296 fresh cases. With this, the test positivity rate crossed the 19 per cent mark.Among districts of the State, Ernakulam recorded the highest number with 4,048 cases followed by Thrissur (3,865), Kozhikode (3,680), Malappuram (3,502), Palakkad (2,562), Kollam (2,479), Kottayam (2,050), Kannur (1,930) Alappuzha (1,874), Thiruvananthapuram (1,700), Idukki (1,166) Pathanamthitta (1,008) and Wayanad (962). Of the new cases, 123 were health workers, 138 from outside the State and 29,608 infected through contact with the source of the contact not being clear in 1,576 cases, the release said. There are currently 4,70,860 people under surveillance in various districts. Of these, 4,44,278 are in home or institutional quarantine and 26,582 in hospitals, according to Kerala's health bulletin.Also Read: For pandemic-hit Kerala, it’s a make-or-break OnamSpike not unexpectedThe spike is not unexpected as state and centre health experts had already warned that Kerala might see a sudden rise in the number of cases following Onam like it happens every time after any festivity. The state government restricted Inam celebrations to some extent but shops and other establishments were allowed to function. And what was expected as a spike has now become an apparent explosion of new infections.Is Kerala seeing the third wave of Covid?The last time Kerala recorded over 30,000 cases on a day was May 20 when it reported 30,491 fresh infections. Wednesday's tally is even higher than that, which is worrying. Since July last week, Kerala has been witnessing a steady rise in the number of cases, for which the Centre sent an expert team to the state. Investigating the situation, the central team found that the state government did not follow proper containment measures; the seropositivity in the state was low; and the high population of senior citizens-- all contributed to the rise.Cases of breakthrough infections are also high in Kerala, which was pointed out as one of the factors behind Kerala's July spike. Kerala's Covid situation is fodder for political battle as Kerela leaders have been claiming that the situation is not as bad as it is being projected. On Wednesday, Union minister of State V Muraleedharan took to Twitter and blamed Pinarayi Vijayan for his "illogical strategy".The government had put in place some strict rules making negative RT-PCR or vaccination certificates mandatory for visiting shops. While these created a flutter in state politics, the Covid-19 situation of Kerala did not improve much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onam-spike-kerala-records-31-445-fresh-covid-infections-highest-since-may-20-101629898312511.html
25-08-2021||India||College girl, on bike with friend, allegedly gangraped in Mysuru, CM orders probe||A student has allegedly been gangraped by a group of miscreants in the Mysuru district of Karnataka while she was travelling along with a male friend on his bike on Tuesday, reports said. According to police, the incident took place in the evening around 7pm when the duo was returning from Chamundi hills. A gang of six men, who were reportedly in an inebriated state, stopped the bike and asked for money. When the male friend said that they have no money on them, the miscreants reportedly attacked him and hit the girl. Then they reportedly took turns to rape the girl on the spot.A case of gangrape has been registered at Avalahalli Police Station, Mysuru. Both the girl and her male friend are being treated at a private hospital, reports said. Mysuru police commissioner Dr Chandragupta visited the spot and formed multiple teams to probe the case, PTI reported.It's unfortunate incident. An FIR has been registered. We've sent senior officials including ADGP Pratap Reddy to Mysuru. I'm also going to Mysuru tomorrow. We'll take strict action against the culprits: Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on gangrape of a student in Mysuru pic.twitter.com/182ZsEJbp5The accused are missing. "It's an unfortunate incident. An FIR has been registered. We've sent senior officials including ADGP Pratap Reddy to Mysuru. I'm also going to Mysuru tomorrow. We'll take strict action against the culprits," Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra said.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is in Delhi, said he has directed the director-general of police Praveen Sood to initiate an investigation. "Based on the statement, a case has been registered. I have directed the DGP that whoever has perpetrated it, they should be identified and stringent action should be taken against them," Bommai said.The girl is not from Karnakata and stays in Mysuru for studies, reports said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-girl-on-bike-with-boyfriend-allegedly-gangraped-in-mysuru-unfortunate-says-home-minister-101629897458540.html
25-08-2021||India||Time for schools to reopen in phased manner, says Covid-19 panel chief||The time has come for schools to resume classes in a phased manner, the chief of Centre's working group on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) said on Wednesday.Dr NK Arora, who heads the working group under the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), cautioned that the parents and other members of the family of the school students should get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19.Dr Arora also suggested that teachers, non-teaching staff as well as drivers associated with schools should be vaccinated to create a protective ring around the students, even as he said that "children don't get a severe disease or get very sick with Covid-19."Earlier in the day, Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya had urged the states and Union territories to get all the school teachers vaccinated on priority before September 5, when India celebrates Teachers' Day.He said the Centre would provide an additional two crore doses of Covid-19 to the states this month.Meanwhile, Dr Arora announced that ZyCoV-D, Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine approved for children in the age group of 12-17 years, would be rolled out in October. The vaccine received emergency-use approval on August 20.He added that the NTAGI would conduct a meeting soon to chalk out a plan for introducing the ZyCoV-D vaccine in the Centre's ongoing inoculation drive by prioritising children with comorbidities. The NTAGI chairman said it is estimated that less than 1% of around 12 crore adolescents in the age group of 12-18 years in India may have comorbidities, according to news agency PTI."Healthy children will be given vaccines only after the immunisation drive for adults is complete," Dr Arora said.A first-of-its-kind DNA vaccine that produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 to elicit an immune response, ZyCoV-D is an intradermal vaccine that would be using a ‘needle-free injector’, which its Ahmedabad-based manufacturer Cadila Healthcare Ltd said would help in reducing side-effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-vaccine-zycov-d-ntagi-nk-arora-school-reopening-101629894487467.html
25-08-2021||India||'Aims to increase interoperability': Indian Navy on Malabar Exercise 2021||The Indian Navy on Wednesday laid out the details of this year Malabar Exercise, which is scheduled to take place from August 26 to 29. The 2021 edition of the naval drills, its 25th, is called “Malabar 21.”“The aim this year is to increase the interoperability amongst the participating navies, developing common understanding and SOPs for Maritime Security Operations. Malabar 21 will witness exercises all the three domains covering maritime warfare: live-weapon firing, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drills, and joint manoeuvres and tactical exercises,” the Navy said in a statement, according to news agency ANI.MALABAR-21 will witness exercises covering all three domains of maritime warfare including-live weapon firing, anti-surface, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drills, joint manoeuvres and tactical exercises: Indian NavyMalabar 21 will take place in Guam, an unincorporated territory of the United States, which lies off the Pacific Ocean. Two Indian Navy Ships (INS), Shivalik and Kadmatt, arrived in Guam on August 21 for the exercise.#INSShivalik and #INSKadmatt arrived at Guam islands, USA on 21 Aug 21 as deployment to nations in #SouthEastAsia & the Pacific Ocean. The ships will participate in the annual #Exercise MALABAR-21, between navies of Australia, India, Japan & USA. https://t.co/Z5KuRYF2Vi pic.twitter.com/sRrTdg6iuVThe Indian Navy, along with its counterparts from Australia, Japan and the US, participates in the Malabar drills, which first took place in 1992. The next two editions were in 1995 and 1996. 2002 was the fourth time it took place. Since then, it has taken place annually.Initially a bilateral event involving only India and the US, it was expanded to Australia, Japan and Singapore joined in 2007. Japan subsequently participated in 2009 and 2011 and, from 2014, has been a regular participant. It became a permanent member in 2015. While Singapore has participated only once, Australia re-joined in 2020, making its second appearance.Australia, India, Japan and the US together form the “Quad.” Malabar 2020 was the first time all four Quad members participated in these drills. The exercise was held in two phases: November 3-6 and November 17-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aims-to-increase-interoperability-indian-navy-on-malabar-exercise-2021-101629894944331.html
25-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane threatens Thackeray govt over Sushant Singh Rajput's former manager Disha Salian's death case||Union minister Narayan Rane on Wednesday said he would ensure that the Disha Salian death case reaches a logical conclusion. "I won't stop unless the guilty are punished," the centre of Maharashtra's new 'slapgate' Narayan Rane said. Disha Salian used to be Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's manager. Just a week before Sushant Singh Rajput's death on June 14, 2020, Disha Salian was found dead.Narayan Rane has been openly claiming that Disha was raped and murdered. The case has been closed as the autopsy report ruled out murder and any sexual assault and asserted that Disha Salian committed suicide."Disha Salian did not commit suicide. She was raped and murdered. One of the young ministers from the current Maharashtra government attended the party where Disha Salian was also present... Maharashtra government trying to save the culprit," Narayan Rane had said in a press conference in August last year. Linking the unnatural deaths of Disha Salian and Sushant Singh Rajput, the former chief minister of Maharashtra claimed that they were murdered.Narayan Rane's son Nitesh Rane too had voiced a similar opinion and claimed that Disha had dialled 100 on that night and her boyfriend, who was missing after her death, was aware of what happened to her on that night.The Union minister raked up the case again after he was arrested by Police for his comment against Thackeray. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his (August 15) speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap," Rane said on Monday. On Tuesday, he was arrested and was granted bail.The arrest sparked off a major controversy, following which the Maharashtra government told the Bombay high court on Wednesday that it would not take any coercive action against Rane.(With inputs from Surendra P Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-rane-threatens-thackeray-govt-over-sushant-singh-rajput-s-former-manager-disha-salian-s-death-case-101629894705420.html
25-08-2021||India||Will resign on order from Sonia Gandhi, Rahul: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Wednesday he would step down as the state head when Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and senior party leader Rahul Gandhi ask him to do so.Regarding speculations about leadership change in the state based on a two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula, Baghel said such talks were made by those trying to bring political instability, but they would never succeed.Chhattisgarh: Congress workers welcomed CM Bhupesh Baghel upon his arrival in Raipur after meeting Rahul Gandhi in Delhi"I'll step down when Sonia&Rahul Ji order me. Those talking about 2.5-2.5 years plan are trying to bring political instability but will never succeed,"he said pic.twitter.com/yOahtOMj7ZBaghel made the statements following a grand welcome that was accorded to him in Raipur upon his return from Delhi where he and state health minister held meetings with central leaders amid reports of a growing power tussle between the two.Earlier in the day, it was reported, the duo was scheduled to meet Congress general secretary KC Venugopal in the national capital. They met Rahul Gandhi in the presence of Venugopal and Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia on Tuesday.Later, Punia said there was no discussion about a change of guard during the meeting and wide-ranging discussions were held with Gandhi on the several schemes and projects being implemented in Chhattisgarh.Tensions between Baghel and Singh Deo have simmered since the formation of the government in December 2018, but have never boiled over. Both leaders have taken the stance that all decisions about the government’s future will be taken by the party high command, and they will follow the instructions from Delhi. However, speculation of a new arrangement has been rising since June 17, the day the CM completed two-and-a-half years of his term.The rift within the ruling party had come to the fore when Deo walked out of the Assembly demanding clarity from his own government over allegations that one of his relatives was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh.Last week, Deo had sought action against a news portal that had cited him as the source for an article claiming Baghel would resign on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-resign-on-order-from-sonia-gandhi-rahul-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-101629894454259.html
25-08-2021||India||National Monetisation Pipeline: After Rahul, CM Mamata joins list of detractors||The National Monetisation Pipeline which was announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier this week faced criticism from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday. The Trinamool Congress supremo said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is mistaking national assets as their own assets or of the Prime Minister’s. She called the decision ‘unfortunate’.Govt unveils ₹6L-crore monetisation scheme“These are not PM Modi’s or the BJP’s assets. These are national assets which belong to the country. The Prime Minister cannot sell the national assets. It is an unfortunate decision and I am shocked. Many people will join me in condemning this decision,” Mamata said while addressing a press conference.Similar sentiments were expressed by Congress Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday who criticised the National Monetisation Pipeline claiming that it will prove harmful for the youth as it will not create enough employment opportunities.National Monetisation Pipeline launched to 'monetise' under-utilised public sector assets“We are not against privatization. Our (UPA government’s) privatization had a logic and there was no privatization of strategic industry such as the railways. All this privatization is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and airports,” Rahul Gandhi said, according to a report by HT. He also accused the government of selling India’s crown jewels. He alleged that infrastructure which took over seven decades to build was being sold to ‘3-4 industrialists’.Congress leader from Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot also lashed out at the Centre on Wednesday claiming that the asset monetisation programme was giving away assets to the private sector at ‘throwaway’ prices. “Centre should help poor and middle-class people instead of handing over the assets of the country to select people,” Pilot said.Union finance minister lashes outUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman lashed out at Rahul Gandhi while speaking to reporters in Mumbai. Sitharaman was meeting the heads of public sector banks (PSBs) on Wednesday to take stock of the financial performance of the lenders. “Does he understand what monetisation is? It was the Congress which sold the country’s resources and received kickbacks from it,” Sitharaman said. She also said that the Congress-led government monetised the Mumbai-Pune expressway to raise ₹8,000 crore earlier and also floated a request for the proposal for New Delhi Railway Station in 2008.National Monetisation Pipeline: What is it and how will it benefit the country?During the launch of the National Monetisation Pipeline Sitharaman clarified that there will be ‘mandatory hand back’ and no assets were being sold. “The ownership of the assets will continue to remain with the government. There is a mandatory hand back rule. The national monetisation pipeline focusses on brownfield assets where investment was made and is languishing or remains under-utilised,” Sitharaman said.The Centre aims to raise ₹88,000 crore by leasing infrastructure assets of central government ministries and state-run companies under a ₹6 trillion National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) this year. The government has put roads, railways, power, oil and gas pipelines and telecom under the asset monetisation pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-monetisation-pipeline-after-rahul-cm-mamata-joins-list-of-detractors-101629894115769.html
25-08-2021||India||No coercive action against Narayan Rane: Maharashtra assures Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Wednesday adjourned the hearing of Narayan Rane’s plea for quashing cases filed against him over his comments about slapping chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after the Maharashtra government said no coercive action will be taken against the Union minister related to the First Information Report (FIR) filed against him in Nashik.A division bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar granted an urgent hearing of the petition.Senior advocate Amit Desai, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, said the state would not take any coercive action against Rane in connection with the FIR registered in Nashik as no further offence was committed.Rane’s lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, told the bench that the judicial magistrate at Mahad, who granted bail to Rane after he was arrested on Tuesday, has cautioned his client against making further comments.The Nashik Cyber Police booked Rane including under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 500 (defamation), 153 (b) (1) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), and the Information Technology Act. More cases were filed against him in Pune and Mahad.Also Read | The tale of a threat, an arrest, and an old and new rivalryRane’s petition said the charges against him entail punishment under seven years and hence he should have been given a notice before his arrest as per the law. But he added it was not done.Rane was arrested from Sangameshwar on Tuesday while he had stopped for lunch. While the police were about to arrest Rane, an anticipatory bail application was moved before the Ratnagiri sessions court, but it was rejected. Rane was taken to Mahad, where he was produced before the magistrate, who granted him bail.The high court registry on Tuesday refused to admit Rane’s petition for quashing cases against him without original FIR copies. The petition was filed on Wednesday along with the copies.Desai informed the bench he received the papers only an hour before the hearing and he was not aware of the sections under which the petitioner was booked in Nashik. He assured the court that no coercive action would be taken against Rane in this case.Maneshinde submitted they fear Rane could be arrested in connection with other FIRs and sought protection from arrest till the next hearing in connection with all cases on September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-coercive-action-against-narayan-rane-maharashtra-assures-bombay-hc-101629893953170.html
25-08-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border villages set own rules to normalise situation||One month since the firing incident between Assam and Mizoram and people from border villages have decided to find a middle ground on their own. Village level public representatives of both the states met at Lailapur in Assam past Sunday and agreed to compromise on some issues. They said, “We need each other so we are ready to compromise to restore peace and normalcy.” A delegation of Vairengte Joint Village Council led by their chairman R Lalfamkima was in Lailapur to attend a meeting with representatives of Assam’s villages where they agreed to put the border dispute aside and allow people from either side to enter villages. Officially, an outsider requires an Inner Line Permit (ILP) to enter Mizoram, but the regulation won’t be this stringent for these villages. Also Read | More than 300 schools reopen in MizoramR. Lalfamkima said, “What happened on July 26 was unfortunate...We have decided to make our own rules which will be applicable only for the people of a few villages from both the sides. We have informed the Mizoram chief minister about our decisions and he has appreciated our attempt.”Lalfamkima also said they have formed some groups... “If someone comes from Assam’s side, we will get the information before the visit. Our teams will take care of the security of the visitors. But this will be applicable only for temporary visits.”On the possibility of permanent solution to the border issue, Lalfamkima, said, “It is not possible to draw a permanent solution to the border dispute until both the states agree on one point... Mizoram believes that the border should be divided based on the demarcation by British government’s Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR) in 1875, while Assam believes on a district demarcation done by British government in 1933.” Former president of Chandnighat Gaon Panchayat (near Lailapur) Raju Laskar led the Assam team. He said, “People from Mizoram visit Assam’s markets to buy essentials. Some trades and businesses are dependent on customers from Mizoram’s side. People from our side go to Mizoram to find work. We cannot forget what happened on July 26 where six of our police officers died. Governments from both the states are trying to find solution which will take long time.”While Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga appreciated the decision taken by the villagers, no political leader from Assam’s side has yet responded to this proposal.After the meeting, representatives of Vairengte Village Council in Mizoram visited chief minister Zoramthanga on Monday. But Assam village representatives are yet to write to state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma. On July 26 this year, police forces of both the states came face to face and six Assam police personnel died in firing. In retaliation, a 10-day undeclared economic blockade prevailed on Assam side. Ministers from both the states met in Aizawl on August 5 to find a solution. Things started normalising and thousands of trucks carrying essential for Mizoram safely entered to the state. But the governments of both the states failed to find a solution to the dispute. Pictures:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-villages-set-own-rules-to-normalise-situation-101629893471738.html
25-08-2021||India||Will continue Jan Ashirwad Yatra, played key role in Sena's rise: Narayan Rane||Union minister Narayan Rane said on Wednesday the Jan Ashirwad Yatra that he had been organising with his colleagues from the Centre will resume on Friday in Sindhudurg. Rane was arrested on Tuesday for making controversial statements against the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray only to be granted bail late in the night.“My party has stood by me firmly during this entire episode of my arrest. I have played a key role in the Shiv Sena's rise. The people who got me arrested were nowhere on the scene at the time,” said Rane, a former chief minister of the Sena-BJP alliance government. He also said he was not arrested, but he had accompanied police to the court in his own car at their request.Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court it would not take any coercive action against the Rajya Sabha MP in the FIR lodged in Nashik over his controversial remarks. Multiple FIRs have been registered against the BJP leader across the state.A division bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar was hearing a petition filed by Rane, seeking to quash the FIR registered in Nashik and all other cases that may be lodged in future. Rane has sought interim protection from arrest. On Tuesday, the court said that while the arrest was “justified”, his custodial interrogation was not necessary.Also read | 36 FIRs filed so far against BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in MumbaiThe newly inducted Union minister sparked a furore in the state after he allegedly said on Monday that he would have “tightly slapped” Thackeray for being ignorant of the year of India’s independence. The statement led to several clashes across Maharashtra, followed by heated exchange of words between the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Whatever I said about the chief minister was out of the respect I have for my country. I cannot tolerate disrespect to the country,” said Rane, a former Sena leader before switching loyalty to the Congress and then moving on to the BJP.On Tuesday too, Rane had defended his statement stating that he had not committed any offence. Regarding Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis' comment that the BJP dis not support Rane's statement, but the "party stood by him 100 per cent", Rane said, "I have not said anything wrong. However, if Fadvanis says it is wrong, then I will accept it as he is our 'margdarshak' (guide)."He asked why no action was taken against Thackeray after he asked his workers to attack BJP leaders. “Why no action was initiated when he called Union home minister Amit Shah shameless?” he said, adding the BJP would not allow Maharashtra to witness violence that had engulfed West Bengal after the Assembly election held earlier this year.He further said the verdict in all cases (lodged by the Shiv Sena) filed against him has been in his favour. "This is an indication that the country is run by laws," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also raked up the death of celebrity manager Disha Salian and promised to ensure justice in the case. “I will ensure that the Disha Salian case reaches a logical conclusion. I won't stop till the guilty are punished," Rane added.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-jan-ashirvad-yatra-played-key-role-in-sena-s-rise-narayan-rane-101629891636284.html
25-08-2021||India||Mumbai Youth Cong working president quits post after Bandra MLA chosen youth wing chief||The Congress on Wednesday appointed party’s Bandra east MLA Zeeshan Siddiqui as president of the Mumbai unit of the party’s youth wing, following which the incumbent working chief Suraj Singh Thakur quit his post. Siddique, 27, the youngest MLA in the assembly, was appointed president of the Mumbai Youth Congress. He is a first-time MLA from Bandra East constituency, and the son of senior Congress leader and former legislator from Bandra West, Baba Siddique. In a statement dated August 15, Indian Youth Congress appointed Siddique as president and Thakur as working president of the Mumbai Youth Congress. On Wednesday morning, Zeeshan Siddique tweeted, “I would like to thank Sonia Gandhi madam, my leader Shri @RahulGandhi ji, @Allavaru ji, @IYC president @srinivasiyc bhai for appointing me as president of @IYC_Mumbai.I also want to thank all 88,517 Youth Congress members who voted for me & made sure that I get the highest votes.” Following his appointment, Thakur who was the present working president, resigned from his position on Wednesday morning, saying he was “disappointed with the decision” and uncomfortable working with a “non-political” and “inexperience” person. In his resignation letter to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Thakur said, “I always believed that the foot soldiers, organisational persons and experience have been considered more over the fame and oriented politics in Congress. But the recent decision has disappointed me a lot and I am totally uncomfortable working with a non-political and inexperienced person in the key organisation of Congress.” Regarding his appointment, Siddique said, “There are a lot of like-minded youth in Mumbai, from families in the city, who align with the Congress ideology, and are looking for ways to connect and work with the party. My first aim, as president is to widen the base of the Congress party. Working towards our performance in the upcoming BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) elections, where Congress is contesting alone is also on our cards.” Siddique said, Thakur’s resignation is “unfortunate” and he along with the Congress leadership will try and convince Thakur to come back on board. “I have worked within the Congress Youth wing for a decade, and held three leadership positions during this time. I also got the highest number of votes, with a large margin, in the elections for the position of President that were held in December,” Siddique said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-youth-cong-working-president-quits-post-after-bandra-mla-chosen-youth-wing-chief-101629891312590.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: All 78 evacuees from Afghanistan at ITBP camp test Covid negative and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.All 78 quarantined evacuees from Afghanistan test negative for Covid-19: ITBPThe evacuees at Chhawla camp of the ITBP included 24 Indians and 54 Afghan nationals. All of them were tested for the virus upon their arrival at the Delhi airport. Read moreNarayan Rane arrest: Will send 75,000 letters to CM Uddhav Thackeray, says BJPAddressing a press conference, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said these letters won't let Thackeray forget how many years its has been since India gained independence. Read moreSunil Gavaskar, Nasser Hussain indulge in heated debate before start of India-England 3rd TestTwitter was abuzz after Gavaskar and Hussain’s banter on Sony Sports Network before the toss of the India-England third Test at Headingley in Leeds on Wednesday. Read moreManoj Bajpayee files criminal defamation case against Kamaal R Khan for calling him 'ganjedi', among other thingsKRK, in a series of tweets, had compared Manoj's hit show The Family Man to 'soft porn' and had also commented on his wife, and about his daughter's relationship status. Read moreRugged e-scooters launched, may make conventional scooters seem expensiveeBikeGo on Wednesday launched Rugged electric scooters in the Indian market in two versions - G1 and G1+, with a starting price of ₹79,999. Read moreWoman shares video of her husband’s kind gestureThere is something incredible about the videos that showcase people’s random acts of kindness. Those are the clips that often leave people with a huge smile on their face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-all-78-evacuees-from-afghanistan-at-itbp-camp-test-covid-negative-and-all-the-latest-news-101629889735391.html
25-08-2021||India||When Uddhav apparently said he felt like 'hitting Yogi Adityanath with chappal'||As Union minister Narayan Rane's arrest over his 'would have given Thackeray a tight slap' comment has created a controversy, the internet has dug out a 'blast for the past' moment for Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. In 2018, when Thackeray was not the chief minister, he outraged in a similar fashion like Rane did when Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had apparently garlanded Shivaji wearing chappals."He garlanded (photo of) Shivaji Maharaj while wearing chappals. I felt like taking the same chappals and hitting his face with it. He is no yogi, he is a bhogi. Had he been a yogi, he would have given up everything and gone and sat in a cave. But he has gone and sat in the CM's chair," Uddhav had reportedly said at that time.When Uddhav Thackeray gave a wrong statement against CM Yogi, why was no action taken against him? #ArrestUddhavThackrey pic.twitter.com/OjFpQNZZEBUddhav Thackeray should be locked up in Lucknow jail for this comment on Yogi Adityanath Ji...#NarayanRane #UddhavThackeray #Maharashtra #ShivSena pic.twitter.com/ITVdYOFxqqDigging old news articles, videos, Twiteratis, BJP leaders demanded Uddhav Thackeray's arrest for the same reason as Narayan Rane.Narayan Rane's arrest: Son Nitesh posts 'karara jawab milega' videoRane was arrested on Tuesday a day after he criticised Uddhav for not knowing the years of independence. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap," he said.The Union minister got bail on Tuesday at midnight and the magistrate said the arrest was justified but the custodial interrogation was not.Earlier on Tuesday, the Nashik Police issued a notice to Narayan Rane based on the FIR against him under IPC Sections 500 (defamation), 505(2), (public mischief) and 153(B) (1) (c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill-will). "It is revealed that there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain the facts and circumstances from you, in relation to the present investigation," the notice stated. The minister acknowledged the notice and said he would cooperate with the investigation and would not repeat such an offence in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-uddhav-thackeray-said-he-felt-like-hitting-yogi-adityanath-with-chappal-101629888595907.html
25-08-2021||India||Two men arrested in Manipur with box full of remdesivir, Covid vaccine vials||Two men have been arrested in Manipur, allegedly with medicines used in treatment of Covid cases, said police sources on Wednesday.The arrest was made by a combined team of narcotic and affairs of border (NAB) police station and Singjamei police station in Canchipur area near Heijingang Super Market along Imphal-Moreh sector of the National Highway-2 around 2.50pm past Sunday, August 22.The men have been identified as Mohammad Feroz Khan (30), and Imran Khan (22), both from Tengnoupal district.The police team also seized a van, two cartons containing 48 packets of remdesivir vials, 100 bottles marked ‘SII ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 Corona Virus Vaccine (Recombinant) Covishield 5ml- 10 doses. They were allegedly transporting the seized items towards Myanmar through Moreh, a border town of Manipur. “On further questioning, they disclosed that the seized items were handed over to them at Hatta (in Imphal east district) by one Subhamkumar Anand, a Bihar native who currently lives in Imphal,”said a police source.Anand has also been arrested, said the source. A case has been registered at Singjamei Police Station in Imphal for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-arrested-in-manipur-with-box-full-of-remdesivir-covid-vaccine-vials-101629889451267.html
25-08-2021||India||Rakesh Asthana as Delhi top cop: Apex court asks HC to decide on plea in 2 weeks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Delhi High Court to decide within two weeks a pending plea challenging the appointment of senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the police commissioner of Delhi.Asthana was appointed as the top officer of the national capital on July 27, four days before his superannuation on July 31. He would have a tenure of one year as the police chief.A bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana and justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant granted permission to NGO 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' (CPIL) to move the Delhi High Court to intervene in the pending plea against Asthana’s new role.Appearing for the Centre, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said more time be given to the high court as the government would have to file its response to the pending plea there.The petition, moved by advocate Prashant Bhushan, urged the court to set aside the Centre's order to appoint Asthana after extending his service period. The Delhi Assembly had also passed a resolution against the appointment and asked the Union ministry of home affairs to reverse the decision.The Supreme Court had ruled in 2019 that only officers who have at least six months of service left before their superannuation should be considered for the post of director-general of police.The 1984-batch IPS officer, who had shifted to Union cadre from Gujarat, was earlier serving as the director general of Border Security Force, before being appointed as the police commissioner of Delhi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-asthana-as-delhi-top-cop-apex-court-asks-hc-to-decide-on-plea-in-2-weeks-101629888841577.html
25-08-2021||India||Anticipated Taliban takeover but ready to deal with terrorism spilling out of Afghanistan, says CDS Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said that insurgency spilling out of Afghanistan into India would be dealt in a same way India deals with terrorism at present. He also said that India would welcome additional support in the form of intelligence input as it does its part in fighting the global war against terrorism.“As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we'll make sure that any activity likely to flow out of Afghanistan and find its way into India will be dealt with in the manner in which we're dealing with terrorism in our country,” Rawat was quoted as saying at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF)’s event ‘The India-US Partnership: Securing the 21st Century’ by news agency ANI. His request was directed at the Quad nations. He was also accompanied by Command Admiral John Aquilino who is the commander of the US Indo-Pacific.Rawat also said that India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. India on Tuesday made it clear at the United Nation Human Rights Council session that it expects that Afghanistan’s soil won’t not be used to foment terrorist activities aimed at creating instability in the region.Indramani Pandey, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, outlined that New Delhi expects that the rights of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities will be respected. India also gave shelter to Afghan refugees who fled the war-torn country after the Taliban laid siege to it.The Taliban, however, informally requested India last week to retain its diplomatic presence in Afghanistan. Senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai told Indian authorities that it was aware of India’s concerns regarding its officials and diplomats in the country, according to a report by HT. Stanekzai was responding to concerns that fighters from the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) were deployed at check posts set up by the Taliban on the route to the international airport in Kabul.The Taliban who have full control of Afghanistan are awaiting to announce its council of ministers on August 31, the deadline day for the US and NATO troops to evacuate Afghanistan. The US Army and NATO troops, who entered the nation and once ousted the Taliban from power, have been asked by the Taliban to evacuate the country fully by August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anticipated-taliban-takeover-but-ready-to-deal-with-terrorism-spilling-out-of-afghanistan-says-cds-rawat-101629888032339.html
25-08-2021||India||Two criminals injured in separate encounters with Assam Police||Two dreaded criminals were injured during two separate police raids in the last 24 hours in Assam at a time when the government’s zero tolerance policy against drugs, cattle peddlers and other notorious criminals has led to accusations of state support for “trigger-happy” culture in the police force.Nur Hussain, 42, who is accused of leading a gang of 20-25 criminals involved in robbery, drug smuggling, land grabbing was hit by a bullet in a leg when a raiding police party retaliated to firing from his gang at Ahomgaon village in Nagaon district on Tuesday night, police said.“Due to personal enmity, Hussain and his henchmen assaulted a few persons on Tuesday at Dhing and injured seven of them. The gang also fired at the other group, threatening to kill them. We started an investigation after coming to know about the incident,” said Anand Mishra, Nagaon superintendent of police.“Based on input that Hussain is at Ahomgaon, a police team was sent to arrest him and his associates. But when the police team approached the village, they were fired at, forcing them to retaliate. We later learnt that Hussan received a bullet injury on his knees,” he added.Hussan was admitted at Nagaon civil hospital and the police are trying to arrest other members of his gang.In the second incident at Rangjuli in Goalpara district in the early hours of Wednesday, Amar Thapa, an accused in multiple cases of extortion and kidnapping in Assam and Meghalaya, was injured in police firing while trying to escape from custody.“Thapa was released from a Meghalaya jail recently and was planning to conduct a kidnapping in our area. Based on intelligence inputs, we arrested him from a house in Rangjuli, where he was hiding. But he tried to flee towards paddy fields located behind the house,” said VV Rakesh Reddy, superintendent of police, Goalpara.Reddy said the police team fired at Thapa in self defence after he opened fire while attempting to escape. “Thapa sustained injury on his right leg in the firing. He’s admitted at Goalpara civil hospital at present,” he added.There has been a sharp rise in police encounters in Assam after May when the new Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government adopted a “zero-tolerance policy” against drugs, cattle smuggling and other heinous crimes.Chief minister Himanta Biswa has asked the police not to hesitate from firing back at criminals, triggering criticism from opposition parties who allege that the police have been given license to become “trigger happy”.In all, 21 suspected criminals have been killed and nearly three dozen others have been injured in police encounters since May 10 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-dreaded-criminals-injured-in-separate-encounters-with-assam-police-101629888132613.html
25-08-2021||India||All 78 quarantined evacuees from Afghanistan test negative for Covid-19: ITBP||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) said on Wednesday all the 78 evacuees, including women and children, from Afghanistan who have been quarantined at its Chhawla camp following their arrival on Tuesday have tested negative for Covid-19.Earlier, there were reports that a number of these people who had been tested for the virus at Delhi airport were infected by the virus, but all of them were asymptomatic.An official statement from the ITBP said, "78 evacuees were shifted to ITBP's Chhawla-based camp till Tuesday late night. Of total evacuees, 24 are Indians and 54 Afghan nationals that include 53 males, 14 females and 11 children. All had gone through Covid-19 test at Indira Gandhi International Airport and were reported negative."Also read | 'This is why CAA was necessary': Hardeep Singh Puri as India evacuates people from AfghanistanThe government has made it mandatory for those who are coming from Afghanistan to undergo 14-day institutional quarantine. On Monday, two persons of the 146 passengers who landed in Delhi from Afghanistan were found to be infected by the virus.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has said the Indian government is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals from Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban, besides evacuating minorities like Afghan Sikhs and Hindus.Also read | 'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanHowever, it said the main challenge for travel to and from Afghanistan at the moment was the operational status of the Kabul airport.India has been allowed to operate two flights per day from Kabul to evacuate its nationals stranded in Afghanistan.The permission was granted by American and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces, which have been controlling operations of the Hamid Karzai International Airport after the Afghan capital fell to the Taliban on August 15.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-78-quarantined-evacuees-from-afghanistan-test-negative-for-covid-19-itbp-101629886736809.html
25-08-2021||India||Rakshabandhan week saw surge in air traffic at Mumbai airport||With travel restrictions easing in various states, there has been an upward trend in passenger traffic at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA).According to sourced data from the city airport, about 316,118 passengers passed security checkpoints at CSMIA during the Rakshabandhan week (August 16 to August 22). This is six times more than that of the last year when only 55,875 travelled between July 31 and August 6 owing to Covid-19 related lockdown restrictions.Also Read | No FIR yet in Thane’s missing Covid vaccine doses caseData from August 20 to 22 this year saw an influx of passengers from across the country with 142,321 passengers travelling in and out of the airport. “This weekend saw the highest arriving passengers from Delhi with 12,118, followed by Bengaluru with 6,674 and Goa with 5,484 passengers. The top three destinations were Delhi with 12,389 passengers, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad with 5,199 and 3,770 respectively,” CSMIA spokesperson said.“With major festivities approaching, and government extending flying capacity to 65%, CSMIA is expected to witness a surge in travel to destination across India during the festive period,” the spokesperson added.According to ratings agency ICRA, there is a continued recovery in passenger numbers. ICRA viewed that the average number of passengers per flight during July 2021 was 104, against an average of 98 passengers per flight in June 2021. Domestic passenger traffic grew around 56-57% at around 4.8-4.9 million in July, compared to around 3.1 million in June 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakshabandhan-week-saw-surge-in-air-traffic-at-mumbai-airport-101629884530846.html
25-08-2021||India||Central GST Commissionerate detects multi-crore tax evasion||The Central Goods and Services (CGST) Commissionerate has detected evasion of GST worth several crores by a firm in Uttarakhand’s Uddham Singh Nagar district. It recovered ₹5 crore in a search operation carried out simultaneously at nine locations across Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, and Delhi. People aware of the matter said the Commissionerate has detected tax evasion of around ₹8 crore.Deepankar Aron, commissioner Central GST Commissionerate (Dehradun), said the modus operandi entailed taking fraudulent input credit of GST on fake supplies. “This fraudulent credit was then utilised to pay the output duty liability of the various outward supplies effected by the unit, thereby obviating the need to pay the requisite duty in cash leading to the evasion of revenues.”Also Read | Probe to find out if cos availed illegal exemption on pulse oximeter importsAron said based on intelligence, an investigation was initiated against Galwalia Ispat Udyog Pvt Ltd, Kashipur. “As per the inputs available, it appears that the firm fraudulently availed input tax credit on the basis of invoices issued by either non-existent firms or by firms without actual supply of goods.”He said accordingly, investigations were initiated by conducting simultaneous searches at three locations in Kashipur, which includes two premises of Galwalia Ispat Udyog Pvt Ltd and the residential premises of its directors, Yogesh Kumar Jindal and Akshay Jindal, on August 17. “In addition, searches were also conducted at the locations of its suppliers located in Delhi, Aligarh, Moradabad, Amroha and in Garhwa (Jharkhand).”Aron said during the searches conducted at Kashipur, various incriminating documents were recovered. Statements of the directors of the firm and other employees were also recorded.The searches at the declared premises of Shree Shyam traders, Delhi, and Shree traders, Aligarh, revealed them to be non-existent. “Another supplier, Govind trader in Garwha (Ranchi) admitted to the modus operandi of issuing fake invoices without actual supply of goods and admitted to the GST liability,” said Aron.Aron said when confronted with the evidence on record, Yogesh Kumar Jindal voluntarily paid ₹ 5 crore towards his GST duty liability so evaded. Further investigations are underway in the matter, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-gst-commissionerate-detects-multi-crore-tax-evasion-101629883990649.html
25-08-2021||India||Video showing minister ordering for Rane’s arrest goes viral, BJP seeks action||A video clip showing Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Anil Parab purportedly issuing orders for Union minister Narayan Rane’s arrest on Tuesday has gone viral and triggered an angry reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP said it will now move the court over the alleged political pressure on police to arrest Rane. Parab, who is also the guardian minister of Ratnagiri where Rane was arrested and a close aide to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, is purportedly heard giving instructions to arrest Rane even without any warrant and for the use of force.Also Read | Shiv Sena legislator threatens to kill Union minister Narayan Rane“What are doing? Why are you not arresting him? Why are you not taking him in custody? You will have to do it. Which order they are asking for? There is no need for any such order as the high court and session court have turned down their plea for bail. Use police force and arrest him,” Parab is purportedly heard telling someone over the phone as he receives a call in the middle of a press conference in Ratnagiri. The conversation was caught on the camera of a Marathi channel. It is unclear to whom he was giving the purported instructions.BJP’s Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil said they will move court against Parab for misusing the police force. “The ruling party (Shiv Sena) is taking the law into its hands. The government is being run using the police force. How can a minister ask the police officers to use force to arrest a Union minister? We are seeking court intervention in this entire episode.”BJP leader Vishwas Sawant registered a case against Parab in Nalasopara and sought action against him for allegedly ordering Rane’s arrest.Parab was unavailable for comments despite repeated calls and messages. HT also reached out to Shiv Sena for comments. The copy will be updated once it reacts.BJP leader Pramod Jathar on Tuesday claimed Ratnagiri police superintendent told them there was tremendous pressure on his force from “the higher-ups” to immediately arrest Rane.Rane was arrested on Tuesday for saying he wanted to slap Thackeray. The ruling Shiv Sena workers went on a rampage over the remark that set off another political face-off between the ruling three-party alliance in the state and the opposition BJP.Rane became the first sitting central minister to be arrested in two decades since Murasoli Maran and TR Baalu were picked up in a midnight raid in Chennai by the Tamil Nadu Police in 2001. The 69-year-old was produced in a court in Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night and granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-showing-minister-ordering-for-rane-s-arrest-goes-viral-bjp-seeks-action-101629882490320.html
25-08-2021||India||Covid in children mostly mild, but good to be prepared: WHO's Soumya Swaminathan||Citing sero surveys done by other countries, the top doctor said in an interview children can get infected and transmit the infection, but it would still be very mild in most cases. “There is a small percentage that gets sick and get inflammatory complications and few will die, but much much less than the adult population,” she added.“But it is good to prepare,” she said, adding hospitals should remain prepared for paediatric admissions and with paediatric intensive care units, whose utility would serve the health system in many ways for other illnesses children have. “We should not panic about thousands of children crowding into ICUs," she said.‘Remdesivir has marginal benefits, expensive’Speaking about antiviral drug Remdesivir that has been widely used to treat coronavirus (Covid-19), the WHO chief scientist said it had “marginal benefits” for infected patients who were not sick enough to be on ventilator and it did not reduce mortality rates.She said a solidarity trial showed Remdesivir did not reduce mortality, but may have a marginal benefit in a subgroup of patients who were ill enough to need oxygen but not as severe to be on ventilation.Dr Swaminathan also said the drug did not work very well for either moderately or severely ill patients, besides being very expensive. “Drugs like Dexamethasone and Oxygen are the two essential ones that save lives,” the top doctor said.Also Read: Learning to live with Covid? India may be entering endemic stage, says top docA solidarity trial conducted last year by the public health body had found that Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir/Ritonavir and Interferon had little or no effect in helping Covid-19 patients combat the infection. Final results of this trial are expected to come out towards the end of August.At the height of the second wave earlier this year, India had witnessed a shortage of Remdesivir as families of those infected lined up for hours to buy vials of the drug. India stopped importing Remdesivir in early April to help deal with domestic shortage.The drug was originally developed to treat Hepatitis C and was also tested as a possible treatment for Ebola. On November 20, 2020, WHO asked countries to stop recommending it, insisting that the drug offered “small and uncertain benefits” outweighed by the “possibility of important harms”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-in-children-mostly-mild-but-good-to-be-prepared-who-s-soumya-swaminathan-101629880065940.html
25-08-2021||India||Amarinder to lead Cong's Punjab Assembly battle: Rawat as fresh trouble brews||A fresh round of turmoil has engulfed the ruling Punjab Congress days after a major controversy erupted over certain comments made by two advisors of the state party unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.A number of legislators have reportedly come to Delhi to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi, while a few cabinet ministers have left for Dehradun to speak to the party’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat to speak about their issues against the chief minister.Rawat said the party had an idea that certain issues may come up following the organisational changes brought about in the state unit, even as he assured the next Assembly election in the state would be led by chief minister Amarinder Singh.We will contest 2022 Punjab elections under the leadership of Captain Amrinder Singh: AICC in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat pic.twitter.com/iQqE8u4f3V"This thing happens in the party. When we brought in changes in the Pradesh Congress Committee, we had an idea about possible issues that may turn up. We will find a solution. Everyone trusts Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. But we will look into why suddenly a large number of MLAs are disappointed. We will try to resolve the issues," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Captain Amarinder Singh, Navjot Sidhu aides spar as Punjab crisis deepensThis came a day after the MLAs and ministers raised a banner of revolt against the chief minister, as they held a meeting in Chandigarh and sought a replacement of the former, saying they had “lost faith in him” over the issue of unfulfilled promises.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh said there was resentment in MLAs against the chief minister over non-settlement of issues."Due to the non-settlement of issues, there is resentment in MLAs. I suggest the Congress high command under the supervision of the AICC observer, the chief minister should call a meeting of all MLAs and decide after discussing with them," he said.Also read | Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in PunjabWhen asked about meeting the party high command in Delhi, the Congress MLA said, "Definitely, some people have gone to Delhi and I will also go there. There is no problem with it. We should not divert the issues. Captain Amarinder Singh is our chief minister and we do not disagree with it but work has to be done."The four ministers, known detractor of the CM, who met Rawat in Delhi are Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi.The fresh developments came amid severe criticism from several corners, including the Congress, about two advisers of Sidhu for making controversial remarks on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan.The chief minister had also recently raised his concerns in front of the Congress interim president about the statements made by Sidhu after his appointment as the party’s state unit chief.Sidhu was appointed as president of the party's Punjab unit last month ahead of Assembly elections due next year. His appointment came after months of infighting in the state unit as the former cricketer had openly rebelled against Amarinder Singh's government over several issues.Only recently, it had seemed the tension had eased following the formation of a 10-member “strategic policy group” for better coordination between the party and the state government, but there seems to be no end to the internal rivalry in the state unit with less than a year left the next Assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-to-lead-cong-s-punjab-assembly-battle-rawat-as-fresh-trouble-brews-101629881399395.html
25-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala CM ‘clearly failed’ to protect people’s lives, remarks Union minister||Union minister V Muraleedharan on Wednesday hit out at Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state and said that the state government “clearly failed” to protect people’s lives.Kerala, which has been contributing the maximum number of cases towards India’s daily Covid-19 tally, recorded 24,296 infections on Tuesday, marking the highest single-day spike since May 27, when 24,166 people were detected Covid-19 positive.Tuesday’s case count in Kerala is also the biggest single-day surge by any other state or Union Territory in the country.Also Read| ‘People must follow Covid norms; can’t put them on gunpoint’: Experts on KeralaTaking to Twitter, Muraleedharan said, “Alarming Covid-19 situation in Kerala. @vijayanpinarayi has clearly failed to protect people’s lives. Kerala alone recorded 24,296 cases and 173 deaths yesterday. @vijayanpinarayi’s illogical strategy and motivated media propaganda costing dearly to the nation.”Alarming #COVID19 situation in Kerala, @vijayanpinarayi has clearly failed to protect people's lives.Kerala alone recorded 24,296 cases & 173 deaths yesterday@vijayanpinarayi's illogical strategy & motivated media propaganda costing dearly to the nation.#VijayanfailsKerala https://t.co/ioDNVfMTYMV Muraleedharan has been one of the strongest critics of the Kerala government with regard to managing the pandemic. In July, the Union minister pointed out that despite Kerala accounting for a ‘lion share’ of infections across India, the state government was yet to adopt a scientific approach to contain the pandemic. His comments came as the government loosened Covid-19 restrictions for the Bakrid festival.Amid increasing caseload in Kerala, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited the state last week and announced a package ₹267.35 crore for the Pinarayi Vijayan government to strengthen its fight against the viral disease.“Additionally, ₹1 crore will be made available to each district of Kerala for creating a medicine pool,” Mandaviya tweeted on August 16 after he held an interaction with chief minister Vijayan, state health minister Veena Geroge and other officials.Mandaviya also said that Kerala will be given top priority in allocation of vaccine doses. “For prioritising the health of children, paediatric ICU to be established in district hospitals with a 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility,” the Union health minister wrote on the microblogging site.Kerala has so far recorded 3,851,984 cases due to the coronavirus disease which include 19,757 deaths, 3,672,357 discharges and 159,335 active cases. The Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 18.04 per cent and 134,706 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-clearly-failed-to-protect-people-s-lives-remarks-union-minister-101629876908321.html
25-08-2021||India||Rajasthan official suspended for asking women to give up property rights||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday suspended a revenue department official days after he issued a press release on August 21 appealing public to get women to voluntarily relinquish their share in the property of their parents. Dilip Singh Prajapati, who was posted as the tehsildar of Digod in Kota district, issued the appeal on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. Officials said the appeal violated rules and amounted to indiscipline. They said during the suspension period, the official will get only half of his salary.Prajapati cited religious and family traditions and said for generations women did not claim their share in immovable assets of their parents and would instead get it from that of their in-laws.Women’s rights group slammed Prajapati and demanded action against him.Also Read | Former Rajasthan minister gets bail in Bhanwari Devi case“We welcome the government’s decision of suspension, but the collector should also apologise because the act of the tehsildar was contrary to the constitutional morality of a government employee, which he takes an oath to uphold,” said activist Kavita Srivastav. She said special training about women’s rights and empowerment should be imparted to government officials.Prajapati said his only intention was to lessen family disputes and strengthen bonds. “The appeal was only for those who willingly want to relinquish their property rights.” He added the government plans to start a campaign from October 2 to address issues of farmers. “In view of this campaign, I issued many appeals and releases to create awareness among the public related to law and process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-official-suspended-for-asking-women-to-give-up-property-rights-101629881050565.html
25-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena legislator threatens to kill Union minister Narayan Rane||The controversy over Union minister Narayan Rane’s remarks continued for the second day on Wednesday with a Shiv Sena legislator threatening to kill the leader.Though Rane secured a bail late on Tuesday, workers of both Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued to protest. Rane was arrested for saying he would have slapped chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray for being ignorant about the number of years India has been independent. The BJP, while asserting it doesn’t endorse Rane’s statement, alleged that the arrest was politically motivated and termed it as a misuse of power. While talking to media, Sena Hingoli legislator Santosh Bangar dared Rane to remove his security and face him. “We have the strength to come and bash you at your house. You keep your police protection aside. I, Santosh Bangar, a Sena activist will come alone and if I don’t remove your guts then I will never take my name again,” Bangar was seen threatening on various Marathi TV channels.Also Read | ‘Slap CM’ row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custodyBJP legislator Ram Kadam said the party would like to see action taken by the Sena-led government. “These are empty threats but since they are made by a legislator, we would like to see what action will be taken against Bangar for threatening a Union minister,” he said. Sena defended Bangar by calling it a reaction. “Shiv Sainiks are emotional about their chief and Narayan Rane provoked them with such insulting remarks. It is Rane’s fault that he is facing such a backlash,” said Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande.BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil alleged that the police denied medical treatment to Rane during his detention. He also assailed Thackeray for his pat given to Yuva Sena workers. “These people had gone to ransack Rane’s house and here we have the chief minister congratulating them. This means he is endorsing violence. How can law and order be maintained in such a situation?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-legislator-threatens-to-kill-union-minister-narayan-rane-101629880390283.html
25-08-2021||India||Urdu speaking men attack Kabul office, seize Afghan passports with Indian visas||Red alert has gone up within Indian security agencies handling immigration after several unidentified Urdu speaking persons forced their way into an office in Kabul dealing with Indian visas for distribution on behalf of the Indian Missions in Afghanistan and seized un-estimated numbers of Afghan passports with stamped Indian visas. The incident occurred on August 15, the day the Taliban captured Kabul after US forces beat a hasty retreat.According to persons aware of this development, the Indian immigration agencies have been alerted to this seizure of Afghan passports with Indian visas as there is serious concern that these documents could be used to forge fake passports for terrorists in future. While it is not clear which group could be involved in this attack on the Indian visa outsourcing agency in Kabul, the needle of suspicion points towards Pakistan as the intruders were Urdu speaking. “There is a strong possibility that the Afghan passports with Indian visas could be used to forge passports for terrorists by changing the photograph on the travel document,:'' said a source from Kabul. Raisina Hill and security agencies are tight-lipped about the incident.According to Kabul watchers, a week after the capture of Kabul by the Taliban, a number of shadowy groups are now seen to be operating in the capital city of Afghanistan with large scale searches being carried out. It is learnt that these groups are seizing passports and other travel documents in searches of travel agencies and their owners in Kabul.The Indian Home Ministry was already on alert when the evacuation exercise was started by the Ministry of External Affairs and National Security teams on August 16 with each passenger screened for his past and travel documents. The Indian mission in Kabul, on its part, is searching its data to dig out names of those Afghans who were given the Indian visas and to the outsourcing agency for distribution. The data is being searched and names are being identified so that those Indian visas could be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urdu-speaking-men-attack-kabul-office-seize-afghan-passports-with-indian-visas-101629879807554.html
25-08-2021||India||Vaccinate all school teachers by September 5, health minister urges states||Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the Centre would provide two crore doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the states this month.Taking to Twitter, Mandaviya said the vaccines are in addition to the Centre's existing scheme of providing monthly doses to the states and Union territories.इस महीने हर राज्य को वैक्सीन उपलब्ध करवाने की योजना के अतिरिक्त 2 करोड़ से ज़्यादा वैक्सीन की डोज़ उपलब्ध कराई जा रही हैं।हमने सभी राज्यों से अनुरोध किया है कि 5 सितंबर को मनाये जाने वाले शिक्षक दिवस से पहले सभी स्कूली शिक्षकों को प्राथमिकता देकर वैक्सीन लगाने का प्रयास करें।The health minister also urged the states to get all the school teachers vaccinated on priority before September 5, when India celebrates Teachers' Day.The government decided to shut schools across the country in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, classrooms shifted to virtual space.While some states partially reopened schools for students of senior classes in a staggered manner, after observing protocol necessitated to check the spread of Covid-19 infection, around October last year, a complete shutdown was ordered in April this year when the devastating second wave of Covid-19 ravaged country.However, with Covid-19 cases going down, some states have begun resuming physical classrooms now even as concerns over vaccination against the virus and a possibility of a third wave looms large.Health ministry data show that more than 58.07 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been provided to states and Union territories so far, while India's cumulative vaccination coverage surpassed the 59-crore mark on Tuesday since the country launched the vaccination in January this year.Meanwhile, India on Wednesday recorded 37,593 cases of Covid-19 in the previous 24 hours, taking the total caseload to 32,512,366 while the active cases stood at 322,327.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinate-all-school-teachers-by-september-5-health-minster-urges-states-101629877269705.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union minister Narayan Rane gets fresh notice of summons and all the latest news||'Slap CM' row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custodyA day after being granted bail over “slapping the chief minister” remark, Union minister Narayan Rane received a fresh notice of summons from the Nashik police on Wednesday. An ANI report said the notice was sent to the senior BJP leader in connection with an FIR and Rane had been asked to appear at the police station on September 2. Read MoreLearning to live with Covid? India may be entering endemic stage, says top docIndia might be entering the endemic stage of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, chief scientist of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Dr Soumya Swaminathan said on Wednesday. The senior official said this particular stage will be marked by low or moderate levels of transmission, with no peak or exponential growth as witnessed during the second wave that had wreaked havoc in the country. Read MoreIndia makes e-Visa must for Afghan nationals, all previous visas invalidatedThe Centre on Wednesday said all Afghan nationals must travel to India only on an e-Visa owing to the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. The government said that the introduction of the e-Emergency X-Misc visa has streamlined the application process, thus it has been decided to make the e-Visa mandatory for all Afghan nationals coming to India. Read MoreFormer Afghan minister Syed Ahmad Sadat works as pizza delivery guy in GermanyA former minister in Afghanistan is working as a pizza delivery person in Germany. The photos of Syed Ahmad Shah Sadat, who worked as communications and technology minister in Afghanistan, were posted by Al-Jazeera Arabia on Twitter. Read MoreGauahar Khan kickstarts Maldives birthday trip with Zaid Darbar in ₹2.7k red mini dressIndian model and actor Gauahar Khan escaped to the Maldives with her husband Zaid Darbar to ring in her 38th birthday. The couple took to Instagram to share several pictures and videos from the birthday trip. For her arrival in the island nation, Gauahar chose a pretty red dress and looked ready to have a blast. Read MoreHere’s why doctors are saying viral ‘Milk Crate’ challenge is too dangerous to tryIf you are someone who is a regular user of various social media platforms, then you may be aware that every now and then different viral challenges take over the platform. While some of them are fun and entertaining to try, a few can be quite dangerous. Case in point, the new trend called Milk Crate Challenge that is leaving people injured in some cases. Read MoreThe Family Man 2's Samantha Akkineni apologises for hurting sentiments, says 'lot of noise stopped' after show's releaseActor Samantha Akkineni, who played the role of a Sri Lankan Tamil liberation fighter in The Family Man season 2, has apologised for 'hurting anyone's sentiments'. She added that after the release of the web series, 'a lot of the noise stopped'. Read MoreHere's why Maruti Suzuki isn't thinking EVs for India just yetMaruti Suzuki India may be the biggest player among the carmakers in the country, but it is not yet keen to join the electric vehicle race. At a time when the government is also pushing for EVs with offers of incentives, Maruti wants to play the wait-and-watch game. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-minister-narayan-rane-gets-fresh-notice-of-summons-and-all-the-latest-news-101629876437144.html
25-08-2021||India||Learning to live with Covid? India may be entering endemic stage, says top doc||India might be entering the endemic stage of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), chief scientist of the World Health Organization (WHO) Dr Soumya Swaminathan said on Wednesday. The senior official said this particular stage will be marked by low or moderate levels of transmission, with no peak or exponential growth as witnessed during the second wave that had wreaked havoc in the country.“We may be entering some kind of stage of endemicity where there is low level transmission or moderate level transmission going on but we are not seeing the kinds of exponential growth and peaks that we saw a few months ago," Swaminathan said in an interview.The United States’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) defines an endemic as “the constant presence and/or usual prevalence of a disease or infectious agent in a population within a geographic area”.In other words, a population slowly learns to live with the disease. An endemic is the observed level of a disease and never the desired level, since desired level of any disease will always be zero. When the disease rises above expected levels, it becomes an epidemic or an outbreak, and when the epidemic spreads to several countries it becomes a pandemic.The WHO chief scientist said India’s diverse population and varying immunity levels in different parts makes it quite likely that the situation might continue like this with “ups and downs in different parts of the country”. Swaminathan added cases might rise particularly in places where the population is more susceptible to infection due to being less exposed to the first and second waves, and low vaccine coverage.Also Read: India's daily Covid-19 tally jumps by 12,000 cases; new deaths rise too“As far as India is concerned that seems to be what is happening and because of the size of India and heterogeneity of population and immunity status in different parts of country in different pockets, it is very very feasible that the situation may continue like this with ups and downs in different parts of the country, particularly where there are more susceptible population, so those groups who were perhaps less affected by first and second waves or those areas with low levels of vaccine coverage we could see peaks and troughs for the next several months," she told reporters.Countries all over the world are slowly learning to live with coronavirus and relaxed restrictions. Focus is gradually being shifted to containing infections and expediting the vaccination process. Countries like Thailand, Australia, Singapore and many others have also started to look at coronavirus as an endemic, and insisted that the general population will have to start learning how to live with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learning-to-live-with-covid-india-may-be-entering-endemic-stage-says-top-doc-101629875895940.html
25-08-2021||India||India makes e-Visa must for Afghan nationals, all previous visas invalidated||The Centre on Wednesday said all Afghan nationals must travel to India only on an e-Visa owing to the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. The government said that the introduction of the e-Emergency X-Misc visa has streamlined the application process, thus it has been decided to make the e-Visa mandatory for all Afghan nationals coming to India.Also Read | Afghan refugees protest before UNHCR office in Delhi for security, resettlementPreviously issued visas to all Afghan nationals, not presently in India, stand invalid with immediate effect, the government declared. It added that the decision was taken keeping in view reports that surfaced, indicating that certain passports of Afghan nationals have been misplaced.For Afghan nationals who wish to travel to India, an official release issued by the ministry of external affairs pointed to the authorised visa application portal of the Indian government."Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India may apply for e-Visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in," the government release stated.India introduced the new category of e-Visa earlier this month for Afghan nationals to streamline and fast-track the application process for their entry into India.“MHA reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan," the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in a statement this month, adding, that "a new category of electronic visa called 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India.”Also Read | Which countries are taking in Afghan refugees and which countries are not?Foreign nationals applying for a visa on a purpose that is not specifically covered under any other existing visa category may be granted the 'X-Misc' visa for an appropriate duration, according to the home ministry's visa policy.“Such a visa may be granted only with a single entry and for the specific duration, taking into account the purpose of visit," the MHA policy document on the X-Misc visa reads. "If the visa is granted for a period of stay exceeding 180 days, the foreigner will have to register himself/ herself with the FRRO/ FRO concerned within 14 days of arrival. This visa will be non-extendable and non-convertible to any other type of visa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-makes-e-visa-must-for-afghan-nationals-all-previous-visas-invalidated-101629873427347.html
25-08-2021||India||'Slap CM' row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custody||A day after being granted bail over “slapping the chief minister” remark, Union minister Narayan Rane received a fresh notice of summons from the Nashik police on Wednesday.An ANI report said the notice was sent to the senior BJP leader in connection with an FIR and Rane had been asked to appear at the police station on September 2.Also read | Narayan Rane's arrest: Son Nitesh posts 'karara jawab milega' videoThe fresh summons came around the same time a detailed copy of the Mahad court’s Tuesday night order granting the former chief minister bail was made available. The court said that while Rane’s arrest over his controversial remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was “justified”, his custodial interrogation was not necessary.Magistrate SS Patil said in the order that while a few sections under which Rane was booked were non-bailable, they were not punishable with life or death.“Considering these factors, no prejudice would be caused to the prosecution if the accused is released on bail,” the court said, adding "the accused shall not commit a similar type of offence".Also read | Not committed any offence: Narayan Rane on 'would have slapped Thackeray' remarkRane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon in Ratnagiri district after multiple FIRs were registered against him at several places, including Nashik and Pune, based on complaints filed by Shiv Sena leaders for his remarks against Thackeray.The Union minister, who was previously with the Sena before switching over to the Bharatiya Janata Party, had on Monday accused Thackeray of ignorance about the year of India's independence at an event and said he would have given him a “tight slap" had been present at the spot.Also read | Sena-BJP clashes break out in Maharashtra over Narayan Rane's 'slap CM' remarkThe remarks sparked massive controversy with Sena and BJP workers clashing across the state and the senior leadership of the two camps engaging in a war of words.While Sena leaders strongly condemned Rane's remarks with party leader Vinayak Raut seeking his removal from the Union Cabinet, the BJP leadership condemned Maharashtra Police for the alleged illegal detainment of Rane.Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil even called the bail of Rane a 'slap' by the court on the face of the state government.While granting bail to the Union minister on a surety of ₹15,000, the court ordered Rane to be present at the Ratnagiri police station for inquiry on August 31 and September 13 and cautioned him not to commit a similar kind of offence in the future.The magistrate, while refusing to grant Rane's custody to the police, noted that the alleged statement of the accused (Rane) was made before the media. “The informant (complainant in the case) himself alleged in the FIR that the accused made the statement before the media and it was viral on social media. Considering the nature of the offence, I do not find it necessary to hand over the accused in police custody,” the magistrate said in the order.The police opposed the bail plea, arguing that the accused was a Union cabinet minister and was making such irresponsible statements which would create disharmony in the society. The court in its order directed Rane to cooperate with the probe into the case and if police want a voice sample of the minister, then he (Rane) shall assist. “The only rider is that the police shall give seven-day prior notice to the accused,” it said. The court also noted that the police had not followed directions given by the Bombay High Court with regard to maintaining a proper case diary. “Admittedly, the case diary produced before me are two papers which are not paginated,” the magistrate said. Rane faces four FIRs in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slam-cm-row-fresh-notice-to-narayan-rane-court-says-arrest-justified-101629873619810.html
25-08-2021||India||Bihar panchayat polls: Election schedule announced, here's all you need to know||The state election commission in Bihar issued a notification on Tuesday regarding the upcoming panchayat elections, where it said that a total of 11 phases of polling will be held this time. The first phase of polling will be held on September 24, while the 11th will be held on December 12, according to the election commission.Here's a break-down of the upcoming panchayat elections in Bihar: DatesFirst phase of voting: September 24Second phase of voting: September 30Third phase of voting: October 8Fourth phase of voting: October 20Fifth phase of voting: October 24Sixth phase of voting: November 3Seventh phase of voting: November 15Eighth phase of voting: November 24Ninth phase of voting: November 29Tenth phase of voting: December 8Eleventh phase of voting: December 12The counting of votes for Bihar panchayat elections will be done two days after the voting in each phase, according to the Bihar election commission.Flood-hit districts to skip polls on first phaseThe 28 flood-affected districts in Bihar will not go to the polls in the first phase, as per the notification on panchayat elections issued by the election commission. These districts are -- Buxar, Bhojpur, Patna, Nalanda, Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, West Champaran, Sitamarhi, Shivhar, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Samastipur, Supaul, Saharsa, Madhepura, Kishanganj, Purnia, Katihar, Araria, Lakhisarai, Sheikhpura, Begusarai, Khagaria, and Bhagalpur.NominationThe Bihar panchayat poll preparation process begins today (that is, Wednesday, August 25), and the model code of conduct (MCC) has already come into effect in the state. The nomination papers for the post of the sarpanch, the mukhiya, the panchayat committee members, and other ward members can be filed starting today from 11am to 4pm. The deadline for filing the nomination papers ends on August 31, according to the notification issued by the Bihar state election commission.Nearly 10 lakh candidates are expected to file their nominations for 259,260 posts under the categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-election-schedule-announced-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101629867578366.html
25-08-2021||India||16 Afghan evacuees test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, all asymptomatic||At least 16 of the 78 evacuees from Afghanistan who landed in India on Tuesday are said to have tested positive for coronavirus. Among them are three Afghan Sikhs who had carried the Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib from Kabul and were received by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri at the Delhi airport.As mandated by the government, all the evacuees, none of whom have so far shown any symptoms of the virus, have been quarantined. The tests were conducted upon their arrival at the Indira Gandhi International airport in Delhi.A report in the Indian Express quoted a BJP national spokesperson saying the trio -- Dharmender Singh, Kulraj Singh and Himmat Singh -- who brought the Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib, the central holy scripture of Sikhism, from Afghanistan were found to be infected by the virus.Also read | 'This is why CAA was necessary': Hardeep Singh Puri as India evacuates people from AfghanistanA PTI story had said on Tuesday at least 10 of the evacuees had tested positive, the figure is likely to have gone up. A representative of the Indian World Forum, an organisation coordinating evacuation efforts with the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Air Force (IAF), said, “Some people have tested positive for the infection. However, there is no clarity on their count.”On Monday, two persons among the 146 people who had landed in the national capital following their evacuation from the war-torn country, had tested positive for coronavirus.An Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) official said 81 people, who came from Afghanistan on Monday and Tuesday, have been sent to the ITBP's quarantine facility at Chhawla in south-west Delhi.A memorandum issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday said people arriving from Afghanistan would have to undergo a mandatory “minimum 14-day institutional quarantine” at the ITBP facility.“Any person testing positive or detected as symptomatic shall be shifted to dedicated Covid Care Centre or Covid hospital of NCT of Delhi,” the memorandum read.The PTI report said two Indian nationals, who were among the people brought to India from Afghanistan, have been admitted to the Covid ward in LNJP Hospital in the capital. "These two patients are male and their condition is stable. They were brought to the LNJP Hospital yesterday," a source was quoted as saying by the news agency.Also read | 'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanAs many as 78 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, flew into Delhi from Kabul via Dushanbe on an Air India flight along with three copies of Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib on Tuesday.Besides Puri, Union minister V Muraleedharan was present at the airport to receive the three copies of the Sikh scripture and the batch of Afghan Sikhs.The three copies of Guru Granth Sahib will be taken to Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara in New Mahavir Nagar, according to Chandhok.Nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan. These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport, he said.According to people sheltered in the gurdwara, the 10-kilometre-long drive to the international airport through various checkpoints is one of the biggest challenges in the rescue efforts.Around 75 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are likely to be evacuated soon, Chandhok added.Till Tuesday evening, India had brought over 800 people from Afghanistan as part of the evacuation mission that began on August 16, a day after Kabul fell to the Taliban.Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for nearly a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality.India is carrying out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-afghan-evacuees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-all-asymptomatic-101629868242765.html
25-08-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally jumps by 12,000 cases; new deaths rise too||After seeing over 25,000 cases for the past two days, India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up by nearly 12,000 cases on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, India recorded 37,593 new cases of Covid-19, taking the caseload to 32,512,366, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am.On Tuesday, 25,647 infections were recorded.As many as 648 patients died and 34,169 recovered from the viral disease in the said period on Wednesday, according to health ministry data. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 435,758 and 31,754,281 respectively. The active caseload has also increased to 322,327 and constitutes 0.98% of the caseload.Also Read| India adds over 25k new Covid cases for 2nd straight day, logs 354 more deathsThe weekly Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 1.92% and has remained below the 3% mark for the past 61 days. The daily positivity rate has also been below this limit for the last two months and is currently at 2.10%.On Monday, 25,072 people were detected Covid-19 positive, the lowest single-day count in 160 days, as per the health ministry.However, the low number of infections on Monday could also be attributed to the lesser number of tests carried out. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1,295,160 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday across the country. On Tuesday and Wednesday, authorities tested 1,647,526 and 1,792,755 samples, the ICMR added.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/tG4n7dLZ5BThe daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease also saw a major rise on Wednesday. The health ministry’s update showed that 648 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, 294 more than that of Tuesday’s when 354 patients died. On Monday, 389 patients died.Meanwhile, a total of 595,504,593 vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries across the country till now of which 13,47,01,810 are fully vaccinated and the remaining 460,802,783 have only received the first dose. Nearly 6.2 million beneficiaries were given the jab in the last 24 hours. The Union health ministry informed on Tuesday that over 571.5 million vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far through the Centre and through direct state procurement category, adding 10,084,700 doses were in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-jumps-by-12-000-cases-new-deaths-rise-too-101629865533474.html
25-08-2021||India||Heavy rainfall wreaks havoc in Dehradun, SDRF rescues trapped people||Uttarakhand's capital Dehradun witnessed incessant rainfall on Tuesday night, which caused extensive waterlogging and prompted the administration to deploy State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). Reports quoting the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the rain continued for seven hours.Due to heavy rains, drain water started entering the houses and buildings in many places.The SDRF team rescued 10-12 people trapped in the State Health Authority building located in the IT Park, which was inundated, news agency ANI reported. There was heavy waterlogging in the area, it further said.देहरादून में भारी वर्षा से आये जलसैलाब से राज्य स्वास्थ्य प्राधिकरण भवन IT पार्क में फंसे लोगों को सुरक्षित निकालते SDRF जवान। pic.twitter.com/i3BHgv4LYzThe rescue team also shifted people living in huts built on both sides of the river under the Bindal bridge to safer places.The IMD has, meanwhile, warned of heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand for five days - from August 24 to August 28. It said that the rainfall will be accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning.For northwest, central India and the west coast, the weather department has predicted subdued monsoon over the next five days. In its weather forecast on Wednesday morning, the IMD said that the monsoon trough is "very likely" to run close to foothills of Himalayas on Wednesday and Thursday.Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely to continue over Bihar, East Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-wreaks-havoc-in-dehradun-sdrf-rescues-trapped-people-101629867952874.html
25-08-2021||India||‘You acted like his eldest son’: Kalyan Singh’s son praises Yogi Adityanath||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister late Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer Singh, who is also the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Etah, praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath for personally supervising all arrangements for his father’s last journey, spread across three days, and for remaining present throughout till his last rites were performed.“Someone, who didn’t take part in the last rites of his own father due to pressing official commitments, remained by the mortal remains of my Ram Bhakt (devotee) father for three days, and in doing so, he fulfilled the responsibility of being his eldest son. For this, me and my family will forever remain grateful,” Rajveer wrote in a facebook post. “I am forever grateful to such Yogi,” he added.In April 2020, during the first Covid wave, when Adityanath’s father Anand Singh Bisht died, the chief minister, while grieving his father’s death, had cited official responsibility for not attending his father’s funeral - a point that Rajveer highlighted.Rajveer said Adityanath not only escorted Kalyan’s mortal remains from Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) hospital to Singh’s Lucknow residence, where the body was kept overnight, but also got the ‘shaanti path’ (a ritual for peace of the departed) started the same night itself.“He then escorted Kalyan’s body to Vidhan Bhawan and UP BJP office, then flew to Aligarh where the mortal remains were taken to on Sunday, supervised all the preparations before bidding adieu to the late leader like a family member,” Rajveer said.Kalyan Singh was the BJP’s one of the tallest other backward class (OBC) leaders and a key participant in the Ayodhya Ram Temple movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-acted-like-his-eldest-son-kalyan-singh-s-son-praises-yogi-adityanath-101629868088957.html
25-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 594 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 594 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 24. The same day, India’s first indigenous mRNA-based Covid vaccine candidate has been found safe in its interim Phase 1 clinical trials, and the national drug regulator has granted approval to its maker, Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, to begin Phase 2/3 trials, the Union minister of science and technology said.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 594,765,751 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,467,551 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,829,038 got their first dose while 1,638,513 got their second dose.Also Read | Afghan evacuees object to mandatory quarantineIn the 18-45 age group, 2,867,784 were given the first dose while 777,822 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 223,359,860 people have been given the first dose while 21,137,082 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,354,204 have been given the first dose while 8,249,276 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,309,215 have got their first dose and 12,705,601 have got their second dose too.India reported 37,593 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours, said the government statement on Wednesday. The number of Covid deaths reported in the same period was 648.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-594-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629866048986.html
25-08-2021||India||NITI Aayog, WRI launch forum for decarbonisation of transport sector||Indian government’s think-tank NITI Aayog, in collaboration with World Resources Institute (WRI), launched the Forum for Decarbonising Transport in the country on Tuesday.“Through this forum, the WRI India team, along with NITI Aayog and other project partners, will work in close coordination with all the stakeholders to formulate strategies and develop appropriate business models to accelerate electric mobility in India,” read the official government statement.It further said that the forum aims to create a platform to initiate dialogues for the development of uniform policies and help achieve specific results in reducing carbon emissions from the transport sector.India is currently engaged in building a domestic renewable automotive industry with the aim to become the world’s largest electric vehicle manufacturing and supplying hub. Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari recently told HT Auto EV Conclave that battery electric vehicle and fuel-cell vehicle technologies are all set to overtake fossil-run vehicles in the country by 2050.NITI Aayog CEO (chief executive officer) Amitabh Kant said the launch of the forum was a defining milestone for the electric mobility ecosystem in the country. “This will help in the development of innovative business models for targeted results and the holistic growth of the electric mobility space in India. Through effective collaboration, cooperation and convergence, we must work together to usher clean mobility in India,” he added.Explaining the need of the stakeholder forum in decarbonising transport, Amit Bhatt, executive director of the Integrated Transport division of WRI India said, “The Forum for Decarbonisation of Transport will act as the conduit for bringing diverse voices and needs to adopt an integrated approach for greening the transport sector in India.”The forum is a part of the Nationally Determined Contribution -Transport Initiative for Asia (NDC-TIA) project which focuses on developing a coherent strategy of effective policies and the formation of a multi-stakeholder platform for decarbonising transport in the region. It is a joint programme of seven organisations that will engage China, India, and Vietnam in promoting a comprehensive approach to decarbonising transport in their respective countries. The project is part of the International Climate Initiative (IKI).NITI Aayog has been at the helm of the promotion of electric vehicles and sustainable mobility through the National Mission on Transformative Mobility and Battery Storage.The launch was held virtually and inaugurated by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. Dignitaries from various ministries and NDC-TIA project partners, along with stakeholders from the mobility and the energy sector, were present during the launch.The Indian government last year rolled out a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for various industries including an outlay of over ₹57,00 crore for the automobile and auto-component industry over a period of five years. Around ₹18,000 crore was approved for development of advanced cell chemistry battery storage manufacturing. Gadkari said these incentives further aim to encourage indigenous development of EVs so as to bring down their upfront cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-wri-launch-forum-for-decarbonisation-of-transport-sector-101629863546468.html
25-08-2021||India||Afghan evacuees object to mandatory quarantine||The 14-day institutional quarantine mandated for Afghan evacuees has not gone down well with many of them saying they are fully vaccinated. The government has cited the unknown immunisation status of the evacuees and the extent of the Covid-19 pandemic in Afghanistan and said they will have to undergo the quarantine. Officials said among the evacuees, 16 tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Two of them have been admitted to Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital while others were asymptomatic.A woman, who said she spent five sleepless nights at the Kabul airport along with her two-year-old son before her evacuation, said she is fully vaccinated and has been administered Johnson & Johnson vaccine. She added she also tested negative for Covid-19 upon arrival. “Yet a police constable would accompany me even if I went to the washroom,” she said, requesting anonymity. She said she could not feed her son for three days as they travelled to India via Tajikistan. “... we reached the Delhi airport at 9 am (on Tuesday). Until 10 pm (Tuesday), we were not allowed to go… While they served us breakfast. We did not get lunch.”Another Afghan national said he too has received two doses of Covishield vaccine and also tested negative, but he was still quarantined at an Indo-Tibetan Border Police camp in New Delhi.Also Read | India, Russia to assess Taliban actions before any recognition moveAn evacuee shared the pictures from the quarantine centre and complained about a lack of privacy. “There are no curtains separating the beds or any walls or rooms for us to feed our babies at ease,” said the third evacuee.Another evacuee said the government has deployed six policemen for every 10 Afghan nationals. He added he is 28 and unvaccinated since people in his age group are yet to be vaccinated in Afghanistan. But he also tested Covid-19 negative. The 28-year-old said his family has been living in India since last year when they lost some of their relatives in a blast near a gurudwara in Kabul. “...families of such victims were relocated to Delhi including mine. But I found no job here. So, I returned home. Many of us have houses here but despite that government is sending us to a camp for quarantine. How can our sisters sleep in a corridor with no walls.” He said the government should quarantine them in a gurudwara.He said some of those in their group of around 50 Afghan Sikhs, who arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday, sent them videos of the centre. “There are insects...and rats...under the beds,” he told HT from the Delhi Airport as he waited for his paperwork to be completed.A fifth evacuee said they have been exhausted. “We struggled to even make it to the Kabul airport. We have not slept for over a week and hardly ate anything. The government should understand this and make some better arrangements.”The 28-year-old said rather than putting them in a camp, they should quarantine them in a gurudwara. HT tried to reach out to officials for comments but there was no immediate response. The copy will be updated if they respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-evacuees-object-to-mandatory-quarantine-101629863888459.html
25-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane's arrest: Son Nitesh posts 'karara jawab milega' video||Union minister Narayan Rane's son Nitesh posted a video on Twitter shortly after midnight to attack the Maharashtra government over the arrest of his father on Tuesday. The video posted by Nitesh is part of a scene from the film Rajneeti and shows actor Manoj Bajpayee warning "Karara jawab milega (strong answer will be given)."pic.twitter.com/mrcVtozfKKNarayan Rane was arrested on Tuesday for saying he wanted to slap chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, prompting Shiv Sena workers to go on a rampage, and setting up another political face-off between the ruling three-party alliance and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Rane was arrested in Golavali in Ratnagiri district, where he was travelling as part of the Jan Ashirwad rallies newly inducted Union ministers are addressing across the country.Rane, who holds the micro, small and medium enterprises portfolio, was the first sitting central minister to be arrested in two decades, since Murasoli Maran and TR Baalu were picked up in an infamous midnight raid in Chennai by the Tamil Nadu Police in 2001.The 69-year-old was produced in a court in Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night and granted bail.However, the magistrate court ordered the Union minister to present at the Ratnagiri police station for inquiry on August 31 and September 13.It also cautioned Rane not to commit a similar kind of offence in the future.The minister had on Monday accused Thackeray of ignorance about the year of India's independence at an event and said "I would have given a tight slap".Also Read: 3 FIRs in Mumbai after clashes between Sena, BJP workers over Rane's remarksFIRs were registered against Rane at several places, including Nashik and Pune, based on the complaints filed by Shiv Sena leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-rane-s-arrest-son-nitesh-posts-karara-jawab-milega-video-101629863026168.html
25-08-2021||India||Madras high court verdict on OBC quota in medical college seats expected today||The Madras high court will on Wednesday deliver its verdict on a contempt petition filed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) against the Centre, demanding 50 per cent reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the All India Quota (AIQ) medical seats.DMK has said in its petition that the 27 per cent of the seats offered by the Centre for admission of students against the surrendered seat under AIQ for undergraduate medical courses in Tamil Nadu is unacceptable.DMK's counsel P Wilson told the bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice PD Audikesavalu on August 3 that the state government will not accept anything short of 50 per cent, if not 69 per cent, as recommended by the first bench of the high court back in July last year.The high court had, in July last year, ruled that OBCs are entitled to reservations in AIQ seats and ordered the implementation of the scheme from 2021-22 academic year. But, claiming there were no compliance with the court's order, the DMK filed ta contempt plea this year.Also Read: Why states that can't control population get more seats in Parliament: Madras high courtA bench headed by then chief justice of Madras high court AP Sahi held in its July 27, 2020 that the issue had to be resolved between the state and the Centre with the participation of representatives from the medical and dental councils of India. It had also suggested a committee be constituted for providing the terms of implementation of the reservation as claimed by the petitioners.It had also stated that the panel can fix the percentage of reservation.When the matter came up for hearing on July 19 this year, the high court gave Centre time to make clear its position about the mode and manner of implementation of the OBC reservation quota in accordance with the 1993 State Act for admission of students to medical and dental colleges in the state.As per the 1993 State Act, OBC reservation for Tamil Nadu is fixed at 69 per cent, which was done on the basis of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services).Also Read: Madras high court issues directions to ‘release caged parrot CBI’After another week-long extension, the Centre told the court on August 18 that a 27 per cent quota will be extended for OBC students. However, DMK’s counsel contended that the order of 27 per cent runs against the high court and Supreme Court’s order which stipulates that 50 per cent of seats be reserved for OBC students. Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj told the judges on behalf of the Centre that granting a 50 per cent quota to OBC students will exceed the limit set by the Supreme Court in the Marathas case.Following this DMK’s counsel questioned the propriety of implementing quota for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) students. To which Nataraj responded that the provision for EWS quota has constitutional backing and that he need not justify that reservation in the present case which was confined only to OBCs. He also stated that the question of contempt does not arise since the Centre has provided 27 per cent quota for OBC students. After listening to both sides, chief justice Banerjee and justice Audikesavalu decided to pronounce their orders on the issue on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-verdict-on-obc-quota-in-medical-college-seats-expected-today-101629861141193.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mysuru mayoral polls today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mysuru mayoral polls today, JD(S) likely to go with CongressMysore, officially Mysuru, is set to go into polls on Wednesday, August 25, to elect the new mayor of the city in southern Karnataka. Read MoreMaharashtra Covid daily death rate a cause for concernMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 119 Covid-19 deaths as experts point out the “worrying” average daily death rate. Read More'Locals never raised their voices': Former Afghan mayor on Taliban takeoverAfghanistan's first woman mayor, who fled to Germany recently, has blamed the people of her country for the Taliban's return to power. Read MoreAamir Khan's brother Faissal Khan opens up about their equation, Aamir's divorce: 'My own marriage didn't work'Actor Aamir Khan and his brother Faissal Khan have had a tumultuous relationship. Read MoreNora Fatehi glams up her co-ord check crop top and pants set with bold red lips, see picsDancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi's love for prints shines through her vast collection of eclectic pieces in her wardrobe. Read MoreG7 nations warn Taliban of blocking funds against terror in AfghanistanLeaders of G7 nations met virtually to discuss the Afghanistan crisis. G7 warned the Taliban against human rights violations & harbouring terror. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mysuru-mayoral-polls-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101629860335489.html
25-08-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid daily death rate a cause for concern||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 119 Covid-19 deaths as experts point out the “worrying” average daily death rate. Even amid a waning second wave, there have been 3,250 deaths this month, translating into an average of 135 fatalities a day — a number that does not bode well for the state, say experts.The state on Tuesday recorded 4,355 new cases, bringing the tally to 6,432,649. Mumbai recorded 272 new cases and one death. There were 187,121 tests done across the state on the day while the number of recoveries clocked 4,240.Also Read | Took 2 vax doses, certificates show jabbed once: Couple in MaharashtraActive cases have now reached 49,752 with Pune leading with 11,962, followed by Thane and Satara with 6,971 and 5,472 cases respectively.The state’s death toll has now reached 136,355 with Pune again leading with 18,965 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,952 and Thane with 11,245.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-daily-death-rate-a-cause-for-concern-101629860348035.html
25-08-2021||India||Assam inks pact to waive loans of 1.4 m women borrowers to fulfil poll promise||As promised in its assembly poll manifesto, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with 38 microfinance institutions and banks on Tuesday to waive off loans taken by poor women in the state.Signing of the MoU will lead to implementation of the Assam Micro Finance Incentive and Relief Scheme, 2021, prepared earlier by the government and benefit nearly 1.4 million borrowers.Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the scheme will have a ₹12,000 crore credit portfolio, including about ₹7,200 crore to be spent by the government.“The relief scheme will ensure continuity of micro-finance for supporting economic activities of poor households and help eligible customers in overcoming stress in the microfinance sector due to various operational reasons” he said.Sarma said the scheme emphasises responsible lending by financial institutions in compliance with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and industry regulations in letter and spirit, while promoting responsible borrowing and timely repayment culture.CM said all eligible borrowers can take loans up to ₹1.25 lakhs from up to 3 lenders under the scheme and those with a track record of regular loan repayment will be provided a one-time incentive to the extent of their outstanding balance, capped at ₹25,000.Similarly, borrowers whose repayments to the banks are overdue but do not fall in the category of non-performing assets (NPA), the state government will pay the overdue amount.Further, borrowers whose accounts have become NPAs will need to apply through a format verified and certified by the lender. Government will then consider providing partial relief or full relief based on detailed evaluation, the scheme proposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-inks-pact-to-waive-loans-of-1-4-m-women-borrowers-to-fulfil-poll-promise-101629860107942.html
25-08-2021||India||Mysuru mayoral polls today, JD(S) likely to go with Congress||Mysore, officially Mysuru, is set to go into polls on Wednesday, August 25, to elect the new mayor of the city in southern Karnataka. The municipal authorities announced the poll schedule last week for the post of mayor, which fell vacant after the high court disqualified the election of Rukmini Madegowda of the JD(S) in May. In accordance with the schedule, the mayoral polls in Mysuru are set to take place at 12pm today at the Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar auditorium in the city.The Mysuru mayoral polls, scheduled to be held in June, were delayed by the Karnataka high court in view of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the related restrictions.The post of mayor in Mysuru is reserved for a woman from the General Category. Rukmini Madegowda, of the JD(S), was disqualified as mayor by the Karnataka high court while she was just three months into her new office, having been elected on February 24 earlier this year. In her absence, Anwar Baig of the Congress, the erstwhile deputy mayor, was appointed as the acting mayor until a new mayor was set to be elected following the mayoral polls.In a strategy not much different from that in February, the JD(S) and the Congress are likely to stitch an alliance against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to keep the latter out of the mayoral post in the city corporation.In line with a press release issued by the Mysuru city corporation (MCC) on August 17, candidates willing to pitch in for the elections were allowed to file their nomination papers from August 17 to August 24. They can also finish filing their papers between 8am and 10am today, the election day, according to the release. The release further said that the MP, MLAs, MLCs, and corporators who have voting rights, have been issued the notification about the poll schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-mayoral-polls-today-jd-s-likely-to-go-with-congress-101629856892535.html
25-08-2021||India||Subdued monsoon likely over NW India at least for next 5 days||Monsoon is likely to be subdued over northwest India, central India and the west coast during the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The western end of the monsoon trough is lying to the north of its normal position and the eastern end is lying along the foothills of Himalayas. The monsoon trough is very likely to run close to foothills of Himalayas by Wednesday and continue to remain there till Thursday. Due to formation of a cyclonic circulation over west central and adjoin northwest Bay of Bengal on Friday, the eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift southwards. Also Read | Monsoon normal for now, despite a ‘break’Strong southerly/southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India are very likely to continue to prevail. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till Friday and reduce thereafter with isolated heavy rainfall over the region.Isolated extremely heavy rain is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya during Wednesday and Thursday. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely to continue over Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand till Friday. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with Isolated heavy rain over Tamil Nadu during the next five days and over Kerala and Mahe is likely till Saturday. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning over east India is expected during the next three days.Subdued rainfall activity is likely to continue over northwest, central India and the west coast during the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subdued-monsoon-likely-over-nw-india-at-least-for-next-5-days-101629859507908.html
25-08-2021||India||India, Russia to assess Taliban actions before any recognition move||Russia and India have decided to consult each other over Taliban’s actions in Afghanistan and assess where there is any marked change in the Sunni Pashtun Islamist force since they first came to power in 1996 before deciding to recognise the new Emirates of Afghanistan.The two countries have also decided to set up combined teams comprising of foreign ministry and national security officials of each country to conduct a detailed assessment of the Afghan situation so that future course of action with the Taliban Islamic government is decided by both India and Russia.These crucial decisions were taken after Russian President Vladimir Putin called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and held detailed conversation over telephone on Afghanistan situation and its impact on both South and Central Asia ahead of the G-7 summit. President Putin has been discussing Afghanistan situation with leaders of Central Asian Republics, who are extremely worried about the impact of rise of an Islamist terrorist force in Kabul, and European leaders like French President Emmanuel Macron and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. The conversation between PM Modi and President Putin has been described by diplomats as extremely cordial and warm, with both leaders appearing to be on the same page on Afghanistan.The call by German Chancellor Angela Merkel to both PM Modi and Russian President Putin was a farewell call from the German leader and was set up before the Taliban seized Kabul with the US forces virtually running out of Afghanistan.While Russian National Security Advisor Gen Nikolai Patrushev was in touch with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan this week, the discussion was tactical in nature with Moscow offering a helping hand to US forces trying to evacuate civilians from Kabul. A similar conversation took place between Russian Defence Minister and his UK counterpart.During the conversation between the two leaders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told President Putin that India was concerned about Islamic radicalization in the region and how Taliban affiliated terrorist groups in Pakistan could use the developing situation to spread terrorism. It is understood that President Putin agreed with PM Modi’s assessment and expressed concern over radicalization in the Central Asian Republics.President Putin made it evident that Russia is still to assess whether there is any change in the methodology of Taliban from the past before taking steps to recognize the Islamist regime. He said that Russia would consult India before any such decision is taken and hence the combined national security and intelligence teams of the two countries were asked to carry out this assessment. During 1996-2001, the Taliban carried out a reign of terror against minorities and women. The Taliban then went after their political opponents by castrating and publicly hanging former Afghan president Mohammed Najibullah, an Ahmedzai Pashtun, from a traffic light pole on September 26, 1996.While India is in discussion with the US, EU leadership and at the UN on Afghanistan development, one must remember the role both Russia and India played in bolstering the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance in the 1990s along with Iran. All three countries have a legitimate stake in Afghanistan as neighbors and understand the perfidious role of Pakistan in Taliban 2.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-to-assess-taliban-actions-before-any-recognition-move-101629858296074.html
25-08-2021||India||Schools in Himachal Pradesh to stay closed till September 4||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to further extend the closure of schools in the state till September 4, informed State Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday.He also elaborated on the filling up of the 4,000 vacant posts of different categories of teachers.Bhardwaj further said that "The Himachal Pradesh government has also decided to fill up 4,000 posts of different categories of teachers including 820 posts of drawing teachers and 870 posts of physical education teacher posts in the Education Department"."Out of these 4000 posts, 2640 posts of teachers would be filled in Elementary Education Department," he added."1360 posts in Higher Education Department would be filled up on a contract basis to ensure quality education to the students nearer to their homes," the Urban Development Minister said.Meanwhile, the state has reported 281 new Covid-19 cases, 253 recoveries, and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours.The state has recorded 2,054 active cases, total positive cases stand at 2,12,260 and the total death toll in the state due to disease is 3,562.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-himachal-pradesh-to-stay-closed-till-september-4-101629857740095.html
25-08-2021||India||BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari removed from chairman’s post in Bengal cooperative bank||Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal assembly, was removed on Monday as chairman of the Contai Cooperative Bank Ltd in East Midnapore, his home district, in an emergency meeting of the bank’s board of directors, bank officials said.The board members said rules do not permit a chairman to continue for more than three terms, each lasting three years. Adhikari had held the post since 2009.Adhikari has been under intense scrutiny ever since he switched political allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the April-May assembly polls in which he defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee at his Nandigram seat.In June, the state government started probing the operations of several cooperative banks where Adhikari held a position in the managing board. Banerjee then alleged financial irregularities in several cooperative banks and claimed money was stashed in accounts held against fake names.Adhikari got some relief on July 16 when the Calcutta high court ordered that an inspection of the book of accounts of Contai Co-operative Bank Ltd could be carried out by the state but no special audit will be allowed without the court’s permission.The special audit was ordered by the state government on June 12 and the bank’s board, which was then headed by Adhikari, challenged the order in court. The bank’s lawyer told the court that only the Reserve Bank of India had the power to conduct any audit.In her July 16 order, justice Sampa Sarkar, said the reasons for the special audit had not been disclosed in the notice issued to the bank, and allowed an inspection with regard to non-compliances detected in the statutory audit report for 2019-20. She also asked the bank to cooperate with the state. HT has seen a copy of the court order.Adhikari’s removal from the bank’s board triggered a political slugfest on Tuesday.While Adhikari did not comment on the issue, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Under the TMC regime, even God will be made to look like a demon if he leaves the ruling party. This is vindictive politics. Adhikari will seek legal recourse.”Akhil Giri, state fisheries minister and Adhikari’s archrival in East Midnapore, said, “The court said that inspection of records can be carried out. How can it be done with Adhikari continuing as the chairman? Hence, he was removed from the board by the other members.”Adhikari is under pressure on several fronts.He and his youngest brother Soumendu have been accused of stealing relief materials in East Midnapore. He has moved the Calcutta high court to seek relief.Also, the criminal investigation department (CID) has started a probe into the death of Adhikari’s former bodyguard Shubhabrata Chakraborty who died from a gunshot injury in 2018. The family has now alleged foul play.CID teams have questioned members of Adhikari’s family, including Dibyendu Adhikari, the BJP leader’s brother and TMC Lok Sabha member from the district’s Tamluk Lok Sabha seat. Their father, Sisir Adhikari, is the TMC Lok Sabha member from Contai.The TMC has petitioned Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla for Sisir Adhikari’s disqualification under anti-defection law as he shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the recent election campaign. The Lok Sabha speaker has initiated an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-suvendu-adhikari-removed-from-chairman-s-post-in-bengal-cooperative-bank-101629857947753.html
25-08-2021||India||Chidambaram in Goa today on 2-day visit, his 1st as AICC poll observer for state||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram, who was recently appointed as senior election observer for Goa, will vsit the state for two days starting Wednesday. He will meet party leaders of North and South Goa during his stay there.Issuing a statement last week, Congress Committee (GPCC) vice president (Organisation) M K Sheikh said that Chidambaram will hold an interaction with Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office bearers, district and block presidents and will take inputs to chalk out strategies for the upcoming assembly elections in Goa.Sheikh added on Saturday that the former Union minister will also visit the Congress House in Panjim on Wednesday and the South Goa district office on Thursday.This will be Chidambaram’s first visit to Goa after he was given charge of the observer post in early August. AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal issued an order in this regard and said that Chidambaram will oversee election strategies and coordination for the assembly elections.However, his (Chidambaram's) appointment drew criticism from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government. BJP Goa’s president Sadanand Shet Tanavade told news agency PTI on August 12 that even if Rahul Gandhi was appointed as in charge, the Congress would not be able to win the election. “I have heard that the Congress has appointed Chidambaram as in-charge of Goa to decide the election strategy. Even if they get Rahul Gandhi as in-charge, they will not win the election,” Tanavade said.Elections to the 40-member Goa legislative assembly are due in February 2022. In the 2017 elections, the Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa, but could not come into power as the BJP forged an alliance with some independents and regional parties to form the government.This time, the top contenders are the BJP, the Congress and Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has promised it will provide free electricity to the people of Goa if it comes into power next year.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-in-goa-today-on-2-day-visit-his-1st-as-aicc-poll-observer-for-state-101629854351248.html
25-08-2021||India||Gujarat relaxes Covid-19 curbs for Janmashtami, Ganesh festivals. Check details||The Gujarat government on Tuesdaya announced relaxations in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs in place to check the its spread. The restrictions have been lifted in the wake of upcoming Janmashtami and Ganesh festivals, the state government said.The easing of curbs include relaxation in night curfew timings in eight cities in Gujarat. The decision was taken after a meeting of the state's core committee on the Covid-19 pandemic situation chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani, a government release said.Here is a list of relaxations announced by the Gujarat government:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-for-janmashtami-ganesh-festivals-check-details-101629855709695.html
25-08-2021||India||Alleging corruption in Uttar Pradesh govt, AAP to hold protest today||Claiming to highlight corruption in Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will stage protests across the state on Wednesday. The "Matka Phodo" campaign will be held across Uttar Pradesh over corruption in the Jal Jeevan Mission, the party said.It will highlight "corruption of thousands of crores" done by Uttar Pradesh government, AAP leader Neeraj Judaun said on Tuesday."The 'Matka Phodo' demonstration is being organised across the state on the call of party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh to highlight the corruption of thousands of crores in the Jal Jeevan Mission in the state government," added another party leader Sanjeev Nigam.However, the local BJP unit dubbed the AAP's allegations as devoid of any substance and a bid to create "sensation"."The AAP is only engaging in 'hawabaazi' (loose talk) and raking up a non-issue as they have no actual issue against the government," BJP spokesperson Tanmay Shankar told news agency PTI.The AAP has announced a similar protest in Delhi also "to free the city's municipal corporation from BJP"."Time's Up for BJP!! Mega Campaign against BJP's MCD Launched. "Your MLA at your doorstep" campaign from 1/09/21 to 30/09/21. 2500 meetings to be held by AAP MLAs across Delhi. All 272 wards to be covered to expose BJP's Corruption+Failure. BJP will be thrown out of MCD soon!" AAP tweeted form its official handle on Tuesday.Time's Up for BJP‼️➡️Mega Campaign against BJP's MCD Launched➡️"आपके विधायक, आपके द्वार" अभियान from 1/09/21 to 30/09/21➡️2500 meetings to be held by AAP MLAs across Delhi➡️All 272 wards to be covered to expose BJP's Corruption+FailureBJP will be thrown out of MCD soon! pic.twitter.com/8shuB0JQiGThe AAP earlier this month accused Uttar Pradesh's minister for Jal Shakti Mahendra Singh of giving contract worth crores of rupees to a rejected company and procuring water supply at 40 per cent higher rate than standard tender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alleging-corruption-in-uttar-pradesh-govt-aap-to-hold-protest-today-101629853656725.html
25-08-2021||NA||News highlights: Taliban agree to let Afghans leave nation after Aug 31 deadline of US withdrawal||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Four killed near French embassy in TanzaniaGunman kills four in attack near French embassy in Tanzania https://t.co/IEbEJ5KsVv pic.twitter.com/7U3ng471TKA gunman killed four people near the French embassy in Tanzania.German envoy says Taliban allowed Afghans to leave nation after deadline day, reports AFP#BREAKING Taliban agree to let Afghans leave Afghanistan after US withdrawal deadline of August 31: German envoy pic.twitter.com/RNJR68lgFdGerman envoy told news agency AFP that the Taliban agreed to let Afghans leave nation after US withdrawal deadlineSanjay Arora to lead ITBPIPS Sanjay Arora appointed as the Director General of the Indo-Tibetan Border PolicePankaj Kumar Singh appointed DG of BSFThe Union ministry of home affairs appointed IPS Pankaj Kumar Singh as the Director General of the Border Security ForceHaryana to reopen schoolsHaryana Government decides to re-open schools from September 1, for classes 4 and 5 in the stateState Education Minister Kanwar Pal says that classes will be organized for these students while strictly following the COVID19 SOPs pic.twitter.com/HO8KFJHa2gHaryana to reopen schools for Classes 4 and 5, says Covid-19 SOPs must be followed strictly.US to begin immediate vaccination of all armed forcesU.S. defense secretary directs military to immediately begin full COVID-19 vaccination to all armed forces members pic.twitter.com/e8uQ45az4RUS defence secretary asked all armed force members to be vaccinated immediately.China, Russia agree to cooperate on AfghanistanPutin told Xi that he shares China’s positions and interests in Afghanistan and is willing to work together to “prevent foreign forces from interfering and destroying” Afghanistan. Read more here.Mysuru gangrape: Karnataka CM says strict action will be takenKarnataka | We have formed teams for the investigation of the case. We can't disclose details related to this case at this point in time: Dr. Chandragupta, Commissioner of Police, Mysuru City on the gangrape of a girl studentBommai said that the police is investigating the case and culprits will be punished.Kerala logs 31,445 new Covid-19 casesKerala records 31,445 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours. Positivity rate reaches 19.03%. State also records 215 deaths and 20,271 recoveries.Communication with Taliban open and effective: ChinaChina on Wednesday said it has a smooth and effective communication channel with the Taliban following a meeting between representatives of the group and the Chinese ambassador to Kabul on Tuesday. Read more here.MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft of the IAF crashes in Rajasthan, reports ANIRajasthan | IAF's MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft crashed today in Barmer during a training sortie, pilot safe pic.twitter.com/u1i4D46NRaA MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force crashed today in Barmer, Rajasthan during a training sortie. The pilot is safe, news agency ANI reported.Batch of Afghan evacuees arrive in UgandaFirst Afghan evacuees arrive in Uganda https://t.co/I5LlnKbPBn pic.twitter.com/NzTQTQjAvGA batch of Afghan evacuees fleeing the Taliban regime has reached Uganda.ZyCoV-D to be rolled out in OctoberZyCoV-D, available for 12-17 yr old children also in addition to adults, will be rolled out in Oct. Before that a list&strategy are to be prepared to reach sick children in that group. Healthy children will be given vaccines only after adult immunisation is complete: Dr NK Arora pic.twitter.com/nAhJPFtv88NTAGI chief Dr Arora says ZyCoV-D will be rolled out in October. Pushes for vaccinating school administrations in a bid provide 'safety ring' around children. Rane says he was not arrestedUnion minister says 'accompanied' police in his own car to the court at cops' request.No coercive action against Rane: Maha govt tells Bombay HCMaharashtra government tells Bombay HC that it will take no coercive action against Union minister Rane. Rane allegedly said that he would slap the Maharashtra chief minister for not remembering India's year of independence. Rane was arrested by Nashik Police yesterday. Next hearing on scheduled for September 17. India crosses vaccination milestoneIndia crosses 600 million Covid vaccination mark, administers 100 million vaccines in 19 days. Merkel bats for dialogue with Taliban#BREAKING Talks with Taliban must continue to safeguard Afghan gains: German Chancellor Merkel pic.twitter.com/Fn5hNjfDMzGerman chancellor says talks necessary to 'safeguard' Afghan gains. Congress leader says MLAs only seek clear roadmap to secure reelection in PunjabHarish Rawat says the Punjab Congress MLAs who met him were only ensuring that Congress remains in power following the 2022 polls in the state. He claimed that there was no infighting among the MLAs.Gujarat to reopen schoolsGujarat announces that schools for Classes 6 to 8 will reopen from September 2 with 50% capacityRevenue secretary says inflation to decrease once harvest is out"We feel once crops come out, inflation will come down," the Revenue Secretary was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Finance minister says credit outreach efforts by banks will occurUnion finance minister says there will be credit outreach efforts by banks in every district of this country to keep momentum of stimulus, reports PTI. Madras HC bars 10% reservation in medical, dental courses under All India quota, reports ANIMadras High Court disallows 10% reservations in medical and dental courses in the state contributed seats to All India quotaKin of deceased PSB members to receive higher pensionDFS secretary says that family members of deceased PSB bankers will now get pension of 30% of last drawn salary as against earlier ₹9,284FDI proposal of Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding Ltd approvedThe Union Cabinet approved FDI proposal of Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding Ltd and proposed an investment of ₹15,000 crore in India, ANI reported quoting Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)Sitharaman asks PSBs to help fintech sectorUnion finance Sitharaman says PSBs have done well and have come out of Prompt Corrective Action despite service extended during pandemic. She also highlighted that deposits piling up in states of eastern India, but credit needs to be expanded. She said that the urged banks to extend assistance to the fintech sector and requested banks to work with state govts to push ‘one district, one export’ agenda. CDS Rawat outlines how to deal with terrorism spilling out of AfghanistanI think, if any kind of support can be forthcoming from the coordination, in at least identifying the terrorists & getting some intelligence input to fight this global war on terrorism, I think that would be welcome: CDS General Bipin Rawat, in Delhi pic.twitter.com/oV8lsQ68m5Terrorism spilling out of Afghanistan will be dealt similarly to how we deal with terrorism now: CDS RawatBihar CM Nitish Kumar relaxes curbs as Covid situation improvesकोविड की स्थिति की समीक्षा की गई। कोरोना संक्रमण की स्थिति में सुधार को देखते हुए सभी दुकानें, प्रतिष्ठान, शॉपिंग मॉल, पार्क, उद्यान एवं धार्मिक स्थल सामान्य रूप से खुल सकेंगे। (1/4)Bihar CM allowed relaxation of curbs as Covid situation improved in the state. The government has allowed markets and educational institutions to open normally. Can singers, filmmakers in Afghanistan do their job? Taliban spokesman answersAs the Taliban took control of Afghanistan last week and ousted the Ashraf Ghani-led government, the Islamist insurgents started attacking civilians, singers and filmmakers, HT’s sister publication, Livehindustan, said in a report on Wednesday. Read moreCong to contest 2022 Punjab polls under Amarinder Singh's leadership: Harish RawatAICC in charge of Punjab Harish Rawat said on Wednesday that the Congress party will contest next's year's assembly elections in the state under the leadership of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. "We will contest 2022 Punjab elections under the leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh," Rawat said while addressing a press conference. His comments come in the backdrop of a fresh turbulence in Punjab Congress. SC tells Delhi HC to decide on a petition against appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police CommissionerThe Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Delhi high court to decide on a petition by the CPIL against the appointment of Rakesh Ashthana as Delhi Police commissioner within two weeks. Teenager dies in high speed crash near Mahim Dargah in MumbaiA teenager, who was riding dangerously in a no entry zone near Mahim Dargah on Tuesday night in Mumbai, crashed his bike into a car coming from the opposite direction, resulting in his death, and injuries to the pillion rider and the driver of the car, police said. Read moreIndia makes e-visa mandatory for all Afghan nationals in view of security situationThe Union home ministry said on Wednesday that owing to the prevailing security situation in Afghanistan and the streamlining of the visa process by introduction of the e-Emergency X-Misc visa, it has been decided that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-Visa. "Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India may apply for e-Visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in, " the MHA further said. Read moreAmit Shah likely to visit Andaman and Nicobar Islands in mid-SeptUnion home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Andaman and Nicobar Islands for three days in mid-September, sources told news agency PTI on Wednesday. The sources added that Shah is likely to visit the National Memorial Cellular Jail and hold a meeting with the local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. 16 Afghan evacuees test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, all asymptomaticAt least 16 of the 78 evacuees from Afghanistan who landed in India on Tuesday are said to have tested positive for coronavirus. Among them are three Afghan Sikhs who had carried the Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib from Kabul and were received by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri at the Delhi airport. Read moreTwo injured in acid attack at subway station in Tokyo, say reportsTwo people suffered burns in an acid attack at a subway station in Japan's Tokyo with the attacker still at large, police and local media said on Wednesday, according to news agency AFP. The attack happened at Shirokane Takanawa station on Tuesday night. Covid-19 in India: At least 594 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered at least 594 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 24. As many as 5,467,551 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,829,038 got their first dose while 1,638,513 got their second dose. Read moreIndia records 37,593 new Covid-19 cases, about 12,000 cases added in last 24 hoursIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a major increase on Wednesday as 37,593 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 32,512,366, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. As many as 648 patients died and 34,169 recovered from the viral disease in the said period. With this the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 435,758 and 31,754,281 respectively. Read moreDelhi to experience a dry spell for next four days, says IMDDelhi is likely to see a dry spell for the next four days as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 28 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C. Read moreMexico accepts first group of refugees from AfghanistanMexico on Wednesday accepted its first refugees from Afghanistan, who were a part of a group involved in robotics. Six refugees- five women and one man, arrived in Mexico City on Tuesday where they were welcomed by Foreign Relations Secretary Marcelo Ebrard. Chidambaram in Goa today on 2-day visit, his 1st as AICC poll observer for stateSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram, who was recently appointed as senior election observer for Goa, will vsit the state for two days starting Wednesday. He will meet party leaders of North and South Goa during his stay there. Read moreMaharashtra records 27 new cases of Delta Plus variant; tally climbs to 103The cases of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra have climbed to 103 after 27 more infections were reported, the state health department said on Tuesday. The health department added that six cases each were detected in Gadchiroli and Amravati, five in Nagpur, four in Ahmednagar, three in Yavatmal, two in Nashik and one in Bhandara district. Madhya Pradesh to kick-off 2 day mega Covid vaccination drive from todayThe Madhya Pradesh government will on Wednesday begin a two-day mega vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) called the “MP Vaccination Maha Abhiyan 2” drive , focusing on covering those people whose second dose is due. Read moreTaliban's actions to be monitored, says US Prez Joe BidenUnited States President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that the Taliban's actions will be monitored and the G7 leaders, EU, NATO and United Nations would respond to the terror group's behaviour accordingly. "G7 leaders, EU, NATO, United Nations have agreed to stand united in our approach to the Taliban. We'll judge them (Taliban) by their actions and we'll stay in close coordination on any steps that we take moving forward in response to Taliban behaviour," Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-25-2021-101629851924272.html
25-08-2021||India||Darjeeling 'toy trains' to be back on track from today after more than a year||The 'toy train' in West Bengal's Darjeeling, a part of the railway system declared by Unesco as a 'World Heritage Site', is set to be back on track once again from Wednesday, August 25, after a gap of more than one year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Formally known as the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), the toy train will be chugging again between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling from today, according to a statement issued by the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR).The Darjeeling toy train is a narrow-gauge railway that was built in the British era, between 1879 and 1881. It climbs from New Jalpaiguri to Darjeeling, around 88km apart, on a zig-zag track. The 'Red Panda' service from Darjeeling to Kurseong is hauled by vintage steam locomotives, while most of the scheduled services are operated on diesel engines travelling from Darjeeling to Ghum, the highest railway station in India.In an official statement last Saturday, the NFR announced the resumption of toy train services in Darjeeling weeks before Durga Puja, a much-venerated festival in West Bengal. However, the timings for the pair of trains from New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling have not been notified yet.“Each train will have 17 seats in the first class and 29 seats in the general class for passengers,” reports quote NFR's spokesperson, Guneet Kaur, as saying. She added that the resumption of the hill station railway services is expected to benefit the tourism and hospitality sectors, both of which had taken a serious hit due to the coronavirus pandemic.The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway was closed down on March 22 last year in view of the pandemic. However, the trains are preparing to get back on track now after nearly one and a half years, with the railway staff seen to be cleaning out and sanitising the coaches in the shed. Passengers availing the Darjeeling toy train services will, however, have to abide by all Covid-19 necessitated protocols, including the maintaining of social distancing, wearing of masks at all times, and the like, the NFR official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-toy-trains-to-be-back-on-track-from-today-after-more-than-a-year-101629848857399.html
25-08-2021||India||Key Pulwama conspirator Sameer Dar, thought to be killed, is alive: Fresh intel||One of the accused in the 2019 Pulwama attack, Sameer Ahmad Dar, who was thought to have been gunned down in a July 31 encounter along with Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander Mohammad Ismail Alvi alias Lambu, is alive and bolstering the terror outfit’s activities in the Valley, according to people in the Indian security establishment.It has now emerged that the second terrorist killed with Lambu (a relative of JeM chief Maulana Masood Azhar) in the July operation was a Pakistani national who is yet to be identified, the people cited above told HT.The operation was the result of a coordinated strike by the counter-insurgency Victor Force, headed by Major General Rashim Bali, in the Nagberan-Tarsar forest area of Pulwama.Lambu, who is from Bahawalpur, Pakistan, and was one of the main perpetrators of the February 14, 2019 Pulwama attack, was killed in the encounter.The other terrorist killed was identified as Sameer Dar, 22, a local from Pulwama, who joined JeM in 2018. However, when security agencies later showed his body to the family, it was confirmed the second terrorist was not Dar. On closer examination, his photos, too, did not match the body, one of the people said.“The initial assessment was||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-pulwama-conspirator-sameer-dar-thought-to-be-killed-is-alive-fresh-intel-101629838975475.html
25-08-2021||India||Monsoon normal for now, despite a ‘break’||Unless things change drastically, India is on course to having a normal monsoon, which will recharge the country’s main water reservoirs just enough, and ensure that the most important crops for the kharif season have normal sowing. This is good news for agricultural production and food prices. However, two major areas of concern remain: intermittent dry patches this monsoon season that could adversely affect crop yields; and regions which continue to suffer from deficient rains or floods despite the national average rainfall being in the normal zone.Cumulative rainfall continues to be in normal rangeThe June-September period is considered as the monsoon in India. Cumulative monsoon rainfall as of 8:30 AM on August 21 was 5.07% less than the Long Period Average or LPA, according to the gridded rainfall dataset of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). A 5% deficit from LPA is considered to be in the normal range. IMD defines the average of rainfall in the 1961 to 2010 period as the LPA for that interval. It considers less than 20% deviation on either side of the LPA as normal; a surplus of 20% or more as excess; and a deficit of 20% or more as deficient.Although the cumulative rainfall continues to be in the normal range, there have been periods of prolonged dry patches. There was a 47% surplus in cumulative rainfall before a dry patch from June 21 to July 11 -- when daily rainfall was less than the LPA on all days -- created a deficit of 3% in cumulative rain. After a period of recovery that led to a 2% surplus on August 1, another 16-day dry patch from August 2 to August 17 created the current 5% deficit.Past week’s recovery limited to few areasBoth the June-July dry patch and this month’s dry patch had been caused by a “break phase” of monsoon. This is a feature of the monsoon that causes heavy rains along the foothills of the Himalayas but leaves a major part of the country dry. There has been some recovery from that phase last week. Daily rainfall from August 18 to August 20 was more than the LPA. However, this recovery was limited to Delhi, districts in Western Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, and the north-east. Most of north-western India was dry last week.Almost one-third of India’s districts are still rainfall deficient this yearAn analysis by districts shows that last week’s recovery in rainfall has not done much to fix deficient rainfall in about a third of India’s districts. Of the 614 Census (2011) districts (with Delhi’s districts merged as one) for which this analysis is possible, 332 received deficient rainfall last week (August 16-August 21), 139 received normal rainfall, and only 143 received excess rainfall. As a result, the number of deficient districts in cumulative rainfall on August 21 was the same as on August 15: 194. The number of districts with normal rainfall increased from 269 to 278 and those with excess rainfall decreased from 151 to 142.Reservoir levels normal, but regional differences remainThe storage in 130 main reservoirs of the country was only 1% below the last 10 years’ average on August 19 (latest available data), according to the Central Water Commission (CWC). While this is good news, the 1% deficit is not as good as the 21% surplus on July 29. Regional differences similarly continue to exist. 10 of 20 states for which this data is available have a deficit compared to the last 10 years’ average. Nagaland, Himachal, Punjab and Gujarat have a deficit of 30% or higher. On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have a surplus of over 100%.Sowing levels normal, but yields might sufferOverall, 97.28% of the area sown normally in the kharif season has been covered by August 20 (latest available data). This is only 2.15 percentage points lower than area covered in the same period last year. Rice and arhar – the main cereal and pulse – and sugarcane are even closer to or have surpassed last year’s sowing. Some impact of the break in monsoon on sowing can be seen in the coverage of cotton and oilseeds, where sowing is lower than last year’s levels although over 90% of it is complete. “However, given the erratic monsoon rainfall this season, crop yields could suffer, reducing the overall farm output for the year,” said an August 16 research note by Rahul Bajoria, Chief India Economist at Barclays India.Retail inflation data released on August 12 showed that while food prices overall had moderated in July, year-on-year prices of oils and fats category increased by over 30% for the third-consecutive month. Since India is import-dependent for edible oils, good domestic production of oilseeds could control inflation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-normal-for-now-despite-a-break-101629837787370.html
25-08-2021||India||25 Indians among 78 more evacuated from Afghanistan||India brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Afghanistan on Tuesday and an almost equal number are expected to be evacuated from Kabul by Wednesday, people familiar with developments said.The group was flown out from Kabul to the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe in a C-130 Hercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) late on Monday. From Dushanbe, the group was brought to New Delhi in an Air India flight on Tuesday morning.With the window for evacuation flights from Kabul set to close because of the Taliban’s insistence that the US must withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan by August 31, India and other countries have redoubled their efforts to fly out all their nationals and Afghan citizens.A plan to operate a second flight with an IAF aircraft to Dushanbe on Monday night had to be put off because of certain difficulties, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. More Indians and Afghan nationals, including some who are already at Kabul airport, are expected to be flown out on Wednesday, the people said.The Indian side is also looking out for any Indian nationals who may still be in Afghanistan so that they can be brought into the airport for evacuation. The people said that among of the biggest problems faced by those involved in the evacuation efforts were the failure of Indian citizens to heed four security alerts issued in recent weeks, and their failure to register with the Indian embassy in Kabul.Transporting evacuees from different parts of Kabul to the airport also continues to be a problem because of the presence of hundreds of Taliban fighters in the city. The Taliban have also been insisting that Afghan nationals shouldn’t leave the country.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Tuesday that India’s operation to evacuate people from Kabul had been named “Devi Shakti”. He also lauded the efforts of the IAF, Air India and the external affairs ministry in flying out the group of the 78 people from Kabul.The group was received at New Delhi airport by Union minister Hardeep Puri and minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. The ministers carried a copy of the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib, which was brought by the Afghan Sikhs out of the aircraft.Speaking to the media, Puri referred to the status of minorities facing persecution in neighbouring countries and said India takes in everyone, and not just people from certain communities. “I don’t want to get into the politics of what happened in Afghanistan, but as somebody who has lived abroad for nearly four decades intermittently, I know what it is to have as a feeling that you have a home – mother India – to which you can return,” he said.The Afghan Sikhs had thanked India and the prime minister for providing “sanctuary and comfort to people in times of distress, Hindus and Sikhs in particular [and] all other communities also”, he added.India has so far evacuated nearly 620 people, including 500 of its nationals, on flights from Kabul, Dushanbe and Doha. Nearly 200 people were flown out of Kabul within two days of the Taliban marching into the Afghan capital on August 15.A day after a secret meeting between CIA chief William Burns and top Taliban political leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Tuesday that the US must complete its evacuation of people from Afghanistan by the August 31 deadline set by the Biden administration for withdrawing all American troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-indians-among-78-more-evacuated-from-afghanistan-101629834990944.html
25-08-2021||India||Report recommends SC panel to monitor cases against lawmakers||The Supreme Court should set up a monitoring committee headed by a retired judge to oversee and file periodic reports in a sealed cover with the top court on the status of every case against lawmakers, according to a report by senior lawyer Vijay Hansaria, appointed amicus curiae by the SC.The recommendation, part of the report filed in a public interest litigation that sought fast-tracking criminal cases pending against lawmakers, will be taken up by a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) earlier told the court that only 37 cases against sitting and former lawmakers were under investigation and 121 cases were pending trial.In one 2013 case related to drugs in Manipur, the agency said charges were framed against the accused in 2017 but the CBI expected the trial to be completed by 2030. In another case of 2014 from Bengaluru where the offence probed by CBI is punishable with a life sentence, the agency said it will take 10 years to conclude the trial.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said the investigation was pending 76 cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 (PMLA) and the trial was pending in 34 cases.Senior advocate Vijay Hansaria - he was assisted by advocate Sneha Kalita - analysed reports filed by CBI, ED, and the high courts to come up with suggestions to ensure that the trial doesn’t drag.The recommendation to set up a panel headed by the retired Supreme Court or high court judge was one. The proposed committee could have chiefs of CBI, ED and Union home secretary or their nominees as members, the report said, adding that the panel can “evaluate the reasons for the delay in investigation” and pass appropriate directions to officers to expedite the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-recommends-sc-panel-to-monitor-cases-against-lawmakers-101629834594585.html
25-08-2021||India||Gennova’s m RNA vaccine gets clearance for Phase 2/3 clinical trials||India’s first domestically developed mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate has been found safe in its interim Phase 1 clinical trials, and the national drugs regulator has granted approval to its maker, Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, to begin Phase 2/3 trials, the Union ministry of science and technology said on Tuesday.The development of HGCO19, the country’s first vaccine based on messenger-RNA (mRNA) technology, is a key step in India’s target of vaccinating all adults by the end of the year as senior government officials have said that — subject to trials and approval — they are looking at availability of 60 million vaccine doses by December.The candidate could join a club of mRNA-based vaccines currently consisting of just two American vaccines – by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna Inc – both of which have the highest efficacy among those currently being administered globally.“Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd., the Pune-based biotechnology company, working on the nation’s first mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine, submitted the interim clinical data of the Phase I study to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the Government of India’s National Regulatory Authority (NRA). Vaccine Subject Expert Committee (SEC) reviewed the interim Phase I data and found that HGCO19 was safe, tolerable, and immunogenic in the participants of the study,” science and technology ministry said in a statement issued on Tuesday.The company began Phase 1 trial in April. HGCO19’s development is being supported by central government’s Department of Biotechnology-Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (DBT-BIRAC).“It is a matter of great pride that Nation’s first mRNA-based vaccine is found to be safe and the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved Phase 2/3 trials. We are confident that this will be an important vaccine for both India and the world. This is an important milestone in our indigenous vaccine development mission and positions India on the global map for novel vaccine development,” said Renu Swarup, secretary, DBT, and chairperson, BIRAC.According to the company, the study will be conducted across the country at around 10-15 sites in Phase 2, and 22-27 sites in Phase 3. Gennova plans to use the DBT-Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) clinical trial network sites for this.Swarup earlier said that DBT was hand-holding Gennova from the start, and had also provided seed funding for the development of HGCO19.Gennova developed this vaccine candidate in collaboration with HDT Biotech Corporation, United States.“After establishing the safety of our mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate HGCO19 in Phase 1 clinical trial, Gennova’s focus is to start Phase 2/3 pivotal clinical trial. In parallel, Gennova is investing in scaling up its manufacturing capacity to cater to the nation’s vaccine requirement,” said Sanjay Singh, chief executive officer, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd.Gennova submitted the proposed Phase 2 and Phase 3 study titled “A Prospective, Multicentre, Randomized, Active-controlled, Observer-blind, Phase II study seamlessly followed by a Phase III study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of the candidate HGCO19 (Covid-19 vaccine) in healthy subjects” that was approved by the office of the DCGI, CDSCO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gennovas-m-rna-vaccine-gets-clearance-for-phase-2-3-clinical-trials-101629833643332.html
25-08-2021||India||US climate envoy John Kerry may visit India in Sept||New Delhi: John Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate is likely to visit India next month to further India-US partnership on Clean Energy ahead of UN Climate Change negotiations (COP 26) in November. The partnership will mobilize finance and speed clean energy deployment during this decade.Union environment minister, Bhupendra Yadav had a telecon with Kerry on Tuesday to discuss the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD) under India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.“Both sides agreed that India and the USA, will engage for a constructive engagement under the “India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.” The Environment Minister stated that these platforms provide greater opportunities for working together for climate actions and emphasized that India stands committed to working with the US on Clean Energy,” a statement from MoEFCC said.Kerry told Yadav that Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership to enhance actions to curb greenhouse gas emissions in the current decade will help meet the goals under the Paris Agreement“Had a telephonic conversation with US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate Mr @JohnKerry and discussed at length how the largest and oldest democracies can set examples for other countries on Climate Action,” tweeted Yadav on Tuesday.The partnership will aim to mobilize finance and speed clean energy deployment; demonstrate and scale innovative clean technologies needed to decarbonize sectors including industry, transportation, power, and buildings; and build capacity to measure, manage, and adapt to the risks of climate-related impacts. The partnership will proceed along two main tracks: the Strategic Clean Energy Partnership and the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue, which will build on and subsume a range of existing processes, a joint statement by India and US had stated on April 22.“Both the United States and India have set ambitious 2030 targets for climate action and clean energy. In its new nationally determined contribution, the United States has set an economy-wide target of reducing its net greenhouse gas emissions by 50–52 percent below 2005 levels in 2030. As part of its climate mitigation efforts, India has set a target of installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. Through the Partnership, the United States and India are firmly committed to working together in achieving their ambitious climate and clean energy targets and to strengthening bilateral collaboration across climate and clean energy,” the statement added.Kerry had visited India in April when he had met PM Modi regarding clean energy and collaborating on climate change. Focusing on actions taken during the 2020 to 2030 decade will set the road map for achieving net zero emissions by 2050, Kerry had said. “India understands the challenge. It would be great if India wanted to say that (committing to a net zero emissions target by 2050) but I don’t think it’s an absolute requirement because India is doing all the things it needs to do to get us there. That’s better than a lot of nations. India has a plan for 450 GW of renewable energy, if deployed India will be one of the key nations helping to keep the 1.5 degree C target alive. What’s more important than making a pledge, I mean we welcome the pledge, it’s helpful to get everybody doing it but what’s more important is real actions now between 2020 and 2030,” he said.In another event on Tuesday organised by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) where Yadav delivered the Presidential Address at the 20th Darbari Seth Memorial Lecture he made India’s stand clear and underlined that countries should determine action on climate change based on respective capabilities.“Science is very clear. The recent IPCC report has sounded ‘code red’. The findings reaffirm that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the current climate crisis. Equitable carbon and development space to achieve sustainable development required due consideration to principles of ‘Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities (CBDR-RC)’ and ‘polluters pay,’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-climate-envoy-john-kerry-may-visit-india-in-sept-101629833166136.html
25-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh top leaders call on Rahul Gandhi amid friction||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday, hoping to find a closure to friction that has existed between the two since late 2018, when they are believed to have agreed to a power-sharing agreement — but the meeting remained inconclusive.The meeting comes at least two months after the Chhattisgarh Congress government passed the two-and-a-half year mark on June 17 and the party in the state is waiting with baited breath for a resolution.Senior Congress functionaries said while the two Chhattisgarh leaders, along with Congress general secretary incharge of the state PL Punia, and general secretary KC Venugopal, spent over three hours at Gandhi’s residence, no sense of finality was reached, and more meetings are in the offing in the coming days.In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance that saw the party win 68 of 90 seats in the state, four state leaders, Baghel, current home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, current speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged the front-runner. Worried that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, are believed to have hammered out a power-sharing arrangement.On Tuesday, Singh Deo and Baghel, who arrived in Delhi for the meeting separately, reached Gandhi’s Tughlaq Lane residence just short of 11am. Functionaries in the know said both Punia and Venugopal were present as well, and that they and Gandhi met Baghel and Singh Deo separately.“Singh Deo’s meeting with Rahul Gandhi was shorter in length. The meeting with Baghel was longer and lasted over an hour. Rahul then left for a meeting with Sonia Gandhi. Venugopal and Punia then conveyed to the leaders that the matter would be discussed further with the implication that they must stay discreet until a decision is made,” a senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity.Emerging from the meeting, Punia, Baghel and Singh Deo maintained the public stance that nothing political was discussed at the meeting, and that it was a review of policies implemented by the state government. Functionaries close to Baghel and Singh Deo, however, admitted that both leaders, waiting for word of what could happen, will stay on in Delhi for some time.While Baghel and Singh Deo were once considered to be close friends, and even called “Jai-Veeru”, after the protagonists of Hindi blockbuster Sholay, distance between the two began to grow in the run up to the assembly polls in 2018.“Every political party is made of humans and it is natural to have clashes. What Congress is facing as a party in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and now in Chhattisgarh indicates that an amicable political formula for power sharing is missing. They let CM become a super power and then things explode,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-top-leaders-call-on-rahul-gandhi-amid-friction-101629831018316.html
25-08-2021||India||Appointment of Mukul Roy as PAC head violates convention, BJP MLA tells HC||Kolkata: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ambika Roy on Tuesday told the Calcutta high court that appointment of Mukul Roy as chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal assembly violates a five-decade-old convention under which an opposition party MLA gets the post. Mukul Roy, who left the BJP and returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on June 11, was appointed PAC chairman by speaker Biman Banerjee on July 9. On June 18, leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, submitted a petition before the speaker saying Mukul Roy, the legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law as he did not resign from the BJP before switching sides. While hearing Ambika Roy’s petition on Tuesday, the division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said the appeal for Mukul Roy’s disqualification as an MLA is lying before the speaker and not the court, lawyers aware of the hearing said. Appearing for Ambika Roy, senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan told the court that the speaker incorrectly assumed that Mukul Roy was in the BJP when he filed his nomination papers on June 25 for chairmanship of the PAC. “Power exercised by the speaker must not be arbitrary,” Vaidyanathan told the court. The advocate also told the court that in January last year, a three-judge Supreme Court bench, comprising Justices RF Nariman, Aniruddha Bose and V Ramasubramaniam, ruled that speakers of assemblies and Parliament must declare their decisions on disqualification petitions within three months. The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution, however, does not specify any time frame for the process that involves inquiry and setting up of a committee. “I will proceed on the assumption that Mukul Roy has defected from the BJP. A disqualification petition filed in June should not be delayed unnecessarily,” Vaidyanathan told the court. The matter will be heard again on September 6. That Mukul Roy could be made the PAC chairman became somehow apparent on June 24 when chief minister Mamata Banerjee stoked speculations. “Anybody can file nomination papers for inclusion in the PAC. He (Roy) is a BJP member. He has been supported by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. If required, we will support him too. We will win if there is an election. Let people see who is more powerful. The speaker takes these decisions,” Banerjee had said during a press conference. Roy, however, got the post without any election. According to rules, it is the discretion of the speaker to select the chairpersons of the various committees in the assembly. The Bengal assembly has 41 committees, of which the PAC is considered the most important one. On June 26, Adhikari submitted a letter to the speaker saying Roy’s nomination should be cancelled because the BJP did not nominate him. Stating that the BJP may seek legal action, the letter said Roy should be disqualified under the anti-defection law. Adhikari, Mamata Banerjee’s protege-turned-adversary, joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her in the assembly polls. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC along with his son Subhranshu but did not officially resign from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appointment-of-mukul-roy-as-pac-head-violates-convention-bjp-mla-tells-hc-101629832925023.html
25-08-2021||India||OBC commission member Bajaj backs caste census||At least one of the members of the government’s Commission for sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes or OBCs has supported a caste census, demand for which has gained momentum with sections of the ruling party, its allies such as the Janata Dal United, and the Opposition all pushing for one. JK Bajaj, member of the commission which was appointed by the President in 2017 to look at the distribution of the benefits of reservation and suggest changes said that while the debate on a caste survey is focused on the political fallout , there are clear administrative benefits that could help the government improve the delivery of its social welfare schemes.“Census does not only count bare numbers, it also gives a detailed socio-economic profile of different groups of people. It tells us about their literacy rates and the number of graduates or number of professionals, etc., among them. It tells us about their gender ratios and fertility rates; about their work participation rates; about how many of them are cultivators and how many are agricultural labourers. It even tells us about the kind of houses they live in and the geographical distribution of particular groups,’’ said Bajaj. “ Such data allows for targeting our welfare measures towards every part of the spectrum of people in the country and tailor these measures to their specific requirements and needs...”The last time there was a full caste census was in 1931 but in recent weeks, demand for one has only gotten louder with the Bhartiya Janata Party’s own leaders such as Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Modi justifying the need for one.The party itself has not explicitly taken a stand on the issue, given its sensitivity and the possibility that it could trigger a backlash, both from other backward classes (OBCs) that lose out on benefits if the reservation formula is redefined following a caste census, and from upper castes that fear the survey could be a pre-cursor to breaching the 50% limit for reservations.The support for the survey was evident in the composition of the delegation from Bihar that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought a survey. It included Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, leader of the Opposition in Bihar Tejaswi yadav, and representatives of eight other parties. Modi heard out all the leaders and the government is expected to take a call on a survey soon. The Apna Dal, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Republican Party of India- Athawale, all BJP allies, also support a survey. As do the YSR Congress and the Biju Janata Dal, considered friendly parties, and almost the entire Opposition.“The decision not to do a caste-wise count in the 1961 census was based on the assumption and hope that caste shall soon lose its salience in the society and polity of India,’’ said Bajaj. “But caste remains a significant factor in our polity. Much of our efforts towards welfare and affirmative action are based on caste and it has to be granted that this is one of the factors that has helped India achieve a highly inclusive polity.’’Bajaj is learnt to have pushed his point of view internally in the government. He argued that a caste census would provide information which policymakers can utlise. For instance, he said, policy makers will have access to socio-economic data including the number of graduates or the fertility rate of a certain community.“We have always been doing a caste-wise count for the SC and ST communities,’’ said Bajaj. “ Because of that we have much information about the individual castes and tribes among the SCs and STs. We know exactly how each of those castes or tribes have fared in our development journey. A complete caste census would give us similar information about other relatively deprived groups also.’’ The last time this was attempted was in 2011 when the Socio Economic and Caste census was conducted. However, the caste data was not published; the government of the data cited inherent errors, but it is likely political sensitivities stayed its hand.“It (Deciding to do a survey) is not an easy decision,’’ said Bajaj. “Nor is it an easy job to carry out.’’ One of the greatest fears is that of political upheaval if the population of other backward classes or OBCs in India exceeds 52% (as mentioned in the Mandal report), in which case, they would ask for more than 27% reservation (recommended by Mandal and adopted by the government).Not everyone is convinced of the need for such a census, though.Former health secretary Sujatha Rao tweeted against any such caste census. "How regressive can we get? For governments there should only be two castes -- the rich and the poor. Don’t understand what that backward Bihar wants a caste census instead on Industries education and health. What a vision."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-commission-member-bajaj-backs-caste-census-101629832392020.html
25-08-2021||India||Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in Punjab||The adage of a picture telling a thousand stories can apply in the reverse in politics, given the proclivity of politicians to present one face behind closed doors and another when out in the open.For this reason, the picture-perfect August 20 meeting in Chandigarh between Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu seemed a chimera for those aware of their caustic chemistry. It was their second face-to-face dialogue in recent weeks, after the first at which the newly appointed state party president was aggressive and the chief minister (CM) curt.Last week, the two ventured to make up for the opportunity lost in their maiden encounter. The Captain was consciously warm, the cricketer-turned-politician purposely deferential.For his part, Sidhu sought to defuse tensions rooted in his past unbridled attacks on the CM by calling him a family elder. The studied cordiality had them agree on setting up a 10-member group for “policy coordination” between the party organisation and the state government. They concurred as much on a roster arrangement to make ministers take turns to visit the Congress’s Chandigarh office for interaction with party cadres and the public.The buzz in the Punjab secretariat was that in a subsequent interaction with a senior government official, Sidhu praised the Captain for making him feel belonged at his residence. Widely perceived to have the CM’s ear, the official he spoke to has been in the firing line of a clutch of legislators, including ministers, for being overbearingly officious with them.Branded as “Majha Brigade” after the region they represent in the assembly, the recalcitrant ministers, Tript RS Bajwa, Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria, had led the pushback against the CM when the central leadership made Sidhu the party chief against his advice. Their exclusion from the mutually agreed policy coordination panel can therefore be interpreted as a pragmatic climbdown or concession by the state president for a working relationship with the CM.But mercurial as he invariably is, Sidhu’s tweet after the closed-door meeting that formalised the panel made no mention of the CM. Tagging a picture of his with Singh and two other party leaders who accompanied him in the talks, he blandly wrote: “Highly positive Co-ordination meeting on proposal for roaster of ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan !! (sic).”Inveterate political observers were quick to compare the social media post with the one he made a day earlier while drafting a former Indian Police Service Officer, Mohammad Mustafa, as one of his four advisers.“Love to be associated with Razia Ji and Mustafa sahib,” he indulgently wrote for the IPS officer who had turned against the CM on being overlooked for promotion as director general of Punjab police. His wife Razia Sultana continues nevertheless as a cabinet minister under Singh.In fact, Sidhu’s decision to have a team of advisers besides the four working presidents under his command as the party chief, has befuddled many in the party. Besides Amar Singh, a former IAS officer who is now a Congress MP, his advisers include a health activist, Pyare Lal Garg, and an ultra-left political commentator, Malwinder Singh Mali.The last two named have since been reprimanded in a statement by the CM for their comments which were out of sync with the Congress’s stated position on Pakistan and Kashmir.The Captain apparently went public when an intervention by a senior All India congress committee (AICC) official failed to persuade Sidhu to make Garg and Mali recant. A caricature on Mali’s facebook page of Indira Gandhi hoisting a skull atop a gun has triggered another controversy; the tagline “every repression is defeated” seen as a throwback to Operation Blue Star and the anti-Sikh riots that followed her assassination.Any productive meeting between the temperamentally apart Singh and Sidhu is a happy event from the Congress’s perspective. But the uproar soon thereafter over the Mali episode goes to prove that one swallow does not make a summer.Now that they’ve a consultative platform, both sides have no reason to talk through the social media. Their party might be better placed than its rivals, but it isn’t unassailable. The Aam Aadmi Party and the Akali Dal are bound to gain ground if the internal Congress bickering continues unabated and its leaders keep speaking out of turn.That Sidhu has had his way in appointing advisers — in the manner of a CM in waiting — is viewed as a proof of the high command’s diminishing clout by even the dissident Majha leaders. “Don’t ask me, ask our central leadership. Could this have happened on Indira Gandhi or Rajiv’s watch,” wondered one of them. He forecast the fault lines getting wider on ticket distribution closer to the elections.“Our party will sink fathoms deep if the big two don’t bury the hatchet,” bemoaned another minister. With all his faults, the Captain, he said, has kept his composure in the face of Sidhu’s provocative commentary. “They both , especially the unabashedly ambitious PCC chief, should know that we wouldn’t have a government or a CM if they work at cross purposes.”Bar a durable rapprochement, the party will remain in the seismic zone it finds itself today. It might be easier said than done but is certainly worth a sincere effort. Sidhu will be better off if he doesn’t misconstrue the CM’s patience as his rubber spine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-isn-t-yet-out-of-the-seismic-zone-in-punjab-101629832065349.html
25-08-2021||India||SC refers pleas on EPFO scheme to larger bench||New Delhi: A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court will now determine the validity of the amendments introduced to the Employee Pension Scheme in 2014 by which a cut-off date was fixed for employees to contribute to pension under an enhanced ceiling limit on maximum pensionable salary of ₹15,000 fixed under the Scheme.On Tuesday, a division bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi decided to refer the issue in question to a larger bench after the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) argued that a 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court in RC Gupta case, which had examined this very issue, required reconsideration.As a division bench could not consider the correctness of another same strength bench’s decision, Justice Lalit, while authoring the reference order, said, “The principal questions that arise for consideration are whether there would be a cut-off date under paragraph 11(3) of the Employees’ Pension Scheme and whether the decision in RC Gupta would be the governing principle on the basis of which all these matters must be disposed of.”“It would not be appropriate for us to deal with said submissions touching upon the applicability of the principle laid down in the decision in RC Gupta case (that) go to the very root of the matter. The logical course would be to refer all these matters to a Bench of at least three Judges so that appropriate decision can be arrived at,” he added.The court directed the matter to be placed before the Chief Justice of India for passing appropriate orders.Both EPFO and central government were before the court in appeal against a judgment passed by the Kerala high court on October 12, 2018 quashing the cut-off date provided under the 2014 amendment to the pension scheme. The HC had relied on RC Gupta case.The EPFO represented by senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram had said that the liability under the pension scheme and provident fund stood on different footing. He said the six-month window provided from September 1, 2014 had to remain as otherwise it would create great imbalance and amount to cross-subsidisation by those regularly contributing to the pension scheme in favour of those who joined at a later point in time and who then will walk away with all the advantages.The counsels representing employee associations welcomed the decision of the court to refer the matter to a larger bench but urged the court not to refer reconsideration of the RC Gupta case by the larger bench.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the employees, said EPFO in its appeal had not pleaded once that the RC Gupta judgment was wrong. Other senior advocates R Basanth, Meenakshi Arora, Jaideep Gupta and Gopal Shankaranaraynan among others supported this stand claiming that the reference order was being passed without hearing them.In the RC Gupta case, the SC held that the pension scheme was a beneficial scheme and its purpose should not be defeated by introducing a cut-off date. The Kerala HC, whose order was challenged by EPFO in the present proceedings, relied upon RC Gupta to say, “The proviso to paragraph 11 of the Pension Scheme does not stipulate a cut-off date at all. Any such stipulation of a cut-off date for conferring benefits under the Pension Scheme would have the effect of classifying the employees into persons who have retired before or after the said date.”Interestingly, the Supreme Court in April 2019 upheld the Kerala HC order and dismissed EPFO appeal. But on a separate appeal by the Centre, a three-judge bench in July 2019 revisited its earlier order and restored the appeals that have been pending for more than two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refers-pleas-on-epfo-scheme-to-larger-bench-101629832209371.html
25-08-2021||India||Lighthouse: DMK Dares the Opposition with corruption charges||The depth and extent of corruption under the former AIADMK government led by Edappadi Palaniswami spreads like a valley of silence with the BJP keeping watch on key ministers, including the former chief minister (and his family members) by raiding them through IT and other enforcement agencies at routine intervals to keep a check on them as well as their political moves. At the same time, there is an art of managing the raids that BJP has mastered without resulting in official and legal actions against the corrupt ministers and influential public servants in the state. It has enlisted a few vulnerable leaders and parties by taming them under potential charges of corruption with deceptive entitlements, including access to the corridors of power and by enforcing influential decisions under the AIADMK reign. The AIADMK government and its ministers are suspected of linkages with the Gutka case, eggs scandal, road contracts, fiber net scam, Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority Projects, procurement of low floor buses, Aavin milk scam, etc.There are two significant developments in the recent weeks in Tamil Nadu politics, involving mega corruption charges against former AIADMK minister S.P.Velumani and the more serious development with the additional probe into the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case with the needle of suspicion pointed against Palaniswami. There is a clear departure from the precedents of addressing corruption cases in Tamil Nadu politics from mere propaganda tactics to striking a deep dent inside the already fragile frame of the AIADMK party.DMK has dared the AIADMK by taking on Velumani as an easy pick among the rotten pack and an open challenge to Palaniswami by seeking additional probe into the Kodanad case. It appears that this case promises to engage Palaniswami and many other influential leaders cutting across the bitter feuds and divided loyalties among the larger AIADMK assemblage.There is something more to the Kodanad case than what appears to the eye. The responses from the AIADMK leadership to the additional probe shows the seriousness of the charges involving robbery and series of murders. The intensity of response from the AIADMK leadership is more than curious with comparable anxieties of the infamous Watergate scam in American politics.The series of murders also point to an Alfred Hitchcock-like crime thriller. Although other opposition parties have joined the issue by backing the AIADMK party and its leadership, it appears that this is going to be a long and lonely battle for Palaniswami and for the survival of larger interests of the AIADMK in the future.This case may also reveal a make or break moment for the AIADMK party and its leadership. It is therefore necessary to gauge the support enjoyed by Palaniswami among other leaders within the party and the scope for reconciliation between Palaniswami and Sasikala.There are considerable factors that would necessitate a more sober assessment of the space and scope for reconciliation between Palaniswami and Sasikala. Although it may appear that there are irreconcilable differences between them over the manner in which Palaniswami has turned against her and the extent of disloyalty demonstrated by him after acquiring power through her acumen and assessment.Sasikala has understood that power alone and will always make the difference to keep her reign over the party and her influence in politics. She felt betrayed and wanted to avenge. But she will not rush into the well of fight to settle the scores with him. She knows that the Kodanad case can draw more attention than it appears at this stage with search lights focusing on Palaniswami. It is not a time to pull the dagger against Palaniswami as much as the need to pitch for the survival of the AIADMK at this critical juncture.DMK appears to have made a cautious assessment of the case by seeking an additional probe besides securing a key witness account and going beyond the revelations of the Tehelka report. DMK also hopes to break the support that Palaniswami enjoys with the BJP and expose the cracks within the AIADMK through serving notices and engaging the former AIADMK chief minister with legal battles. It is therefore inevitable that Sasikala may once again stake a claim for the leadership of AIADMK by bridging the factions and assuaging the hopes of a sinking party without credible leadership.Prof. Ramu Manivannan is a scholar-social activist in areas of education, human rights and sustainable development through an initiative ‘Multiversity’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-dares-the-opposition-with-corruption-charges-101629832026029.html
25-08-2021||India||Singh, Sidhu aides spar as Punjab crisis deepens||Chandigarh: The Congress government in Punjab was thrown into fresh turmoil on Tuesday as ministers close to state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu rebelled against his rival, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and leaders loyal to the latter demanded the ouster of Sidhu’s advisers over their controversial remarks.The factional fight ended an uneasy truce between Sidhu and Singh brokered by the Congress leadership after months of tense negotiations and mirrored a similar tussle for control of the party that broke out in May. Punjab goes to the polls early next year.Four cabinet ministers and around two dozenMLAs declared they didn’t have faith in the chief minister’s ability to fulfil pending election promises but stopped short of demanding his resignation, “We have lost faith in him (Singh), but changing the CM is the prerogative of the party high command,” said minister for jails and cooperation Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa after meeting the lawmakers at rural development minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa’s official residence in Chandigarh. The meeting was attended by technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi, water resources minister Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Punjab Congress general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh, and around two dozen legislators. The disgruntled leaders also authorised a five-member delegation -- four cabinet ministers and Pargat Singh, all known detractors of Singh -- to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and apprise her of their sentiment at the earliest. The disgruntled ministers spoke to All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. They will travel to Dehradun on Wednesday to meet Rawat before heading to the national capital.Sidhu was not present at the meeting but the leaders said they will discuss the matter with him before leaving for Delhi. The Congress has 80 MLAs in Punjab. Channi told reporters that the MLAs who assembled in Chandigarh were worried about unfulfilled poll promises made by the Congress before the 2017 assembly elections. “A lot of promises have been fulfilled, but those promises (the implementation of) which may lead to friction with the opposition remain unfulfilled,” he said. He said that issues were not getting resolved the way the Congress wanted. “We no longer trust that these issues will be resolved. Therefore, we are seeking time from the party high command for a meeting, and we will meet them and put forth our issues so that Punjab’s issues can be resolved,” said Channi, flanked by Randhawa, Bajwa and Pargat SIngh.Sidhu later met some of these ministers and MLAs at the party’s state headquarters here. “Got a call from Tripat Bajwa ji asking for an emergency…Met him along with other colleagues at the PPCC office. Will appraise the high command of the situation (sic),” he tweeted after meeting them.Hours later, Singh and his loyalists hit back, demanding action against two newly appointed advisors of Sidhu , Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, who stirred a row on Sunday with their controversial comments on Kashmir.Five cabinet ministers and one MLA close to Singh called for strong action against Mali and Garg for their “patently anti-national and pro-Pak comments”. “The statements of both these newly appointed advisers of Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu were clearly against India’s interests, and detrimental to national security,” said cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, along with MLA Raj Kumar Verka in a statement. In a Facebook post last week, Mali had said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late prime minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg had criticised Singh for attacking Pakistan over Kashmir. The comments immediately sparked a controversy with Singh calling them “atrocious” and “anti-national”, and Congress MP Manish Tewari condemning the leaders. Besides stringent legal action against Mali and Garg, the five ministers also urged the Congress national leadership to direct Sidhu to immediately rein in his aides in the interest of the party and the country. “The Congress has made many sacrifices for the protection of the nation’s security and peace, as have our soldiers at the borders. Nobody can or should be allowed to undermine these sacrifices and jeopardise the safety of our country and its people,” they emphasised, citing, in particular, the grave implications such statements could have for the border state of Punjab. The Congress leaders questioned Sidhu’s failure to put his foot down on such “anti-national and pro-Pak diatribe” by his aides, warning that this could damage the Congress in the 2022 elections. They termed Mali’s statement on Kashmir a dangerous and unacceptable deviation from India’s stated position on J&K. Garg’s statement countering Singh’s criticism of Pakistan reflected his pro-Pak leanings, they said. “Drones from Pakistan are dumping arms and drugs into Punjab almost every day. Our soldiers are dying at the border. How can any patriotic Indian not condemn Pak actions in the circumstances?” they asked. Tuesday’s bitter verbal war is a throwback to a crisis that engulfed the Congress in May, when Sidhu rallied Singh’s detractors and publicly accused the CM of enabling corruption. Tensions between 79-year-old Singh and Sidhu had simmered since the latter quit the state cabinet after the chief minister changed his portfolio in 2019.To resolve the crisis, the Congress set up a three-member panel, which met around 150 functionaries – including Singh twice -- and submitted its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi on June 10.On July 18, Sidhu was named state unit chief -- a post he coveted -- overriding strong objections from Singh. The two leaders were seen at key meetings together and the CM even attended the ceremony where Sidhu took charge of the party in Punjab. But the latest round of infighting shatters that fragile truce. Expert quote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singh-sidhu-aides-spar-as-punjab-crisis-deepens-101629831726117.html
25-08-2021||India||TN CM revives ‘Singara Chennai’ project, sets up 6 new corporations||The DMK government on Tuesday elaborated plans to revive its pet project Singara Chennai (beautiful Chennai), while also announcing six new corporations ahead of the local body elections. While the revised budget estimates presented on August 13 allocated ₹500 crores for Singara Chennai 2.0, the municipal administration and water supply (MAWS) minister K N Nehru tabled a demand for grants in the ongoing session. Nehru also announced that six municipalities will be upgraded to corporations by merging adjoining developed areas, which are Tambaram, Kancheepuram, Kumbakonam, Karur, Cuddalore and Sivakasi. He also announced several infrastructures and developmental schemes and projects. After the DMK won in the 1996 elections, coinciding with the IT boom, M K Stalin, who was then the mayor of the capital city, rolled out a slew of projects to keep the city clear of garbage and spruce it up with road infrastructure like flyovers under the ‘Singara Chennai’ umbrella. In the 2.0 edition, the aim is to continue with clean and green, but the focus is also to take advantage of the city’s coastline, culture and lifestyle. In 2011, Chennai city expanded to an area of 426 square kilometres. “There are gaps in the infrastructure/development in the added areas,” the policy stated. There are about ten subheads for the vision of Singara Chennai 2.0. The project plans include a Chennai that’s free from posters and litter, biomining two of the largest dumping grounds in the city and converting them to green spaces, water tap and sewerage connection to every household and access to ‘quality toilets’. To promote a healthy lifestyle, non-motorised transport will be encouraged. Footpaths that are usable for children, people with disabilities and senior citizens will be constructed. Learning centres for school going children who do not have adequate space at home for studying will come up. Cultural events such as ‘Chennai Day’ and ‘Chennai Sangamam’ will be promoted. Chennai, which is home to several heritage buildings, will be preserved. The seat of the Greater Chennai Corporation, which will be responsible for much of Singara Chennai 2.0, is itself a heritage building called the Ripon buildings, an Indo-Saracenic structure built in 1913. Those working on the project say that the new government’s vision for 2.0 is to match up to global cities. “There is a fundamental change where now climate change and resilience are important factors,” said an official of the Chennai Smart City project who did not wish to be named. Nehru said that the government will implement an urban wage employment programme, on a pilot basis, to employ urban poor by engaging them in the creation and maintenance of public assets like parks, stormwater drains, roads, buildings and rejuvenation of water bodies, with 39 an initial budgetary allocation of ₹100 crores made in the Revised Budget Estimates for the year 2021-22. Following Nehru’s announcement of new corporations, the total number of municipal corporations in Tamil Nadu has now increased from 15 to 21. The upgrade is expected to improve civic infrastructure facilities in the places that are severely flooded during monsoons. The announcement comes ahead of the local body polls in the state, but the minister clarified that the tenure of ward members will continue. The Supreme Court has ordered the Tamil Nadu state election body to complete the rural local body polls in nine newly created districts before September 15. Elections to urban local bodies were last held in October 2011 and after their five-year tenure was over issues over delimitation of wards arose and stalled the elections. However, elections to 27 rural local bodies were completed in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncmrevives-singara-chennai-project-sets-up-6-new-corporations-101629831724864.html
25-08-2021||India||TN BJP gen secy resigns over viral explicit video||K T Raghavan, general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tamil Nadu unit, on Tuesday resigned from his post after an alleged explicit video chat between him and a woman surfaced on video streaming platform YouTube.The 20-minute-13-second-long video was uploaded by YouTuber Madan Ravichandran who joined the party last year. His channel, ‘Madan Diary’, has over 141,000 subscribers.Raghavan, who announced his resignation on Twitter after holding talks with state BJP chief K Annamalai, called the video an attempt to tarnish his and his party’s image. “I deny the charges. I will face this legally. Dharma will win,” Raghavan, who is a lawyer by profession, tweeted. “People of Tamil Nadu know who I am. Those who are associated with me know who I am,” he added. Ravichandran said he took the video as part of a sting operation to probe allegations of sexual harassment and exploitation against state party leaders. He also claimed to have video evidence against 15 party leaders.“I have video evidence of 15 BJP leaders but I’m releasing his (Raghavan’s) video first because Mr K T Raghavan is promoted as Mr Clean by the media,” he said. Ravichandran said the face of the woman in the video was blurred and her voice muted as she agreed to join the operation in public interest. In a statement issued later in the day, Annamalai confirmed that Ravichandran met him twice and pressed for action against the BJP state general secretary. “But he did not submit any video evidence,” Annamalai said, adding that he conveyed to the YouTuber that action cannot be taken on the basis of accusations and the matter would require a probe.Annamalai said that Ravichandran later texted him, insisting that he take action without any video evidence. “I stood firmly on my stand that disciplinary actions cannot be taken without knowing the real facts of the accusations. Therefore, I replied (to) him shortly in the message that ‘You may proceed if you want justice’,” he said in the statement. Annamalai also announced the constitution of a panel, under party state secretary Malarkody, to probe allegations against party members but added that Raghavan will proceed legally to prove his “innocence.” “Women in our party are held in esteem and they are safe,” he said. Reacting to the developments, Congress MP Jothimani said the state Congress Committee will file a complaint with police against Raghavan. “There is video evidence that he has misbehaved with a woman and that has to be investigated,” she tweeted. The alleged video chat surfaced months after the state BJP issued a legal notice to Tamil daily Dinamalar over an article which claimed the party allegedly received several complaints of sexual harassment against its leaders and would set up a committee to look into them. The BJP dismissed the article, which was published in June, as false and fabricated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-bjp-gen-secy-resigns-over-viral-explicit-video-101629831669039.html
25-08-2021||India||2 contradictory pleas in HC on Kodanad case intensify slugfest||Two contradictory petitions filed in the Madras High Court on August 9 in connection with the 2017 Kodanad heist and murder case have intensified the political slugfest in the Tamil Nadu assembly. In the first petition, a witness in the case, N Ravi sought a stay on any further investigation and demanded fast-tracking of the trial. His plea came up for hearing on Tuesday and Justice M Nirmal Kumar said that he will pass an order on August 27. In his petition, Ravi, who is known to a few of the accused, said that he was being threatened by various sources to give a statement “according” to “requirement”. In the other petition, three of the ten accused in the case have asked the high court to order interrogation of the former chief minister and opposition leader of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) Edappadi Palaniswami, and late J Jayalalithaa’s close confidante V K Sasikala among others in the matter. Soon after the demise of Jayalalithaa in December 2016, ten people were accused of breaking into the Kodanad estate in the Nilgiris hills and murdering the security guard in 2017. This sprawling bungalow was Jayalalithaa’s summer retreat and also often functioned as a secretariat. The crime became more mysterious after the death of an accused and the family members of another accused in the case. All the 10 accused in the case are from Kerala. However, the case took a murky turn in 2019, when K V Sayan, a prime accused in the case alleged Palaniswami’s involvement. He was chief minister at the time. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which then sought Palaniswami’s resignation over the matter, is now pushing investigations after returning to power in May. Last week, Sayan was questioned by the Nilgiris police, leading to a political storm in the state. The AIADMK accused the DMK of a witch hunt to frame its leaders, but chief minister M K Stalin denied this in the assembly and said that it was their election promise to bring the real culprits to book. Palaniswami repeatedly alleged that a “secret statement” was taken from Sayan to frame him and even submitted a complaint to Governor Banwarilal Purohit last week. On Sunday, the AIADMK also released a video in which Sayan is purportedly asked by few persons to name Palaniswami.Deepu, MS Satheesan, and A Samthosh Samy, who, along with seven others, are charge-sheeted in the case being tried at the session court in the Nilgiris, have now filed a joint revision petition requesting interrogation of nine persons, including Palaniswami, Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s foster son V N Sudakaran, the then-Nilgiris collector, the police chief, and two employees of the Kodanad Estate. This petition was rejected by the Nilgiris sessions judge on April 30, prompting them to approach the high court. The accused are seeking the examination on several grounds. In their petition, they say that the investigation officer has conducted the investigation in a lethargic manner and let the real culprits go free. The petitioners also submitted that when one of the accused in the case wanted legal aid, an AIADMK party advocate, who was formerly AAVIN chairman during MGR’s period, was appointed as the Counsel. “...which makes it clear that the entire proceedings have been influenced and monitored by the persons who were holding power in the former ruling party,” the petition said.“The learned judge of the trial court failed to consider the sensitivity of the case wherein the second respondent (Sayan) has come forward in digital media to depose about the involvement of former chief minister of Tamil Nadu, and mechanically dismissed the petition,” the petition alleges.The three have claimed that the trial at the Nilgiris court was “hurried”, “influenced” and “monitored” by persons holding power in the former ruling party, a reference to the AIADMK. They also alleged that the police inquired only 41 out of over a hundred witnesses listed. Their review petition also cited that the death of the family of one of the accused was an accident and alleged political pressure on Sayan. Apart from this, it also claimed that a person associated with the AIADMK was appointed as the lawyer for one of the accused in the past in an attempt to derail their defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-contradictory-pleas-in-hc-on-kodanad-case-intensify-slugfest-101629831665332.html
25-08-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks CBI response on plea seeking interim bail for Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to respond to the plea filed by Congress leader Sajjan Kumar seeking interim bail or suspension of sentence on account of his deteriorating medical condition.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the CBI on an application filed by Kumar who is undergoing a life term following his conviction in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi by the Delhi High Court in December 2018.The court said, “Let the medical condition of the appellant (Kumar) be verified and an affidavit be filed by CBI within one week.” The court also asked CBI to take instructions on Kumar’s demand to be treated at Medanta Hospital.In his bail application, Sajjan Kumar, 77, stated that his condition is critical and that he was currently undergoing treatment in the Emergency ICU at Safdarjung Hospital. “Due to his old age and his ill-health, he has become infirm and is incapable of taking care of himself and requires constant human attention for his daily needs such as bathing, going to the toilet, eating, etc,” said the application filed through Kumar’s advocate Ajay Marwah.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Kumar, told the court that at Medanta, there was provision for colonoscopy which is not available at Safdarjung hospital.Singh said that he had been incarcerated for the past 31 months without being out on parole or furlough, adding that his family members wish to provide him good medical treatment to aid in his speedy recovery.The application was opposed by the complainants of the case lodged against Kumar. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave appearing for the families of victims said that the accused was roaming free till the Delhi high court’s order of December 17, 2018, which reversed the acquittal granted by the trial court in 2013.Dave pointed out that in March last year, AIIMS had examined the accused and submitted a report to the apex court indicating that the accused had no pressing medical concern.However, Kumar’s counsel argued that more than a year has passed since and said the present condition of the accused is critical.In his application, Kumar said that as he was old, his condition was most vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic and prayed for his immediate release either on bail or on temporary suspension of sentence.CBI was represented by advocate Shradha Deshmukh who accepted notice on the bail application and agreed to file an affidavit before the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scseeks-cbi-response-on-plea-seeking-interim-bail-for-sajjan-kumar-101629831545330.html
25-08-2021||India||Supreme Court refers pleas on EPFO scheme to larger bench||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court will now determine the validity of the amendments to the Employee Pension Scheme in 2014, by which a cut-off date was fixed for employees to contribute to pension under an enhanced limit on maximum pensionable salary of ₹15,000 fixed under the Scheme.On Tuesday, a division bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi referred the issue to a larger bench after the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) argued that a 2018 judgment of the SC in RC Gupta case that had examined the issue required reconsideration.As a division bench could not consider the correctness of another two-judge bench decision, justice Lalit said: “The principal questions for consideration are whether there would be a cut-off date under paragraph 11(3) of the Employees’ Pension Scheme and whether the decision in RC Gupta would be the governing principle on the basis of which all these matters must be disposed of.”“The logical course would be to refer all these matters to a Bench of at least three Judges...”The court directed the matter to be placed before the CJI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refers-pleas-on-epfo-scheme-to-larger-bench-101629831317880.html
25-08-2021||India||Militancy down, red tape stunting growth, panel told||Officials in the Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh told the visiting parliamentary panel on home affairs that militancy was at an all-time low and that there have been no instances of stone pelting even as they expressed concern about the development of Ladakh and many new schemes announced by the Union government being affected by bureaucratic delays.“Many concerns were raised by different stakeholders,” said a person familiar with events and discussions during the panel’s visit to the state. “Both the UTs are waiting for development that has been hampered by a bureaucratisation of the process and a monopoly over releasing funds,” added this person who asked not to be named.In its five-day long visit to the two UTs between August 17 to 21, the panel also visited Jammu, something such panels have rarely done in the past. The panel met with officials from the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, the administration of both UTs and industry leaders. It will compile a report for Parliament regarding the concerns raised, the person cited above said. The panel’s chairperson and Congress leader Anand Sharma and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Rakesh Sinha also met industry leaders in Jammu .A second person familiar with the panel’s visit said that in Srinagar, the CRPF camp the panel visited was in shambles. “There were no toilet facilities and nearly five people were sharing a room,” the person said. “Moreover, the officers wanted the panel to intervene to improve the living conditions and also raise the standard of the food.”This person claimed that only ₹117 was allocated for food per person per day. “That is barely enough for one good meal,” the person said.A CRPF spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment.Administration officials informed the panel that militancy was at an all-time low and there had been no stone pelting incident in the last six months.According to data shared by the home ministry in Parliament in March this year, terror attacks in the region have come down from 614 in 2018 to only 244 in 2020. Similarly, stone pelting incidents have come down from 1,458 in 2018 to 327 last year.With the BSF, the panel travelled to the India-Pakistan border. “The road was in terrible shape, and it took nearly 25 minutes to traverse 3 kilometers,” the first person said. “In a tense situation, the army has to mobilise in a short period of time. The roads have to be improved.”NS Jamwal, inspector general, BSF, informed the panel about the threats being faced on Jammu International Border, ranging from tunnelling, smuggling and stand of fire by Pakistani troops.“A special emphasis was given to the threat posed by Pakistani drones abetting smuggling of weapons/narcotics from across the border,” BSF said in a statement.“The committee was made aware of the challenges faced by BSF troops due to rainy season, foggy weather and high-altitude related problems. Jamwal also gave a glimpse of BSF border infrastructure covering various aspects like requirement of road connectivity up to border outposts, 24 hours uninterrupted supply of electricity and clean piped drinking water to the BOPs.”In Ladakh, ”stakeholders in the newly formed UT urged the panel to help in the release of funds for the development of Ladakh that they said were being under-utilized,” the first person said.In Ladakh, the panel met district officials and BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. “The representative sought help from the panel for greater say in planning, implementation and devolution of financial powers,” said the first person.HT reached out to Namgyal who did not respond to a request for comment.The panel also heard concerns regarding corruption and regionalism in both the Union territories. “There will be a comprehensive review after which the panel will prepare a report for the parliament,” the second person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militancy-down-red-tape-stunting-growth-panel-told-101629831305747.html
25-08-2021||India||13-yr-old girl saves three kids, drowns while rescuing 4th||A 13-year-old girl, who saved three children from drowning in Rajasthan’s Dholpur district, died while trying to save the fourth, her seven-year-old cousin, officials said on Tuesday. The incident happened on Monday afternoon, when the five children visited the banks of Parvati river Khubpura village to perform a ritual, Mania police station in-charge Ashok Kumar said. Narrating the sequence of events, Khubpura village head Rajesh Sikarvar said the deceased, Anushka (one name), went to the river bank ahead of the villagers with the four children – Khushboo, 12, Pankaj, 10, and Govinda, 10 – to perform the ritual. According to the villagers, they plant jaw seeds a month before the festival of Raksha Bandhan as part of a local ritual named Phulaiyan. The grown plants are then immersed in a waterbody a day after the festival. “The younger children decided to bathe in the river after completing the ritual. But they were unable to anticipate the flow of the river, which had increased in the past few days because of heavy rainfall,” Sikarvar said.The children ran into the river but were pulled in the heavy current. “Anuskha jumped to save them, and was able to pull three children to the river’s banks,” Sikarvar said, adding that by then Chavi was swept farther away. “Anushka tried to pull Chavi out but was unable to bear the strength of current. Both of them drowned,” he said. The rest of the villagers, who rushed to the spot after hearing the children shout for help, fished out the bodies of the two girls, he said. The state government has announced an ex-gratia of ₹1 lakh to each to the victim’s family. Everything happened within a few minutes, and therefore, it did not provide much chance for the villagers to save the two,” Kumar said.“The girl showed immense presence of mind as she pulled the three children out of the river. Only a brave person would have risked her life to save them,” he said.Anushka was cremated in the village on Tuesday, the village head said. He added that Chavi was cremated in her village some distance away.“She was the eldest of three siblings. She saved three lives. I have decided to start a competition in her name,” he added. According to Sikarwar, Anushka was a student of Class 7. Her father is a small farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13yrold-girl-saves-three-kids-drowns-while-rescuing-4th-101629831305208.html
25-08-2021||India||Bengal govt defends panel on Pegasus row in Supreme Court||Calling the Union government “non-committal and evasive”, the West Bengal government has justified before the Supreme Court the setting up of a two-member Commission of Inquiry, headed by retired judge Madan B Lokur, to probe into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware. The state said that the commission it constituted will “put into place effective countermeasures against any rogue foreign spyware”.Submitting its affidavit in response to a petition by NGO Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust for disbanding the commission, the Mamata Banerjee-led government also questioned the motive behind the plea, claiming that the trustee and chairman of the NGO had close links with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its affiliate, Swadeshi Jagran Manch.“It cannot be disputed that the RSS and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch and the ruling party at the Centre, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) are affiliates and have often vilified the state government for political gains,” stated the affidavit, contending that the petition is filed with the intent to obstruct any independent inquiry into the matter.Imploring the court to dismiss the NGO’s petition citing its alleged association with the BJP and RSS, the West Bengal government underlined that “the higher echelons of the BJP have either publicly expressed their disapproval over the need for any independent inquiry on the ‘Pegasus’ issue or have been conspicuously silent on the subject matter despite massive public uproar.”On August 18, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, had agreed to examine the NGO’s petition, argued by advocate Saurabh Mishra who had also asked for an immediate stay on proceedings before justice Lokur’s commission to avoid any parallel inquiry. The court, which had issued notices to the Centre and the West Bengal government, will hear the matter on Wednesday.Responding to the plea, the West Bengal government maintained that given the potential ramifications of the media reports on the fundamental right to privacy, independence of public institutions and the preservation of democracy, “the State Government could not sit as a silent spectator particularly when the Union Government was not only non-committal and evasive on the subject but had also at the very threshold dismissed the allegations under the rubric of sensationalism.”The state said that while the intent behind the Commission of Inquiry was neither to have a parallel inquiry into the matter nor was it to overreach the proceedings pending before the top court in a clutch of petitions, the commission can coexist with the proceedings.“The commission, being a fact-finding body cannot overreach the orders of this Hon’ble Court nor can it dilute them. This is precisely why an eminent retired judge of this Hon’ble Court and an eminent former Chief Justice of the Hon’ble Calcutta High Court comprise the Commission of Inquiry appointed by the state government,” said the affidavit. Former acting chief justice of the Calcutta high court Jyotirmay Bhattacharya is the other member of the commission.The affidavit added that the Pegasus controversy is indeed a matter of public importance affecting public order and therefore, the state government had the jurisdiction to constitute the commission to restore public confidence in the people of West Bengal and to ensure that no unauthorised interception through a rogue foreign spyware can occur in the state.The NGO, in its petition, has said the Pegasus controversy has cross-border ramifications with footprints in India, and hence must be dealt with from a national perspective. “Considering the seriousness of the issue and its implications on the citizenry of the country as well as its cross-border implications, the Pegasus controversy warrants an in-depth investigation. This cannot be carried out in a truncated and unconstitutional manner as is sought to be done by the West Bengal government,” it added.The Supreme Court is already seized of a bunch of petitions filed by politicians, journalists and activists, demanding a court-monitored independent probe into the alleged surveillance using Pegasus. Responding to these petitions, the Union government has offered setting up an expert committee to look into the row while maintaining that a “false narrative” is being spun over the use of Pegasus. The Centre has, however, refused to disclose whether it used Pegasus for tracking individuals, citing concerns of national security and defence of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-defends-panel-on-pegasus-row-in-sc-101629831004080.html
25-08-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s reply on Maharashtra’s plea for 2011 OBC census data||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Union government a month to respond to a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking 2011 census data on other backward classes (OBCs) in the state, so that seats can accordingly be reserved for these communities in local bodies.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna that based on discussions held with the registrar general and census commissioner and the ministry of social justice and empowerment, the Union government would like to put its stand in writing, for which he sought three weeks.The Maharashtra government’s petition comes even as demand for a caste census gathers momentum; it is supported by sections within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, some of its key allies, and almost the entire Opposition. A survey, though, could be a politically controversial issue; there are fears that it could result in a reassigning of benefits within the existing reservation regime for other backward classes; there are also fears that it could be a precursor to breaching the 50% ceiling for reservations in jobs and academic institutions. The government did conduct a caste survey along with the 2011 census but it never released the findings citing inaccuracies , although it is likely its hand was stayed by political considerations.The bench posted the matter on September 23.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the state, told the court that elections to local bodies in the state were due later this year and requested for an early date for hearing. The bench, however, said, “Even if we advance the date, do you think the exercise (of allocating reservation) can be decided within a month.”The state government has invoked the extraordinary jurisdiction of the Supreme Court after having decided to conduct a socio-economic and caste census across the state by the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC).The Maharashtra legislative assembly last month passed a resolution to approach the Centre for 2011 census data in order to compile empirical data on the OBC population in the state.In March, the Supreme Court, while considering the extension of 27% OBC quota under the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 to local bodies in Akola, Washim, Nandurbar, Dhule and Nagpur, held that reservation in these local bodies (for SC/ST/OBC) should not exceed 50% cap mandated by the 1992 Indra Sahwney ruling by the top court.The apex court asked the state to first set up a backward classes commission to compile empirical data on the number and extent of backwardness of OBC population within the state. The state filed a review petition that was dismissed in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-maharashtra-s-plea-for-2011-obc-census-data-101629830944710.html
25-08-2021||India||Centre’s privatisation plan to create monopoly: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday dubbed the central government’s ambitious monetisation of public assets scheme as an attempt “to create monopolies” in critical areas that would cut down more job opportunities and adversely affect “small and medium business”.“We are not against privatisation. Our (UPA government’s) privatisation had a logic, and there was no privatisation of strategic industry such as the railways. All this privatisation is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” he said, alleging the Prime Minister is “selling the crown jewels of India”.Gandhi, who has often criticised the government over helping a chosen few industrialists, added: “It took 70 years to build this massive infrastructure. People’s money was involved but now these are being sold to 3-4 people. As soon as these become monopolies, employment opportunities would be shrunk. Small business, medium business will not exist.”On Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave details of a National Monetisation Pipeline to lease infrastructure assets of central government ministries and state-run companies to create ₹6 lakh crore fund to build new infrastructure.Among projects the government plans to lease are 26,700km of roads, 90 passenger trains, 400 railway stations, 28,608 circuit km transmission lines, 286,000km of Bharatnet fibre network. and 14,917 towers owned by state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd and Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Ltd.Gandhi underlined how the United Progressive Alliance government’s privatisation policy only dealt with chronically ill companies or those with minimal market shares. “We didn’t allow creation of monopolies. But all this privatisation is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” said Gandhi.He compared the government’s move with British Raj’s East India Company and said, “[Prime Minister Narendra] Modi believes large monopolies can save this country. You will see a dramatic increase in anger and violence. Modi is an instrument for doing some particular job for these people.”While Sitharaman categorically ruled out any sale of land, her predecessor and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram termed the exercise as “a grand bargain sale” and quipped, “virtually, no public sector will exist after this.”The former finance minister said there were no criteria and goals for the monetization scheme.“We are going to raise ₹1.54 lakh crore every year—can this be a sole goal to sell assets? You don’t embark upon the exercise without consulting stakeholders. This is all hatched in secrecy in this wonderful organization called Niti Ayog,” Chidambaram said.Chidambaram also mocked the government’s announcement on infrastructure pipeline and pointed that the government has announced the same special fund for infrastructure on three different occasions.The Bharatiya Janata Party accused the Congress of “political hypocrisy” for questioning the government’s move and called the opposition party a “non-performing asset”.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that the Congress itself is a “Non-Performing Asset” which has neither any value outside nor inside. The Congress is trying to become a “champion of confusion and contradiction, he said. “…while on one hand, the Modi government and the BJP are engaged in construction of the country, the Congress is involved in destruction of the country”, the Union minister said.Union minister and Amethi MP, Smriti Irani said the Congress must first answer whether they were trying to sell the nation when the monetisation of the Mumbai-Pune Expressway for ₹8,000 crore was carried out. “Is he alleging that the Congress was sold off the expressway in Maharashtra? In 2008 an RFP was issued in context of the New Delhi railway station when the Congress was in power at the Centre…is he saying that a government whose chief was his mother (Sonia Gandhi) was making an attempt to sell the nation ? In 2006, The work related to the privatisation of the airport was carried out by a government whose chief was his mother. Is this his allegation that the government whose chief was his mother had sold off road, rail and airports,” Irani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-privatisation-plan-to-create-monopolyrahul-101629830645749.html
25-08-2021||India||India, Russia back joint efforts to ensure peace||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday backed coordinated efforts to establish peace and stability in Afghanistan in order to ensure security across the region.The two leaders discussed the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban last week during a phone conversation. The two leaders agreed to form a “permanent bilateral channel” for consultations on Afghanistan, according to a readout from the Russian embassy.Russia’s decision to work more closely with Pakistan through the “extended troika” format for Afghanistan has not gone down well with the Indian side. The call between the two leaders marked the first major outreach on Afghanistan from the top Russian leadership in recent months.“Had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against Covid-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues,” Modi said in a tweet.The Russian embassy’s readout said: “During the exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan, the sides noted the importance of coordinated efforts which would contribute to the establishment of peace and stability in this country, ensuring security in the region as a whole.”The two leaders expressed their “intention to enhance cooperation on countering the dissemination of the terrorist ideology and the drug threat emanating from the territory of Afghanistan”, the readout said.Modi and Putin further agreed to “form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations” on Afghanistan, it added.The readout said the two leaders touched upon several issues related to the development of the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries, including in trade and economy.Modi expressed gratitude to Putin for Russia’s assistance in combating Covid-19, including the supply and production of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V in India and the shipment of medicines and medical equipment. The schedule for upcoming contacts between the two sides at various levels was also discussed.Russia and China have maintained close contacts with the Taliban leadership over the past few months. These contacts have continued after the Taliban marched into Kabul last week following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Russia and China are also among the very few countries that have kept open their embassies in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-back-joint-efforts-to-ensure-peace-101629830584040.html
25-08-2021||India||‘Skin to skin’ yardstick a dangerous norm in sexual assault cases: AG||Attorney General KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that making “skin to skin” contact a criterion to establish sexual assault against minors under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act would set a dangerous precedent where a man who gropes a woman after wearing a surgical glove cannot be held guilty and can escape even the minimum punishment of three years prescribed under the Act.The top law officer was addressing the Court in a petition filed by him against a controversial judgment passed by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on January 19 this year which acquitted a man for groping a 12-year-old on the reasoning that there was no “skin to skin” contact. At the Attorney General’s instance, the Supreme Court stayed the judgment on January 27 and agreed to consider passing directions under POCSO Act to ensure such reasoning was not adopted by high courts to defeat the purpose of law. The high court’s order provoked widespread outrage.The A-G emphasised that there were 43,000 POCSO cases reported last year and that the Bombay high court judgment, if used as a precedent, may have serious repercussions on several other trials.AG Venugopal, addressing the bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi said: “The intention of the legislature was not to protect the accused but provide justice to minor victims. While passing this order, the judges (of the Bombay High Court) did not realize the far-reaching consequences and the dangerous precedent this case will lay for the entire state.”Explaining how this “skin to skin” criteria adopted by the High Court was open to misuse, AG said, “If a person using surgical glove feels the entire body of a woman, including her private parts, he will escape the minimum punishable of three years for causing sexual assault under POCSO Act.”Sexual Assault under POCSO is defined under Section 7 which says, “Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.” This offence carries a minimum punishment of three years extending up to five years.The HC judgment in question dealt with sexual assault charge against a 39-year-old man for groping a minor victim through her clothing. The allegation was that on December 14, 2016 the accused, who was a neighbor, took the girl to his house, and groped her.He was convicted by the trial court but on appeal, the high court said, “Admittedly, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast. As such, there is no direct physical contact i.e. skin to skin with sexual intent without penetration.”Later, a similar order was passed by the same high court bench in another case involving a POCSO offence where a man who held a minor’s hand and unzipped his pant was said to have done so with no sexual intent and acquitted of assault charges. That judgment was also under challenge by the Maharashtra government along with AG’s petition. The National Commission for Women also filed an appeal against the very judgment challenged by AG.Commenting on the views taken by the HC, the AG said, “This is an outrageous judgment which is disturbing and should be set aside and punishment to the accused restored.”The bench appointed senior advocate Siddharth Dave as amicus curiae (friend of Court) to assist in passing orders but realized that nobody represented the accused. The Court directed the Supreme Court Legal Services Authority to assign lawyers from their panel to represent the two accused and posted the matter for hearing on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skin-to-skin-yardstick-a-dangerous-norm-in-sexual-assault-cases-ag-101629830524656.html
25-08-2021||India||US climate envoy John Kerry may visit India in September||John Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate is likely to visit India next month to further India-US partnership on Clean Energy ahead of UN Climate Change negotiations (COP 26) in November. The partnership will mobilize finance and speed clean energy deployment during this decade.Union environment minister, Bhupendra Yadav had a telecon with Kerry on Tuesday to discuss the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD) under India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.“Both sides agreed that India and the USA, will engage for a constructive engagement under the “India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.” The Environment Minister stated that these platforms provide greater opportunities for working together for climate actions and emphasized that India stands committed to working with the US on Clean Energy,” a statement from MoEFCC said.Kerry told Yadav that Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership to enhance actions to curb greenhouse gas emissions in the current decade will help meet the goals under the Paris Agreement. “Had a telephonic conversation with US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate Mr @JohnKerry and discussed at length how the largest and oldest democracies can set examples for other countries on Climate Action,” tweeted Yadav on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-climate-envoy-john-kerry-may-visit-india-in-september-101629830287658.html
25-08-2021||India||Income can’t be sole basis to decide ‘creamy layer’: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court held on Tuesday that states cannot make annual income the sole yardstick to determine “creamy layer”’ within a backward class and exclude them from benefits of reservation.Apart from the economic criterion, the top court said, social, educational and other factors must also be taken into account before defining a “creamy layer” among the backward classes.The ruling by a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose came as it struck down a 2016 notification of the Haryana government denying benefits of reservation in government jobs and educational institutions to those among the backward classes who have an annual income of ₹6 lakh or more.The court ordered the Haryana government to come out with a new notification to determine “creamy layer” among the other backward classes (OBCs) within three months by considering social backwardness and other factors in addition to the economic criterion.The bench emphasised that the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Indra Sawhney case (popularly known as Mandal Commission case) in 1992 clearly underscored that social, economic and other factors have to be taken into account for the purpose of determining the “creamy layer” within a backward class and then excluding it from quota benefits.While the Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Act, 2016, provided for considering social, economic as well as some other factors in defining “creamy layer”, the court noted that the notification mentioned monetary income of ₹6 lakh as the only criterion.“Strangely, by the notification dated August 17, 2016, the identification of ‘creamy layer’ amongst backward classes was restricted only to the basis of economic criterion. In clear terms, this court held in Indra Sawhney (case) that the basis of exclusion of ‘creamy layer’ cannot be merely economic,” the court held.The bench said that the notification is in flagrant violation of the directions issued by the apex court in the Indra Sawhney case. “The criteria mentioned for identifying such of those persons who are socially advanced have not been taken into account by the Government of Haryana while issuing the notification...the state of Haryana has sought to determine ‘creamy layer’ from backward classes solely on the basis of economic criterion and has committed a grave error in doing so. On this ground alone, the notification dated August 17, 2016 requires to be set aside,” said the bench.It also faulted the state government for clubbing income from salaries and agricultural land in determining the gross annual income for the purpose of defining the creamy layer and said it was at variance with the 1993 memorandum issued by the Union government on revision of income criteria to exclude socially advanced sections (‘creamy layer’) from the purview of reservation for OBCs. The current annual income limit for “creamy layer” under the central government rules is ₹8 lakh.The court asked the Haryana government to issue a fresh notification under the 2016 Act within a period of three months after duly following the principles laid down in the Indra Sawhney judgment for determining the creamy layer.It further said that admissions to educational institutions and appointments to state services based on the 2016 notification should not be disturbed.The court was hearing a petition by an organisation called Pichra Warg Kalyan Mahasabha, which challenged the validity of the 2016 notification on the ground that it was in violation of the guidelines laid down by the top court in the Indra Sawhney case but was also discriminatory for creating a sub-classification within the same class.As per the said notification, children of people having gross annual income up to ₹3 lakh shall first get the benefit of reservation in services and admission in educational institutions.The remaining quota shall go to that class of backward classes of citizens who earn between ₹3 lakh and ₹6 lakh per annum.The state government defended the notification, submitting that the sub-classification among the backward classes is to ensure that people with lower income among the backward classes get the maximum benefits of reservation.But the court decided not to examine the issue of sub-classification as it held that the whole basis of determining “creamy layer” was improper because it was defined only on the basis of income criterion.In the Indra Sawhney judgment, SC said on the exclusion of creamy layer: “The connecting link is the social backwardness. It should broadly be the same in a given class. If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps. They would be misfits in the class. After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class? In fact, such exclusion benefits the truly backward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-can-t-be-sole-basis-to-decide-creamy-layer-sc-101629830344763.html
25-08-2021||India||Inclusive set-up will help region stability, says India at UNHRC||India on Tuesday called for an inclusive and broad-based arrangement in Afghanistan that represents all sections of society, and asserted that Afghan soil must not be used by terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any country.New Delhi’s position was outlined by Indramani Pandey, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, while addressing a special session of the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Afghanistan.India has been watching the security situation in the war-torn country with growing concern following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government, and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban on August 15. It has insisted that any future set-up in Kabul must be inclusive and preserve the gains of the past two decades in order to ensure legitimacy.In his statement at the UNHRC session, Pandey said India hopes “there is an inclusive and broad-based dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society”. He added: “Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected. A broad-based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy.”As with all recent official statements from the Indian side following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, there was no criticism of or direct reference to the militant group in Pandey’s statement. However, he pointedly raised India’s concerns related to the “precarious” security situation in Afghanistan.“Stability in Afghanistan is linked to the peace and security of the region. We hope that the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours and its territory is not used by terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed to threaten any other country,” Pandey said.UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet told the session the rapid seizure of the country by the Taliban has “raised grave fears of a return to past patterns of human rights violations, and stoked desperation among many Afghans”. She warned there were reports of summary executions of civilians and “hors de combat members of the Afghan national security forces”, restrictions on rights of women and recruitment of child soldiers.Bachelet said the onus is on the Taliban to translate their pledges to protect human rights into reality. “I strongly urge the Taliban to adopt norms of responsive governance and human rights, and to work to re-establish social cohesion and reconciliation,” she added.Pandey also said the world community must provide full support to the Afghan people’s desire for peace, stability and security, and enable women, children and minorities to live in peace and dignity.He said that as a neighbour of Afghanistan, the current situation in the country is of great concern to India.“We are closely monitoring the rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call upon parties concerned to maintain law and order, ensure the safety and security of all Afghan nationals, UN personnel and diplomatic staff members, and observe human rights and international humanitarian law in all circumstances in Afghanistan,” he said.Pandey also said that a “grave humanitarian crisis” is unfolding, and the world community is concerned about increasing violations of fundamental rights of Afghan citizens. “Afghans are worried about whether their right to live with dignity would be respected,” he said.Thousands of internally displaced people are facing an acute shortage of food, medical care and shelter, and basic rights of civilians, children and women, including freedom of speech and opinion, access to education and medical care, have been drastically hampered by the current situation.“We call upon all the parties concerned to allow unhindered access to international assistance for all those who are in the need of it,” Pandey said.The envoy noted that India has significantly contributed in recent years to the development of Afghanistan through large infrastructure projects and connectivity, humanitarian aid, human resource development and capacity-building, and smaller high impact community development projects.This includes projects in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity, health care, education and agriculture, and Indian development ventures covered all 34 provinces of Afghanistan. India also provided 75,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan to strengthen food security during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Our millennia old friendship with Afghanistan rests on the strong pillars of people-to-people relationship. India has always stood for a peaceful, prosperous and progressive Afghanistan. India stands ready to assist our friends from Afghanistan in fulfilling their aspirations,” he said. “We hope that the situation stabilises soon and the parties concerned address the humanitarian and security issues.”India was the largest regional donor to Afghanistan with pledges totalling almost $3 billion. Following the Taliban takeover, India withdrew its envoy and diplomatic staff from Kabul last week, and has evacuated about 620 people, a majority of them Indian nationals, from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inclusive-set-up-will-help-region-stability-says-india-at-unhrc-101629830293387.html
25-08-2021||India||Gujarat, western Rajasthan face drought-like conditions: IMD data||Drought-like conditions are setting in over most parts of Gujarat, west Rajasthan and some districts of Odisha that have recorded significant rain deficiency during monsoon.The standard precipitation index (SPI) for many parts of Gujarat and West Rajasthan is in “severely dry” to “moderately dry” categories. Districts worst affected in these two states are Sabarkanta, Dahod, Panchmahal, Vadodara, Banaskanta, Udaipur, Rajasmand, Jalor etc. Several districts in Odisha, including Kendujhar, Baleshwar, Bhadrak, Angul and Sambalpur, are in “extremely dry” to “severely dry” categories, according to SPI data for August maintained by the India Meteorological Department. SPI is an index used to monitor droughts.Several parts of the northeast particularly in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh are also in “extremely dry” category while Palakkad, Mallapuram, Kollam, Kasargod and Kannur in Kerala, and parts of neighbouring Karnataka are also in “extremely dry” to “severely dry” categories.According to IMD, Odisha has recorded a 31% rain deficiency, Gujarat 47%, Kerala 28%, Manipur 58%, Arunachal Pradesh 25%, Mizoram 28% and Nagaland 24%. “We have been informed by farmers in several parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan that drought-like conditions have already set in. In Gujarat, crops have failed in many parts so farmers have left cattle in the farms so that the dry crop can be consumed as fodder. There are no irrigation facilities in these regions so there is little chance of the crop reviving. IMD doesn’t declare drought anymore. But due to scanty rains, crops in west Rajasthan and Gujarat are severely affected. There was significantly low rainfall in Kerala and the northeast also this year,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster.A drought could be bad for the rural economy, especially against the background of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“This time, fewer low-pressure areas formed — two against the normal of four — and they were not that active. This led to breaks during monsoon and less rain overall,” DS Pai, head of climate and research services at IMD Pune, said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-western-rajasthan-face-drought-like-conditions-imd-data-101629830127890.html
25-08-2021||India||Army obtains hand grenades from private firm||The Indian Army on Tuesday accepted the delivery of the first batch of multi-mode hand grenades, manufactured by a private sector firm, at a ceremony in Nagpur, with the move expected to provide thrust to the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), the defence ministry said in a statement.The defence ministry had signed a contract with Nagpur-based private firm Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) last October for supplying 1 million multi-mode hand grenades to the army. These will replace a World War-II vintage hand grenade design being used by the army. EEL is expected to execute the order by October 2022.The multi-mode hand grenade has been designed by Chandigarh-based Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratories (TBRL) — a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratory — and produced by EEL.The ceremony at Nagpur was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy. EEL chairman SN Nuwal handed over a scale replica of the grenade to the minister to mark the first delivery of ammunition from the private sector. Singh said the grenades were “a shining example” of public-private partnership to achieve self-reliance in defence manufacturing.“Today is a memorable day in the history of the Indian defence sector. Our private industry is coming of age when it comes to defence production. It is an important milestone not only in the field of defence manufacturing, but also in achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’,” Singh said.Multi-purpose grenades figured on the first list of 101 types of weapons and ammunition whose import India will ban progressively over the next five years. The government published the list in August 2020. In May this year, the government notified a list of another 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces with the ban kicking off from December. The list, called the ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years.The first list included artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini-UAVs and different types of ammunition.The second list consists of several military systems, including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and Control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles.India had set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.The defence minister commended the industry for indigenously developing defence products. “Such products are not just being produced but exported on a large scale. The number of online export authorisations during 2016-19 was 1,210. It has increased to 1,774 in the last two years. This has resulted in defence exports of over ₹17,000 crore in the last two years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-obtains-hand-grenades-from-private-firm-101629830046129.html
25-08-2021||India||Taliban supporters who advocate secularism in India are hypocrites: Muslim org||A group of 150 academics, activists and intellectuals under the banner of Indian Muslims for Secular Democracy (IMSD) has said they are deeply disturbed by the “euphoria” evident among a section of Indian Muslims over the Taliban’s capture of power in Afghanistan. It referred to office bearers of the All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), Maulana Umrain Mahfuz Rahmani and Maulana Sajjad Nomani, and the Jamaat-e-Islami-Hind and called those supporting the Taliban takeover while advocating secularism in India as hypocrites. “Such rank double-standard gives legitimacy to the Sangh Parivar’s agenda for a Hindu Rashtra,” they said in a statement.The AIMPLB last week clarified it has neither expressed any view nor given any statement on Taliban and the recent political situation of Afghanistan. “Opinion of some Board members has been portrayed as Board’s stand by few media channels and wrong things are being attributed to the Board,” tweeted AIMPLB.Also Read | Air India flight with 78 people evacuated from Afghanistan to land in Delhi soonThe IMSD acknowledged the views of various Islamic scholars, religious leaders and Muslim intellectuals who argue that the very notion of an “Islamic state” is antithetical to the core teachings of Islam.The signatories to the statement include journalist Aarefa Johari, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, designer Amir Rizwi, actor Javed Jaffrey, lyricist Javed Akhtar and filmmaker Zoya Akhtar.They expressed solidarity with the beleaguered Afghan women and men “who for too long have been trapped between the corrupt-to-the-core puppet governments propped up by the occupying American and NATO forces and the regressive Taliban who during their earlier rule had trampled over the most basic rights and freedoms”.The signatories called upon the global community to launch a “24/7 Afghanistan Watch” to pressure the Taliban to ensure that unlike in the 1990s this time, they will respect the liberties and rights of all citizens. They asked the democratic world, the US in particular, to accept refugees from Afghanistan. “India must open its doors to all Afghan refugees, irrespective of religion.”A Faizur Rahman, the secretary-general of the Islamic Forum for the Promotion of Moderate Thought, agreed with the IMSD's condemnation of the Taliban but criticised the Mumbai-based outfit for claiming without evidence that "a section of Indian Muslims" were euphoric over the Taliban’s recent capture of power in Afghanistan. The vagueness of the term "a section", he said, could lead readers to imagine a number anywhere between a few hundred to several million Indian Muslims in an estimated population of 200 million thereby holding them guilty of something for which there is no evidence.“The IMSD's insinuation against "a section" of the peace-loving Indian Muslims is unjustified and must be withdrawn forthwith,” Rahman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/euphoria-over-taliban-s-capture-of-power-disturbing-muslim-organisation-101629778650420.html
25-08-2021||Today's||A strategic shock for the subcontinent||The sudden, surreal, collapse of the Afghan State in the face of a Taliban onslaught is a strategic shock to the subcontinent.Triggered by an expected but ill-executed departure of the United States (US) — typified by a 17-year-old football enthusiast, Zaki Anwari, falling to his death from a US Air Force C-17 Globemaster III — this moment was long in the making. Undecided between the narrower counterterrorism and broader nation-building objectives, the US failed at both. But more than the failure of the US and the corrupt Afghan elite who fled when their country needed them most, it is the “victory” of the Taliban and its sponsor, Pakistan, which makes this moment significant.Both these aspects ie, the Taliban’s largely unchallenged, almost preordained rise, and the concomitant success of Pakistan’s military establishment, which has long desired influence in Kabul, require unpacking. For these entities, Kabul has not fallen, it has risen. Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan’s much-criticised statement that the Taliban are “breaking the chains of slavery”, offers important clues about South Asia’s geopolitical contours.First, what does the Taliban’s rise mean, and what does it not?It marks the (geo)political mainstreaming of fringe Islamists. Unlike the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), that made the cardinal mistake of simultaneously altering territorial boundaries and propagating global jihad, the Taliban focused its efforts on a territorially recognised nation-State and, in rhetoric, steers clear of global jihadists. That the United Kingdom (UK)’s chief of defence staff, Nick Carter, active in behind-the-scenes negotiations between Rawalpindi and pre-Taliban Kabul, thinks that the Taliban are “country boys with honour at the heart” demonstrates how far the Taliban has come, with Pakistan’s support, in reshaping the world’s views about it.Also Read | Peace deal with Panjshir Resistance? Taliban 80% confident, claims reportThe Taliban’s genius lies in their ability to navigate along, and manipulate, differences between ethnic nationalism and Islamist radicalism. Ever since its resurgence, the group kept international opinion divided on where the Taliban figured on this Islamist-versus-nationalist spectrum. Even now, big powers such as China, who are eager to engage with the Taliban, are demanding them to cut ties with “terrorists” ie, the Turkistan Islamic Party, that China views as antithetical to its security. Islamabad too wants the Taliban to cut ties with the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). The irony is that such demands afford the Taliban leverage vis-à-vis both Islamabad and Beijing — not the other way round.For a group that has come to power after humiliating the US, and that knows Beijing is unlikely to use military force in Afghanistan given the risks, the Taliban has little incentive to cut the cord with foreign Islamists to whom it owes battlefield gratitude. This doesn’t mean that the Taliban will suddenly take a global Islamist turn. It will not. But it will extract a heavy price, including aid and diplomatic recognition, for every foreign Islamist it targets on behalf of an external power. In that sense, the Taliban, an internationally connected Islamist group, doesn’t need to send fighters to Kashmir or Xinjiang. It just needs to be and let them be.Second, what does this mean for Pakistan, and how does that impact the regional geopolitical environment?Fifty years after losing East Pakistan in 1971, Rawalpindi has finally, to its mind, achieved a strategic win that it deeply desired. Unlike on its eastern front, Pakistan doesn’t have a strategic adversary to its west anymore. In this context, Islamabad’s advocacy of an inclusive government in Kabul with the Taliban setting the terms of compromise is an attempt to limit a blowback and prevent Afghanistan’s implosion akin to that in the 1990s. Only time will tell whether this will be a Pyrrhic victory. But it certainly came at a huge human and material cost, which Pakistani officers and the Taliban term “collateral damage”.Pakistan’s official mind, including within the military, remains divided about the Taliban. Not in a strategic sense, but in an operational sense ie, how far the Taliban will go to accepting Pakistan’s demands on the TTP and limiting any Indian presence.Islamabad’s fencing of its western border needs to be seen in this light. It is as much to prevent large waves of Afghan migrants, including TTP militants, from entering Pakistan, as it is to neutralise Afghan political resistance over the Durand Line —which the Taliban didn’t recognise in the 1996-2001 period.To manage the Taliban’s internal diversity and frictions was relatively easier for Rawalpindi when the group operated from Pakistan’s territory. Now that the Taliban are transitioning into administrators whose political practices will be shaped as much by their ideological make as by the requirements and desires of the people of Afghanistan, Pakistan’s influence is likely to wane, if not disappear. Given the Taliban’s connections with and affinity towards Islamist formations within Pakistan, its rise is likely to empower such elements further, shifting the country’s political fulcrum even further to the Right.There is no clear answer as to how Pakistan will deal with a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan, especially if anti-Pakistan sentiment, rife among Afghans, receives the Taliban’s political blessing in the months to come. This is why the Taliban’s rise is a shock for the entire region, and not just for India, which has certainly lost out for now.Kabul’s fall not only betrays the vacuousness of the US-led liberal democratic project, but also promises to be a high point from whereon Pakistan’s influence over the Taliban becomes somewhat illusory, thereby leading to unintended second-order political and security effects difficult to accurately ascertain for now.Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS, University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-strategic-shock-for-the-subcontinent-101629893951953.html
25-08-2021||Today's||In India’s climate law, focus more on process, less on outcomes||Climate laws are popularly understood as instruments for the imposition of emissions caps. There is, however, an alternative model, sometimes called a framework law, which needn’t decree numerical targets, but acts as an overarching mechanism to establish a unifying basis for climate policy. The framework law’s main purpose is to enable, through cross-sectoral and institutional coordination, a green transformation of the economy.As I discuss in an earlier article, in developing contexts, the latter is often more efficient and effective than imposed carbon caps due to its bottom-up and all-of-society approach. Broadly speaking, a developing nation is best served by a climate law that bases itself on developmental utility rather than rights or outcome duties, stipulates procedural duties, injects climate consciousness into short- and long-term plans and annual budgets, and institutes a new body dedicated to facilitating a low-carbon transformation.Also Read | Devise a new water governance plan to deal with the future of the Indus basinThe rights-based approach has often been the route taken on environmental matters. But will the ideal climate law issue from a newly minted right to climate — a right that guarantees citizens the enjoyment of a certain range of atmospheric living conditions? It is argued that this right exists, as part of the right to environment, in the Supreme Court’s extended reading of Article 21 of the Indian Constitution — the right to life — in concert with the eco-friendly articles, 48A and 51A.However, the assumption that this trump card is somehow sufficient, with or without a climate law, to protect Indian citizens from the dire climate consequences spelt out, for instance, in the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report, is dangerous. Any protections promised by a climate right might largely be illusory. Without a corresponding duty and means of accountability, a right is an empty cipher.That is, in the absence of a duty to restrict emissions to a certain numerical limit by a specified date — in other words, an outcome duty — the declaration of a right alone guarantees little actual protection.However, it is not clear that an outcome duty will provide that protection. Given India’s developing context, such a duty might eventually prove unattainable or insufficient, depending on its onerousness or leniency. Also, in the event that a target is unlikely to be reached by a stipulated deadline, any action brought before the date might be deemed by the courts as premature. Yet, it is unclear whether an outcome duty continues to have legal meaning after the deadline has passed, given that the date of completion is part of its definition. The Irish parliament, for similar reasons, declared that its Climate Change Response Bill — specifically, its outcome duty — “shall not be justiciable”.Instead, framework laws can offer an alternative approach — to maximise utility (ie, maximise the sustainability of development) without promoting rights or stipulating outcomes. South Korea’s Low Carbon, Green Growth Act, the most comprehensive framework law in existence, declares, rather unexpectedly, its main purpose to be the development of the “national economy” — this will be achieved, it says, by promoting low-carbon, green growth through the efficient restructuring of markets and institutions to favour green technologies and industries.To maximise utility, framework laws generally avoid imposing outcome duties and focus instead on what can be termed “procedural duties”. These duties are designed to integrate climate concerns into the routine working of government and industry. The Peruvian framework law, for instance, pronounces a litany of commandments such as “coordinate, articulate, design, report, monitor, evaluate and disseminate” but does not mention “achieve”. Procedural duties are generally demanded of an array of ministries and departments – often, energy, land-use, building, transportation, and waste are mentioned by name. They aim to establish processes that diffuse climate responsibility across various sectors and levels of governance.Framework laws implicate the State as a whole in the fight against the climate crisis, often by folding the issue into the remit of planning and finance commissions. The “integration principle” of the Peruvian law demands the assimilation of climate into the National System of Strategic Planning. The South African Climate Change Bill, on the other hand, requires the inclusion of a climate report in the budget bill to ensure funding for green projects. Even provincial departments are directed (with financial incentives) in the Kenyan and South Korean laws to harmonise local projects with national climate strategies.Reanimating the atrophying institutions and dusty communication channels of environmental governance is best achieved through well-designed procedural duties. But the complex tasks crucial to large-scale low-carbon transformation — coordination, consensus-building, and strategy-setting — almost always necessitate the institution of a new nodal climate body. In framework laws, these bodies are usually tasked with advising the decision-making bodies, providing direction for short- and long-term plans, and mainstreaming the goals of the act. Together with procedural duties, the climate body creates a robust framework for realising the letter of the law.The climate crisis, approached in the right spirit, may thus not be debilitating but an opportunity for better modes of development and governance. A comprehensive climate law with a green vision can serve as the definitive mechanism whereby India’s future is secured in the decades to come.Anirudh Sridhar is a visiting researcher at the Centre for Policy Research. This is the second of a two-part series proposing a new framework for an Indian climate lawThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-s-climate-law-focus-more-on-process-less-on-outcomes-101629893051858.html
25-08-2021||Today's||Devise a new water governance plan to deal with the future of the Indus basin||Recently, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Water Resources recommended that the government should renegotiate the Indus Waters Treaty (IWT), signed in 1960, with Pakistan, in view of pressing challenges such as “climate change, global warming and environmental impact assessment”. Without making overtures of abrogating the treaty, which has often been part of the debate in midst of tensions with Pakistan, the committee, in no uncertain terms, acknowledged the rationality of the framing of IWT “on the basis of knowledge and technology existing at the time”.IWT, with its emphasis on hydraulic engineering, divided the basin into upper and lower parts (the western and eastern rivers), and envisaged the most complete utilisation of the waters through dams, barrages and canals. Without the treaty, Pakistan would have been constrained to build grand hydraulic works to transfer water from the western rivers to meet its irrigation needs and become independent of the eastern rivers. And without the eastern rivers being given exclusively to India, it would have struggled to operationalise the Bhakra and Nangal dams. The Rajasthan canal would not have made much progress, and the Ravi–Beas link canal would have failed to take off.Also Read | Scientifically Speaking : Radiation is a deadly threat to human space travelHowever, during the IWT negotiations, there was no unified methodology or specialised institutions to foretell the dangers of the climate crisis on water resources. With the advancement of science and improvement in measurements, snow and glacier melt in the upper Indus hydrology, which contribute to 60-70% of total average flow in the Indus river system, and precipitation patterns are now better understood. The contribution of these sources to the Indus Basin is undergoing considerable variations explained by the weather systems and the monsoon.As a result, sustainability and future water availability are under existential threat. Rivers are the lifeline of almost 300 million people living in the Indus basin. Issues such as food and energy will increasingly have intricate linkages to water while demographic pressures will impact water management.But how does one renegotiate IWT when the other party is unlikely to show interest? “Future Co-operation” under Article VII of IWT appreciates that in search of a “common interest in the optimum development of the Rivers” both the parties can “declare their intention to co-operate, by mutual agreement, to the fullest possible extent.” The emphasis of cooperation is on setting up new meteorological observation stations, supply of data, and new engineering works on the rivers. However, Article XII explicitly mentions that IWT “may from time to time be modified by a duly ratified treaty concluded for the purpose between the two Governments”.Also Read | In the US-Taliban peace deal, the mystery of the secret annexesTechnically, any cooperation or modification of the treaty cannot be undertaken unilaterally. Even if India shows the political courage to renegotiate IWT, the dynamics of it will be far more exacting. Pakistan, in all likelihood, will make it a political and territorial issue, expressing its disappointment over the treaty rather than the material benefits it has accrued. Pakistan has never advocated abrogation or revision of the treaty, but has not shied away from blaming India for its water woes. IWT remains a scapegoat to cover up its poor water management policies, which, in successive decades, have seen inefficiency in its irrigation system and excessive water waste in the agricultural sector.The best option for India is to fulfil the provisions of IWT, particularly those on the western rivers in Jammu and Kashmir. While signing IWT, India gave preference to fulfilling its immediate water needs over future needs, particularly those of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. IWT allows storage entitlement of up to 3.6 MAF (million-acre feet) on the western rivers. Many of the projects are now underway in achieving the “permissible storage capacity”.The Permanent Indus Commission that meets every year to settle differences over IWT is an excellent mechanism to raise concerns over water efficiency, ecological integrity and sustainability in the backdrop of the climate crisis. A new water governance framework will be required to deal with the uncertain future of the Indus basin.Uttam Kumar Sinha works at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/devise-a-new-water-governance-plan-to-deal-with-the-future-of-the-indus-basin-101629885190732.html
25-08-2021||Editorials||The tale of a threat, an arrest, and an old and new rivalry||Maharashtra Police arrested Union cabinet minister Narayan Rane on Tuesday, making him the first central minister in over two decades to be arrested while in office. He was later released on bail. The trigger: Mr Rane had castigated state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for his supposed ignorance of facts about India’s independence, and said that he would have slapped the CM if he was present. The Shiv Sena did not take kindly to the remark, its activists filed complaints across districts, and the police picked Mr Rane on charges ranging from threatening a public servant to provoking breach of peace.Mr Rane was wrong. Civility demands that political differences don’t manifest themselves in offensive remarks; a minister must choose his words carefully and threatening to slap anyone is wrong. At the same time, the Maharashtra government has overreacted — multiple first information reports and arrest for an offence, which, in the annals of sins committed by Indian politicians, is relatively minor, appears to stem from political considerations, although it is likely that even the party to which Mr Rane belongs would have reacted similarly had one of its popular leaders been threatened with physical violence.Also Read | Narayan Rane arrest: Will send 75,000 letters to CM Uddhav Thackeray, says BJPPolitics, both old and new, lies at the heart of the issue. Mr Rane is a former Shiv Sainik. His inclusion in the cabinet was meant to signal to the Sena that the BJP would aggressively take on its former ally. Mr Rane, by paying tribute to Bal Thackeray further riled the Sena leadership. All of this is also happening in the run-up to civic elections, where the BJP is banking on Mr Rane to weaken the Sena in its strongholds in and around Mumbai. But while the political calculation is obvious, the controversy can end if Mr Rane apologises for having used violent language and Shiv Sena pulls back from its excessive response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-tale-of-a-threat-an-arrest-and-an-old-and-new-rivalry-101629891311467.html
25-08-2021||Editorials||The art of mediating conflicts||A political party is home to colliding ambitions. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the presence of an unchallenged national leader with electoral appeal, an institutional history where no rebel has succeeded in causing a national-level vertical split, and the presence of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as a mediator helps in resolving conflicts. But in a party where splits have benefited those exiting (think the Trinamool Congress, or YSR Congress Party in terms of parties; or Himanta Biswa Sarma, in terms of individuals), the leadership is seen as electorally incapable, organisational discipline is weak, the ability to dispense patronage is limited, and many down the political chain lack confidence in the party’s future, factional battles are harder to resolve. And that is the story of the Congress.In Chhattisgarh, the Congress leadership, after the 2018 elections, came up with a power-sharing formula — Bhupesh Baghel would be chief minister (CM) for two-and-a-half years, TS Singh Deo would take over for the remaining part of the term. Rahul Gandhi, reports say, is aware that such a promise was made; Mr Singh Deo, who has been loyal and competent, is now staking his claim. But Mr Baghel is a rare backward face of the party; removing him is hard to justify and may have costs. Or take Rajasthan. Sachin Pilot overreached with his rebellion last year. But the leadership assured him of space in the state government and the party for now, and leadership in the future. But CM Ashok Gehlot, the stronger of the two leaders, has no interest in meeting promises made in Delhi to his rival. In both these cases, the leadership, faced with strong CMs who have their own base, is finding it hard to enforce its promises.Also Read | Chhattisgarh top leaders call on Rahul Gandhi amid frictionIn Punjab, the high command went against the wishes of CM Amarinder Singh and imposed a rebel, Navjot Singh Sidhu, as state president. But this has only intensified internal battles, and the Congress is coming across as incapable of running its own party, let alone the state. In Madhya Pradesh (MP), the party threw in its lot with the then CM Kamal Nath (and ex-CM Digvijay Singh) and refused to listen to internal discontent articulated by Jyotiraditya Scindia, which led to the collapse of the government itself. All of this indicates that the Congress does not have a formula for conflict resolution — backing the incumbent (in MP) didn’t work, backing the rebel (in Punjab) isn’t working, and keeping both the incumbent and rebel hanging (in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh) isn’t productive either. Till the party finds a better internal resolution mechanism, it will continue to struggle politically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-art-of-mediating-conflicts-101629890951471.html
