28-08-2021||Mumbai||Transmission lines passing through Thane flamingo sanctuary get Centre’s nod||The Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) for coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearances has given a go ahead for setting up 47 transmission towers in Mumbai, a portion of which will pass through the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary for less than half a kilometre. The project, which will help to meet growing power demand for power in suburban Mumbai, will also result in the clearing of over 1,800 mangrove trees along 14.5 km across 71 hectares of forest. Mangroves and saltpans in Airoli, Mulund, Bhandup, Kanjurmarg, Nahur and Vikhroli will be impacted by this project, as per information submitted to the forest department by the project proponent. According to a letter of interest issued to a private power company Adani Transmission in 2019, the project is set for completion by March 2022. However, before proceeding with physical works, Kharghar-Vikhroli Transmission Pvt Ltd’s special purpose vehicle will also have to obtain permission from the forest department and National Board of Wildlife, which is currently under process. The Bombay high court in February this year had already granted permission for cutting mangroves.The environment ministry cleared the project in its 270th meeting related to CRZ projects on August 11, after the Maharashtra State Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) recommended the project for clearance in June this year. At the time, it was noted by the committee that around 6,000 mangrove trees will be affected by the project, over and above those which are slated to be felled. Of the 47 towers proposed to be installed to facilitate supply of power from Airoli in Thane to Vikhroli in Mumbai, 44 will be installed in protected CRZ area, of which 34 will be installed in CRZ-IA areas. The Union ministry has upheld all recommendations of the state authority while sanctioning the project. “Bird diverters should be installed in transmission line so as to avoid accidental collision of birds ie flamingos etc, with support of reputed institutions,” the EAC noted. The forest department will also have to carry out compensatory plantations of mangroves as well as afforestation of degraded forest land twice the area being diverted for the project. The net present value of the forest area has been calculated at around ₹9 lakh per hectare.According to a presentation made to the Union environment ministry by the project proponent earlier on August 11, “The proposed transmission lines project would enable additional power supply of 1,000 MW to be brought into Mumbai and suburbs, thereby helping to meet the ever increasing energy demands of the city. The execution of such a public utility project will help the city of Mumbai in getting economic power from other sources, thus benefitting the consumers of Mumbai, in terms of assuring 24X7 supply at competitive rates.” Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had instructed the project proponent to gather steam on physical works following a major power outage which hit the city in October 2020, hampering health services in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/transmission-lines-passing-through-thane-flamingo-sanctuary-get-centre-s-nod-101630175317288.html
28-08-2021||Ranchi||‘Power Connection Mela’ held in two Jharkhand substations of DVC||Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) recently organised a ‘Power Supply Connection’ Mela for its new consumers at the Barhi substation in Hazaribagh city, and Ramgarh substation – both located in Jharkhand.The event that was conducted on August 17 (in Barhi) and August 18 (in Ramgarh) was aimed at reaching the potential consumers of the governmental organization in and around the DVC substations.The Melas were also focussed on assessing the potential load growth in order to expand the distribution business within the DVCs area of operation, a statement from the organisation said.“It received a very positive response from the prospective consumers who interacted with DVC executives and got their queries clarified,” the statement further stated.During the event, prospective consumers requested the DVC to extend the latter’s power supply to various industrial areas where several industries have an inclination to avail of DVC power for better business growth.In his address during the event, DVC member-secretary assured the prospective consumers to arrange the power supply for the “interested consumers in a time-bound manner,” the statement by the organisation added.Furthermore, DVC executive director (Commercial) informed that similar events will also take place at other DVC substations located in the Jharkhand as well as West Bengal for a cumulative growth of industries in the Damodar Valley region.“[The] DVC is also planning to set up distribution stations at various emerging load centers to make DVC power available to all prospective consumers,” the statement noted.Besides the DVC member-secretary and the ED (Commercial), the event saw the presence of the head of DVC Maithon Project (in Jharkhand) and senior executives of DVC also as attendees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/power-connection-mela-held-in-two-jharkhand-substations-of-dvc-101630174288942.html
28-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Wife among six held for murdering 24-year-old, dumping body in drain||New Delhi: Delhi police on Saturday arrested six people, including a 22-year-old woman, her mother and her male friend, for allegedly murdering her husband and stuffing his body in a suitcase before dumping it in a drain in Neb Sarai.The semi-decomposed body was found by police on August 10, police said, adding that they were initially unable to identify the victim, Naveen, but zeroed in on his identity after finding his name tattooed on the forearm. Police said the woman, Muskan, filed a missing persons complaint on August 12 to allegedly point the suspicion away from her.Police said she was separated from Naveen for the last seven months and lived with her mother, Meenu, and two-year-old child.According to police, Naveen visited Muskan in an inebriate state on August 7 and got into an argument after finding her with her boyfriend, Jamal. As the argument heated up, Jamal’s friends intervened and in the subsequent altercation, one of them stabbed Naveen while the others held his arms and legs.DCP (south east) RP Meena said that six people were arrested, including the driver of the auto which was used to dump the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhiwife-among-six-held-for-murdering-24-year-old-dumping-body-in-drain-101630174715454.html
28-08-2021||Other||J&K HC Bar elections: 1,413 lawyers cast votes, counting today||Of total 1,575 lawyers, 1,413 casted their vote on Saturday to elect the new body of Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association (Jammu chapter).The elections for 15 posts was held peacefully in which 1,413 lawyers participated. Voting was held from 10AM and 5PM.According to returning officer Surinder Singh, counting will take place on Sunday and the results will be declared by 5PM.The elections were delayed by two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 15 candidates are in fray for various posts.Four advocates are contesting for the post of president, four for vice-president, three for secretary, two for cashier, and two for joint secretary.Ashok Sharma, MK Bhardwaj, Ranjeet Singh Jamwal and Nirmal Kotwal are in the fray for the post of president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-hc-bar-elections-1-413-lawyers-cast-votes-counting-today-101630174656533.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Fill faculty positions reserved for SC, ST, OBC, EWS in a year: MoE to centrally-funded institutes||Centrally-funded higher education institutions (CHEIs) will now have to report to the Union ministry of education (MoE) on the action taken to fill faculty positions reserved for socially and economically marginalised communities. In a letter issued Tuesday, MoE has directed all CHEIs such as Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) and National Institutes of Technology (NITs) to fill faculty positions that are lying vacant, especially in the Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC) and economically weaker sections (EWS) categories on mission mode by September 2022. From next month on, institutes will have to send a monthly report on the actions taken to fill vacant positions. “I am writing in connection with the faculty positions that are lying vacant, especially in the SC, ST, OBC and EWS categories in the central higher education institutions (CHEls) functioning under the administrative control of the ministry of education. In order to clear this backlog, it has been decided that all CHEls should fill these vacancies in a mission mode within a period of one year starting from September 5, 2021 to September 4, 2022 and to report about the action taken and progress made in this regard,” said Amit Khare, secretary, department of higher education, MoE, in a letter addressed to directors and vice-chancellors of CHEIs. He did not respond to email queries from HT.As directed by MoE, institutes will now have to include a separate chapter in their annual report depicting the status of filling up of backlog vacancies in tabular format during the year. They will also have to include an agenda item in every finance committee/ board of governors/ board of management meeting, apprising the committees and board of the status of filling up of backlog vacancies.This is the latest in a series of communications from MoE on the matter of implementation of reservations in faculty appointments. Earlier this month, HT had reported about a series of three letters issued from Khare’s office asking CHEIs to implement the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers Cadre) Act, 2019. Unlike other universities, CHEIs follow a flexible cadre system. This means the sanctioned strength of faculty at different grades is not fixed. Faculty members graduate from assistant to associate to professor positions during the course of their career. Until 2019, reservations were applicable to the entry level alone (assistant professor). Thereafter, the Central government extended the reservation policy to all positions.However, none of the 22 IITs in the country have more than six teachers who belong to ST, and 18 of them have 10 or less candidates from SC category on their faculty rolls. Seven IITs had 10 or fewer faculties from OBC category, HT reported earlier based on responses received under RTI. Of the 23 IITs in India, data for IIT-Mandi was unavailable. IIT-Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri did not respond to calls and messages. However, earlier he had told HT that the institute had received communications from MoE on implementation of reservations and it planned to bring the matter up in its board of governors meeting.Meanwhile, IITs have been seeking more clarity on how to implement reservations on flexi cadre systems. A faculty from an IIT who advocates for diversity on campus said, “Most IITs have been misusing the flexi-cadre system to not follow reservations. They can easily follow the roster system that the department of personnel and training (DoPT) has formulated.” DoPT has formulated a system for institutes that do not have fixed number of positions. On the roster, every fourth person has to be from OBC category, seventh from SC, eighth from OBC, 12th from OBC, 14th from ST and 15th from SC and so forth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fill-faculty-positions-reserved-for-sc-st-obc-ews-in-a-year-moe-to-centrally-funded-institutes-101630174596089.html
28-08-2021||Other||PDP youth wing meet not allowed, Mehbooba slams police authorities||Former J&K chief minister and PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti, on Saturday criticised the authorities for not allowing the party’s youth wing to hold a meeting in Bijbehara town. After the police didn’t allow the meeting, PDP workers held a small protest demonstration against the government. Mehbooba even accused police of beating up the PDP workers. “PDP youth is not being allowed to conduct a meeting in Bijbehara today. The gates leading to Mufti sahab’s grave have been locked & blocked with barbed wires. Can @JmuKmrPolice explain why were these young men roughed up (sic.)?” tweeted Mehbooba. The former chief minister blamed the government for pushing the people of Kashmir to the wall.“Daily encounters where militants are killed have become a source of celebration for GOI. But PDP doesn’t believe in violence or dignity in death. We want to fight peacefully and politically. By discouraging political activities GOI is pushing Kashmiris to the wall (sic.),” she said in another tweet. PDP chief spokesman and youth leader Suhail Bukhari said despite government creating hindrances in the working of the party, they will continue to raise their voice. “Our fight is for a greater cause and this will continue and party workers will not get deterred by coercive measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pdp-youth-wing-meet-not-allowed-mehbooba-slams-police-authorities-101630174356626.html
28-08-2021||Other||With dip in Covid cases, J&K plans to reopen higher education institutions||With a dip in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, the J&K administration is planning to reopen higher education institutions.Lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Friday gave first hint towards gradual reopening of education institutions in the UT.“With improved Covid scenario and 100% vaccination among students and teachers, we plan gradual reopening of education institutions,” he said while chairing weekly meeting of the Covid task force, DCs and SPs at Raj Bhawan.He directed officials to take strict action against Covid protocol violators as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. “Covid threat is not over yet. We need strong cooperation from people to prevent the threat of third wave,” he said, adding that the best line of defence against is Covid-appropriate behaviour, intense surveillance and vaccination.He directed officials to ensure that targeted testing is increased in areas where infection is on the rise. “The cases are preventable if people adhere to Covid protocol,” he said.166 fresh cases reportedJammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 166 fresh cases and one death related to the virus in Jammu division.There were 137 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 29 infections.Number of patients who were cured in the UT was 103 and active positive cases reached 1,211.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 407 followed by Budgam with 99.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,19,362 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.27%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,24,979 and the death-toll stands at 4,406.Officials said 58,138 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-dip-in-covid-cases-j-k-plans-to-reopen-higher-education-institutions-101630174296880.html
28-08-2021||Other||Poonch man arrested for armed robbery, murder in Mysuru||A man from Poonch, allegedly involved in armed robbery and murder in Mysuru city, was arrested from Surankote, said officials.The accused has been identified as Manzoor Ahmed Sheikh, of Surankote in Poonch district.He was arrested in case FIR number 439/21 under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC registered at Rajouri police station.“During his interrogation the accused disclosed his involvement in a case of armed robbery and murder in Mysuru. Cash amounting to ₹46,410 and 234.8gm gold was also recovered from his possession,” said officials.The accused as verified from the Mysuru police was involved in case FIR number 70/2021 under Sections 394 and 396 of the IPC, Sections 25(1b) and 27(1) of the IAACT at Vidyaranyapuram police station, Mysuru.“The suspect, along with his associates, had committed an armed robbery at a jewellery shop in Mysuru and during the robbery he had shot a customer present in the shop who died on the spot. The Mysuru police have been informed accordingly,” said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poonch-man-arrested-for-armed-robbery-murder-in-mysuru-101630174177250.html
28-08-2021||Other||NIA chargesheets 7 terrorists in Handwara narco-terrorism case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed supplementary chargesheet against seven terrorists in Handwara narco-terrorism case before an NIA special court here on Friday, said officials.The arrested terrorists were identified as Showkat Salam Parray, of Sumbal, Bandipora; Asif Gul, of Kanispora in Baramulla; Altaf Ahmed Shah, of Dangerpora in Ganderbal; Romesh Kumar, of Vijaypur in Samba; Mudasir Ahmed Dar, of Wanduna in Shopian; Amin Allai alias Hilal Mir, of Sangam in Anantnag; and Abdul Rashid, of Amrohi in Kupwara.The arrested terrorists were booked under Sections 8 read with 21, 25 and 29 of the NDPS Act, 1985; Section 120-B of the IPC and Sections 17, 38 and 40 of the UA(P) Act, 1967.The case was initially registered in Handwara police station as case FIR number 183/2020 dated June 11, 2020 wherein during checking of vehicles at Kairo Bridge, Handwara, accused Abdul Momin Peer was intercepted by a police party in his Hyundai Creta vehicle.During search of the vehicle, cash amounting to ₹20,01,000 and 2kg heroin was recovered.Further interrogation had led to recovery of 15kg heroin and cash amounting to ₹1.15 crore.NIA had re-registered the case on June 26, 2020 and had taken over the investigation.“Investigation has established that the seven chargesheeted accused persons were part of a deep-rooted conspiracy for procuring and selling narcotics drugs and generating funds in J&K and other parts of India in close association with operatives of banned terrorist outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), based across the border in Pakistan. The funds so generated were pumped for furtherance of terrorist activity in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir through a network of over ground workers (OGWs),” an NIA spokesman said.NIA had earlier filed chargesheet against six accused on December 5, 2020 in the case. Further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-chargesheets-7-terrorists-in-handwara-narco-terrorism-case-101630174116034.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Rain likely in Gurugram for next four days||Gurugram is likely to witness light rain over the next four days, predicted the India Meteorological Department on Saturday, breaking a week-long dry spell. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), one or two spells of rain or thundershower are expected from August 29 till September 1. “Gurugram region will receive light rain from Sunday, which is likely to increase by middle of next week. A yellow alert has also been issued for Wednesday as thunderstorm, lightning and squall is likely in the district,” said an IMD official. A yellow alert indicates that authorities should be prepared for flooding in low-lying areas and disruption of municipal services like water and electricity supply. With rain, the maximum temperature is also likely to drop in the city over the next four by six notches to around 30°C, read the IMD weekly report. The minimum temperature is likely to drop by two notches to around 23°C. On Saturday, Gurugram recorded a maximum of 35.4°C, which was two degrees above normal, while the minimum was 24.5°C, which was a degree below normal. The humidity level in the city oscillated between 81% and 75%. The air quality in Gurugram, however, deteriorated on Saturday to “moderate” from “satisfactory“ a day earlier. The central pollution control board’s air quality index read 107 on Saturday. The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to improve with rain but remain in moderate to satisfactory category the next five days, according to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi weather bulletin||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rain-likely-in-gurugram-for-next-four-days-101630174056021.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Fresh complaint lodged against accused in Rajendra Park murders||In a fresh development in the Rajendra Park murders case, the brother of victim 40-year-old Sunita Yadav lodged a complaint alleging that she was the main target as the suspect, her father-in-law Rao Rai Singh Yadav, wanted to grab land that she owned in Mahendragarh.The complainant Ashok Kumar further alleged that the tenant’s family was targeted because they had witnessed the murder.On Tuesday morning, retired army man 60-year-old Singh allegedly killed Sunita and three members of his tenant’s family before surrendering to police. Police earlier said that Singh had confessed to the murders and preliminary investigation suggested that it was due to Singh suspecting Sunita of having an illicit relationship with an upper floor tenant named Krishan Tiwari.In the complaint submitted to the police, Kumar rejected the illicit relationship claim and alleged that Tiwari went downstairs after hearing Sunita’s cries and this led to the other murders.The complainant said Sunita married Anand Yadav in 2011 only after her family gifted her an acre in Mahendragarh where she was from.The complainant alleged that despite this, Rao and his family mentally and physically tortured her and was forcing her to sell the land. “The value of this land is around ₹1 crore, and it became the bone of contention in the family,” Kumar said in the complaint.Kumar further alleged that Sunita was not allowed to call her parents. His family called two panchayats in Mahendragarh to resolve these issues, he claimed.“In February, I had gone to drop Sunita at their house when Anand threatened me and said that we sell the land else they would become the owners after her death,” said Kumar in his complaint. He accused Rao Rai Singh, his wife, son and two other relatives of the crime.Gurugram police meanwhile said that they have not registered a case based on the complaint as they were investigating the case from all angles. “The investigation in the case is being carried out and all aspects are under consideration,” said Rajiv Kumar, ACP, Udyog Vihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fresh-complaint-lodged-against-accused-in-rajendra-park-murders-101630174055454.html
28-08-2021||Other||Six more die of Covid in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 209 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 2,13,122 while the death toll mounted to 3,575 after six more patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 56 were reported in Mandi, 40 in Kangra, 22 each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, 18 in Shimla, 17 in Chamba, 11 in Kullu, nine in Una, six in Kinnaur, four in Solan, three in Lahaul-Spiti and one in Sirmaur.The active came down to 1,814 while recoveries reached 2,07,713 after 354 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 47,554 followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,701 and 26,554 cases, respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,543 cases, Sirmaur 15,433, Hamirpur 15,226, Una 13,540, Chamba 13,430, Bilaspur 13,388, Kullu 9,475, Kinnaur 3,397 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,886.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-more-die-of-covid-in-himachal-101630173996086.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Man killed in accident near Manesar||A physically challenged man was killed in an alleged hit-and-run case near Manesar early on Friday morning. Police identified the victim as Gurugram resident Chander Prakash and said he was riding his scooter to Rajasthan’s Bhiwadi when the incident happened near the NSG training camp near Manesar. The man’s brother Arjun Nagar resident Sanjay Verma, who was on another scooter at the time of the incident, alleged that a rashly driven truck struck his brother’s vehicle in the rear.The suspected truck driver fled from the spot after the accident, the complainant told police. Verma said the accident left his brother grievously injured. “When I checked on him, I found that he had succumbed to his injuries due to impact of the crash. The erring truck driver abandoned the vehicle and fled. I asked for help from a passerby and called the police,” Verma said in his complaint. A case was registered at the Manesar police station under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (causing death by negligence of the Indian Penal Code, said police. “The matter is under investigation and our teams are working to identify the accused driver,” said Subash Boken, spokesperson of Gurugram police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-killed-in-accident-near-manesar-101630173936779.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||NCB seizes contraband from Armaan Kohli’s house, detains him||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zone officers on Saturday night detained Bollywood actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli after some narcotics contraband were found during a raid at his Juhu residence. NCB officers took the actor to its office in Ballard Estate for questioning.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede led the raid at the actor’s house that lasted for more than six hours. Wankhede confirmed that some contraband has been seized from the actor’s house and he was being questioned in connection with the same. Case details will be shared only after thorough questioning of the actor, he said.Sources said if the seized contraband is found to be in a specific amount that is banned under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act then the actor may be put under arrest by NCB early on Sunday. However, till the time going to press the actor was being questioned.Actor’s bungalow number 10 in Vikas Park society in Juhu was raided by the NCB team on Saturday around 2pm as part of the agency’s ongoing operation Rolling Thunder that aims to crackdown on the network of drugs peddlers and suppliers in Mumbai. Raid on Kohli’s house lasted till 8pm, NCB officers said.During their operation on Saturday, NCB arrested a drug peddler from western suburbs of the city. On the basis of the information revealed by the peddler, the NCB team raided Kohli’s House. The actor is suspected to have bought the narcotics from the peddler, but NCB officers are yet to verify it.Under operation Rolling Thunder, the anti-Narcotics agency has so far carried out 15 raids in and arrested eight people in two days including TV actor Gaurav Dixit and two Nigerian nationals. Contrabands of MD, Charas, MDMA and Ecstasy tables were seized during these raids, NCB officers said.Dixit was arrested after his name cropped up during Ajaz Khan’s interrogation. MD and charas were allegedly seized from Dixit’s house. He has been sent to NCB custody till August 30.Kohli was a contestant on Bigg Boss 7 and made headlines for his volatile temper as well as his relationship with co-contestant Tanishaa Mukerji. Kohli has starred in several films such as Dushman Zamana (1992), Anaam (1993), Qahar (1997) and Jaani Dushman: Ek Anokhi Kahani (2002).Last year, several celebrities including Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh were questioned by NCB in connection with an investigation into Bollywood’s alleged drug links. The case was linked to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-seizes-contraband-from-armaan-kohli-s-house-detains-him-101630173936265.html
28-08-2021||Other||Apple price row: Bhardwaj to meet stakeholders in Rohru on Aug 31||Amid furore over sharp drop in prices at which apples are purchased from the growers, ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s senior most leader from the apple-growing region, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, will meet the stake-holders in Mehandli of Rohru tehsil on August 31.In a statement issued here on Saturday, Bhardwaj said the state government was committed to protect the interests of the apple-growers. He also directed the officials to release market-related information to the apple-growers in real time on different platforms.The minister said all possible efforts will be made to redress the issues of horticulturists and those having issues can approach senior officials anytime.He said 48-lakh apple boxes have been sold in the state’s market yards while orchardists sold about one crore boxes outside the state.“Baseless statements are being made by some people to take a political mileage,” he said, adding “Apples of good quality were sold for ₹2,250 per box in Shimla, Kinnaur and Mandi, and ₹2,000 in Solan on Friday.”Bhardwaj said discussions have also been held with the buyers and other stakeholders. Officers have been directed to take strict action against traders involved in illegal activities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/apple-price-row-bhardwaj-to-meet-stakeholders-in-rohru-on-aug-31-101630173877713.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Forest dept, Municipal Corporation of Manesar to sign MoU for development of biodiversity park at Kasan||A year after Haryana forest minister Kanwar Pal said the government will build a 100-acre biodiversity park in Manesar’s Kasan, the district administration on Friday said the Municipal Corporation of Manesar and forest department will sign an agreement to develop the project. This was announced by Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg who was chairing a review of projects taken up by the GuruJal society. Narendra Sarwan, member secretary of GuruJal society, said Garg gave instructions to officers of both agencies and asked them to soon sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for this. On August 16 last year, minister Pal said, “The park will come up with the support and involvement of the local community, particularly since panchayat land is being utilised for it. This will help in restoring the green cover in the area, raising the groundwater level, and also in generating income for the local community.” In the review meeting, Garg also asked departments to coordinate among themselves to speed up work on projects delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “All departments must target to complete the 60 projects decided in January by December 31,” said Garg. These projects primarily include development of ponds and waterbodies across the district and how different departments would fund these projects.During the meeting, the issue of housing societies not setting up rainwater harvesting structures was also discussed. The administration said it would seek clarifications from the concerned residents’ welfare association in this regard.The deputy commissioner was also apprised that Municipal Corporation of Gurugram have started the tender process to construct 230 additional rainwater harvesting structures in the district. At present, the corporation has set up 403 such structures, out of which cleaning work has been completed for 60% of the structures, said Sarwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/forest-dept-municipal-corporation-of-manesar-to-sign-mou-for-development-of-biodiversity-park-at-kasan-101630173875369.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Polling booths to be increased in Gurugram||At least 32 polling booths in Gurugram with about 1,500 voters under them will be bifurcated or have their electorate reassigned to streamline the electoral process and to bring them closer to smaller habitations, said district deputy commissioner Yash Garg. The rationalisation and electorate rearrangement will be completed over the next few months, he added.The district administration met with representatives of political parties and state election commission officials on Friday evening and has sought their suggestions on the move and on identifying dilapidated booths. In a statement issued by the administration, these recommendations have to be submitted by August 31.“Proposals of changing polling booths that are currently in a dilapidated condition have also been received and the department is working to rectify them,” Garg said during the meeting.There are at least 1,211 polling stations in the four assembly constituencies of Gurugram that covers 1,255,230 voters. “Only after receiving suggestion from political parties will the new polling booths be set up. Of the 32 booths currently under consideration, at least 21 will be bifurcated, while voters on the 11 other booths will be reassigned and added to other nearby polling booths,” said Rajendra Hooda, district election officer.According to Hooda, the earlier rule was to have booths in areas where the number of voters was at least 1,200. “The Election Commission of India has increased it to at least 1,500 in both urban and rural areas,” said Hooda. “Most of the booths requiring rationalisation and reassignment are located in urban areas, largely in Gurugram city and Manesar. Our teams will check whether the maximum distance that a voter will have to travel to reach polling stations is 2 kilometre or less (according to Election Commission of India rules). Likewise, a polling station cannot be in any building with religious significance where a certain group of people might have objections entering it. Other factors like the condition of building are also to be considered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/polling-booths-to-be-increased-in-gurugram-101630173819926.html
28-08-2021||Other||Tikait asks farmers to unite against ‘corporate loot’ in Himachal||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has blamed “corporate loot” as one of the main reasons for the sharp drop in apple prices across Himachal Pradesh.He announced that the farmer union will expand its movement across state. Tikait, who made his maiden visit to the state a year after farmers launched stir against the Centre’s farm bills on outskirts of Delhi, addressed a series of meetings in Himachal Pradesh.Addressing a press conference, Tikait, who was on his maiden and day-long tour to Himachal to meet the apple-growers suffering losses due to fall in prices, said the farm agitation began nine months ago and will continue till the government meets their demands.On the crisis facing Himachal’s apple economy, the farm leader said earlier, arthiyas used to purchase the apple produce and fetch good prices for the orchardists of Himachal.“Ever since Adani and Ambani took over the market 10 years ago, the apple prices have come down significantly due to the manipulation by the corporate,” he said.They deliberately slash the prices for two months and then sell the yield at higher rates for the next 10 months, he added.Tiikait urged farmers to unite in the fight against this “corporate loot”.“When farmers will stand up for their rights, it will send a warning sign to the government,” he said. He added that the Centre’s three farm laws are not in the interest of farmers and were enacted to benefit the corporates.Tikait said, if needed, a movement will be started for the rights of farmers and orchardists of Himachal. “Minimum support price (MSP) is a real issue facing farmers and laws should be enacted made for it,” he said.“There is larger conspiracy going on to weaken the farming community. If we don’t stop it, the situation will be like that of Assam where tea gardens were sold to the capitalists,” he added.He said the fruit crops of Himachal should be included in the MSP and the state government should give subsidy to the farmers on transportation of their produce.He said the farm unions, under Samyukta Kisan Morcha, will hold a meeting in Muzarfarnagar (UP) to chalk out a strategy to intensify the stir against the BJP-led Union government.Tikait warned the central government that the “rule of companies will not be allowed in the country”. He said SKM will raise the voice of horticulturists of Himachal and will not allow the prices of apples to drop any further.“It will not take long for Shimla to become Delhi. If godowns of those who conspired against the farmers and gardeners are dug up, the farmers will not be responsible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tikait-asks-farmers-to-unite-against-corporate-loot-in-himachal-101630173819255.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Cloverleaf interchange: Gurugram civic body offers land to NHAI||The Municipal Corporation of Gururgam (MCG) on Friday asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to take charge of a small plot near Kherki Daula thus paving the way for a cloverleaf interchange that will connect the Dwarka Expressway with the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). The project was delayed for almost two years as the 0.3-acre land had a cremation ground and a temple that had to be shifted even as construction on the rest of the interchange was going on. NHAI officials said they now expect to complete the project in 2022.In a letter, which HT has seen, the MCG told the NHAI that the cremation ground was shifted to another place in Kherki Daula and the land was already transferred to them. “Now the Shani temple has been shifted to another location in revenue estate of Kherki Daula. So now please take over the charge of remaining land,” the letter read.NHAI project director Nirman Jambulkar said this was a positive development and now they had all the land required for the four-phase project to go-ahead. “The delay in getting this land had slowed work on the interchange but now it will be fast-tracked,” he said. Jambulkar said that the easing Covid-19 situation meant that the labour situation too had improved and that the pace of work on phases three and four in Gurugram had picked up. “If there are no more delays, then we will complete these last two phases by June 2022,” he said. The cloverleaf interchange is expected to ensure hassle-free movement of traffic between SPR and the Dwarka Expressway (also called the Northern Peripheral Road), said officials. The structure will be a two-level interchange, on which slip roads will handle left turns.The 29-km long Dwarka Expressway project is being constructed in four phases out of which phases 3 and 4 are in Gurugram. The cloverleaf interchange is coming up on phase 4 of this road and will be a 7.9-km eight-lane stretch (called Central Peripheral Road) from Basai rail over bridge up to Kherki Daula toll plaza. It is being built at a cost of ₹1,400 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cloverleaf-interchange-gurugram-civic-body-offers-land-to-nhai-101630173755447.html
28-08-2021||Noida||Light rain brings relief to Noida||Noida and adjoining areas received light intermittent rain on Saturday morning, breaking a four-day dry spell and bringing the mercury down two notches.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 33.9 °C on the day and a minimum of 27.8°C. It said that the weather conditions were favourable for more rain over the next few days. But it could not record the amount of rain the region received.Weather analysts said the low pressure monsoon line of trough, which increases the chance of rain, is hovering over the National Capital Region (NCR).“The temporary monsoon break condition has ended and some areas have already seen light rainfall, including parts of Noida. The dry weather conditions are likely to be kept at bay as the dry westerly winds have been now replaced by moist and cool easterly winds. The intensity may rise to moderate by August 31,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change) Skymet.According to the IMD, Gautam Budh Nagar is about 69% rain deficit this monsoon -- receiving only 135mm rain as against a normal of 434.1mm. At Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 35.1°C, a degree above the season’s average and 27°C, a degree above season’s average. The humidity oscillated between 75 to 52 percent. “The humidity is likely to rise due to the easterly winds. On Sunday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 34 and 27°C with possibility of light rain or drizzle, while the sky will remain mostly cloudy,” said an official from the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/light-rain-brings-relief-to-noida-101630173516751.html
28-08-2021||Noida||Four persons arrested for murder in Greater Noida||Nearly three weeks after a 38-year-old man was killed in Dadri, police on Saturday arrested four more suspects in connection with the case. According to police, the suspects had allegedly killed Amit Bhati over personal enmity in Chakresenpur village on August 11. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the Dadri police on Saturday received information about the movement of the four suspects near Ajayabpur village. “A police team reached the spot and arrested the suspects. A countrymade gun, a pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from their possession,” he said. The suspects were identified as Deepak, 30, Jitendra, 27, Patua alias Praduman, 25, all residents of Dabra village, and Vikalp, 28, a resident of Ladpura village in Greater Noida.Police said that three other suspects – Anuj, 26, Gaje Lohar, 25, and Naresh, 28, – were arrested on August 15 in connection with the case.According to police, Bhati was in his car when a group of criminals reached the spot near Eastern Peripheral Expressway in a Mahindra Scorpio and on two motorcycles and sprayed bullets at him.Bhati’s cousin Manish Bhati had filed a complaint at Dadri police station and named eight persons in the murder case. An FIR was registered against the suspects under sections 147 (rioting), 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC.  Pradeep Tripathi, SHO of Dadri police station, said there was no specific reason for the murder. “The victim claimed he was superior in his area, while Anuj and his accomplices claimed they are superior. They were looking for each other for some time. Incidentally, the suspects spotted Bhati near the expressway and killed him,” Tripathi said. The four suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-persons-arrested-for-murder-in-greater-noida-101630173516105.html
28-08-2021||Noida||Paper mill in G Noida gutted in fire, no casualty||A fire broke out at a paper mill in Greater Noida’s Kasna area early Saturday morning. While goods and valuables kept in the warehouse were damaged, the estimates of which are yet to be ascertained, no one was injured in the incident, said police. Sudhir Kumar, station house officer (SHO) at Kasna police station, said the fire broke out at the paper mill in Site V industrial area around 2:30am. “The factory deals in manufacturing diary, notepad and other goods made of paper. A security guard dialled 112 and informed about the fire, following which police teams and fire tenders were rushed to the spot in 10 minutes,” said Kumar. Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire safety officer of Gautam Budh Nagar, said many paper rolls kept on ground compounded the intensity of the fire, which spread swiftly across the factory. “The goods and valuables kept in the warehouse were all damaged. The tin sheds of the factory too collapsed,” said Singh. A total of 12 fire tenders were roped in that brought the blaze under control by afternoon. “The fire was controlled in the premise, other factories in the neighbourhood are safe,” said Singh. The factory owner said around 100 people usually work in the factory, said the SHO. “The workers had finished work by 1:30am. All the workers had left the factory one hour before the incident. The two security guards stationed outside the factory gate escaped safely,” said Kumar. Police said the cause of the fire and total losses are yet to be ascertained. The factory owner did not file any complaint till the time of the report going to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/paper-mill-in-g-noida-gutted-in-fire-no-casualty-101630173515545.html
28-08-2021||Noida||Auto drivers flout Covid norms in Noida||As the city started returning to normalcy after the second wave of Covid-19 subsided, several shared auto-rickshaw drivers, especially those plying from different metro stations, can easily be seen flouting Covid norms. Residents alleged that the auto drivers are ferrying more passengers than the permissible limit, risking the lives of passengers. Dinesh Kumar, who resides in Sector 62, said that he joined his office in Sector 6 last week and now travels by a shared auto-rickshaw from Sector 19 metro station. “It’s always a risk to travel on a shared auto-rickshaw. The driver usually allows six to seven passengers to occupy the rickshaw, flouting social distancing norm,” he said. Nandini Sharma, who works as a receptionist at a private company in Sector 63 , said that she doesn’t have any other option but to travel by an auto-rickshaw. “I daily travel from Sector 62 metro station to D-block in Sector 63 by a shared auto-rickshaw. Since it saves money and time, passengers like us always prefer to take a shared auto ride. But the auto-rickshaws are crowded,” she said. According to police, a shared auto-rickshaw is allowed to carry only four passengers in the wake of the pandemic.Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said that though police take action against such violators, passengers should themselves realise the risk of getting infected and adhere to the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “The traffic police have fined more than 335,000 vehicles so far this year for flouting Covid-19 norms. We’ve also seized 1,430 auto-rickshaws. We will again take a review of the busy roads, on which the shared autos generally ply, to take action against violators,” he said. Police said they are also witnessing a general rise in traffic rule violations among two-wheeler riders, besides overloading on auto-rickshaws. “Across the city, the incidents of triple riding and not wearing helmets have increased. This has become more visible at night. But, it has been seen that during morning and evening hours, there is a mad rush of passengers to take autos. They seem indifferent now from the fear of any wave of Covid-19,” said Saha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/auto-drivers-flout-covid-norms-in-noida-101630173456016.html
28-08-2021||Noida||Newborn stolen from Muradnagar CHC, angry villagers block Delhi-Meerut Road for hours||A newborn baby boy was stolen allegedly by an unidentified person from the ward of the community health centre (CHC), Muradnagar, early Saturday morning. Following the incident, a group of angry villagers blocked the Delhi-Meerut Road for about four hours demanding action against the CHC staff and immediate recovery of the infant, police said. The family of the three-day-old baby got an FIR lodged under IPC section 363 (kidnapping) at the Muradnagar police station and named two doctors and five staff of the CHC, besides four unidentified persons, in the case. According to the family members, 25-year-old Meenu delivered a baby boy on August 25 at the CHC. The family has alleged the role of unidentified outsiders who they found visiting the ward.“My wife, along with the boy, was sleeping on a bed. My mother was also sleeping as an attendant on the same bed. It was about 4am when my wife woke up and found the child missing. When we enquired about the incident, the doctors and the hospital staff could not answer how the child went missing from the ward,” said Sandeep Kumar, the infant’s father and a resident of Surana village. The family said that the couple got married about one and half years ago and the missing boy was their first child. Meanwhile, more than a hundred angry villagers and locals arrived at the CHC and later went to the Delhi-Meerut Road, just about 50 metres from the CHC, and blocked the Meerut-Ghaziabad side of the road with the help of tractor trolleys, seeking immediate police action in the case. Police said that the mob also tried to block the other side as well. “But we did not allow them to do so. The blockade started around 9.30am. We had to divert the traffic through the sides of the Upper Ganga Canal. Police finally cleared the road blockade about 1.30pm and normal traffic was restored,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). “We also lodged an FIR on the basis of complaint given by the family,” Raja said. Police said that they are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the premises of the health centre and also at nearby shops. The FIR also named Dr Dinesh Kumar, the CHC’s in-charge who joined the facility four days ago. “We are also upset about the incident. It is unfortunate that the child went missing. Besides our staff on night duty, a guard was also present at the facility. Police have taken the CCTV footage and are investigating the case,” said Dr Kumar. He said that from now, a visitors register will be maintained with their names, addresses, and mobile phone numbers, among other details. Dr Dinesh also said that the family had told them about an unidentified woman who had visited the ward. “The family told us that the woman was wearing a mask and also came to the ward two-three times. We have given all such details to police. The ward has eight beds, and at present all of them are occupied,” he said.The family of the child alleged that they had complained to the hospital staff about some suspicious persons, but no action was taken. “After the incident, the staff told us that they do not have password of the CCTV recording, and later they said that the CCTV cameras were not working. It is a complete negligence on part of hospital staff that the child was taken away,” said Ajit Singh, the child’s uncle. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar visited the CHC and suspended two staff. “A decision was taken to suspend a woman staffer and the sweeper of the hospital. Police investigation is on in the case,” CMO added. Police officials said that they are contemplating action against agitators who blocked the road, but the priority is to find the missing baby boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/newborn-stolen-from-muradnagar-chc-angry-villagers-block-delhi-meerut-road-for-hours-101630173275431.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt insists on Covid-appropriate behaviour as festive season nears, cases rise in some districts||Maharashtra government on Saturday sought the public’s cooperation in the state’s efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic particularly in following Covid-appropriate behaviour during the upcoming festive season. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Union government’s directives to the states asking them to ensure crowd control during the festive season pointed to the need to prioritise people’s lives as the pandemic continued.Thackeray also asked all political and social groups in the state to cooperate with the government saying that the pandemic continued to hang over everyone’s heads like the ”sword of Damocles,” news agency PTI reported.Also read | Maharashtra: Negative RT-PCR test report must for fliers from Europe, SA, Middle-EastWhile Maharashtra and the rest of the country have slowed down the transmission of the virus, the focus should be continued on testing, tracing and treatment for the disease along with following Covid appropriate protocols, the CM also said. Health experts have expressed their concerns about the upcoming festival season as they may become super spreaders of the disease, Thackeray said and emphasised that people need to behave responsibly.Amit Deshmukh, the state minister for education also echoed the CM’s views and expressed concerns over the rising daily infections in some districts of the state. “A slight rise in COVID-19 cases is worrisome. People should strictly follow COVID-appropriate behaviour,” PTI quoted Deshmukh as saying. The minister also said that the healthcare system in the state should remain vigilant as fear looms about a possible third wave of infections.The remarks from the state government came as the Centre extended the Covid-19 containment measures until September 30. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had asked the states to contain large gatherings in view of the pandemic. “State Governments/UT Administrations are further advised to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season and if required, impose local restrictions with a view to curb such large gatherings,” he had written to the state chief secretaries.As many as 4,831 people tested positive for the disease and 126 more died in Maharashtra on the day as the total confirmed infections reached 6,452,273 and the death toll climbed to 137,026, according to the latest data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-insists-on-covid-appropriate-behaviour-as-festive-season-nears-cases-rise-in-some-districts-101630171607674.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Pawsome party: A playground for pet lovers of Delhi-NCR||Pet parents from across Delhi-NCR are set to have oodles of fun with their doggos, on National Sports Day (August 29) as Golf Course Road will converted into a pet playground, for about an hour and a half, for an event especially curated for them. “Pets are our family members, so why should they miss out on the fun,” asks Atin Suri, founder of the company that’s organising the event. On what made him come up with the idea to reclaim the road for pets, Suri says that it was the love for his doggos, Bond and Bonzo. “Exercises at this event will make pet parents aware of what they can do at home to help their pet stay healthy,” says, Atin Suri, organiser“The idea is for people to come out. We also want to educate them because during the lockdown, many adopted pets and, in some cases, they aren’t even aware of what kind of breed they have, what should be in its diet, etc. Some basic exercises at this event will make pet parents aware about what all they can do at home to help their pet stay healthy, and will emphasise on the importance of physical activity for the pets. We’d like to take this to other cities, too,” Suri says. The activities will be spread out on the stretch, but one has to make sure that doggos are on a leash.“There’s weave pole, see saw, football, ladder games, sniffing and sand pits, as well as photo-op areas,” adds Suri.There will also be an informative session by Chetna Malik on dog training, and Dr Jasjeet Josan will speak on how to keep your pets healthy. “We will focus on teaching the easiest and most fun ways to engage with your dog, improve their bond with the family, and promote proper communication. Dogs are developing anxiety issues more often now, due to reactive or emotional pet parenting,” says Malik. Catch It LiveWhat: My Pack PlaygroundWhere: Golf Course Road, Phase-1, Sector-53/54 When: August 29 Timing: 6am Nearest Metro Station: Phase-1 on Rapid Metro Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pawsome-party-a-playground-for-pet-lovers-of-delhincr-101630170996035.html
28-08-2021||Other||Burqa-clad man loots ornaments worth ₹15 lakh, flees||LUCKNOW In a bizarre incident, an armed man wearing a ‘burqa’ entered a jewellery store posing as a woman and fled with ornaments worth ₹15 lakh after taking the salesman at gun point. Surprisingly, the man pulled off the heist single-handedly within 6-7 minutes and disappeared in narrow lanes of Khargapur locality under Gomti Nagar extension police station limits on Saturday. Lucknow additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) SM Qasim Abidi said the police had found multiple footage of the miscreant while arriving at and fleeing from the jewellery store but were unable to ascertain his identity as his face was not visible. He said initial investigation suggested that although the miscreant had executed the crime single-handedly, some person familiar with the locality helped him as he suddenly disappeared in the narrow lanes. The ADCP said it seemed that the miscreant removed his burqa at some secret place and thereafter he disappeared as a normal commuter on a motorcycle or car parked at some distance from the spot. The ADCP said the loot occurred at a jewellery store named Gold House at JK shopping complex at Geetapuri crossing of Khargapur. He said the store was owned by one Anshu Soni, but he was not present at the time of the incident. He said Soni’s employee Pradeep Kumar was alone when the miscreant entered the store at around 11.30 am. “According to the servant, the miscreant, who first spoke in a female voice, asked him to show some ornaments and took him at gunpoint when he opened the locker to bring out jewellery kept inside. Then it was revealed that the criminal was a man.The miscreant collected the jewellery in a bag and fled within a few minutes. He disappeared in narrow lanes before Pradeep could raise an alarm and call near-by shopkeepers,” he said . Another senior police official said the role of the servant was suspicious and he had been questioned about the incident. Besides, a local man had been picked up for questioning on the basis of suspicion and further investigation in the matter was on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burqaclad-man-loots-ornaments-worth-15-lakh-flees-101630169915630.html
28-08-2021||Other||New road overbridge to ease traffic congestion near Ara station||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Saturday inaugurated a road overbridge made over the eastern railway crossing of Ara station.The foundation stone of the 1.6km-long road overbridge, built at the cost of ₹97 crore, was laid on June 4, 2017. It will be useful in reducing the problem of traffic jams near the eastern railway crossing and adjoining areas, Gadkari said during the occasion. Meanwhile, the Union minister also spoke about other upcoming developments in the state. “Within six months, vehicles, including BMW and Mercedes, will start running on ethanol. It will generate employment for both common people and farmers, he said. He further assured to fulfil the demand made by local MP and union minister R K Singh of constructing a ring road around town. He further said that the green expressway from Gazipur to Patna through Ara will cost ₹8000 crore. He asked the state government to expedite the land acquisition process in this regard. R K Singh said that the construction of an elevated road between Patna and Bihta would start as soon as the land is available. Also, work on the four-lane stretch between Ara and Buxar will be finished soon. He thanked Nitin Gadkari for approving road projects in Bihar.Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha, Bhojpur SP Vinay Tiwari and others were present at the venue while several others, including chairman of state legislative council Awadhesh Narayan Singh, joined through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-road-overbridge-to-ease-traffic-congestion-near-ara-station-101630169680352.html
28-08-2021||Patna||IGIMS to strive for robotic surgery in a year||The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) will strive to become Bihar’s first state-funded healthcare facility to introduce robotic surgery, which allows safer surgeries with better precision and minimal incision while also reducing hospital stay, recovery time and morbidity of patients. IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas Saturday said he hoped to introduce robotic surgery facility at the institute within a year after training his doctors in it. For this, he said the institute would soon float a proposal to the state government to have a robotic surgery-compatible operation theatre along with state-of-the-art robotic equipment at the IGIMS. The set-up allows a surgeon to sit comfortably in a console, like a cockpit, and control all functions at a distance from the operating table, without the necessity of an assistant. The setup allows control of camera and movement of instrument and the surgeon gets to see magnified 3D anatomy, say up to 20 times its original size, making minute vascular details clearer, avoiding post-operation complications, as s/he operates upon the patient with the robotic arm. Earlier, Dr Sharique Nazir, a New York City-based, board-certified robotic, bariatric and laparoscopic surgeon at Brooklyn, delivered a talk on robotic weight loss surgery as part of a conference organised by the gastrointestinal surgery department of the IGIMS on Saturday. He said sleeve gastrectomy, a robotic surgery in which people lose 60%-70% of excess body weight, was more prevalent as part of weight loss operation in the US now. It was also better than gastric bypass. Dr Nazir cautioned about obesity, a killer disease, people were yet to realise here. If uncontrolled, Bihar could soon be staring at an obese population, he added. “There’s a general tendency that people shy away from home-cooked food and instead opt for fast food, like burger, fried chicken, club sandwich, biryani, momo, all of which were not healthy and adds to obesity. These may lead to colon cancer, heart diseases, lung problem, cancer of breast and prostrate,” he said. He also cautioned parents about obesity in children and said they should not shower their love by allowing children to binge. “If you tend to eat more, the capacity of the stomach goes on increasing like elastic and it then becomes difficult to get it back to its original size by dieting and exercise. This is when you need surgical intervention in the form of bariatric surgery when the body mass index if 40 and above,” added Dr Nazir. Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent and head of the GI surgery department, IGIMS, said 20%-30% patients were coming to the institute due to complications arising out of obesity. He said the obese population was increasing by 25%-30% every year in the state. “If not checked, obesity will lead to hypertension, diabetes, thyroidism, asthma and related diseases,” added Dr Mandal. Prominet among others who attended were Dr Barnwal, president of the association of surgeons of India, Bihar chapter, Dr Abdul Ahmed Hai of the Paras-HMRI hospital, Dr Atul Verma of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology, Dr Sanjay Kumar, Dr Saket, Dr Amarjeet Kumar Raj, Dr Rakesh Kumar Singh and Dr Ashok Kumar Singh, all from the IGIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/igims-to-strive-for-robotic-surgery-in-a-year-101630169678983.html
28-08-2021||Ranchi||Investors’ Meet: Dalmia, Adhunik sign MoU with J’khand govt||Dalmia Cements and Adhunik Power, which already have their presence in the state, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Jharkhand government, pledging to invest worth crores in the state on the second day of the two-day investors’ meet in New Delhi on Saturday. Besides these two firms, Tata Steel and public sector steel giant SAIL expressed intent to invest several hundred crores as part of their mining expansion in the state over the next few years. “The two-day Summit witnessed a commitment of nearly ₹10,000 crore worth investments in Jharkhand in the coming months, leading to around 20,000 direct and around 1.5 lakh indirect employment,” an official said. Wooing investors, chief minister Hemant Soren also unveiled the Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, which was passed by the state cabinet couple of months back. “The state government wants to move forward with the cooperation of the investors. We are trying to leverage the infinite resources that nature has gifted to Jharkhand and walk the path of development,” said Soren. The Dalmia group signed the MoU pledging investment worth ₹758 crore in the field of cement grinding, solar power generation and municipal waste management, while the Adhunik power pledged investment worth ₹1900 crore in developing an industrial park. Tata Steel representative signed a letter of intent investing ₹3000 crore in expansion of iron and coal mines and downstream value-added steel portfolio in next three years, while PSU SAIL pledged investment of ₹4000 crore in their Gua mines in next three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/investors-meet-dalmia-adhunik-sign-mou-with-j-khand-govt-101630169677874.html
28-08-2021||Other||Sand worth ₹179 crore missing from mining dept stocks in Rohtas||At least 5.27 crore cubic feet (cu ft) of sand worth ₹179 crore disappeared from the mining department stocks in a span of three months, from May to July this year, assistant director, mining department, Gopal Kumar said.The theft was detected during the physical verification done by the mining department’s project management unit (PMU). A total of 5.76 crore cu ft sand was stored at 17 different locations, out of which only 49.27 lakh was found available during verification, Kumar said.The mining department alleged that the theft of sand was committed by the licensee Aditya Multicom Pvt Ltd (AMPL) and registered FIR against the company in the first week of August.Cases under concerned sections of the Indian Penal Code and Bihar mining minerals rules, 2019, were registered against the AMPL, Kumar said.Meanwhile, the AMPL denied the allegations saying that the department had cancelled its K-licence (permit for stocking the sand for sale in the off-season) and seized the stored sand in July this year. Hence, the officials in the custody of the seized sand were responsible for the theft. The AMPL also approached the Patna High Court and filed a CWJC in this regard.The AMPL had surrendered its mining licence in the last week of April this year, alleging huge losses due to illegal sand mining and its transportation and the same was not stopped despite several request letters sent to district and state officials.Later, following the pressure of officials, the company then obtained K-Licences from the department to store sand at 17 different locations in the Rohtas district to sell in the off-season. The license was valid up to December 31, 2021.On May 1, the K-License of the company was suspended by the department till the verification of the stock. On May 4, the sub-divisional magistrates of Dehri and Bikramganj, besides Kumar, verified the stocks and found 4.83 crore cu ft sand stored at 17 locations. In July’s first week, the mining department cancelled the K-License of the company stating violation of rules at storage points.Later in July, the department’s Project management unit (PMU) again conducted physical verification, in which it was found that out of a total of 5.76 crore cu ft sand (figure as stated by the PMU) stored at 17 points, only 49.27 lakh was available there.AMPL manager Pankaj Kumar Singh said that the entire process raised some serious questions. When 4.83 crore cu ft sand was found stored at 17 points during physical verification by local officers, how its measurement increased to 5.76 crore cu ft in the verification later done by the PMU?Mining department was the custodian of the stored sand after AMPL’s licence was cancelled. “The company paid the royalty of mining settlement and K-License in advance but was deprived of selling the sand. AMPL has knocked on the door of Patna HC and will surely get justice,” Singh said.Meanwhile, CPI-ML Kaimur district secretary and environment activist Vijay Yadav said that the mining and other officials concerned who ignored such huge theft that could not have been committed in a day or a week were also responsible. Yadav requested Patna HC to take cognizance of the matter to expose the racket behind illegal sand mining.In July this year, Aurangabad SP, Dy SPs of Aurangabad and Dehri and SDM of Dehri were among the 17 top officials suspended by the state government for their alleged involvement in illegal sand mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sand-worth-179-crore-missing-from-mining-dept-stocks-in-rohtas-101630169676764.html
28-08-2021||Other||80-yr-old man shot dead, wife injured||Armed criminals allegedly shot dead a 70-year-old farmer and injured his wife over a land dispute at Chanan village under Charaiya police outpost late on Friday, said sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Imtiyaz Ahmad. The deceased has been identified as Baleshwar Mahto.“The body was sent to Sadar hospital for autopsy. No FIR has been lodged till now,” SDPO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80yrold-man-shot-dead-wife-injured-101630169675640.html
28-08-2021||Other||Now, ‘BH series’ registration for seamless vehicle transfer across states||Lucknow: The government as well as private sector personnel no longer need to get a fresh registration for their new vehicle on their transfer and relocation of the vehicle to another state, provided they opt for the new registration mark under Bharat-series (BH-series)) introduced by the government. The new rules notified by the ministry of road transport and highways on August 26 will come into effect in the country from September 15. “To facilitate a seamless transfer of vehicles, the ministry of road transport and highways, vide notification dated August 26, 2021, has introduced a new registration mark for new vehicles, i.e. Bharat series (BH-series),” transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said. “A vehicle bearing this registration mark shall not require assignment of a new registration mark when the owner of the vehicle shifts from one state to another,” he added, quoting the notification. According to the new notification, the vehicle registration facility under Bharat series (BH-series) will be available on voluntary basis to defence personnel, employees of Central government/ state government/ Central/ state public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organizations, which have their offices in four or more states/Union territories. Also, the registration number/mark for BH-series vehicles, generated randomly through the portal after verification of working certification will be in black on white background and ‘shall’ be exhibited in the format YY BH #### XX format where YY will be year of fist registration and BH will stand for BH code for Bharat series. The existing system of getting a vehicle re-registered in another state on station relocation, Sahu pointed out, was quite cumbersome and taxing for the owners. Under Sction 47 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, a person is allowed to keep the vehicle for not more than 12 months in any state other than the state where the vehicle is registered, but a new registration with the new state- registering authority has to be made within the stipulated time of 12 months. To register a vehicle in another state after transfer, a vehicle user has to take No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the parent state for assignment of a new registration mark, after the road tax on pro rata basis is paid in the new state. “This provision to get refund from the parent state on pro rata basis is a very cumbersome process and varies from one state to another,” Sahu said. Under the new rules, however, the motor vehicle tax will be levied for two years or in multiple of two and not for 15 years. After completion of the fourteenth year, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied annually which shall be half of the amount which was charged earlier for that vehicle. “This new scheme will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across states upon relocation to a new state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-bh-series-registration-for-seamless-vehicle-transfer-across-states-101630169316101.html
28-08-2021||Other||The politics of delay: Swargate to Katraj metro route offtrack||PUNE: The Swargate to Katraj metro is getting delayed, thanks to the politicking among parties. While the standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given its nod to the corporation bearing Rs733 crore of the total project cost on 20 May this year, the proposal is lying before the general body for the past three months. On its part, the standing committee too gave its nod after a long time due to controversy over the route.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The proposal was approved by the standing committee and we were planning to give it the nod in the general body meeting. With the general body meeting being adjourned however, the proposal too got postponed.”Hemant Rasne, chairman of the standing committee, said, “We have given the nod to the proposal. Now, all parties need to give it the green signal in the general body meeting.”While all political parties are for the Swargate to Katraj metro, internal politics between various outfits has delayed the project. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) initially dragged its feet over finalising the route as some members were eager to divert it to Market Yard. Later, there was controversy over whether the route should be elevated or underground. While the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation gave both options, it was finally decided to stick with the underground route.According to BJP sources, plans were afoot to approve the proposal in the last general body meeting itself however opposition parties initially asked to postpone it, later requesting to give their nod after getting instructions from the bosses. Admitting that the proposal had been unnecessarily delayed, BJP leaders even said that had it been approved on time, they would have been able to blame the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government however now the entire blame for the delay had fallen on the BJP.Meanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city unit president Prashant Jagtap stated, “Our leader Ajit Pawar has clearly said not to bring politics into development projects. When the proposal comes for approval, the NCP will support it.”Whereas Congress party leader Gopal Tiwari objected to the project saying that the centre had given its nod to bearing only 10% of the total project cost as against 20%. Tiwari said that the central government had reduced its share in the project as it was biased against Pune city.Highlights of the projectTotal project cost ₹4,203 croreTotal length 5.5 kilometre and entire route undergroundRoute to have daily ridership of 6.68 lakhAccording to previous model, the central and state government would each bear 20% of the total project cost while the PMC would bear 10% and the rest would be raised as loanFor Swargate to Katraj, the central government will now bear only 10% of the total project cost as against the earlier 20%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-politics-of-delay-swargate-to-katraj-metro-route-offtrack-101630169135012.html
28-08-2021||Other||PMC seals 16 stalls in Deccan’s Hong Kong lane||PUNE The anti-encroachment squad of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Saturday, sealed 16 stalls at Pune’s popular Hong Kong lane in Deccan, on charges of violating corporation rules. The municipal corporation took action after it received complaints related to encroachment and also subletting of premises in violation of the terms and conditions signed with the civic body. A visit to the spot revealed that the shops were sealed by Saturday afternoon. Hong Kong lane is known for selling clothes, fashion accessories, purses and mobile covers at affordable prices, and is a very popular shopping destination.As the message of the crackdown spread, shopkeepers chose to keep shops shut. The shopkeepers did not speak to the media. However, a vendor said that the vendors were being harassed and targeted for no reason in the aftermath of Covid-19 losses.PMC’s anti-encroachment department head Madhav Jagtap said that the action has been taken as hawkers had sublet their premises to other hawkers. “After checking the details of 37 stalls, we found that 16 of them clearly violated rules and were sealed. They will have to comply with the directions of the PMC and fulfil conditions. Only after that will they be allowed to open,” he said.The survey report prepared by the anti-encroachment department states that the PMC had given certificates to hawkers in 2015 as per the hawkers’ rehabilitation policy. According to the guidelines, allocated space cannot sublet. Those who had sublet the spaces, upon detailed inquiries, were found out by the anti-encroachment.Fire brigade chief Prashant Ranspise, said that no fire audit has been carried out in Hong Kong lane till date.Hong Kong lane40 stalls37 checked16 anomalies detected and stalls sealedPutting hawkers in their placeThe anti-encroachment department of PMC has established 288 hawker zones in the city to rehabilitate hawkers. The hawkers carrying out business on busy roads and footpaths have been shifted to these designated places, identified after discussions with hawkers and their representatives.As per the Supreme Court’s order issued in September 2013, the civic administration allowed all vendors to operate in urban areas. Even the state government had given instructions to allow hawkers in the city. As per the Supreme Court’s direction and the state government’s resolution, the civic body framed a hawkers’ policy and began its execution in the city. The PMC passed a resolution to make 45 main roads and 153 chowks free of hawkers. With the policy being framed, PMC issued fresh approvals to new hawkers in the city and also conducted a biometric survey of these hawkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seals-16-stalls-in-deccan-s-hong-kong-lane-101630168775042.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Officials review arrangements for Kalyan Singh’s 13th day ceremony in Aligarh’s Atrauli||Aligarh district magistrate (DM) Selva Kumari J and the district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani on Saturday reviewed the preparations at Atrauli ahead of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh’s tryodashi ceremony (ritual on the 13th day after death) on September 1. Atrauli is the tehsil in Aligarh where the late leader’s ancestral village Madhauli is located.As VIP movement is expected in Atrauli on that day, all arrangements would need to be in place before then, the district magistrate said.“Arrangements are being undertaken keeping in view the locals’ attachment with the departed leader. Extra entry gates and exit routes will be there for the day when the rituals are to be performed. CCTV cameras would be installed to ensure smooth movement and strict vigil,” said the district magistrate. The rituals are likely to be held at Sri Ram Memorial Vedic Inter College.Besides security arrangements, fire brigade personnel and health department team would be stationed in the village on the day.Parking arrangements were reviewed and the passage to area where food is to be served was inspected. Officials also reached the spot where a helipad is coming up. Beside DM and SSP, chief development officer Ankit Khandelwal and other officers from the departments concerned were also present. Kalyan Singh, who was also a former governor of Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, died in Lucknow on August 21 after ailing for some time. His last rites were conducted with full state honours on the banks of the Ganga at Narora in Bulandshahr district of western Uttar Pradesh on August 23 in the presence of top leaders.Before the funeral, his mortal remains were brought to his home district Aligarh and then taken to Atrauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/officials-review-arrangements-for-kalyan-singh-s-13th-day-ceremony-in-aligarh-s-atrauli-101630168357191.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya set to have cruise service on Saryu in November||Pilgrims and tourists will soon get the opportunity to sail on the Saryu river in Ayodhya on a state-of-the-art luxury cruise ship.Known as the Ramayana Cruise Service, it is all set to start in Ayodhya before Deepotsav, scheduled in the first week of November. Operators of Alaknanda Cruiseline, which launched the Alaknanda cruise service in Varanasi three years ago, will operate the Ramayan Cruise Service as well with the support of the state tourism department, said a senior official familiar with the matter.Over 50% of the preparations have been completed to launch the service that will enable tourists to experience a blend of spirituality with luxury, he added. Vikas Malaviya, the director of Alaknanda Cruiseline, said, “We are very thrilled to launch the first-ever luxury cruise service— Ramayan Cruise Service— on the holy Saryu river in Ayodhya. We aim to give a mesmerising experience to the pilgrims. The ship will sail on the Saryu from one ghat to another.” “The cruise will have all luxury and facilities. At the same time, it will be equipped with all the essential safety and security features as per international standards. Interiors of the cruise are based on the theme of the Ramcharitmanas. As the devotees board the cruise, they will have a spiritual experience owing to the theme. The cruise ship has large glass windows in order that the pilgrims and devotees may experience and enjoy the beauty of the ghats,” he said. The 90-minute-long trip will be called the Ramcharitmanas Tour, Malviya said.“It would cover Ram Ghat, Laxman Ghat, Guptar Ghat and other ghats of the Saryu. The entire trip will be of around 16 kilometres,” he said. “Devotees would board the cruise at Ram Ki Paidi Naya Ghat. A film on important events from the birth of Lord Ram to his rajyabhishek (anointment) is being made exclusively for the trip. The film will be shown to the tourists and pilgrims on board the cruise, said Malviya. The tour will also have selfie points inspired by episodes of the Ramayana.After completion of the tour, the passengers will get off the cruise boat and attend the Saryu aarti, said Malviya. Equipped with a kitchen and pantry, the cruise vessel is being made in Kolkata and will reach Ayodhya in the first week of November. It has a hybrid engine system and bio-toilets. Malviya said he sought help from the department of tourism for the launch of the service and the officials gave a very positive response. Regional tourism officer (Varanasi) Keertiman Srivastava said if they ask, the kind of help and support was given to the Alaknanda Cruise service in Varanasi at the time of its launch, the same will be given to Ramayan Cruise Service in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-set-to-have-cruise-service-on-saryu-in-november-101630168355660.html
28-08-2021||Other||‘Few complaints after 15% waiver in school fees’||PUNE: The Divisional Fee Regulatory Committee (DFRC) has received only a handful of complaints following the state government issuing a government resolution (GR) earlier this month, waiving school fees for the academic year 2021-22 by 15%.While the Maharashtra cabinet decided to slash school fees for this academic year by 15% towards the end of July, an official notification for the same was issued only in August directing school management across all boards and mediums in the state to waive off 15% fees for the academic year 2021-22. The GR further stated that if parents had already paid the full fees, the school management would have to reimburse or adjust the fees next year and in case of any issues, the parents could file complaints with the DFRC.Audumbar Ukirde, deputy director of education, said that the DFRC has received only a few complaints. “A meeting has been arranged on August 31 to address the complaints that are with the DFRC. After the GR, all schools are expected to implement the fee reduction by 15% this academic year. Parents who have issues are requested to file a complaint with the DFRC,” Ukirde said.Meanwhile, the Mumbai High Court on August 25 issued an order that the Maharashtra government will not take any action against schools for not implementing the 15% fee waiver as per the GR. Anubha Sahai, president of the India Wide Parents Association (IWPA), said that they have asked the government to bring an amendment in the Fee Regulation Act through an ordinance.“The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government took a step where they passed an ordinance and made an amendment in the act itself. We want the Maharashtra government to take a similar step. The Supreme Court has also held that the government cannot regulate fees through a GR but the Maharashtra government has still issued the GR. By not passing the ordinance, the government is misleading and fooling the parents in Maharashtra,” Sahai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/few-complaints-after-15-waiver-in-school-fees-101630168114911.html
28-08-2021||Other||6 arrested in PCMC with 3kg of ambergris||PUNE: The forest department recovered 3kg of what is believed to be whale vomit, also known as ambergris, from six people from who allegedly smuggled the material into Maharashtra.The six people, including one woman, were arrested in Pimpri-Chinchwad, travelling in a car.The arrested men were identified as Muhamadnayin Mutmatali Choudary (58), Yogeshwar Sudhakar Sakhare (25), Anil Dilip Kamthe (45), Jyotiba Govind Jadhav (38), Krushnat Sripati Khot (59), and Sujata Tanaji Jadhav (44), according to the police.“They had brought it from Karnataka. This is mainly used for making perfumes. We are investigating where they were taking it or whom they were selling it to,” said Rahul Patil, district forest officer, Pune.The forest officials believe it to be the product which sells at a high price on the black market. The team led by Patil included Mayur Bothe and Pradeep Sankpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-arrested-in-pcmc-with-3kg-of-ambergris-101630167814906.html
28-08-2021||Other||District level committee formed to reduce man-animal conflict in Pune region||PUNE The Pune District Collectorate and the Forest Department, in association with other departments including some prominent NGOs, have formed a district-level committee to prevent man-animal conflict in the district. A meeting of all the stakeholders was chaired by district collector Rajesh Deshmukh this past week. The committee will come up with detailed guidelines for the citizens on issues related to man-animal conflict.Deputy conservator of forests Rahul Patil said that the district-level committee has been formed to educate the citizens on man-animal conflict and the manner in which they must handle any developing situation. The Maharashtra government has already formed a committee which is to review manpower, infrastructure and related needs for reducing man-animal conflict. The state committee has issued directives to various departments on measures to be taken, including an awareness campaign to curb conflicts, like making funds available for the payment of compensation following damage caused to property and crops.The committee has also issued guidelines to control poaching and hunting which may cause man-animal conflict and recommended measures for implementation of guidelines. The district-level committees formed across the state will pursue legal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/district-level-committee-formed-to-reduce-man-animal-conflict-in-pune-region-101630167694966.html
28-08-2021||Other||Pune Animal husbandry dept says Kondhwa is hotspot for illegal breeding||PUNE A day after the Bombay High Court asked the state government for information on how many pet stores and breeding centres have valid licences and proper registration, the Pune District Animal husbandry department said it would be taking action against all illegal pet centres – breeders and sellers.Dr Shitalkumar Mukane, Pune district’s deputy commissioner of the Animal husbandry department said, “There are currently 40 registrations under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act in PMC and PCMC. This includes breeders as well as pet shops. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic our action against illegal breeders slowed down. Now, we have decided to intensify the action in PMC and PCMC. Normally, we receive 300 complaints of illegal breeders, pet shops and animal abuse, which is more than other districts. Most of the complaints are online.”The Bombay High Court also demanded a response from the Maharashtra Animal Welfare Board on illegal pet shops selling endangered species across the state.Mukane further said, “We have decided to concentrate on illegal breeding. People use congested and unhygienic places to breed animals, especially dogs. The animals are bred illegally in residential areas. Many illegal breeders are in the Kondhwa area. As per our calculation, there will be around 40-50 such illegal breeding operations in PMC and PCMC.” As per Animal Control Board, the government can issue a provisional permit for a pet shop or a breeding centre as per specifications mentioned, for one month. The Animal husbandry department then visits the site makes sure all the criteria is being fulfilled. The department will then issue a permit for one year, charging a fee of ₹5,000. This license will be renewed every year by paying ₹5,000. The government has also set up a district-level body, the Society for prevention of cruelty to animals (SPCA), to prevent cruelty to animal, and to assist with rehabilitation for maltreated and unwanted animals. It is a 17-member committee under the chairmanship of the district collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-animal-husbandry-dept-says-kondhwa-is-hotspot-for-illegal-breeding-101630167520133.html
28-08-2021||Other||PMC’s property tax collection crosses ₹1,000 crore till end-August||PUNE: The property tax department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has collected Rs1,001.88 crore in property tax till 27 August this year, crossing the ₹1,000 crore mark.Vilas Kanade, head of the property tax department, said, “Despite the covid-19 pandemic, citizens have responded well and deposited more than ₹1,000 crore in property tax within a few months. We are hoping to get more over the rest of the year.”“Between 1 April and 27 August, 2020, a total 5.54 lakh citizens paid ₹790 crore property tax. During the corresponding period this year, a total 6.26 lakh citizens paid property tax and the total tax amount is ₹1,001.88 crore,” Kanade said.As incentive, the corporation is offering a rebate to citizens paying tax in the first two months of the financial year. “Only five months of the financial year are over while seven remain. We will try to get the maximum tax in the remaining months and emphasise on our employees concentrating on defaulters,” Kanade said.Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee, said, “I am thankful to citizens. Despite the lockdown, the PMC last year got the highest property tax. This year too, citizens are coming forward and paying tax. I am introducing various schemes to get more revenue.”“This year, our target from all sources is more than ₹8,000 crore and I am confident that this year’s revenue will be the highest in the history of the PMC,” Rasane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-property-tax-collection-crosses-1-000-crore-till-endaugust-101630167214926.html
28-08-2021||Other||Mayor scraps circular to collect ₹10 lakh in fines every day for not wearing masks||PUNE: Mayor Murlidhar Mohol has scrapped the disaster management department’s order to collect ₹10 lakh daily in fines for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance as part of the Covid-19 protocol.Earlier, Madhav Jagtap, head of the disaster management department, issued a circular instructing all ward offices to intensify the drive against not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance. While issuing the circular, the department also instructed the ward offices to collect ₹10 lakh daily in fines for not following Covid-19 norms.While the move to bolster the drive against Covid-19 was welcomed, some officials who did not wish to be identified said, “It is good that the drive against not using masks and not maintaining social distance is being strengthened however setting a target for collection of fines is wrong. The intention should be to create awareness and not collect fines.”Even as the circular went viral on social media, the mayor intervened and instructed the civic administration to scrap it. “I asked to cancel the circular. It is good to ask citizens to wear masks. However, it is not clear on what basis the department set the target to collect ₹10 lakh daily in fines. I have asked for an explanation for the same,” the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mayor-scraps-circular-to-collect-10-lakh-in-fines-every-day-for-not-wearing-masks-101630166974865.html
28-08-2021||Other||Pune district slated to have 38 oxygen plants operational by end of September||PUNE Pune district is slated to have 38 oxygen plants operational by the end of September, of which 12 have already been installed and three have been installed this week. These 15 oxygen generation plants have already started operations. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, Pune city did not have any oxygen-generation plants and was dependent on oxygen cylinders as per patient requirements. However, now, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run major hospitals have oxygen generation plants set up with the help of CSR funds and government aid. Of the 38 oxygen generation plants, six are being set up with the help of CSR funds and the installation process would start soon. For the remaining, procurement orders have been placed through private companies who have come forward to provide help and the administration has stated that by September-end these plants would be set up. Two would be set up by SDRF/NDRF/DPC, said officials.Ravindra Bhinwade, additional municipal commissioner said, “During the pandemic, the health infrastructure was ramped up as per the requirement, especially since Pune was a hotspot in both the waves. Civic hospitals were equipped with all necessary health machinery to ensure that more lives could be saved. This includes procuring ventilators and also oxygen- generation plants. These plants are now permanent structures and so even after the pandemic, the plants would be used for various other surgeries and treatments where oxygen is required.”The 38 oxygen generation plants include the 15 plants which have been started at Wipro, District hospital, Aundh, Pune Cantonment Plant (2), Jumbo Covid Centre Awsari, Bawada, Indapur, Sub-District Hospital (SDH) Indapur, Nursing School Baramati, and rural hospitals in Chandoli Khed, Rui Baramati, Kale Colony Maval, Kanhe Phata Vadgaon, Maval, Manachar, Narayangaon, and Junnar. The plants yet to be installed are at Baramati Medical College (2), Cantonment Board Pune (3), and rural hospitals in Supa Baramati, Saswad and Shiroli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-slated-to-have-38-oxygen-plants-operational-by-end-of-september-101630166674823.html
28-08-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal provides relaxation to coaching centres, can open at 50% capacity||The West Bengal government gave a major relaxation to coaching centres for competitive examinations while extending other restrictions already in place till September 15. Announcing the additional relaxations, the state government said coaching centres for competitive examinations may remain open with 50% capacity “following Covid appropriate protocols and regular sanitization of the centres.” The relaxation will come into effect starting September 1.On Friday, West Bengal recorded 703 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) of which Kolkata accounted the most among districts with 112 new infections. The state health department said in a bulletin that West Bengal registered eight virus-related fatalities, taking the overall death toll to 18,410.Out of the eight Covid-related deaths, two were recorded in Murshidabad and one each in Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Hooghly, North 24 Paraganas, South 24 Paraganas and Kolkata.The total active cases marked a decline with the recovery rate increasing to 98.22 per cent.The decision regarding further extension of most of the restrictions was taken after the recommendation from the state executive committee of the West Bengal state disaster management authority.Also Read | Are we entering a new phase of Covid-19?The government said that all outdoor activities including the movement of people and vehicles will be strictly prohibited between 11pm to 5am. Health services, law and order, essential commodities including agricultural produce and other emergency services will remain exempt from these restrictions.The state government suggested that work from home must be encouraged as far as “possible and practical.” It also urged the public to wear masks, maintain physical distancing and health and hygiene protocol at all times.Directing the district administration, police and local authorities to ensure strict compliance with the order, the government warned that any violation of the restriction measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-provides-relaxation-to-coaching-centres-can-open-at-50-capacity-101630165733468.html
28-08-2021||Other||Vax stock re-supply aimed at beneficiaries due for second dose in Pune||PUNE To prioritise vaccinations for those awaiting their second dose, the state government has allocated 1.94 million doses Covishield and Covaxin doses. According to officials, there are as many as 2.38 million beneficiaries awaiting their second dose in Maharashtra, many of whom are from Pune.According to state health department, Pune district has 186,354 beneficiaries awaiting their second dose. The fresh stock is expected to arrive by Sunday, following which the district administration has been asked to ramp-up vaccination and prioritise second-dose beneficiaries by Monday, planning maximum sessions at the Covid vaccination centres (CVC). As per the state health department directives to districts, the administration should plan the most number of Covid vaccination sessions on August 30 at government centres and ensure that this new stock is administered as soon as possible. The state has ensured that all districts in Maharashtra, as of August 27, have 1,607,366 beneficiaries due for the second dose of Covishield, and 775,508 beneficiaries due for their second dose of Covaxin. All 35 districts would receive 1,570,020 doses of Covishield and 371,070 doses of Covaxin by Monday. The distribution has been as per 97.6% of second dose for Covishield and 47.8% of second dose for Covaxin. Pune district which ironically also houses the Serum Institute of India, supplying Covishield doses in India, has the highest number of people awaiting their second dose. As of August 27, Pune district has 131,020 doses of Covishield due, all for second dose, and 25,070 doses of Covaxin. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer did not respond despite repeated attempts. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has had to shut down its vaccination centres on multiple occasions in August due to the shortage of vaccines. Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said, “There are over 2 million people who have got their first dose and are awaiting their second dose, but this also includes people who would have got the first shot just yesterday, which does not technically make them available for the second shot immediately, as per the current 12-16-week gap between two doses criteria. We have had to shut down our centres on multiple occasions this week, but we have also registered the highest single day vaccinations of 60,000 in a single day, including both private and government, in August. So the supply has been quite fluctuating. If we get these doses on Sunday, we can organise 230 sessions in the city and vaccinate at least 200 in a day or even finish the entire stock in a day as we have the manpower and infrastructure ready with us. In addition to reminder messages through the Cowin app to those awaiting their second dose, we have also instructed our staff at the CVC and ward levels to call beneficiaries to remind them to get their second dose as it is essential to ensure vaccination is completed.” Pune district has highest number of beneficiaries in state due for second dose- As of August 27, Maharashtra has 1,607,366 beneficiaries due for a second dose of Covishield and 775,508 due for Covaxin. - State to supply 1,570,020 doses of Covishield and 371,070 doses of Covishield, both for second doses due. - Pune district has the highest number of beneficiaries due for their second dose, with 25,070 beneficiaries awaiting the second dose of Covaxin and 131,020 beneficiaries awaiting their second dose of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vax-stock-re-supply-aimed-at-beneficiaries-due-for-second-dose-in-pune-101630165834819.html
28-08-2021||Bhopal||Jobless engineer in Madhya Pradesh kills teenage son, dies after consuming poison||Depressed over being jobless for the last few months, a 56-year-old civil engineer allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison after killing his teenage son by slitting his throat with a tile cutter at their residence on the outskirts of Bhopal, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred during the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, they said. His wife, 50, had also consumed poison with the man and he had tried to kill his 14-year-old daughter by slitting her throat like his son. However, the mother-daughter duo has survived and they have been admitted to a hospital, a police official said, adding that the girl is said to be in a critical condition. "The man, Ravi Thackeray, was jobless for the last three months. Due to the financial hardships and depression, he and his wife Ranjana, 50, decided to end their lives and also kill their two children at their residence in Sahara Estate Township," Misrod Police Station Inspector Niranjan Sharma told PTI. "The couple slit the throats of their children using a tile cutter and then consumed poison. While their 16-year-old son Ritesh died, their daughter Gunjan survived," he said. The mother-daughter duo has been admitted to the government-run Hamidia hospital, while the bodies of the man and his son have been sent for post-mortem, the inspector said. A case has been registered in this connection, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/jobless-engineer-in-madhya-pradesh-kills-teenage-son-dies-after-consuming-poison-101630162205224.html
28-08-2021||Other||Police register assault case against ex-corporator Vivek Yadav||PUNE The Pune police registered a second case against former BJP corporator from Cantonment Vivek Yadav, for threatening and assaulting a man. A complaint against Yadav was lodged by Akbar Pirsab (35), a resident of Yewalewadi area of Pune. He told the police that Yadav had accosted and assaulted him earlier in the year. Yadav had been arrested earlier for plotting the murder of another man. “Yes, another case has been registered at Lashkar police station. He had blocked the complainant’s vehicle and assaulted him. They are from rival groups in the area,” said Ashok Kadam, senior police inspector, Lashkar police station.Yadav was arrested by Pune police in another case registered at Kondhwa police station for plotting the murder of a man who had shot at him in 2016. Yadav was accused of plotting the murder after two men who were found with guns claimed that they were paid by Yadav to kill a man named Bablu Gawali.In July, the Pune police invoked the stringent Maharashtra control of organised crime act (MCOCA) against Yadav and the others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-register-assault-case-against-ex-corporator-vivek-yadav-101630162894767.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow is a thriving fashion hub: Jagnoor||Fashion choreographer, model trainer and reality TV artiste Jagnoor Aneja finds Lucknow as the new hub of fashion in the country.“It’s growing by leaps and bounds as a new thriving fashion industry. Though pandemic has slowed the pace of work that was happening in the state but nevertheless it will soon bounce back for sure,” says Aneja who has been integral part of over 80 fashion shows held in UP alone in the last few years.Talking about the art and craft of the city, he shares, “Lucknow is best known for a vast variety of hand embroidery work. The work is absolutely incredible and is difficult to find it elsewhere in the country. The artisans weave in magic with every piece and that’s the reason each part of it is truly exclusive. Not just Lucknow art of other cities of the state too is exemplary and admirable. Be it chikankari, mukaish, zardozi, aari, dabka you name it you have it all. I hope more efforts are put by the government for the artisans to survive this tough phase.”Aneja adds, “When you have such strong backing of art and craft then sky should be the limit for the youth there. I have noticed that the UP youngsters have awakened to the fact that they are nowhere less than the metro city lot. During my pre-pandemic show in the city, I got to train and meet a large number of local models. And, what took me by surprise was to see how well-equipped most of them were and how remarkably they were making use of social media to carve a path for themselves,” he adds.Being a trained choreographer, Aneja has also been part of reality shows like both the seasons of Love School and Hear Me Love Me. “I am open to more work on TV as a performer though I am more connected with the entertainment industry as a fashion trainer. So maybe you do get to see me doing a few acting projects in near future along with many fashion shows,” he adds..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-is-a-thriving-fashion-hub-jagnoor-101630158875471.html
28-08-2021||Pune||26-year-old woman gang-raped in Pune’s Janata Vasahat, four arrested||The Pune city police arrested four men for sexually assaulting a 26-year-old woman in Janata Vasahat on Friday evening.The alert citizens of Janata Vasahat called the police as they heard the victim’s screams, according to a statement issued by the police.“The woman is in a state of shock and not able to tell us much about the incident. Her family members are also clueless about how she reached the Swargate bus stand area from where one of the accused put her in an autorickshaw and brought her to Janata Vasahat. The place where they were found belonged to one of the accused. We will know more about the woman’s condition after the medical examination is conducted,” said Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3 of Pune police.On Friday evening, the police received a call through the control room reporting commotion from a closed room in Janata Vasahat.The police issued a statement claiming that the people of lane 8 in Janata Vasahat reported screams of a woman coming from a room in the slum. The bet marshals of Dattawadi police station reached the spot and heard the screams, according to the statement.“In order to help the woman, the police broke open the door and gained access to the room. This allowed them to arrest the four men who were preparing to flee the spot. Prima facie it was confirmed that the four had gang-raped the woman which is why they were arrested immediately,” read the statement.The woman was rushed to the Sassoon General Hospital for a test and medical treatment.A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 376(d), and 342 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/26yearold-woman-gang-raped-in-pune-s-janata-vasahat-four-arrested-101630157856807.html
28-08-2021||Pune||Security guard run over by PMPML e-bus in Wakad||A security guard returning home after completing a night shift was killed in a road accident by a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd. (PMPML) e-bus on Friday morning.The deceased has been identified as Santosh Devram Shinde (48), a resident of Anant Park in Rahatani. While the bus driver has been identified as Santosh Dattatray Pol (38), a resident of Jagtapnagar in Thergaon.The driver was not arrested in the case yet.The deceased man’s friend, Hanumant Pandurang Pawar (45), who works as a security guard, was injured in the accident but escaped. Pawar, who is also a resident of Thergaon, was riding the bike and is the complainant in the case against Pol.The incident happened around 7:20 am on Friday when the two were crossing from under the Athvan bridge in Thergaon. The two were riding on a motorbike owned by the complainant and registered in Nigdi.“They both worked together. They had finished a night shift and were going home early in the morning when the accident took place,” said police sub-inspector Deepak Kadabane of Wakad police station, who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 337, 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/security-guard-run-over-by-pmpml-e-bus-in-wakad-101630157555058.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Anil Vij takes dig at Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday took a dig at the Congress and its Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, indicating that the party will collapse soon. Referring to Sidhu’s announcement to the Congress leadership on Friday that if he is not allowed to take decisions, he will hit back hard, Vij said: “Sidhu is talking about a brick for a brick. When a mason lifts the bricks of his own house and starts throwing them, then it is not too long before that house collapses.” Also read: BJP files police complaint against Sidhu’s ex-adviser MaliVij, who is undergoing treatment at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) after complaining of breathlessness last week, issued the statement in Chandigarh. Addressing a gathering of traders in Amritsar, Sidhu said that if he was not allowed to take decisions, he won’t spare anyone. “Aj v mai high command nu iko gal keh k ayan, ke je mai aes Punjab model de utte, ehna lokan dian asan te khra utrun, mai agle vi (20) saal Congress nu rajniti ichon jan na daun. Lekin je tusi mainu nirnai ni lain devonge, ta fer mai itt naal vi itt kharkaun, ta fer mai vi itt naal itt kharkaun. (I’ve conveyed to the high command that if I meet public expectations through the Punjab model, I’ll not let the Congress lose political ground for the next 20 years. But if you don’t allow me to make decisions, my actions can be destructive),” Sidhu had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-minister-anil-vij-takes-dig-at-punjab-congress-chief-navjot-sidhu-101630152454800.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's Nariman Point will be under water by 2050, says civic body chief; explains why||Within 25 to 30 years, South Mumbai's Nariman Point, the state secretariat will go be engulfed by the rising seawater level, Mumbai municipal corporation Iqbal Singh Chahal has recently said. There are enough warnings that nature is giving, but if people do not wake up, the situation will take such a dangerous turn that 80 per cent of areas like Cuffe Parade, Nariman Point and Mantralaya will just disappear, Singh said. The disaster will not be for the next generation to witness, the civic chief said, adding that people from this generation only will see it as it might take place in another 25 years.Climate experts have observed that Mumbai, of late, witnessed some extreme weather conditions, the latest being the recent thunderstorm that took place in the city in July.In 2020, cyclone Nisarga hit Mumbai fr the first time in 129 years and then in the last 15 months, there have been three cyclones. "On August 5, 2020, about 5 to 5.5 feet water was accumulated at Nariman point. There was no cyclone warning that day, but considering the parameters, it was a cyclone," Chahal said."Earlier, we used to hear about climate change events like melting glaciers, but not directly affecting us. But now it has come to our doorstep," he added.This year's monsoon has been erratic as the city received maximum rainfall before the scheduled date of the monsoon's arrival. Before June 9, Mumbai recorded 84 per cent of the June rainfall. In July too, instead of being equally distributed across the month, the maximum rainfall took place over four days."The four-year period between 2017 and 2020 has seen a steady increase in the extremely heavy rainfall events. This indicates that the frequency of such extreme weather events is increasing for the city of Mumbai especially over the past four years," said Lubaina Rangwala, associate director, WRI India Ross Center for Sustainable Cities.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-nariman-point-will-be-under-water-by-2050-says-bmc-chief-explains-why-101630146958078.html
28-08-2021||Patna||64 lost kids unite with parents in a year with the help of Aadhaar Card||One can well imagine the meaning of tears of joy rolling down the cheeks of a mother having found her son after a five-year-long agonising wait. She was overwhelmed as she hugged the 12-year-old boy trying to come to terms with the quirk of fate. He was lost when he was just seven.Bihar’s child welfare committee members were witnesses to the emotionally charged scene after they went there to unite the mother with her son. The child could not even tell his address or any nearby place due to the tender age when he got separated.It was made possible using the Aadhaar Card. As part of the campaign, the state child protection committee, under the social welfare directorate of the Bihar government, launched a campaign to get the Aadhaar Card made for all the inmates of homes. This detected those who already had Aadhaar enrolment in their names.Uniting lost children with their family members is a tough task, but so far, Bihar’s social welfare department has been able to do that not with one or two of them, but 64 children, including seven girls, in the last one year, thanks to technology and Aadhaar number. Earlier, despite a lot of effort, it was quite difficult to locate the families of the lost children, especially those who strayed at a tender age.Social welfare director Rajkumar said that all the children kept in the homes were being enrolled for their unique identification and those who already had their Aadhaar enrolment were immediately detected. “In those cases, we write to the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to get the card of the child, which carries their phone number and address,” he said. He informed that from Bhagalpur child care home two of the three children, including one speech and hearing impaired child, were rehabilitated using technology and Aadhaar.Once the cards arrive in a sealed envelope due to security reasons, they are handed over to the concerned homes, where the cards are opened. “If the phone number is found working, it makes the job easier in locating the families. If it is not working or there is no mobile number, the address is located with the help of child protection units of the concerned area,” said the director.He said that Aadhaar was turning out to be a big help in locating families of lost children and we are hopeful that in the coming months, a large number of children will reach their homes. “In some cases, the families were emotionally overpowered on seeing their kids back safe after having given up. Some of the children, including special children, united with their families not only in various districts of Bihar but also in West Bengal and Jharkhand, after having spent years at care homes,” he added.The campaign to ensure the Aadhaar enrolment of every child living in care homes started in 2019 following the Centre’s directive in this regard. The Centre put in place a standard operating procedure (SOP) for state authorities to add all kids in orphanages or childcare homes to the Aadhaar database and Bihar implemented it to reap its benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/64-lost-kids-unite-with-parents-in-a-year-with-the-help-of-aadhaar-card-101630148736410.html
28-08-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||Anusrii Fabricss’ sustainable livelihood for rural IndiaPune-based emerging entrepreneur Anuradda Iyer has launched ‘Anusrii Fabricss’, in support of rural India. Iyer has focussed on two pertinent issues while setting up her business - good health and preservation of the environment.“We have endeavoured to incorporate our age-old legacy in the fabrics of our products. A legacy that encourages the use of natural fibres, natural colours and natural medicinal properties in fabrics,” says Iyer.All the products are available online currently, through a user-friendly portal. These unique products are plant based and organic. Smartworks leases 0.56 million sq ft in BanerManaged office space provider Smartworks has leased a total of 0.56 million sq ft, encompassing 8,500 seats at M-AGILE, Baner. It is already 40 per cent pre-booked by IT/ITeS, BFSI and manufacturing clients and is scheduled to be operational in September. JLL, the real estate consultancy firm, facilitated the transaction. Neetish Sarda, founder, Smartworks, said, “Our growth has been driven by customer requirements for flexible office spaces that support collaboration, innovation and productivity. We are excited about this new location as it’s the largest in our portfolio and the flex office space segment.”“Flex space stock has grown in the Pune city by over four times from 0.7 million sq ft in 2017 to 3.0 million sq ft in 2021. Going forward, we expect the flex space market in Pune to reach about 5 million sq ft by 2022,” said Sanjay Bajaj, managing director - Pune, Logistics and Industrial, India, JLL.Ruptok Fintech launch operations in Pune, five other citiesRuptok Fintech, a gold-tech platform for loans, has announced the launch of operations in six cities including Jaipur, Vadodra, Surat, Pune, Nashik, and Hyderabad.The company intends to strengthen its foothold as a leader in the emerging gold-tech landscape across the nation. The company will be employing over 90 people across roles in these cities. It has plans to be present in 27 cities by the end of FY22.Ankur Gupta, founder and CEO, Ruptok Fintech said, “We realised the appetite of loans against gold is intensifying in multiple cities. We did in-depth research to understand the potential of such markets that need utmost consideration at this moment. Catering to the immediate lending requirements of the borrowers, we introduced our services in six new cities across the nation as our business model is agnostic to these locations.”Poonawalla Fincorp signs MoU with ICSIPoonawalla Fincorp Limited has signed an MoU with Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) to provide collateral-free term loans to ICSI members as well as its employees. The scheme will benefit over 65,000 ICSI members across the country.The scheme offers an attractive interest rate, zero prepayment charges and host of other attractive benefits. The scheme is powered by a completely digital and 100% paperless process along with e-agreement for fully online offering.CA Abhay Bhutada, managing director, Poonawalla Fincorp Limited said “We believe that for entrepreneurial growth to thrive, professionals like company secretaries need to be supported in fulfilling their financial needs. This scheme is a step in this direction.”Bajaj Group and ZP to conduct vaccination drive in rural PuneBajaj Group in collaboration with Pune Zila Parishad will hold a mega vaccination drive on August 31, 2021, in rural Pune across various centres in 13 talukas. The initiative aims to reach Covid-19 vaccines to the residents of remotest parts of Pune Rural, in order to stay protected against the likely third wave of Covid-19. Bajaj Group companies - Bajaj Auto and Bajaj Finance Ltd., have shared 1.5 lakh doses of Covidshield vaccine with Zila Parishad. The vaccination drive will be conducted in the talukas of Ambegaon, Baramati, Bhor, Daund, Haveli, Indapur, Junnar, Khed, Maval, Mulshi, Purandar, Shirur, and Velha, in Pune.Individuals above the age of 18 will be vaccinated, with a special focus on senior citizens, the differently abled, pregnant women, lactating mothers, and people with comorbidities.Pankaj Ballabh, CSR Head, Bajaj Group said “In the ongoing fight against Covid-19, we all need to come forward in ways more than ever before, to ensure that all the citizens of our country have access to healthcare and other necessities of life. This is our effort to assist the authorities in order to win the war against Covid-19.”Effitrac Solutions announces partnership with RazorpayXEffitrac, an end-to-end business process technology SaaS platform that helps small and medium businesses to optimize their time, money, and resources, has partnered with RazorpayX.The new-age banking platform will empower Effitrac customers with payout links, book-keeping in autopilot mode, automated TDS, and give them access to capital services when needed through Effitrac’s Neobooks. Businesses can even integrate with Razorpay payment gateway to accept the incoming payments.Logesh Velusamy, Founder and CEO of Effitrac, said, “The partnership with RazorpayX will help our customers open a fully accessible digital current account, like a bank. With hassle-free transaction experience, seamless book keeping and highly secured easy user interface, business owners can focus on growing their business rather than worrying about digitalizing their financial processes. RazorpayX will improve the capabilities of our Neobooks and will make it a one-stop solution to meet all business transaction needs of such businesses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101630147895752.html
28-08-2021||Other||Pune Startup Mantra: Repos aims to be the ‘Amazon’ for fuel delivery in India||The ability to address a problem with a cost-effective solution is the base line for any startup in the world, but especially so in India.Pune-based entrepreneurs Chetan Walunj and his wife Aditi Bhosale-Walunj are the mission to redefine energy distribution in India. ‘Repos Energy’, their start-up, is a pure technology B2B platform that facilitates doorstep delivery of fuel through AI-enabled mobile fuel stations. Born and brought up in Rajgurunagar, Walunj is a BE Mechanical graduate. He met Aditi, a forensics and international relations student, in 2015. As the duo got to know each other, they decided to become partners – not just in their lives, but also in business. Till then Walunj was managing a fuel station opened by his father in 2006. That was a time when the Rajgurunagar-Chakan region was witnessing large-scale industrial activity. Many multinational companies had come in and they required fuel (diesel) on-site as a backup for generators.The problem As fuel stations were located on the highway, most companies used fuel tankers, or then jerry cans to carry diesel to their sites. This system was inefficient, to say the least. Besides, companies had to deploy workers, security personnel and a manager or supervisor to oversee this. Also, there was no accountability about how much fuel is being purchased, how much is wasted or stolen. Inside a company’s premises, everything was organised, however, diesel procurement was unorganised. The solutionThat’s when Walunj had his first thought of resolving this challenge faced by the industry. After completing his engineering in 2012-13, Walunj wanted to expand his fuel business to Pune. However, land setup cost had him having second thoughts. Says Walunj, “I asked my father whether it was possible to install a meter on a vehicle and start selling fuel on wheels? We discussed the idea with various companies, but it did not elicit positive response. We started meeting hotels, and malls coming up around Pune city. We went ahead with our plan and built 20 vehicles. Due to this innovative thinking, we became third-highest selling retail outlet of an oil marketing company (OMC) in India. We grew from 0.3 million litres to 3 million litres in sale of fuel per month.”Today, ‘Repos Energy’, facilitates doorstep delivery of fuel through AI-enabled mobile fuel stations. E-commerce for fuelThe real turning point came when Walunj met Aditi Bhosale in 2015. Says Walunj, “Aditi always had the dream of doing something larger than life. She used to say that we will solve a global problem. In 2016, we took some time off to think about our strategy, read a lot of books about Ratan Tata, Elon Musk, Steve Jobs and tried to understand how they managed to go global.”“That year, in July, due to heavy rains, power supply to the Senapati Bapat road area was disrupted for two days. Hotels, commercial complexes and malls in the area got hit as they had to make arrangements for additional diesel for their generators. I was getting frantic calls from establishment managers and was coordinating back and forth with the drivers. On the same day, we received a courier through Amazon and that’s when the idea of e-commerce for fuel clicked,” says Walunj.“We immediately pulled out some global statistics regarding fuel (especially diesel consumption), distribution losses and other factors. We also considered the disruption that would be caused by electric eehicles (EV), but then even if 10 per cent of vehicles are replaced by EVs – a very ambitious target - still there is a huge market for efficient diesel distribution. I convinced Aditi that this is the global idea we were looking for,” said Walunj.A policy moveSays Aditi, “The OMC liked our idea, but they did not respond positively as e-commerce in fuel was not legal in India. Luckily, there was a summit in Pune on biofuel where Dharmendra Pradhan, the then petroleum minister was attending. We got to meet him for five minutes and presented our concept of e-commerce in fuel to him in writing. A few days later he tweeted that his ministry was thinking of starting fuel e-commerce. Walunj said, “After we saw the tweet, we decided to begin our work. We started our office on Baner road. We hired our first few team members.”“In 2017, then commerce minister Suresh Prabhu had called a meeting of startups. All OMC officials, startup founders and other government officials were present. It was decided to conduct a pilot run of ‘doorstep diesel delivery’. Hindustan Petroleum did the pilot run in Mumbai, Bharat Petroleum in Delhi, while Indian Oil Corporation did it in Pune. Later it was decided to expand the pilot run to 51 smart cities,” he stated. “Repos did 32 of 36 pilots and all of them were successful,” claims Walunj. The decision to legalise doorstep delivery of fuel was announced after the 2019 general election results. Meanwhile, Repos had managed to sell two vehicles which were specially manufactured as AI-enabled mobile fuel stations. The Ratan Tata momentSays Aditi, “Chetan and I, both of us wanted Ratan Tata to be our mentor, as we wanted to dedicate our idea to India. We had gone to his house on October 1, 2017 and stood outside, wrote a letter and passed it inside. We had made a business plan on a paper with pen and pencil. On the business plan we had written ‘We want to change energy distribution in India. Please give us 15 minutes’. We went back to our room and then unexpectedly, my phone rang.”“Ratan Tata had given us time the next morning. He said to us that every sector like food, grocery, hospitals, has gone on tech, except the petroleum. It was his idea that we should manufacture the vehicles at our own factory as it was the core part of our business. He also told us that Tata Motors will help us manufacturing these vehicles and made calls to the company officials for us,” recalls Aditi. “We started with a 1,000 square feet factory and are now about 0.2 million square feet. Our vision is to become a global company with all the ‘Ratan Tata values’. “Ratan Tata believed in us and has invested an undisclosed amount from his personal account in our startup,” she proudly claims.Redefining energy distribution systemHow is Repos redefining the energy distribution system? Through the Repos Triangle. To explain this theory, Aditi quotes famous business magnate and philanthropist, Jack Ma, “Any organisation with an Iron Triangle Strategy would be the future for the next three decades.”By creating a Repos Triangle, the startup is bridging the gap between the three important aspects of energy distribution:•Enabling availability of energy through a robust e-commerce platform to meet the requirement of the end-user on a large scale•Producing efficient tools for energy distribution – These are Repos Mobile Petrol Pumps, which are manufactured at Repos innovation centre. These IoT-enabled vehicles ease logistics. Besides RMPP, Repos has innovated DATUM – a one-of-its-kind in-house fuel management solution that facilitates remote fuel storage and dispensing. These tools are built keeping international standards in mind for global use purposes.•The third solution of the Repos triangle is ensuring flexibility with payment procedures. For this, Repos has a finserv offering through ReposPay.Creating fueltrepreneurs After the e-commerce policy for fuel was announced, the immediate beneficiaries of this policy were largely existing fuel station owners. In order to promote startups and entrepreneurship in the petroleum industry, the government announced another initiative called fuel entrepreneurs. A typical fuel station requires 4,000 square feet and about 20 employees for operational purposes. However, mobile fuel station vehicles require only 4,00 square feet area with two employees to operate it. Government came up with the fuel entrepreneur concept where anyone – who doesn’t own a physical pump – can start a fuel station. Says Walunj, “Anyone can register themselves as a startup and apply for a tender with the OMC. The applicant becomes a reseller of fuel. Thereafter by simply buying the vehicle which has AI-enabled mobile fuel station, one can start fuel business. We have created 600 such fuel entrepreneurs – right from Beed, Jalgaon in Maharashtra to Jorhat in Assam.How Repos connects customers with fuel resellers?Repos’s tagline ‘Fueled by Yes’ says it all. Says Aditi, “A vehicle controller is connected to a customer’s mobile phone. With the help of Internet of Things (IoT) products, sensors are installed at the customer site to check fuel levels in their machines. The data collected from these devices is then analysed and intelligent inputs are suggested through the platform.”Adds Walunj, “For a customer, typically an IoT device cost ranges from ₹35,000 to Rs5 lakh. We are a purely tech company. We do not sell diesel. We have a data tool for diesel management. We have created a platform where there is a seller, trader who sells the fuel. We have made the buyers life easy by using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) to study the fuel consumption patterns.”Future plansWalunj and Aditi want to become a company that delivers all kind of fuel with minimum human interference. Hence, they are not just focussed on diesel, but also on CNG and are doing research work on electric vehicles and batteries. “We are also eyeing the commercial or transport vehicles as well as individual customers (B2C) in the next three to four years,” the duo said.Repos target is to sell 3,200 mobile fuel pumps across India by 2022. Repos created 500+ fuel startups in just 1 year. Repos has been granted three patents in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-startup-mantra-repos-aims-to-be-the-amazon-for-fuel-delivery-in-india-101630147115723.html
28-08-2021||Jaipur||Cardiac trouble due to post-Covid complications: Rajasthan CM Gehlot||A day after undergoing angioplasty, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said he was unable to go among the people during the past several days as he was suffering from post-Covid health issues.The 70-year-old Congress leader had tested positive for the viral infection in April and after recovery in May, he faced post-Covid issues.Gehlot issued a statement here, saying he was working day and night after recovering from the disease and did not get proper rest."I could not take proper rest as advised by doctors. Due to this, I am having post-Covid problems for so long. This is the reason why in the last several days, I was unable to go among the people of the state," he said in the statement.Gehlot had been targeted by the Opposition for some time for apparently not leaving his residence to meet people.The chief minister further said that he did not have cardiac issues before, and as per doctors, it is a post-Covid effect.Also Read| Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot undergoes angioplasty at SMS hospitalHe also thanked everybody for wishing him good health.Doctors say Covid has varied effects on people. It affects organs like the heart, brain, kidney, liver etc. Even after recovering from it, problems like headache, exhaustion and breathlessness persist, and so both Covid and post-Covid should be taken seriously, the chief minister added in the statement.He underwent angioplasty, a procedure to open clogged arteries, at a government hospital in Lucknow on Friday.Gehlot said he would be under supervision of doctors at the Sawai Mansingh Hospital (SMS) for the time being.He asked people to follow Covid-19 protocols, including mask, social distancing and hand washing, seriously, and get themselves vaccinated on time.The chief minister also urged people to consult a doctor if they have any symptoms after recovering from Covid as even the slightest negligence can be serious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cardiac-trouble-due-to-post-covid-complications-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-101630145156345.html
28-08-2021||Patna||‘Vehicles, construction works and brick kilns causing high particle air pollution in Patna’: Study||For the residents of Patna, especially the fitness freaks, it’s time to get alert as the air in Bihar’s capital is showing signs of high pollution. A study on Ambient Particulate Matter in Patna City (Bihar) 2021, jointly conducted by the TERI (Tata Energy Research Institute) and the Centre for Environment, Energy and Climate Change (CEECC), a wing of the ADRI (Asian Development Research Institute), under the direction of the Bihar State Pollution Control Board, has revealed some startling facts. According to the study, the concentration of ambient particulate matter (PM), or particle pollution in state capital’s air is much higher than the prescribed standards in summer and winter and that dust composed of either soil or road or construction materials is the major contributor of this particle pollution in both the seasons. The report also stated that during summer, the concentration of PM (Particulate Matter) 10 in state capital air was found to be 1.73 to 2.71 micrograms per cubic metre higher than the average standards while during winters PM 10 concentration here was 1.98 to 2.77 micrograms per cubic metre higher than the average standards. Even the concentration of PM 2.5, which is much tinier than the PM 10 and is far more dangerous ad hazardous for health, was found to be 1.37 to 3.28 higher micrograms per cubic metre higher than the average standards during the winter in the state capital. The biggest sources of this PM 2.5 in the city air were found to be brick kilns located around the state capital, as well as vehicular emissions, biomass burning, and dust coming from the shores of the Ganga River, roads and from the construction activities going on in the city. The study discussed the sources of air pollution in the city and also suggested some solutions. It recommended the creation of a green belt with local dense canopy tree species on the banks of river Ganga to stop windblown dust segments from entering the city. Use of cleaner fuels like gas, electricity instead of biomass, coal in brick kilns and other factories located in and around the city, improvement of vehicular inspection and maintenance programme in and around the city, enhancement of public transport system, preferably on electric modes and installation of electric charging infrastructure and the need to encourage people for non-motorized transportation within 5 to 6 km in the city and development of non-motorized lanes wherever possible within the city, were among other suggestions. The report, Receptor Modelling Based Source Apportionment Study of Ambient Particulate Matter in Patna City (Bihar) 2021, was released by the state minister of forests, environment and climate change, Niraj Singh, at a function in the state capital on Friday. “Global warming has been a global issue. The state government has been working tirelessly to mitigate its impacts and save the environment. Poor women have been given gas cylinders under the Ujjawala Yojna to stop pollution during cooking. We also have a target of the plantation of five crore saplings and we are about to achieve the target,” the minister said. Considering the need for regular monitoring of the air quality, testing centres are being set up in 24 districts, he added. The minister said people too needed to be made aware of the causes of air pollution and its impacts on life. Every individual has to make efforts in this direction, he added. Dr Ashok Kumar Ghosh, chairman, Bihar State Pollution Control Board, said that single-use carry bag has been banned in state as part of the effort to save the environment. But it needs to be implemented effectively, he added. S Chandrashekhar, member secretary, Bihar State Pollution Control Board, said that the study of the air quality in the state capital was conducted to see the exact situation. “Before making any development plans, we need to know the problems and their sources,” he said. This is why the study focused on the sources of air pollution and then the solutions were discussed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vehicles-construction-works-and-brick-kilns-causing-high-particle-air-pollution-in-patna-study-101630145915752.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||6,800 new beds to be set up in govt hospitals, will be helpful if Delhi sees another Covid wave: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that his government will add 6,800 more beds in government hospitals, adding these will be ready in six months. Kejriwal said there are nearly 10,000 beds in total in government hospitals in the national capital.“6,800 beds are being set up in government hospitals and this is an expansion of the health infrastructure. The current strength of around 10,000 beds in Delhi government hospitals will be increased by 70 per cent by setting up 6,800 more beds in the next six months,” the chief minister said while addressing a press conference after inaugurating cloverleaf ramps, service roads and cycle track at the Mayur Vihar Phase-one flyover.He pointed out these additional beds will be helpful if Delhi sees another wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and even if there is no wave, these beds will be permanently available for residents.Also Read| Delhi CM Kejriwal launches Mayur Vihar-I cloverleafAccording to Kejriwal, the Delhi cabinet has also decided to give a tender of ₹130 crore for the health management information system (HIMS) to a private company .सरकारी अस्पतालों के अंदर 6,800 नए बेड तैयार किए जा रहे हैं, ये बेड छह महीने में बनकर तैयार हो जाएंगे। आज दिल्ली के सरकारी अस्पतालों में 10,000 बेड हैं, ये 70% का इज़ाफ़ा है: दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री अरविंद केजरीवाल pic.twitter.com/p3NPm0sYmW“A portal is being made through which we will get to know how many beds are vacant in a hospital, which medicines are available, how many ventilators are available etc. All at the click of a button. People will no longer have to stand in long queues in hospitals. You can easily fix an appointment with the doctor on your phone,” the chief minister further said during the press conference.On being asked about the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, Kejriwal said it is under control.Also Read| Delhi private, unaided schools told to vaccinate staff ahead of Sept reopening“Currently we are seeing 30 to 40 to 50 Covid-19 cases on a daily basis and we are conducting 70,000 tests per day. The situation is under control. We will be reopening schools slowly. If the need to close them arises again, we will see.”He further claimed that parents who were earlier reluctant to send their children to schools, are now saying they want them to go to schools and study in a classroom setupThe Delhi government announced on Friday that it will reopen schools in a phased manner from September 1. Students of classes 9-12 will start attending schools from September 1 while students of classes 6-8 can join from September 8. The government also said that students will not be forced to attend schools and a consent of parents is mandatory if they wish to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-set-up-6-800-new-beds-in-govt-hospitals-to-be-ready-in-6-months-cm-101630145373327.html
28-08-2021||Pune||Minor girl stuck in roof collapse in Maharashtra’s Dapodi rescued after 3 hours||A minor girl was rescued 3 hours after being stuck behind the rubble after the roof of their second storey house collapsed in Dapodi area of Pune, officials said.The incident happened at around 9.30 am on Saturday in Fugewadi area of Dapodi.Poornima Madke (14) was pulled out from the rubble after being stuck under rubble for 3 hours. The mother of the rescued girl was identified as Manisha Madke who was rescued along with her younger daughter Narayani (4)."The house had one of those half-open bathrooms built inside a room. She was taking a bath when the roof came down and blocked her way. Because she was not clothed, she was very conscious about running out. One of the neighbours, who is like a brother to her, was daring enough to come inside the shifting structure as the wall was crumbling. We kept two bedsheets there for her and let him speak with her. She was given a helmet, so the falling rubble did not injure her head. Her feet were trapped under there for three hours so when she was pulled out wrapped in bedsheets, she had trouble balancing. She was rushed to the hospital immediately," said Hrushikant Chipade of Central fire station of Pimpri Chinchwad.The neighbour who helped the girl come out was identified as Mayur Punde.“We got a call around 9:45 am that a roof has collapsed. It is an old dilapidated house with no name. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot,” said an official of the fire brigade control room. A team from the National disaster response force (NDRF) also reached the spot to help with the rescue operation.The reason for the wall and roof collapse is not yet known.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-girl-stuck-as-roof-collapses-in-maharashtra-s-dapodi-rescue-on-101630140696400.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||HC grants divorce to Aurangabad man as wife uploads her profile on matrimonial sites||The Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench has granted divorce to an Aurangabad man after his estranged wife uploaded her profile on two matrimonial websites for a second marriage even as their divorce proceedings were pending before a family court at Akola. In her profile, the woman declared she was “awaiting divorce.”A division bench of justices AS Chandurkar and GA Sanap said the uploading of the profile was a clear indication that she has “decided to get rid of her estranged husband” and remarry even before the family could decide on their divorce.It noted in the profile, she has stated she is awaiting the divorce. “In our opinion, the respondent (wife) by uploading her profile on two matrimonial websites made her intention writ large,” said the court. “On the basis of this document, it can be inferred that she wanted to get rid of the appellant and perform the second marriage.”The couple got married in July 2014 and began living in Panjim, where the husband was posted at that time. But soon the woman started complaining she was uncomfortable in Panjim and insisted her husband give up his job and shift to Akola. The husband refused and this led to discord and about nine months after their wedding, in April 2015, the wife left Panjim to prepare for a competitive examination. She later took away all her personal belongings, prompting the husband to move the family court at Akola for divorce.On December 7, 2020, the family court dismissed the husband’s petition for divorce but granted him judicial separation on the ground of cruelty. The husband moved the high court, which on Friday granted him the divorce. The high court refused to believe the woman’s counterclaims that she was harassed for failing to meet dowry demands and was eventually driven out. It said the conduct of the woman was inconsistent with the facts stated by her - that as an obedient wife and daughter-in-law she performed her duties sincerely, but her husband and in-laws did not like her and wanted to get rid of her.The bench said the evidence clearly indicates the woman had no wish and desire to remain with her husband. “If the respondent had a sincere wish and desire to save her marriage, she would not have taken a conscious decision to perform the second marriage even before the final outcome of the divorce petition,” said the bench.The high court noted the woman lodged complaints with Panjim and Akola police as well as the employer of her husband. It added she levelled unsupported allegations against him. The court held the woman made the life of her husband miserable and therefore he was entitled to divorce also on that ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-grants-divorce-to-aurangabad-man-as-wife-uploads-her-profile-on-matrimonial-sites-101630139375140.html
28-08-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University professor booked for 'threatening to kill Mamata Banerjee'||A case was lodged against a professor of the Calcutta University for allegedly threatening on social media to kill Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, police said on Saturday.The case was registered against Arindam Bhattacharya, a professor of the Zoology Department, by the Hare Street police station on the basis of a complaint filed by Ph.D. scholar Tamal Dutta, a senior police officer said.Bhattacharya was booked under IPC sections 505 (1B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 506 (threat be to cause death or grievous hurt), and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), said Murlidhar Sharma, the joint commissioner of police (crime).The professor is yet to be taken into custody, police said.When contacted, Bhattacharya said, "I didn't make any comments against the chief minister. The complainant is a Trinamool Congress supporter. I am waiting for the police to take steps and only after that I will seek legal advice on this."The TMC-backed West Bengal College and University Professors Association condemned Bhattacharya's social media posts.In April 2012, Chemistry professor Ambikesh Mahapatra of Jadavpur University was arrested for allegedly forwarding a cartoon, lampooning the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-university-professor-booked-for-threatening-to-kill-mamata-banerjee-101630138410928.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal launches Mayur Vihar-I cloverleaf, says commuters will benefit a lot||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated the cloverleaf of the Mayur Vihar-I flyover on the Delhi-Noida link road and also launched cycle tracks, ramp, loop and service road on the flyover. This move will benefit commuters travelling from Mayur Vihar-I to Akshardham and from Noida to Mayur Vihar-I as they will have an easy ride to these destinations. “Inaugurated the new 'Cloverleaf' built on Mayur Vihar Phase-1 flyover today. With the opening of these loops and ramps related to Barapula Phase-3, now the people of Delhi will get a lot of conveniences. Especially people travelling between Delhi-Noida will benefit a lot from it,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi after inaugurating the cloverleaf.One loop of the cloverleaf will allow traffic coming from Noida to come down from the flyover and drive towards Mayur Vihar-I. The other loop will start from the Mayur Vihar-I side and join the flyover towards Akshardham.The 800-metre-long flyover was constructed by the Public Works Department (PWD) and opened for traffic in January 2019 but its loops were under construction. A PWD official said that the construction of cloverleaf was over long back but its opening was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and also because of streetscaping of a small portion of the road beneath the flyover, reports news agency PTI. "The delay occurred because of the construction work that slowed down due to restrictions on construction activities first due to rising pollution levels in winters and then shortage of material due to Covid-19 restrictions," the official said.Another PWD official said that some portion of the link road has also been widened near the flyover to accommodate the extra traffic. He said that the estimated cost of the construction of the two loops and widening of the road is approximately ₹40 crore.At present, the road beneath the flyover is closed because of construction activities hence motorists have to take a detour to reach destinations in central and New Delhi.The commuters going to Mayur Vihar-I from Noida have to travel nearly a kilometre extra to take a U-turn from underneath the NH-24 flyover. Vehicles going towards Akshardham from Mayur Vihar-I have to travel around a kilometre towards Noida to take a U-turn from underneath another flyover on the link road. With the cloverleaf of the flyover now opened, it will reduce the travel time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-launches-mayur-vihar-i-cloverleaf-says-commuters-will-benefit-a-lot-101630135662190.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi private, unaided schools told to vaccinate staff ahead of Sept reopening||The Delhi government on Saturday instructed private and unaided schools in the national capital to ask their teachers and other staff to get vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of the reopening for classes 9-12 from September 1. In a circular, the directorate of education (DoE) said that it is its prime concern to ensure the vaccination of all teachers and staff working in schools in Delhi and hence has directed such schools to get their inoculation immediately. “In the above context, all the private aided/unaided schools are also advised to facilitate their teachers and staff by making special arrangements for vaccination at schools/cluster levels in consultation and coordination with concerned authorities,” the DOE also said in the circular.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government announced on Friday that schools will be opened in a phased manner from September 1 for classes 9-12. For students of classes 6-8, the schools will reopen from September 8. However, schools for classes below 6 are not reopening as of now. The government pointed out that students of higher classes will not be forced to attend schools and the consent of parents is mandatory if they wish to return.Friday’s decision was taken amid an improvement in Delhi’s Covid-19 pandemic situation. A majority of the schools welcomed the government’s decision to resume physical classes from September and said they were already making arrangements to ensure students are safe and Covid-appropriate behaviour is adhered to.Medical experts are also in favour of reopening schools but have advised parents to be cautious by teaching all Covid protocols to their children.The national capital on Friday recorded 46 cases, 62 recoveries and zero deaths due to the viral disease. With this, the caseload has climbed to 1,437,656 including 25,080 deaths, 1,412,164 recoveries and 412 active cases. This is the second consecutive day that no patient died due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-private-unaided-schools-told-to-vaccinate-staff-ahead-of-sept-reopening-101630135726527.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Vidhan Sabha organises 6th felicitation ceremony for healthcare workers||The Delhi Vidhan Sabha organised the sixth felicitation ceremony for healthcare workers of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS, Vasant Kunj), Deep Chand Bandhu hospital (Ashok Vihar), Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital (Mongolpuri), and Burari hospital on Friday evening. “The Kejriwal government salutes the selfless and dedicated service of healthcare workers, who put their own lives at stake and stood with the Delhi government day in and day out to fight this deadly disease. We are doing our best and learning from our experiences to prevent the third wave,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. Vidhan Sabha speaker Ram Niwas Goel said, “The name frontline warriors given to doctors and healthcare workers is absolutely correct as just like the army on the border, they didn’t think about their lives but worked selflessly towards rescuing precious lives from the clutches of the deadly coronavirus.” The health minister, at the event, also spoke about the measures taken by the government to prepare for a third wave of the infection. The government is planning for 37,000 Covid-19 beds across city hospitals and makeshift facilities. Of these, 12,000 would be intensive care unit beds. Delhi’s highest single-day tally of 28,395 and toll of 448 were reported during the second wave in April-May. At that time, over 20,000 patients with severe Covid-19 were admitted across city hospitals, with many more remaining at homes. The city had run out of ICU beds in April-end. The ICU beds were gradually increased to over 6,700 during May when the oxygen crisis subsided. “Along with this, 47 PSA oxygen plants along with 5 LMO storage tanks have already been set up in the city with many more to come up. Moreover, our vision is to move a step forward by making ICU facilities so readily available in the capital that even a normal oxygen bed can be converted into an ICU one instantly without having to shift the patients,” said Jain....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-vidhan-sabha-organises-6th-felicitation-ceremony-for-healthcare-workers-101630135715438.html
28-08-2021||Patna||Efforts begin to save children from trafficking in five flood-affected districts of Bihar||Apprehending high violations of child rights and the vulnerability of children to human trafficking in flood-affected areas in Bihar, the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog, has started preparing to stop such incidents in five flood-affected districts of the state with the support of local administration and the NGOs like Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) and Kailash Satyarthi Foundation (KSF) which have been working for child rights, officials said. The districts where the Niti Aayog has put special focus on the protection of children against any mental or physical abuse and trafficking, include Araria, Khagaria, Katihar, Purnia and Sitamarhi. These districts have already been covered under the Niti Aayog’s Aspirational District Programme (ADP) which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2018 as a part of the government’s efforts to raise the living standards of people and to ensure inclusive growth for all. Altogether, 13 districts of the state have been identified for the Government of India’s Aspirational District Programme. In the five flood-affected districts of the state, Bachpan Bachao Aandolan and Kailash Satyarthi Foundation have been asked to provide technical support to the local administration to ensure effective implementation of programmes for children from survival, immunization and nutrition to education to protection against trafficking, child labour and fake marriages. Almost 12 districts of the state, especially those located on Indo- Nepal borders, have been under floodwaters for the last several weeks. And while the life of the entire population has been in turmoil, children are learnt to be the worst affected. “This is why, out of the 13 districts in the state which have been identified as Aspirational Districts, in only five flood-affected districts the Niti Aayog has put special focus on children and their rights. Our role in this programme is that of a coordinator. We will coordinate between the government schemes for children and the target population,” Dhananjay Tingal, executive director, Bachapan Bachao Andolan (BBA), said. Many development programmes and rehabilitation packages for the children rescued from the traffickers are already in place. The NGOs will help in their effective implementation, he added. “In fact, many people are not aware of the facilities provided by the government. Even there’s little awareness whether the development measures have reached the target group,” he said. Mukhtar ul Haq, BBA Bihar convener, said work is in the initial stage. “We just had the first round of meetings with local administration in all the five districts between August 11 and August 14 this year. Now, the action plan has to be prepared by the local administration,” he said. Mukhtar said that in flood-affected districts, things related to children are most affected. “The survival, immunization and nutrition facilities made available to children under the integrated child development scheme by the social welfare department must not be available as the Anganwadi Kendras must have remained closed due to flood,” he said. But most important is the protection of children against trafficking which is made to make them work as child labour, sex worker or for organ smuggling. Fake marriages have also become very common, he added. “In flood-affected areas, these cases are quite high. We have to identify the points of trafficking and to help local administration to stop it,” he said. Mukhtar said that once flood water recedes in these districts, NGOs would visit the areas for an assessment of problems there. “The most severe issue will be addressed first,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/efforts-begin-to-save-children-from-trafficking-in-five-flood-affected-districts-of-bihar-101630134995011.html
28-08-2021||Other||Mysuru gang rape case solved, says Karnataka home minister||Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra on Saturday announced the state police have solved the gang rape case of a 22-year-old student in Mysuru while refusing to provide further details, saying more information will be provided by Saturday evening. The top police brass remained tight-lipped about any arrests. But officers aware of the matter said they were made in Tamil Nadu. “They (arrestees) are being brought Mysuru. The police chief is also on his way to Mysuru. He will provide further details,” said an officer, who did not want to be named. The officer said the student is still not in a position to give a detailed statement and she has returned to her hometown. The student was gang-raped on the outskirts of Mysuru on Tuesday while her male friend was assaulted. According to the police, the student was riding pillion with her friend at a popular tourist destination around 13km from Mysuru when a gang waylaid them on Tuesday evening. The gang initially demanded money, but when they found nothing, they attacked the student’s friend. They later dragged the student and sexually assaulted her, police said. On Friday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai asked the state police chief Praveen Sood to supervise the case personally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mysuru-gang-rape-case-solved-says-karnataka-home-minister-101630134695144.html
28-08-2021||Noida||Fire rips through Greater Noida paper mill, none hurt||A fire ripped through a paper mill in Greater Noida Saturday morning, gutting raw material in a large quantity although no individual was hurt in the blaze, officials said."Fire-fighting is underway. Around a dozen fire tenders are pressed into service to control the blaze at the R S Paper mills in the Site 5 area of Kasna, an industrial hub," Chief Fire Officer Arun Kumar Singh said around 7.30 am.Singh, who was leading the operations at the site, said no person was hurt in the blaze, which spread on the ground floor of the mill where the raw material was stored."A tin shade has fallen down, making fire-fighting a little challenging at the moment but efforts are on to control the blaze," he said.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fire-rips-through-greater-noida-paper-mill-none-hurt-101630133434742.html
28-08-2021||Other||TMC student leader allegedly assaulted in Tripura by ABVP activists, case filed||Tripura police on Friday lodged a complaint against a few Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists on the charge of allegedly assaulting and confining a Trinamool Congress Students Parishad activist, officials said. No arrest has been made so far. According to Solanki Sengupta, the complainant, she was confined wrongfully to the common room of Maharaja Bir Bikram College in Agartala on Friday where she went for the preparation of Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad foundation day to be observed on Saturday. She also alleged that some ABVP activists beat her with shoes. “We got a complaint that the woman leader was harassed and confined to the common room of the college with the wrong intention by three-four ABVP activists. Based on the complaint, we took the case,” said Paramita Saha, officer in charge, East Agartala police station. The police took a case under Section 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Trinamool Congress’ West Bengal unit leaders Kunal Ghosh and Dr Shantanu Sen protested against the incident. “Our youth leader was harassed and assaulted, that too in front of police. We want to say that our organization will become stronger with every attack of BJP,” said Sen. ABVP secretary Pritam Paul was quick to react and said, “The entire incident was framed by the Trinamool Congress. We hope, people of Tripura, especially the students, will realise their real face soon.” The TMC leaders and activists reportedly came under attack in the past since they have declared to make the state their bird’s eye for the upcoming Assembly polls in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tmc-student-leader-allegedly-assaulted-in-tripura-by-abvp-activists-case-filed-101630131455494.html
28-08-2021||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot tours districts amid Cabinet expansion speculation||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has been touring across the state amid speculation about imminent Cabinet expansion in the state. People aware of the matter said Pilot, who rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year, was looking to revive his support base and connect with the masses. Pilot has also visited Gehlot’s home district of Jodhpur.A ruling Congress lawmaker seen to be close to Pilot said the tours are not just helping him maintain his relevance but also strengthening the party. “He is building connect and speaking for the party.” Another person from the Pilot camp said the former deputy chief minister has to maintain his relevance. He added his visits are boosting the morale of party workers. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party leader Mukesh Pareek said the idea seems to show his strength to the Congress’s central leadership. He added Pilot seems to be demonstrating his popularity and hold over workers, which would create pressure on the leadership to keep the promises made to Pilot last year. Political analyst Manish Godha said in Rajasthan Congress, only two people can create a buzz – Gehlot, and Pilot. “These (tours) were planned but got delayed due to Covid-19. The aim seems to be maintaining his relevance, show of strength, and gaining people’s support.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/sachin-pilot-tours-districts-amid-cabinet-expansion-speculation-101630130674779.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court grants anticipatory bail to man booked for son’s rash driving||A Mumbai sessions court has granted anticipatory bail to a man booked for culpable homicide after his son, while driving without a license, rammed their car into a stationary bus last year. A friend traveling with the son was killed in the accident.The court said the relief to Sharad Jain was granted primarily because the investigation in the case was complete and a charge sheet has been filed against them. It added no purpose would have been served by rejecting pre-arrest bail pleas.The father-son duo was booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others, disobedience to quarantine rules, and rash and negligent driving.The accident happened on May 12, 2020, when five teenagers were on their way to a late afternoon excursion in violation of Covid-19 lockdown rules. One of their cars crashed into the stationary bus on Marine Drive after its driver lost control of the vehicle.A magistrate court granted Jain’s son bail on May 18, 2020. When it came to light that the teenager was driving without a licence, police added culpable homicide not amounting to the murder charge and also booked his father. The father was booked for allowing his son to drive the car despite knowing that he did not have a driving licence.Jain’s lawyers argued that their passports were submitted with the police. They were ready to abide by all the conditions imposed by the court and his son was already out on bail, he added.Jain was granted anticipatory bail in lieu of ₹25,000 bond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-man-booked-for-son-s-rash-driving-101630129534658.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana highways blocked after farmers lathicharged in Karnal||Several highways across Haryana were blocked after at least five farmers were injured in police lathicharge when they tried to disrupt traffic on National Highway number 44 and enter Karnal town from Bastara toll plaza to disrupt a state-level BJP meeting on Saturday. The agitators had threatened to disrupt the BJP meeting in protest against the Centre’s farm laws after which police presence was stepped up in Karnal district to maintain law and order. Also read: ‘We have to save our children’: AIIMS doctor weighs in on schools reopeningBharatiya Kisan Union’s Haryana unit leader Gurnam Singh Charuni called for blocking all highways in the state to protest the lathicharge on farmers. “We slam the BJP government for using police force on farmers once again. I request all farmers to come out and block all highways in the state,” Charuni said. Reports of traffic disruption were received from Hisar, Jind, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Dadri, Fatehabad and Ambala. The Milk Majra toll plaza connecting Ambala with Yamunanagar and further with Uttar Pradesh was blocked, while traffic was disrupted on Shambu border at Patiala in Punjab, too. Congress leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda condemned the lathicharge and tweeted: “The action on farmers at Karnal is undemocratic and inhuman. Everyone has the right to protest in a democracy. Governments are not run with fear of the bullet but by winning hearts.” The Karnal police had blocked all roads leading to Gurdwara Dera Kar Sewa, where the protesters were to meet and head for the venue of the BJP’s meeting, attended by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his cabinet ministers besides MPs and MLAs. The meeting was convened to discuss the holding of panchayat elections in the state. The protesters gathered at Bastara toll plaza on National Highway 44 instead and tried to block traffic when the police resorted to lathi charge to clear the route. Farmer leader Jagdip Singh Aulakh alleged that several farmers got injured in the police action. Commuters and residents of Karnal and other towns had to face inconvenience as the key roads were blocked. With inputs from HTC, Rohtak and Ambala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-up-in-karnal-as-farmers-threaten-to-disrupt-bjp-meeting-101630128933554.html
28-08-2021||Other||Odisha becomes 10th state to announce policy on electric vehicles||In a bid to cut down carbon emissions in the state, the Odisha cabinet approved the Electric Vehicle policy days after Ola Electric, the subsidiary of the unicorn Indian ride-hailing start-up, launched its first electric scooter.Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra said that the policy aims to achieve a target of 20 per cent registration of battery-operated electric vehicles out of the total vehicle registration by the year 2025. With this, Odisha becomes the 10th state to have its own EV policy.Mohapatra said the objective of the policy is to achieve the adoption of 20% battery electric vehicles in all vehicle registrations by 2025, to promote the manufacture of electric vehicles and their components including batteries in the state, promote innovation and facilitate research and development in the areas relating to electric vehicles and batteries.Under the proposed policy guidelines, it has been decided to extend financial incentives, such as incentives available for manufacturing industries, purchase incentives, scrapping incentives, interest subvention in loans, waiver of road tax and registration fees, during the policy period.“To reduce the rapid global temperature, which has been a concern for everyone for the last few decades, it is now necessary to reduce the emissions caused by different categories of vehicles plying on the road using the traditional fossil fuels since they contribute a lot to climate change. It is high time to reduce such emissions by reducing the use of such traditional fuel and accelerate the pace of adoption of electric vehicles,” said Mohapatra.As per a Niti Aayog report, Odisha has a total fleet of 4,831 electric vehicles on road. Due to the low density of EVs, the state has only 18 EV charging stations at present. Neighbouring states like Bihar and Chhattisgarh have a higher electric vehicle density of 26,469 and 5,969 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-becomes-10th-state-to-announce-policy-on-electric-vehicles-101630128394882.html
28-08-2021||Other||Around 13 lakh people in Odisha missed their 2nd dose of Covid vaccines||Around 13 lakh people in Odisha have missed the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine despite completing the maximum time gap between two doses, government officials said on Friday.State nodal officer for immunization Dr Bijay Panigrahi said of 16 lakh people whose second dose of the Covid vaccine is due, 12.95 lakh persons are already overdue for the second dose. For those taking Covishield, the maximum permissible gap between two doses is 112 days while it is 42 days for Covaxin.“There are several factors behind the delay. While some people did not come after taking the first dose, others missed it due to vaccine shortage as we focussed mainly on giving the first dose. However, it would not be a problem as the efficacy of the vaccine would remain for 6 months as these vaccines are immunogenic,” said Dr Panigrahi.Apart from the shortage of vaccines, many people stopped coming to vaccination centres after two/three attempts as they failed to get vaccines due to overcrowding. In several districts, old people queued up from early morning fearing that they would be left out. Yet many of them did not get it.Ganjam leads the list of districts where most of the people are overdue for the second dose. In Ganjam, 1,44,739 beneficiaries have missed the second dose, including 1.13 lakh for Covishield and 34,448 for Covaxin.Similarly, 65,781 people in Mayurbhanj, 61,462 in Koraput, 56,099 in Cuttack, 54,648 in Keonjhar, 49,914 in Balasore, 46,628 in Bhadrak, 43,595 in Sundargarh, 40,067 in Kalahandi, 39,530 in Bargarh, 39,042 in Nabarangpur, 38,200 in Jajpur, 37,037 in Puri, 34,204 in Rayagada, 32,816 in Sambalpur, 29,734 in Dhenkanal and 28,893 in Balangir have missed their second Covishield shots. In Bhubaneswar, 1,01,716 people have missed their second dose of Covaxin even as there was no issue with the stock.In Odisha, Covaxin is being given to people living in the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area and some parts of the Ganjam district while Covishield is being given to people in the rest of the state.The state has so far administered 2.10 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, of which 1.6 crore people were given the first dose while more than 50 lakh were administered the second dose. In terms of percentage, more than 52 percent of the eligible population have been vaccinated with at least one dose. More than 89,000 pregnant women have been vaccinated with at least one dose so far.On May 13, the Centre had approved a gap of 12 to 16 weeks for Covishield, which accounts for around 95 percent of all vaccinations in Odisha and four to six weeks for Covaxin.State’s additional chief secretary, health, PK Mohapatra said Odisha is conducting vaccination of around 2 lakh people every day. Odisha was supplied 54.92 lakh doses of both vaccines in July against the promised allocation of 30.51 lakh doses of free supply. In August, the state was allocated 43.48 lakh doses of both vaccines. The Centre has promised additional 11.16 lakh doses of vaccines this month to cover the people due for the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/around-13-lakh-people-in-odisha-missed-their-2nd-dose-of-covid-vaccines-101630127494683.html
28-08-2021||Other||‘Public interest’ no justification for bypassing Environment Protection Rules: Bombay HC||Merely claiming to act in ‘public interest’ doesn’t absolve the government of issuing a prior public notice of its intentions and calling for objections as mandated by the Environment Protection Rules, 1986, especially if it doesn’t sufficiently justify why such prior public notice is not being issued, the Bombay High Court at Goa has ruled.The High Court proceeded to quash the notification issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, which allowed certain structures like grey (sewage) water treatment plants and solar panels to be built as close as ten metres from the high tide line, without prior clearance from CRZ authorities, along certain beach stretches for the purposes of Blue Flag Certification.“The mere recital of ‘public interest’ in the impugned Notification or an ipse dixit in the defence affidavit is not sufficient in such matters. The central government, when challenged, has to place on record the relevant material demonstrating such public interest in dispensing with the public notice. Sufficiency or adequacy of such material may not be the concern of a writ Court. But the existence and relevancy of such material is undoubtedly a concern when it comes to judicial review by a writ Court in such matters,” the High Court bench of Justices Sunil Deshmukh and Mahesh Sonak, said on Friday.The Ministry, in a notification issued in July 2019, declared that to obtain blue flag certification, on 12 beaches, including in particular Miramar (Panaji, Goa), certain specified structures/facilities shall be permitted in the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) area subject to maintaining a minimum distance of 10 meters from High Tide Line (HTL).A group of public-spirited petitioners challenged the notification specifically pointing out that there was no justification to dispense with the public notice and if such public notice had indeed been issued, then they and other stakeholders would have lodged their objections… [stating that] to permit such facilities up to a distance of 10 meters of HTL might result in disproportionate environmental damage.“Therefore, unless there was genuine public interest or some urgency that did not brook the delay of even 60 days, the central government was not justified in dispensing with a public notice under clause (a) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the said Rules and depriving the stakeholders of opportunity to lodge their objections,” the High Court said.“The central Government was required to state the reasons which prompted it to dispense with such public notice and thereby deprive the interested persons of filing objections in the matter. No such reasons are forthcoming… the central government was required to not only state the reason for dispensation of the public notice but also indicate some application of mind to the circumstance,” the High Court said. The Environment Protection Rules mandate that if the central government wishes to impose prohibition or restrictions on the locations of an industry or the carrying on of processes and operations in an area, it may… give notice of its intention to do so” and “any person interested in filing an objection may do so in writing to the central government within sixty days.”In the case of the Blue Flag certification, the Ministry cited a clause, which it said empowered it to dispense with the need for publishing a prior notice in ‘public interest.’“The central government was required to state the reasons which prompted it to dispense with such public notice and thereby deprive the interested persons of filing objections in the matter. No such reasons are forthcoming… the central government was required to not only state the reason for dispensation of the public notice but also indicate some application of mind to the circumstance,” the High Court said. The Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change, in a notification issued on July 12, identified 12 beaches across the country, including Miramar beach, for the purpose of Blue Flag Certification “in order to conserve, protect and improve the quality of the environment and preventing, controlling and abating environmental pollution.”The Blue Flag Programme for beaches, marinas and tourism boats is run by the international, non-governmental, non-profit organisation FEE (the Foundation for Environmental Education) Denmark. The Blue Flag programme challenges local authorities and beach operators to achieve high standards in the four categories: water quality, environmental management, environmental education and safety.In order to avail of the certification, a beach must meet certain environmental standards including water quality, cleanliness as well as a defined set of facilities including changing rooms, signages, toilets as well as being accessible to users of wheelchairs, etc.Goa’s Miramar beach located in the capital city was one of the beaches selected for upgradation but was met with opposition by local residents who argued that such a blanket dispensation would do more harm than good.“[The] circumstance that certain activities are required to be undertaken for obtaining a blue flag certification or that such activities are in the public interest or that such facilities will permit overall improvement of the environment are all circumstances possibly relevant for proposing to permit certain operations or processes on the specified beaches notwithstanding the provisions of CRZ Notification of 2011. However, such circumstances, by themselves, cannot be said to be relevant for dispensing with the public notice,” the High Court said.“We quash the impugned notification dated 09.01.2020 in so far as it concerns Miramar (Panaji Goa),” the High Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/public-interest-no-justification-for-bypassing-environment-protection-rules-bombay-hc-101630122034219.html
28-08-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru civic body administers over 1.6 lakh Covid vaccines||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has said more than 160,000 vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been administered as a part of its “Lasikaa Mela” (vaccination fair) in Bengaluru. Under the Lasikaa Mela, which was launched on Friday, the BBMP had set a target of administering 125,000 doses across eight zones. However, the civic body collectively managed to administer a total of 164,787 doses.“Pleased to inform you that BBMP has vaccinated 164,787 people as part of Covid-19 Lasikaa Mela today. With the help of micro plans, efficient health staff and officials, we made this possible,” BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta tweeted on Friday.Gupta said the vaccination drive was held successfully at 788 session sites, adding the civic body will continue to inoculate every eligible adult in Bengaluru as it is the only way to make the city safer. Of these 788 session sites, 264 were permanent sites followed by 203 mobile sites.Pleased to inform you that BBMP has vaccinated 1,64,787 people as part of Covid19 Lasikaa Mela today. With the help of micro plans, efficient health staff & officials, we made this possible. 1/3According to a statement by the BBMP, local residents of all the eight zones were apprised of the vaccination drive and people above the age of 18 including staff of BESCOM, security staff working in malls, people residing in orphanages, construction workers, telecom company employees and roadside vendors among others received the jab.“Micro plans were followed by health officers, necessary health staff were deployed and more sessions as part of the vaccination programme were successfully held in urban primary health centres, ward offices, government hospitals, school/college premises, wedding halls, construction sites and other places,” the civic body said in the statement.Meanwhile, authorities across Karnataka have administered 38,909,290 doses to people till now of which 9,315,953 are fully vaccinated (i.e. received both doses) and the remaining 29,593,337 have only received the first dose.Chief minister Basavaraj S Bommai announced on Friday that from September 1, the Karnataka government will start with at least 500,000 vaccinations on a daily basis with the help of the Centre. “We did 5 lakh inoculations on a trial basis on Wednesday. Now we will start five lakh vaccinations daily from September 1,” Bommai said while addressing reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-civic-body-administers-over-1-6-lakh-covid-vaccines-101630117762048.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Metro may soon be on track, oscillation trials begin today||The Indian Railways' Research Design and Standard Organisation (RDSO) will begin conducting oscillation trials from Saturday for a section of the Metro rail system in Navi Mumbai to ensure the safety and quality of the rides ahead of its planned commencement later this year. The four elevated corridors under the Navi Mumbai Metro project are being developed by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), which aims to begin the service for citizens soon after the oscillation trials."Oscillation trials for Metro Line 1 from Pendhar Station to Central Park Station will be conducted by RDSO from 28th August," CIDCO wrote in a tweet on Tuesday. "Elevated corridors under the Navi Mumbai Metro will be developed by CIDCO, interconnecting several nodes, making public transport more efficient."Oscillation trials for Metro Line1 from Pendhar Stn to Central Park Stn, will be conducted by RDSO from 28th August.Elevated corridors under Navi Mumbai Metro will be developed by CIDCO, interconnecting several nodes, making public transport more efficient.#CIDCOUpdates pic.twitter.com/IV1f1Ho2cTThese oscillation trials are considered an important stage before the commissioning of metro services for citizens. The Indian Railways' research wing will test the braking system, the tracks, and the safety of the Metro cars at different times, before considering the network clear for passenger service to begin. The Metro oscillation trials will be conducted in a 5.14km stretch between the Pendhar station and the Central Park station in Navi Mumbai.The Navi Mumbai Metro project is divided into four phases, the first of which begins at the Belapur railway station and ends at the Pendhar station near Taloja. The route, currently under implementation, has 11 stations spread across the 11.10km stretch. The second phase aims to connect Khandeshwar and Taloja MIDC, while the third one has been planned between Pendhar and Taloja MIDC. The fourth and final phase of the Navi Mumbai Metro offers connectivity between Khandeshwar and the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) near Panvel, according to reports.Earlier this year, CIDCO awarded a contract to the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha Metro) to operate and maintain services on the first phase of the Navi Mumbai Metro project for a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-metro-may-soon-be-on-track-oscillation-trials-begin-today-101630109834025.html
28-08-2021||Other||Provide medicines to black fungus patients, demand kin||Attendants of patients admitted to Black Fungus Ward in the department of Ayurveda, Sir Sundar Lal Hospital BHU, staged a demonstration at the office of chief medical officer, Varanasi and demanded that free medicines be given to patients, on Friday. They also submitted a memorandum at the public relations office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi.Till three days ago free medicines were being given to in-house patients, when the facility was withdrawn. The CMO has assured attendants of patients that he would take steps required to ensure free availability of medicines.Rakesh Pandey, an attendant of a patient, said that patients of black fungus were being given free medicines till three days ago. Suddenly, they were asked to buy medicines from medical stores. As a result, they are forced to buy medicines from medical stores for the last three days.When they spoke to medical superintendent Prof KK Gupta, he expressed helplessness, citing that there was a fund crunch and huge medicine bills were already pending. He has submitted the bills to the district administration. When bills are cleared and funds are made available to buy medicine for black fungus, the medicines would be given to patients. He asked them to contact the chief medical officer Dr VB Singh, said Pandey.Shweta Kesari, an attendant, said that they have to spend a huge amount buying medicines from medical stores.Attendants also submitted a memorandum at the public relations office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Office in-charge Shivsharan Pathak said that a letter has been written to the district magistrate in this regard. He has been told to look into the matter and take steps required to ensure availability of medicines for black fungus patients. Pathak also spoke to SSL Hospital BHU medical superintendent KK Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/provide-medicines-to-black-fungus-patients-demand-kin-101630099831638.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh says his party will tie up with anyone who has faith in Samajwadi ideology||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said his party would tie up with any political outfit believing in the “Samajwadi” ideology.“Any party believing in the ideology is welcome in the Samajwadi Party,” he said at his ancestral village Saifai in Etawah district of Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is due early next year.Yadav arrived in Saifai after attending an event of the Mahan Dal, an SP ally. The Mahan Dal leaders have pledged that they would teach a lesson to those who betrayed their community, he said.On the inclusion of eight castes in the other backward classes, he said the SP’s demand was to provide the benefits of reservation in proportion to the population of communities.He also alleged the BJP government had dubbed the farmers criminals, terrorists and framed them in fake cases.Speaking on the move to rename places, he said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had not done anything but change names.SP chief hits out at BJP govt over arrest of ex-IPS officer Akhilesh Yadav on Friday attacked the BJP government over the arrest of former IPS office Amitabh Thakur by the UP police.Akhilesh, in a tweet in Hindi along with a video clip of police putting Thakur into a police vehicle, said: “This is an unprecedented action of police against a former cop. The BJP politics flourishes by creating a wedge among people. Now under pressure from the BJP government, the police are acting against police. Such behaviour with a retired cop is unpardonable.”In 2015, when Amitabh Thakur was in service, he had filed an FIR against SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, claiming that Mulayam had threatened him. Akhilesh Yadav was the chief minister then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-says-his-party-will-tie-up-with-anyone-who-has-faith-in-samajwadi-ideology-101630097371489.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress workers attacking BJP leaders in guise of farmers: Ashwani Sharma||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Punjab unit president Ashwani Sharma on Friday alleged that the ruling Congress workers were attacking their leaders in the state in the guise of farmers. Holding the Congress responsible for creating turmoil in the state by spearheading the farmers’ agitation, Sharma said, “The reality is out in the open but the script written by the Congress high command will fail. The petty politics played by the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government in the state has cost Punjab dearly, causing huge economic losses. More than 1,500 families have lost jobs due to large industries shifting out of the state.”The state government lacks vision to boost Punjab’s economy and has failed in providing basic amenities to people, said Sharma while addressing mediapersons at the party headquarters in Chandigarh. “Amarinder Singh has only given clean chits to his ministers for ruining the state’s economy. Unemployment is at all-time high. Our schools and hospitals are not equipped to render basic health facilities. After coming to power, our party would revamp the entire governance which has collapsed,” added Sharma. Earlier, he inducted a number of office-bearers of different social and religious organisations into the party. Party’s state general secretary Jeevan Gupta was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-workers-attacking-bjp-leaders-in-guise-of-farmers-ashwani-sharma-101630097313838.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Narco-gangster angle emerges in Pathankot heroin haul case||A narco-gangster angle has come to the fore in Thursday’s Pathankot heroin recovery as a key accused in the Patti double murder case, Malkeet Singh, alias Laddu, who is lodged in the Muktsar jail, allegedly ordered the consignment from Jammu and Kashmir along with another incarcerated drug peddler. On Thursday, the Amritsar rural police seized 17kg heroin at Madhopur in Pathankot district and arrested Ranjit Singh, alias Sonu, a taxi driver and resident of Amritsar. During his preliminary interrogation, Sonu revealed that he picked the consignment from J&K’s Naushera area on the instructions of Malkeet Singh and Ranjit Singh, alias Rana of Patti in Tarn Taran, who is lodged in the Faridkot jail. Malkeet was arrested in the Patti double murder case wherein Amandeep Singh, alias Fauji, a local Akali leader, and his aide Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran were shot dead by unidentified persons on May 27. Fauji was a close friend of former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s confidant Gurmukh Singh Ghulla. Later, the police had claimed that the two were killed by notorious gangster Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon at the instance of gangster Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, who is currently in Canada. The conspiracy to kill Fauji was hatched by Laddu with the help of Landa who is facing nearly a dozen criminal cases, it was claimed. Also, the Interpol, or International Criminal Police Organisation, had issued a red-corner notice (RCN) against Landa in July. On Friday, both Laddu and Rana were brought on production warrant by to Amritsar.Senior superintendent of police (rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana said they were not clear whether Laddu is the one involved in the Patti double murder case. But Muktsar jail superintendent Iqbal Singh confirmed that Laddu was arrested for the double murder. A senior police official said, “Rana and Sonu are known to each other as both are taxi drivers. Sonu was paid to smuggle the consignment. Our questioning to ascertain the modus operandi of the accused is still on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/narcogangster-angle-emerges-in-pathankot-heroin-haul-case-101630097251589.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Follow ISRO protocol to record farm fire cases, central commission tells Punjab||The commission for air quality management in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining areas has directed the Punjab government to follow the protocol laid by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to record stubble burning cases in the state. The commission has asked the government to start counting the fire incidents from September 15 coinciding with the start of paddy harvesting and continue it till November 30 when the harvesting and procurement comes to an end in Punjab. It also asked the state to involve the National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) and measure aerosols, amount of stubble burnt and the discharge of harmful gases in the air besides getting the data analysed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), known as the Pusa Institute. As per the protocol, it was also decided to measure air direction and trend of smog movement in the air. For the last 4-5 years, the Punjab government has been roping in the state’s remote sensing centre, Ludhiana, but questions were raised on the exact number of farm fire cases. The state agriculture department and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) have been claiming that stubble burning in Punjab is not the source of smog in Delhi and adjoining areas during the harvesting period as vehicles and construction activities in the NCR are also a major factor behind poor air quality. In December last year, the commission had taken up the matter with the ISRO which agreed to monitor the crop residue burning in the paddy growing areas of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab with the use of satellites. The Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehradun, Space Application Centre, Ahmadabad, the Indian Institute of Technology and the Indian meteorological department were also roped in and it came to the fore construction, vehicular movement and thermal plants also contributed to pollution.There was the need to ascertain the exact scale of pollution caused by stubble burning, it was stressed. In Punjab, paddy is grown over 30 lakh hectares with 220 lakh tonnes stubble produced in a single season. Due to high silica content, paddy straw is not used as a dry fodder, like wheat straw. On July 13, the commission had held a meeting with representatives of the IARI, Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) besides government officials from Punjab, Haryana and UP and stressed on the need for ex-situ management of paddy stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/follow-isro-protocol-to-record-farm-fire-cases-central-commission-tells-punjab-101630097192951.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC orders CBI probe into 2013 Bathinda fraud case, says cops helped accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday ordered a CBI probe into a 2013 case of cheating against two directors of a firm and fined them with ₹5 lakh each while indicting the state police of “helping” the accused. The bench of Justice Manoj Bajaj said, “The police officials’ conduct clearly indicates that they have failed to carry out the investigation in a lawful manner. Such improper investigation erodes the public confidence in the rule of law. This court feels that there are grounds for transferring investigation to the CBI which should complete the probe in two months.” An FIR was registered in October 2014 with allegations of cheating, criminal conspiracy and others on the complaint of Sharan Dass, owner of Gurdas Agro Private Ltd, who had a bank account with UCO Bank’s Amrik Singh Road branch in Bathinda. He had accused Arjun Bhanot and Rakesh Bhanot of Arjun Mal Retail Holding Private Ltd of cheating him of ₹2 crore in connivance with the bank officials. The allegations were that the bank sanctioned ₹6.5 crore loan to the two accused without proper documents. When it came to light, the bank officials approached the complainant to lend them ₹2 crore. When he refused, his blank cheques with the bank as security were used and ₹2 crore secured from HDFC Bank was transferred to the account of firm run by the two accused in December 2013. The court was dealing with the bail plea of the two accused. “This indicates that the petitioners had support of senior police officers who instead of carrying investigation in a lawful manner chose to adopt an extra-judicial procedure to prove innocence of the accused,” the bench observed referring to an affidavit filed in 2020 by the director general of police (DGP) wherein it found material facts missing. The bench observed that the complainant was contesting frivolous petitions for the last seven years, while the accused successfully delayed the investigation with the help of police officials. The bench also took note of the fact that challan was presented against bank officials but the police did not deal diligently with the two accused. The court ordered that the accused should deposit ₹5 lakh each with director of PGIMER, Chandigarh, for poor patients within two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-2013-bathinda-fraud-case-says-cops-helped-accused-101630097131423.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab finance minister inaugurates 2 devp projects in Ludhiana’s Mullanpur Dakha||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Friday laid the foundation stones for a new senior citizen home-cum- community centre and fire station in Mullanpur Dakha. The projects are being developed at a total cost of ₹2.35 crore Manpreet was accompanied by Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, political secretary to the chief minister. The minister said that the building of the senior citizen home on the disposal road in Ward 6 is coming up over an area of 2-kanal at a cost of ₹1.5 crore and will be ready within next six months. He said that the tender has already been allotted and the company has started the work.He added that the building of the fire station will cost ₹85 lakh, including a fire tender, and will be ready within three months.He also announced that ₹1.5 crore will be spent to beautify main roads in Dakha besides assuring strengthening of Chowki Mann to Bhundri and other village link roads.Captain Sandhu claimed that Dakha has been consistently witnessing progress in all areas, with funds worth several crores are being spent in the constituency for projects like a new bus stand, new ITI, carpeting of roads, laying of streets and drains, playgrounds and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-finance-minister-inaugurates-2-devp-projects-in-ludhiana-s-mullanpur-dakha-101630095873591.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||BSP chief Mayawati says her political heir will be from the Dalit community||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday said her political successor would be from the Dalit community which had supported her and the party during hard times with honesty. Addressing a press conference, Mayawati said, “My health is good, there is no need to announce a successor at present. When my health deteriorates, I will announce my successor to manage the affairs of the party. I will make a public announcement about my successor. I will remain fit and healthy to continue to work for the party. It will take several years for me to become unfit.”“Even during the Covid-19 pandemic when several people were infected with the coronavirus disease, I remained free from it. The people who raise the issue of my successor should know that when the party founder Kanshi Ram was alive, he did not announce the name of his successor. It was only when he fell sick that he named me as his successor. I wish to make it clear that my successor will be from the Dalit community.”Since its foundation, the BSP had witnessed several ups and downs in its political journey but the members of the Dalit community stood by the party, she said.There was speculation in the party that the BSP chief will name her nephew Akash Anand as her political successor before the assembly election. She had appointed Akash as the national coordinator of the party. Unlike other parties, the BSP did not release manifestoes before the assembly or the Lok Sabha elections, Mayawati said.“The BSP believes in action, rather than making promises to the people. It has run the government for four terms in Uttar Pradesh. The party has done historical works for the sarva samaj (all communities), and classes, youths, farmers, traders, women and labourers,” she said.Be it the present Bhartiya Janata Party government or the previous Samajwadi Party regime, both re- launched the welfare schemes and development projects of the BSP government by renaming the schemes, she alleged.The schemes and projects should be implemented on the ground, she said, adding that their benefits should reach the people.“The masses cannot be taken for a ride by announcing the launch of schemes,” she said. Asserting that the Bahujan Samaj Party was not funded by the capitalists, but run with the contribution of the poor, she said the party took contributions from its resourceful members to run the organisation and manage the election campaigns. The party had also launched relief operations during Covid-19 pandemic, flood and other natural calamities, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-chief-mayawati-says-her-political-heir-will-be-from-the-dalit-community-101630095811305.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismisses Badals’ plea to quash forgery complaint||The high court on Friday dismissed a 2019 plea from former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, his son and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, and senior SAD vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema in an alleged case of forgery involving their undertakings with regard to the constitution of their outfit. They had approached the high court after on November 4, 2019, a court of additional chief judicial magistrate, Hoshiarpur, had summoned Badals and Cheema in a 2009 case of alleged forgery and cheating filed by one Balwant Singh Khera. The high court had stayed the trial. “The court has dismissed their plea. However, in view of advance age of Parkash Singh Badal, he has been exempted from attending proceedings,” said one of the lawyers, Ish Puneet Singh. Detailed judgment is awaited. In February 2009, Khera had filed the complaint alleging forgery by way of submitting forged documents. He alleged that the SAD possessed two constitutions – one that it had submitted with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other with the Election Commission of India (ECI). As per Khera, originally a religious party, in 1989, the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism to fulfil the constitutional obligation to obtain recognition as a political party. The party continued its activities as a religious as well as a political outfit on two contradictory constitutions, which is nothing but fraud and forgery, he had alleged, adding that party initiated the amendment much later in the form of a resolution. The trio had approached the high court seeking quashing of the 2009 complaint and the summoning order in which they were asked to face the trial for cheating, criminal conspiracy, forgery, submitting forged document and using forged document as genuine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-badals-plea-to-quash-forgery-complaint-101630095575278.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||TN governor Purohit gets addl charge of Punjab, Chandigarh||Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit has been given the additional charge of Punjab and the Union Territory of Chandigarh, according to an official statement issued on Friday. Earlier, VP Singh Badnore was the governor of Punjab and the administrator of Chandigarh. “The President of India has been pleased to appoint Purohit, the governor of Tamil Nadu, to discharge the functions of the governor of Punjab, in addition to his own duties from the date he assumes charge of the office of the governor of Punjab, until regular arrangements are made,” the statement said. The president has also appointed Purohit as the administrator of Chandigarh, in addition to his duties as the governor of Punjab, it added. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tn-governor-purohit-gets-addl-charge-of-punjab-chandigarh-101630095391351.html
28-08-2021||Other||Raikot man shoots neighbour after minor spat||A Raikot resident allegedly shot his neighbour following a brief spat over water disposal pipes on late Thursday night. The accused had fired three shots, which hit his neighbour on his left hand and foot.The accused has been identified as Manoj Kumar Malhotra.Complainant Kishan Lal of Prem Nagar stated that the accused owns a plot behind his house. On August 25, some unidentified persons had damaged the water disposal pipes of his house. When he scanned the closed-circuit television cameras, he found Malhotra and his unidentified aide damaging the pipes. On Thursday night, when Lal confronted Malhotra, the latter started abusing him and then opened fire at him. Two bullets hit Lal on his left hand while one hit his foot. Lal raised the alarm, following which his son Chandan Kumar came to his rescue and hit the accused with a stick. Hearing the commotion, locals gathered at the spot following which the accused panicked and fled. Sub-inspector Ajaib Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 25/27/54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/raikot-man-shoots-neighbour-after-minor-spat-101630095271160.html
28-08-2021||Other||LIT stops road contractor’s payment over poor quality work||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has stopped the payment of a road contractor over poor quality of work at block-G of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, and initiated the process to blacklist the contractor. Following a complaint by residents, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam inspected the area along with officials on Friday and found the work to be substandard. Balasubramaniam directed the officials to get samples of road construction work tested from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC), and withhold payment till the reports are received.He said, “The contractor had initiated road construction work without informing the officials. Substandard work was being done at the spot. The contractor was also asked to visit the spot during my visit, but he did not show up. Directions have been issued to stop the payment and the blacklist the contractor. The LIT will not compromise with the quality of work. Officials have also been directed to check the quality of other works being done by the contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lit-stops-road-contractor-s-payment-over-poor-quality-work-101630095033438.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||HP healthcare workers grapple with vax hesitancy in Malana village||Around 99% of Himachal Pradesh’s population has been administered at least one dose of the coronavirus vaccine. However, health workers are still grappling with vaccine hesitancy in the remote village of Malana, where only 19% people have received the jab. The remote village had grabbed headlines earlier this year when it had come to light that villagers were refusing to get inoculated as it was purportedly against their beliefs. Not a single person in the two villages in Malana – Saura Behad and Dhara Behad – with a strength of around 2,000 residents had been inoculated till May. Health care workers say villagers, who believe they are the descendents of Greek king Alexander, repeatedly refused to get the jab because it is against their beliefs.The government is running multiple campaigns in the villages to convince locals to inoculate themselves. However, so far officials have only been able to convince 204 of the 1,048 eligible people in the village. The residents of Malana have followed their traditions for centuries now. Most decisions are taken by their own local governing bodies, but the local deity — Jamdagni Rishi or Jamlu Devta – has the final say.Village chief Raju Ram, who played a vital role in convincing villagers to register themselves for vaccination, was the first one to take the jab in May. “As the elected head of the panchayat, it is my duty to motivate people to inoculate themselves,” he said. “People in the village are still hesitant. It is difficult to counter their beliefs,” says accredited health (ASHA) worker Nirma Devi, 32. “Though I do not fall in the 18- 44 age bracket, but I took the jab to motivate the women in my village,”says Nirma, who is a resident of Malana village. “ I had many misconceptions about the jab. However, I decided to take the shot after reports emerged that a third wave was eminent,” says Purnu Devi, 38. Many people in the village believe that the vaccine may reduce their life expectancy, while others believe that the supreme deity of the village will protect them. “We have visited the village five times since May and people are gradually warming up to the idea of getting vaccinated. People of the village living outside have been vaccinated,” says Bimla Thakur, a health educator posted at the Community Health Centre in Jarhi, which is 4-km from the village. Himachal Pradesh has administered the first dose to the over 96% of the total targeted population. To date, the state has administered 71,43,592 doses to the eligible population. As many as 54,32,193 people have been administered the first dose and of them 17,11,399 have received the second jab as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-healthcare-workers-grapple-with-vax-hesitancy-in-malana-village-101630095032272.html
28-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Inquiry into road project allocation to blacklisted contractor||Amid row over allotment of road construction contracts to a blacklisted contractor, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday marked an inquiry to MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal. Dachalwal has also been directed to look into the alleged tampering with the resolution of MC General House, regarding the norms fixed for allotment of contracts to bitumen contractors. The official has been directed to probe the role of MC officials and complete the inquiries within two weeks. Earlier on August 25, mayor Balkar Sandhu had directed the officials to initiate an inquiry against officials for allotting road construction contracts to a blacklisted contractor - Vinod Jain, who accused the MC and mayor of corruption while awarding the road construction contracts. It was also found that someone allegedly tampered with the resolution of MC General House to help contractors earn more profits in road construction projects.Mayor Sandhu said strict action will be taken against the officials who allotted the contracts to the blacklisted contractor and against those who tampered with the resolution of MC general house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-inquiry-into-road-project-allocation-to-blacklisted-contractor-101630094791170.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 186 fresh Covid infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 186 fresh Covid infections on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 2,12,913, while the death toll mounted to 3,569 after three more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 42 were reported in Mandi, 39 in Shimla, 33 in Kangra, 28 in Hamirpur, 12 in Chamba, 10 in Bilaspur, nine in Kullu, six in Lahaul-Spiti, three in Solan and two each in Kinnaur and Una. The active cases came down to 1,965, while recoveries reached 2,07,356 after 293 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 47,514 cases, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,645 and 26,531 cases, respectively. Solan’s case tally reached 22,539 cases, Sirmaur 15,432, Hamirpur 15,204, Una 13,531, Chamba 13,413, Bilaspur 13,366, Kullu 9,464, Kinnaur 3,391 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-186-fresh-covid-infections-101630094674288.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Congress booklet in Uttar Pradesh targets BJP, SP and BSP, sparks row||A Congress booklet in Uttar Pradesh has sparked off a political controversy as it has targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party BSP) alike calling them “chor chor mausere bhai” (partners in crime) for 32 years. The booklet has been brought out to train the Congress workers who have been named “Vijay Sena” (army for victory) in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh assembly election due early next year.Reacting sharply to the Congress booklet, BSP chief Mayawati alleged that the party was luring people to its rallies by promising food and money.“Rather than targeting the rival parties by releasing a booklet the Congress should set its house in order,” she said, adding that the people would reject the Congress in the assembly election.On the other hand, Samajwadi Party leader and MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “We don’t mind what the Congress says. We choose to ignore such mistakes they make. Our fight is with the BJP.”The 24-page booklet titled “Kisne Bigada Uttar Pradesh” (who contorted Uttar Pradesh) carries small caricatures of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and BSP president Mayawati on the front cover.The booklet calls the BJP a Bharatiya Jumlebaaz Party and provides a list of its alleged unfulfilled promises on the back.BJP state unit spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said the people of UP would be not misguided by the Congress tirade against its rival parties.“The Congress has failed to regain lost ground in UP and the people have rejected it in successive Lok Sabha and assembly elections. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visits the state like a tourist to make baseless allegations against rival political parties,” he said.The Congress had been out of power in Uttar Pradesh since 1989.The booklet being distributed to Congress workers at the training camps reads, “Uttar Pradesh is at the bottom in terms of income of farmers, providing jobs, education and health and on the top in malnutrition, crime against women, crime against girl child, infant mortality rate and maternal mortality following corruption and misrule BJP, BSP and SP governments in 32 years.” “Yes, we are imparting training to two lakh (0.2 million) workers of “Vijay Sena” at 700 “Prashikshan se Parakram” (training for valour) camps being organised in 100 days ending on September 7, 2021. “Vijay Sena” will go from door to door to tell people how the 32-year rule has led to deterioration in Uttar Pradesh,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu.The booklet has nine chapters —seven on the BJP and one each on the SP and the BSP. It says both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been given to only 4% of the population in Uttar Pradesh. It quotes a survey to say that only one of 100 active cases of Covid-19 was identified in UP. It says as per estimates about 0.8 to 0.9 million deaths took place due to Covid-19. Private hospitals indulged in loot and only 875 patients were treated under Ayushman Bharat scheme, the booklet alleges. It also makes accusations about irregularities, unemployment, inflation, plight of farmers, economy and the condition of MSMEs. The SP has been attacked for dynastic politics and corruption, along with accusations of favours to a particular caste (without directly naming Yadavs).“The SP government promoted only dynastic politics, jungle rule, casteism and corruption. When people needed development, jobs and educational institutions, the SP left no stone unturned in accommodating its family members. About 25 members of the Mulayam Singh Yadav family are in politics now. A caste dominated in all the recruitments, transfers and postings,” it reads mentioning a writ petition that was filed, pointing out that 56 candidates out of 86 SDMs selected by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission in three years belonged to a caste.It says out of 389 PCS officers selected, 72 belonged to a caste. It describes the SP government’s tenure as “goondaraj” and says 62 people died in the Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013.Calling Mayawati “Dalit Nahin, Daulat Ki Beti” (daughter of wealth and not of a Dalit), the chapter on the BSP’s “misrule” says Mayawati is the only leader selling her party’s tickets for crores. It also says Mayawati is fond of wearing garland of currency notes instead of flowers. The booklet lists alleged scams reported during the BSP government.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had recently indicated her party was open for an alliance ahead of 2022 polls. Will the Congress attacks end possibilities of an alliance?Lallu said, “We have already said the Congress will align with smaller parties only.”“The Congress will not gain from targeting other opposition parties. The BJP’s strategy is to keep the opposition divided. The Congress is strengthening the BJP indirectly with such a campaign,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University.Alleging that the Congress did not get candidates to contest elections in various states, BSP chief Mayawati claimed the party leaders took money from rich people to distribute among the candidates willing to contest the election on its ticket. “The people will reject the Congress in the coming assembly election,” she added.Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said, “Our aim is to displace the BJP from power and put the state back on the track of development by bringing the SP back to power. And this is our focus. People also know who (which party) is in the reckoning to oust the BJP...I would like to quote what our national president (Akhilesh Yadav) had said once (when asked at a press conference) that Congress is a confused party and doesn’t know if it is fight the BJP or SP.”BJP state unit spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi alsosaid, “Before the 2017 assembly election, the Congress released a booklet “27 saal UP behal”. But the Congress contested assembly election in alliance with Samajwadi Party, which its leaders had accused of leading a most corrupt government in Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-booklet-in-uttar-pradesh-targets-bjp-sp-and-bsp-sparks-row-101630094671305.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees 166 fresh virus cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 166 fresh novel coronavirus infections and one virus-induced fatality on Friday. There were 122 cases in the Valley, while the Jammu division saw 44 infections. There are now 1,148 cases in the UT. Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 347, followed by Jammu district with 96 active cases. So far, 3,19,259 people have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.31%. The overall cases in J&K have reached 3,24,813 and the death-toll stands at 4,405. Officials said with 57 cases, Srinagar has the highest number of new infections, followed by 19 in Budgam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-166-fresh-virus-cases-101630094552502.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tribunal sets aside elections of Chandigarh Bar body||An election tribunal of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) has set aside the November 6, 2020, election conducted for the executive body of District Bar Association (DBA), Chandigarh.The election was set aside on the complaint of one Neeraj Hans, who said that guidelines issued by the Bar Council were not properly followed, bogus votes were cast and the entire elections were conducted in an extremely casual, biased and faulty manner.The tribunal held that the entire election process had been vitiated and therefore, the entire election process of the office bearers of the DBA, Chandigarh, was being set aside. The tribunal directed the returning officer to hold fresh elections of the DBA within a period of one month. The chairman of BCPH was asked to put in place an ad hoc committee for the day-to-day working of the DBA.Bhag Singh Suhag was elected as DBA president and five others on different posts.In view of this order on Friday, the BCPH announced a five-member working committee for day-to-day functioning of the District Bar Association. The committee will be headed by lawyer Ashok Sharma.Chairman Minderjeet Yadav said that the ad hoc committee has been constituted in view of the decision of the election tribunal of BCPH, which set aside the November 2020 election on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tribunal-sets-aside-elections-of-chandigarh-bar-body-101630094551275.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pardeep Chhabra appointed co-incharge of Chandigarh AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has strengthened the party at the organisational level ahead of the municipal corporation (MC) elections and handed over important responsibilities to senior leaders Pardeep Chhabra and Chander Mukhi Sharma.According to a statement issued here on Friday, party’s Chandigarh affairs in-charge and MLA from Delhi, Jarnail Singh, appointed Chhabra as co-incharge of AAP Chandigarh and Chander Mukhi Sharma as in-charge of the Chandigarh election campaign committee.Singh said that the manner and unity with which the Chandigarh team had worked in the recent past had given a huge impetus to AAP at the booth level. He claimed that in the MC elections, the party would wipe out Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party.Chhabra, former city Congress chief and former mayor, had recently joined AAP after a bitter public dispute with the incumbent local Congress leadership. Sharma had held senior positions in the local Congress before he left in October 2020. Sharma and Chhabra started their political careers with Congress three decades ago. At the time of leaving Congress, both were critical of former city MP and senior Congress leader Pawan Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pardeep-chhabra-appointed-co-incharge-of-chandigarh-aap-101630094493270.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Amid protests, Centre refuses to hike NHM budget||Employees of the National Health Mission (NHM) in Chandigarh continued their protest for the fifth consecutive day on Friday to press for their demand of equal pay for equal work, but the central government has refused to hike the annual NHM budget for the UT.“The central government has refused to increase the annual NHM budget for UT, but they said that the staff salaries can be hiked through the state budget. If we go by the Centre’s decision, the UT administration has two options, to either reduce the number of NHM employees in Chandigarh and hike the salaries of the remaining or to provide additional expenses from the state budget. To hike the salaries as per the DC rate, the annual budget needs an additional amount of approximately ₹3-4 crore,” said Arun Gupta, UT principal health secretary.“On Friday, a proposal was sent to the finance department of the UT administration and they will examine the additional expenses on the state. The department will soon decide and action will be taken accordingly,” he added.Meanwhile on Friday, over 300 NHM employees marched from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to the Sector-17 Plaza, raising slogans against the Centre and UT administration.Due to non-availability of NHM workers at the government health and wellness centres, especially in the rural areas, the general out-patient department services and Covid vaccination drive were hit badly.“Since 2013, NHM employees in Chandigarh have been working below the pay scale of DC wage rate. Despite repeated protests, the government is not willing to hike our salaries. It is difficult for an auxiliary nurse midwife to run their monthly household requirements in just ₹10,000. The employees are unable to provide quality education to their children,” said Amit Kumar, general secretary, NHM Union, adding that Covid-warriors needed a respectable pay to work with more enthusiasm during the ongoingpandemic.Kumar further added that the employees will continue their protest, even on holidays (Saturday, Sunday and gazetted holiday on Monday) until their demand for a pay hike was not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-amid-protests-centre-refuses-to-hike-nhm-budget-101630094431280.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pinjore man held for misbehaving with women commission staff||A man was arrested for misbehaving with the female staff of Haryana State Women Commission and obstructing public servants from discharge of duties, the police said on Friday.The accused was identified as Madan Lal Dhiman of Pinjore. He was produced before a court on Friday and sent to one-day police custody.Dhiman was arrested on August 26 on the complaint of the Haryana State Women Commission. The complaint said that the accused Madan Lal had been for the last one week unnecessarily visiting the commission office in Panchkula.On August 26, Lal came at around 10am and started arguing with the staff and misbehaved with them. He returned at around 4pm and again misbehaved with the staff. He allegedly threatened the staff and even refused to sign on the entry register, following which the police were called and he was arrested.A case was registered under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 354 (voyeurism) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pinjore-man-held-for-misbehaving-with-women-commission-staff-101630094371030.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Impersonation case: UP man acquitted by Ambala court||An Ambala court has acquitted a man, who had impersonated an Indian Air Force (IAF) flight lieutenant, citing that the prosecution failed to prove its case.Ankit Dubey, a resident of Etawah in Uttar Pradesh, claiming to be posted with 29 Wing in Allahabad, had befriended a serving junior commissioned officer (JCO)’s daughter on Facebook and expressed a desire to marry her in 2016.The family, however, claimed they had verified details and found him to be fake. A complaint was lodged by a lieutenant colonel, officer commanding, Ambala Cantt, on March 28, 2016. Dubey was accused of carrying a token used by soldiers, personating as public servant, cheating, criminal conspiracy among other crimes.On August 23, the court had observed: “...civil cases are decided upon preponderances of probabilities, but the criminal case are decided only on absolute proof i.e. prosecution or complainant must prove its case beyond reasonable doubt…the prosecution has to prove its case beyond shadow of reasonable doubts and if any doubt creeps in the story of the prosecution then benefit of doubt must be given to the accused.”As per the court order made available on August 26, the court of Neelam Kumari, judicial magistrate first class, said that however strong the suspicion is, it cannot take the place of proof.“...it may be that the accused has committed the offence in question, but there is a long way to travel between ‘may be true’ and ‘must be true’ and this whole distance has to be travelled by the prosecution,” the order read.Dubey’s counsel Saurabh Ahuja said that his client was on bail since 2016 and had initially spent almost two months in judicial custody: “He was acquitted of all the charges and released.”Primarily, the court in its judgment pointed out that the girl had not been examined, who had first-hand knowledge of facts of the case and was allegedly cheated on.The court said that the prosecution had also failed to examine anyone from IAF based in Ambala Cantt or from 29 Wing in Allahabad to prove the fact that Dubey’s ID was fake, adding that no independent witness had joined at the time of the ID’s recovery by the police. Similarly, nobody had seen the accused wearing the IAF uniform, added the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/impersonation-case-up-man-acquitted-by-ambala-court-101630094312333.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||MoS defence Ajay Bhatt visits eastern Ladakh||Minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt on Friday visited Chushul sector in eastern Ladakh and assured soldiers of the nation’s support and asked them to remain vigilant and maintain a high order of operational readiness. Bhatt, who was on a two-day official visit to Ladakh, was received by lieutenant general PGK Menon, general officer commanding, Fire and Fury Corps. The Raksha Rajya Mantri visited Chushul in Eastern Ladakh on Friday and was briefed by general officer commanding, Fire and Fury Corps on the security situation in eastern Ladakh. The minister was also briefed on the role played by the Indian Army as a partner in the development of Ladakh region through infrastructure, welfare and human resource development activities, he said.While interacting with commanders and troops deployed in eastern Ladakh, Ajay Bhatt complimented them for guarding the borders along the most inhospitable and difficult terrain while maintaining a high standard of morale and professionalism. India and China will soon hold the 13th round of military commander-level talks. The latest discussions will address the Hot Springs friction point. At the 12th round the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to resolve the pending issues in an “expeditious” manner. However, no concrete outcome was visible on the much-anticipated disengagement process in the remaining friction points. At the 12th round India insisted on resolving outstanding issues in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. On June 15, 2020, 20 Indian soldiers died in a violent face-off with Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley after the latter tried to usurp Indian territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mos-defence-ajay-bhatt-visits-eastern-ladakh-101630094311125.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls for Bharat Bandh on September 25||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, spearheading the anti-farm laws protests, on Friday called for a “Bharat Bandh” on September 25. The SKM said the move is aimed at further strengthening and expanding the farmers’ agitation which began in November last year.Addressing a press conference at Delhi’s Singhu border, Ashish Mittal from SKM said: “We are calling for a Bharat Bandh on September 25.” This is happening after a similar bandh was organised on the same date last year, and we hope that it would be more successful than the one last year which was held amid the coronavirus pandemic.Mittal, who was also the convener of the all-India convention by farmers that concluded on Friday, said the two-day event was a success, and saw the participation of representatives from 22 states, of not just 300 farm unions, but also members of organisations that work for the welfare of women, labourers, tribals, as well as youth and students.During the convention, discussions and deliberations took place on the farmers’ struggle that has been going on for the last nine months, and it focused on making their agitation against the farm laws a pan-India movement.“During the convention, it was discussed as to how the government has been pro-corporate and attacking the farming community.“Our demands for repeal of all three pro-corporate farm laws, legal guarantee for MSP of all crops, repeal of Electricity Bill, 2021, no prosecution of farmers under the ‘Commission of AQ Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill 2021’ were reiterated during the convention,” Mittal said.On Thursday, the farmers’ protest against the three contentious laws completed nine months since they first arrived at the Delhi borders. The farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-calls-for-bharat-bandh-on-september-25-101630094250942.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn, IAF ink pact for Air Force Heritage Centre||For setting up the country’s first Air Force Heritage Centre, the Chandigarh administration and Indian Air Force signed an in-principle agreement on Friday. The centre will come up at the Government Press Building, Sector 18.The agreement was signed in the presence of outgoing UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and Vice Chief of the Air Staff Air Marshal VR Chaudhari.Badnore said the centre will bring awareness in the region, particularly among the students, about the role and contribution of the Indian Air Force in national security and defence, which would inspire the youth to join the forces.The Air Marshal, while thanking the Chandigarh administration, expressed his gratitude for witnessing this historic event. He assured cooperation in setting up and operating the centre.The Indian Air Force will showcase its vintage aircraft, armaments and memorabilia and other IAF artefacts, including audio-video displays. The IAF will design the museum, for which it will hire a consultant. Depending upon the space and design, the number and type of vintage aircraft will be selected.IAF officials are happy with the space available at the four-storeyed building with a glass facade, which is a heritage site, said a UT official. The administration had shut down the government printing press in 2019. It had then decided to house a vintage car museum and a heritage furniture museum in the building, but found no takers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-iaf-ink-pact-for-air-force-heritage-centre-101630094191180.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 50 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Friday reported 50 fresh Covid cases that took its tally to 6,00,463, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 16,364, according to a medical bulletin.Of the fresh cases, Mohali reported 10, Jalandhar seven and Hoshiarpur six, the bulletin said.The latest fatality was reported from Sangrur. The toll also includes a death that was not reported earlier.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 410, the bulletin said.With 38 more patients recovering from the disease, the number of cured persons increased to 5,83,689, it said.Patiala village school shut after 3 students test positivePatiala: Government Middle School, Mavisapan, in Patiala district has been shut for 14 days after three students tested positive for Covid on Friday.Nodal officer Dr Sumeet Singh said the cases were found during random sampling of students and teachers.“We have initiated contact tracing of positive patients,” he said.He added that as many as 167 samples have been taken from the school, the report of which is yet to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-50-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101630094131168.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sonu Sood to be ambassador for Delhi govt’s ‘Desh ke Mentor’ initiative||Actor Sonu Sood will be the brand ambassador of the AAP government’s “Desh ka Mentor” programme aimed at providing guidance to students on career choices, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. The announcement was made after a meeting between Kejriwal and Sood. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and AAP leader Raghav Chadha were also present. The programme will help students of Delhi government-run schools find a mentor who will help them unlock their potential. Children will find answers to their career-related questions through mentors who sign up to be a part of the programme. Under the ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ initiative, a mentor will have to take out 10 minutes every week to guide students. “We have worked very hard to transform Delhi government’s schools. Now we want to make education a people’s revolution. When young people across the country join our education revolution, no one will be able to stop India from becoming a global leader. We are delighted to have on board Sonu Sood who has inspired lakhs of youth across the country with his selfless services to the nation,” Kejriwal said. Sood has appealed to citizens across the country to step forward and support children’s education and take the nation to a brighter tomorrow. “High quality education for all children, whether rich or poor, is the key to a brighter future for the country. We need to come together and do our share for nation building. I urge the youth of India to become a part of Desh ka Mentor,” Sood said. There was speculation that Sood might join the AAP ahead of Punjab assembly polls next year, but Kejriwal and Sood both said that no discussions around politics were held between them. “We just discussed this programme and no political discussions were held,” Kejriwal told reporters at a joint press conference with Sood. The 47-year-old actor catapulted to the national spotlight for helping migrant workers reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown last year. He also helped people during the second wave of COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonu-sood-to-be-ambassador-for-delhi-govt-s-desh-ke-mentor-initiative-101630094011664.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Auto driver goes berserk, attacks 3 with axe in Patiala||A 45-year-old auto driver went berserk and allegedly injured three persons with an axe in Patiala’s Guru Nanak Nagar area on Friday.Panic gripped the Patiala-Rajpura road when Sarbjeet Singh attempted to attack the commuters crossing the main road. Police said Sarbjeet attacked two persons following an altercation with them over parking of his auto-rickshaw. The injured are admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital. The accused also attacked the police party, resulting in injury to a cop. Police said he was nabbed with the help of passersby. SHO, urban estate police station, Ronnie Singh said Sarbjeet was taken for medical examination as he was hyper and infuriated.“The process of registering an FIR is underway as the police are recording statements of both the injured and accused,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-driver-goes-berserk-attacks-3-with-axe-in-patiala-101630093892057.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||BJP files police complaint against Sidhu’s ex-adviser Mali||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday filed a police complaint against Malvinder Singh Mali, who quit as an adviser to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, at the Parliament Street police station in New Delhi for his remarks on Kashmir.In his complaint, BJP leader RP Singh alleged that Mali’s post related to Kashmir is a clear threat to the sovereignty of the country. He demanded that an FIR under Section 154 CrPC be registered against Mali. Talking to a news agency, the BJP leader said the complaint should be have been filed by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.He alleged that Mali’s remarks are not less than treason and strict action must be taken against him.‘Cong acted against Mali under pressure’ BJP chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said that neither Sidhu nor former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has rejected the statements of these advisers. No apology has been tendered as well, he said and alleged that even Sidhu had in the past made comments that praised Pakistan and its prime minister Imran Khan. It has become a practice with Congress leaders to make such comments that go against the national interests, and then to take some damage-control measures for form’s sake under media pressure, the Rajya Sabha MP said. “The Congress decision to have Sidhu’s advisor removed has been merely done due to pressure. Sidhu has also spoken in the past on similar lines. Even Rahul Gandhi had made comments that have been supportive to countries like Pakistan. The fact remains that Sidhu or Gandhi has not rejected the advisor’s comments. No apology has been tendered,” Baluni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-files-police-complaint-against-sidhu-s-ex-adviser-mali-101630093713615.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 256 golfers to compete in Milkha Singh Memorial tournament||Jeev Milkha Singh was all poise on entering the press conference hall at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Friday. But the moment he was asked to share memories of his parents, the late Milkha Singh and Nirmal Kaur, the 49-year-old ace golfer got emotional and broke down.In a choking voice, Jeev said: “I was nine-year-old when I took to golf. I would accompany my parents to the golf course as a kid and got fascinated with the sport. It is because of them I got exposed to golf and became a professional golfer. It has been challenging and very tough without them.” Jeev lost his parents due to Covid-19 complications two months ago.In order to pay homage to the sprint legend Milkha Singh, who won four Asian gold medals and finished fourth in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics, the Chandigarh Golf Club will be organising The Milkha Singh Memorial Golf Tournament on Saturday.As many as 256 golfers will compete in this one-day meet. The tournament is primarily being sponsored by the sports ministry, Government of Punjab, according to the organisers.“The tournament will provide a chance to golfers to showcase their talent and will help continue with Dad’s legacy. He loved playing golf and socialising with his friends here. It was because of him I got interested in golf,” said an emotional Jeev.Jeev to practise in England“Staying in the same house where we lived together for years and not seeing them around has been painful. It has been tough coping with this loss. So, I will go to England in two days and start practising there. I won’t be able to focus on the game in Chandigarh. I will be eyeing the senior tour next year including all Majors,” he said.After returning to India in two months, he will be playing in the next edition of Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational Golf Tournament to be held in Chandigarh in November. The four-time winner on the top European and Japanese circuits was also the first Indian to break into the world’s top 50 in ranking and finish in the top 10 of a Major: tied 9th at the 2008 PGA Championship.Jeev is now eyeing the senior circuit. He is preparing to play in the world’s top events in the senior circuit: the Majors and European, Japan and PGA tours. He aims to start in January 2022, a month after he turns 50 and becomes eligible for the seniors.‘Time is a great healer’“It is very important to get back to the sport and move on. Time is a great healer. So when I am in England, I will start practising and focus on the sport. The void my parents have left will never be filled but I want to keep continuing playing golf for them. It gives me great pride to be their son,” said the Padma Shri awardee, who also hailed woman golfer Aditi Ashok’s effort at the Tokyo Olympics and felt that the showing has brought golf into prominence in India.Ravibir Singh Grewal, Chandigarh Golf Club president, remembered Milkha Singh’s impressive demeanour and lauded his contribution to Indian sports. “He always encouraged the youngsters to pursue sports. He was so generous towards the underprivileged and always appreciated the caddies. His contribution towards Indian sports has been incredible. A great role model for all,” said Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh256-golfers-to-compete-in-milkha-singh-memorial-tournament-101630093712414.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow logs its most jabs in a day as over 93,000 Covid vaccine doses administered||As many as 93,436 doses of Covid vaccines were administered in Lucknow on Friday, the highest in a single day here since the vaccination campaign began on January 16.The 93,436 doses in Lucknow were also the highest among all 75 districts and exceeded the day’s target of 83,000 doses, according to the data from the district administration. With this, the total Covid vaccination in Lucknow has crossed the 26 lakh (2.6 million) mark, according to the health department data. During the day, UP administered 2,919,176 vaccine doses. Uttar Pradesh had administered a maximum of 2,952,435 doses in a day on August 3.Vaccination continued till late Friday night and the total number of doses reached 26,01,283 in Lucknow and 6,97,48,478 in Uttar Pradesh.“Many centres vaccinated till late night. Our committed health workers ensured they used every single vial of vaccine provided to them and additional doses were given to many centres as their stock got finished,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow.Among those vaccinated in Lucknow, 49% were aged between 18 and 45 years, 37% between 45 and 60 years and 14% above 60 years. By 10am, a little over 1000 doses were recorded in Lucknow but gradually the vaccination picked up. At 12.30pm, close to 15,000 doses were administered and the number went up to 34,000 by 2.30pm. By 5pm, over 65,000 doses were administered and at 7pm, 83,808 doses were administered, surpassing Lucknow’s previous high of 80,410 doses administered on August 3.At the vaccination camp organised by the Lucknow Chemist Association (LCA), 1000 doses were arranged. “The stock finished and we had to return about 100 beneficiaries asking them to come again next day,” said Mayank Rastogi, spokesperson for LCA. “Many booths were provided up to 250 doses of the vaccine instead of the usual over 100,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.In all, 178 centres —148 at government hospitals and 30 in private hospitals — had 388 vaccination sites in Lucknow. Walk-in vaccination facility was available at 96 booths. Vaccination was conducted at 12,012 sites across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-logs-its-most-jabs-in-a-day-as-over-93-000-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-101630093711119.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Arms drop case: NIA frames charges against 9 KLF activists||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court in Mohali on Friday framed charges against nine activists of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) in a September 2019 arms drop case from across the Pakistan border using drone. Special NIA judge Karunesh Kumar framed charges against KLF activate Akashdeep Singh, alias Akash Sandhu, Balwant Singh, Shubhdeep Singh, Sajanpreet Singh, Roman Deep Singh, all residents of Tarn Taran, Balbir Singh, Harbhajan Singh, Gurdev Singh of Hoshiarpur, and Man Singh of Gurdaspur under Sections 120-B, 121, 121-A, 122 489 B, 489 C, 379 and 411 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18-B, 23 and 38 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Sections 25, 1A, 25-(1) (A), 25 (1) (b) (a) (f) (g) and 27 (2) of the Arms Act and Section 4 and 5 of the Explosives Act. The case was adjourned till September 19 for evidences to be produced by the government agency. According to the NIA, KLF head Ranjit Singh and Gurmeet Singh, alias Baga, are the main accused in the case. The arms and ammunition dropped by drone was received on the Indian side by the nine accused against whom the charges have been framed. Before the NIA took over the case, the case was being handled by Punjab Police special operations cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arms-drop-case-nia-frames-charges-against-9-klf-activists-101630093591018.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress stages protest against drop in apple prices in Shimla||Alleging that the state government was hand-in-glove with private companies, the Congress staged a silent protest against the drop in apple prices on The Ridge on Friday. Himachal Pradesh Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the state was blind to the plight of the apple growers and called horticulture Minister Mahender Singh Thakur a “mute spectator.” The Congress has alleged that the BJP government had sold the interests of the farmers to corporate companies, traders and commission agents to fund election expenses.A major private company has fixed the rate of premium apple at ₹72, around 20% below last year’s rate ( ₹88 per kg). The prices of apples have been nosediving for two weeks. Parala fruit market to be equipped with all modern facilities: Suresh Bhardwaj Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that the Parala fruit market is being developed into a model market. It will be equipped with a processing plant, controlled atmosphere storage, marketing shed, parking and other modern facilities.Around ₹200 crore is being spent on the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-stages-protest-against-drop-in-apple-prices-in-shimla-101630093471647.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh tricity logs 20 cases, highest in 50 days||The tricity on Friday registered 20 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day tally in 50 days.It was on July 8 when 22 cases has surfaced. On Friday, Mohali reported 10 cases, followed by six in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula. On Thursday, 11 cases had been reported, after single-digit tally for four consecutive days.Meanwhile, no casualty was reported on Friday. In Chandigarh, three cases surfaced in Manimajra and one each in Sectors 38, 50 and 52. In Mohali, five cases were reported in Dhakoli, three in Mohali city and one each in Kharar and Lalru. In Panchkula, two people tested positive in Sector 11 and one each in Sectors 15 and 21.The active caseload also jumped to 107 from Thursday’s 94. There are 51 patients in Mohali, 42 in Chandigarh and 14 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-chandigarh-tricity-logs-20-cases-highest-in-50-days-101630093411114.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||DA case: VB summons ex-DGP Saini to join investigation||The Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) on Friday summoned former state police chief Sumedh Singh Saini to join investigation in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. Deputy superintendent of police (vigilance) Harinder Pal Singh said the notice has been pasted outside his house in Sector 20, Chandigarh, asking him to join the investigation by September 1. The case pertains to purchasing of a property by Saini using “ill-gotten” money in Chandigarh. The vigilance filed an application in the court seeking attachment of the said property. The orders for the attachment of the house in Sector 20, Chandigarh, were issued by the additional district and sessions judge on July 16 and the court also directed Saini to deposit monthly rent to the tune of ₹2.5 lakh with the court till the case proceedings are not over. On August 20, the vigilance arrested Saini in connection with a September 2020 case pertaining to a fraudulent sale of a land in Kurali in Mohali district. However, the next day, high court ordered his release from the vigilance custody.Thereafter, the vigilance filed a review petition in the high court against the release orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/da-case-vb-summons-ex-dgp-saini-to-join-investigation-101630093352726.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Lawyer courts trouble by ‘recording proceedings’||A court of judicial magistrate, Chandigarh, on Friday issued a show-cause notice to a lawyer, Charanjit Singh Bakshi, after he was reportedly caught recording the court proceedings in his mobile phone.As per the complaint filed by counsel Pardeep Virk, Bakshi started recording the court proceedings in a case where he too was representing the opposite party in a divorce case. However, he was sitting in court as he had to appear in some other case. When the counsel raised the alarm, Bakshi handed over his mobile phone to the naib court.The naib court noticed that a video conference was running on Bakshi’s mobile phone, besides the recordings of the ongoing case. Some other recordings were also found. The advocate had made recordings of the court proceedings without the court’s permission, which amounts to interference in the working of court and can lead to contempt proceedings, court order says. Later, when questioned by court, the lawyer had denied that he had recorded proceedings of the court.In the show-cause notice, the court asked Bakshi as to why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him. The case has been referred to the high court. He has also been asked as to why legal action under Section 228 of the Indian Penal Code (causing interruption to public servant) should not be taken against him.Even though the mobile phone was returned to Bakshi, the court directed him not to dispose of his mobile or to make any alteration or deletion of data and other items from the phone till the proceedings are concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhlawyer-courts-trouble-by-recording-proceedings-101630093351564.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Capt virtually lays stone of Guru Teg Bahadur law varsity||Chandigarh To mark the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Sikh master, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday virtually laid the foundation stone of Shri Guru Teg Bahadur State University of Law, Tarn Taran. He directed the finance department to ensure sufficient funds for making the university operational. The CM also launched commemorative gold and silver coins to mark the Guru’s birth anniversary. The 5gm gold coin has been priced at ₹27,500, 10gm at ₹55,000 and 50gm silver coin at ₹51,000. He disclosed that the classes of the upcoming university would start in a transit campus till the time the main campus is ready, for which 25 acres has been earmarked in Kairon village. The university at Kairon village was a real tribute to former chief minister Partap Singh Kairon, who was the architect of modern Punjab, said the CM. The CM also announced that he will inaugurate 18 new degree colleges and 25 ITIs on October 2. “Education must keep pace with times,” he added. Earlier, higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said that the new law university would prove to be a boon for imparting quality law education to rural students in the border area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-virtually-lays-stone-of-guru-teg-bahadur-law-varsity-101630093232549.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Senate poll row: Farm leader Tikait backs protesters at PU||In Chandigarh to address a rally, farm leader Rakesh Tikait also reached Panjab University to extend his support to the ongoing protest over the senate elections.Student bodies, former senators and a few candidates have been protesting at the PU campus for the past 14 days over the delay in conducting polls for the registered graduate constituency of the senate.Speaking at the protest site outside the vice-chancellor’s office, Tikait said: “The decision to defer these elections is unconstitutional. The government is trying to suppress democracy by not conducting elections, and they will promote their own candidates to upset the democratically elected senate.”Tikait assured the protesters that the issue will be taken up in the next meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Ludhiana MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, who was accompanying Tikait, also promised to take up the matter in the next session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha.The polling for the registered graduate constituency, from which 15 members are elected, was originally scheduled on August 18. The varsity postponed it, citing non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana. A couple of days ago, the varsity claimed it is ready to hold the polling on third or fourth Sunday of September depending upon the response from Delhi and Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-poll-row-farm-leader-tikait-backs-protesters-at-pu-101630093170857.html
28-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Two months after attack on gangrape victim’s kin, 6 booked||Two months after the family members of a gangrape victim were allegedly attacked, six persons have been booked for assault and criminal intimidation. The accused have been identified as Makhan Singh of Rod village, his brother Hardeep Singh, Parvinder Singh, his brother Satwinder Singh, Sukhvir Singh and Tarlochan Singh.The victim’s father said that on June 25, he was standing outside his house when the accused turned up at the spot with sticks and iron rods in their hands. The accused threatened them to withdraw the rape case lodged against their accomplices, but complainant refused. Following this, the accused opened attack on him. His son managed to take him inside the house and bolt the door, but the accused barged in after scaling the compound wall and assaulted them again.“I called the police and also filed a complaint, but to no avail. After making several rounds of the police station, an FIR has finally been registered after two months of filing the complaint,” said the victim’s father.The 17-year-old daughter of the complainant was allegedly gangraped by a Phagwara resident, identified as Gagan and his two accomplices on May 2. The accused had kidnapped the girl near her house and gangraped her after taking her to a government school. A case was lodged against the accused under Section 376-D (rape) of the Indian Penal Code on May 7. Ever since, the accused had been threatening them to withdraw the case, the complainant said. For the attack on the family, the Meharban police have booked the accused under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 451 (house trespass), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused are on the run.Assistant sub-inspector Balbir Singh, who is investigating the gangrape case, said the FIR in the assault case was lodged following an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-two-months-after-attack-on-gangrape-victim-s-kin-6-booked-101630093050902.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||A day after show of strength, Capt meets Bhattal||A day after holding a show of strength, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday met former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. Amarinder went to Bhattal’s residence to meet her. The move is being seen as part the chief minister’s efforts to consolidate his position. “The Congress will be united. These are minor differences and will get sorted soon. Everyone will be together,” Bhattal told reporters after their meeting. Navjot Singh Sidhu had also called on the former chief minister after being named the state unit president last month. Bhattal is the vice-chairperson of State Planning Board in the rank of cabinet minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-day-after-show-of-strength-capt-meets-bhattal-101630092992083.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Nurse found injured, unconscious on Morni road||Police are on the lookout for an auto-rickshaw driver after a 24-year-old staff nurse of a private hospital was found unconscious with injuries on her head, neck and arms on the Morni road near the Nada Sahib gurdwara in Panchkula on Thursday night. The spot is located just 100 metres from a police station and is in close vicinity to a hospital, where the woman has been admitted. Police said she has suffered brain haemorrhage, and is still unconscious.The woman works at a hospital in Sector 26, Panchkula, where she daily commutes from her house in Baddi. On Thursday, she had left hospital around 8:30pm and was found unconscious on the Morni road by a passerby around 9pm. Sources said she was dumped there by an auto driver.Every day, she used to take an auto till Majri Chowk, from where she boarded a bus to Pinjore, where her father used to pick her up. According to initial investigations, she had boarded an auto for Majri Chowk around 8:45pm on Thursday as well. Police suspect it to be a case of kidnapping, but it is not yet clear whether the woman jumped from the auto or was thrown out. Her belongings were recovered from the spot. Police are scanning CCTV footage of the road leading to the spot to get more clues. A case of attempt to murder has been registered under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code on her brother’s complaint. The victim in unmarried and is the eldest of three siblings. “She is admitted to ICU, though doctors say she will gain consciousness by tomorrow,” said her uncle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-nurse-found-injured-unconscious-on-morni-road-101630092991004.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police start sending traffic challans at home||Turning CCTV cameras installed at various light points into its eyes, the Mohali police department has started sending challans to vehicle users caught violating traffic rules to their registered addresses. We have chalked out a comprehensive plan to deal with traffic violators strictly,” said Gurjot Singh, superintendent of police (traffic). “To ensure road safety for the general public, CCTV cameras have been installed at various light points in the district. Drivers violating traffic rules, such as jumping red light, speeding, not wearing seat belts or helmets, and stopping on zebra crossings, are being closely monitored.” Singh said that those caught violating rules on camera will get challan receipts at their homes. As many as 104 such challans have already been issued in urban areas of Mohali since August 1, he said.Police are using the address provided for the registration of the vehicle for sending the challan. In case the address turns out to be wrong, the vehicle can be impounded. Around 11 such cases have surfaced so far, and the Mohali traffic police have written to the regional transport authority concerned, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-start-sending-traffic-challans-at-home-101630092873457.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cong tussle: AAP demands floor test in Punjab assembly||Amid tussle in the ruling Congress for control of the party ahead of the state assembly polls, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday demanded a floor test in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. A delegation of AAP legislators led by leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema met Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore and urged him to direct the Congress government to convene a special session to hold the floor test. The principal opposition party also challenged the Amarinder Singh government to prove its majority. Besides Cheema, the delegation included MLAs Amarjit Singh Sandoa and Jai Singh Rori and party leaders Jagtar Singh Sanghera and Malvinder Singh Kang. “If the chief minister avoids proving his majority in next seven days, then the present government should be dissolved immediately,” they demanded. Cheema said that cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, MLAs and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had revolted against their own chief minister in the name of saving Punjab, should clarify their stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-tussle-aap-demands-floor-test-in-punjab-assembly-101630092872443.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Thaw in Shiv Sena, BJP relations?||Days after the political slugfest between the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a closed door meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday led to speculations on whether the leaders are seeking some sort of reconciliation, following Union minister Narayan Rane’s ‘slap the CM’ remarks and his subsequent arrest. Significantly, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the “outsiders” in BJP, who joined the party in the past few years, were responsible for the current tussle between the two parties. According to information, Fadnavis, who participated in the all-party meeting convened by CM on reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC), met Thackeray for a one-on-one chat for about 15 minutes. The duo believably discussed the bitter clashes earlier this week between the two parties over the Rane episode and was apparently of the opinion that the clashes were unwarranted. Thackeray has reportedly told Fadnavis that the relationship between two parties was worsening because of Rane, who has been making personal attacks on the Sena leadership. The BJP leadership, too, is not in full agreement with the way Rane has been attacking Thackeray. “Fadnavis and state unit chief Chandrakant Patil have already clarified that they don’t justify the remarks by Rane. Patil even went a step ahead and said that they share brotherly relations with the Sena. Raut, too, has spoken on similar lines. BJP does not approve any stand that will snap the possibilities of the parties coming together forever,” said a BJP leader after the meeting.Raut on Friday morning said that BJP’s newly inducted leaders have been trying to create enmity between Sena and BJP. He also stated that they have political differences with their old ally but are attached on the common ideology of Hindutva. He compared Rane and other outsider leaders in BJP to Bangladeshi infiltrators. “These political infiltrators are [like] Bangladeshi infiltrators who are involved in terrorism or narcotics activities,” he said.Raut said BJP and Sena never had personal enmity. “We never had personal differences though we have parted our ways on the political differences. The outsiders in BJP do not know the relations shared between [late Sena founder] Balasaheb Thackeray and [late Prime Minister from BJP] Atal Behari Vajpayee and [former Union home minister] Lal Krishna Advani. They do not know the relations shared by Balasaheb Thackeray and Uddhav Thackeray with [PM Narendra] Modiji. They are trying to play spoilsport and the biggest threat from them is to the hard core BJP leaders in the party,” he said.Rane was in Congress before joining BJP, Pravin Darekar was in MNS while Prasad Lad was in NCP. All three who got prominence in BJP are based in Mumbai and have been vocal against the Sena. Raut also said that the BJP needs the “purification” from within the party. Reacting to Sanjay Raut’s remarks, Rane said in Ratnagiri, “Though I have joined BJP just recently, I have accepted the party ideology. Even the party has accepted me.”When asked about Raut’s comment on potential re-alliance between the two parties, Rane said, “I do not react on speculative statements. Even if two parties decided to come together, I will follow the stand taken by the party leadership at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thaw-in-shiv-sena-bjp-relations-101630092871331.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Create awareness about Covid vaccination especially among villagers: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday called upon medical professionals to create awareness about Covid-19 vaccination, especially among the rural masses, and said institutes like SGPGIMS can do more by exploring ways to combine India’s rich medical base in the form of ayurveda and yoga with modern medicine.He was addressing a gathering of medical students on the occasion of 26th convocation ceremony of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS).“I am really happy to see yoga becoming a movement. During the pandemic, it has helped people in increasing their immunity to face the virus,” he said.“I am addressing all of you in English because you have taken a degree from an international level institute. So, don’t limit yourself to Lucknow or this state. Now, have a global vision for humanity. Till now, 61 crore people in India have been vaccinated in the world’s biggest vaccination programme. Now, it’s your work to create awareness about vaccination, especially among the rural masses,” he said.“An institute is not known only for its building and structure, but also the consistent efforts of its staff in the field of research, patient care and teaching add to its recognition,” he added.“The time has come to expand your influence to train faculty members of other upcoming medical colleges. It is up to you to share your expertise and develop them as centres of excellence,” he emphasised.Governor Ananiben Patel warned against the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic. She called for people to remain aware of the need to follow the Covid protocol.“Indian scientists must be complimented for developing three vaccines against Covid within no time. Soon, a vaccine for children will be available,” she said. Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tewari said, “Owing to PGI doctors who are heading various committees, the corona positivity rate is reduced to just 0.01 %, but we have prepared for the next wave; 78000 beds are ready. During this time, 554 oxygen plants have been sanctioned while 344 have become operational.”SGPGIMS director Professor Radha Krishna Dhiman said the institute would start air ambulance service from November to ensure proper treatment for the patients coming from other districts.He said the microbiology department of PGI had created a record by testing more than 20 lakh samples from 30 districts. The institute had started operating as a tele ICU centre connected with 200 intensive care units (ICUs) of six institutes, prof Dhiman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/create-awareness-about-covid-vaccination-especially-among-villagers-president-101630092814508.html
28-08-2021||Other||Haryana BJP to honour winners of Khelo Haryana Games with Murrah buffaloes, scooters, bicycles||The Haryana unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to honour the winners of the Khelo Haryana Games 2021 with Murrah buffaloes, scooters and bicycles. This was announced by Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar on inauguration of the three-day event at Karnal’s Karan Stadium on Friday.Dhankar said the games are being organised as a part of Khelo India Games to encourage youth towards sports at a younger age.“Winners (male and female) in boxing will be given Murrah buffalo, winners of table tennis will get scooters and football event winners will get sports bicycles,” said Dhankar.“Haryana is known for desi ghee consumption. Even the food prepared for participants has desi ghee,” he said.Hailing the Haryana government’s sports policy, he said the policy is connecting youth with games.“Participation of youth of Haryana in sports has increased manifold due to the government’s sports policy. Now we see the local youth doing exceptionally well in all games,” he added.“Our farmers produce gold (foodgrains) for the country and our youth bring gold from Olympics events,” he added.He said in the past couple of years, Dhankar said the state is growing as a sports hub. Even in Tokyo Olympics, 25% participation from the country was from Haryana and of all medals won, 50% were won by players from Haryana.“Players from Haryana won seven medals in Tokyo Olympics but we want Haryanvi players to win at least 70 medals in Olympics 2028,” he added.Total 9,670 players in the under-18 category from all over state will take part in 20 sporting events held at six districts of the state and 1,232 players will participate in the three events - football, table tennis and boxing - in Karnal.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the events will conclude on August 29 and a cash prize of ₹5,000, ₹3,000 and ₹2,000 will be given to players winning gold, silver and bronze medal, respectively.In an interaction with the media over famers’ issue, Dhankar said the government is always ready for talks and amendments in the agriculture laws but some farm leaders are adamant on repealing of the laws. “Government’s doors are always open for the farmers for talks ,” he added.Earlier, Dhankar held a meeting with party workers from Karnal and reviewed preparation for a state-level meeting of all BJP leaders and elected representatives is scheduled in Karnal on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-bjp-to-honour-winners-of-khelo-haryana-games-with-murrah-buffaloes-scooters-bicycles-101630092813149.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rain triggers flashflood, landslides in Himachal||Heavy rain triggered a flashflood in Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba district and multiple landslides across the hill state on Friday. Torrential rainfall caused a flashflood in a nullah (rivulet) on the Tunuhatti-Kakira Road in Chowari subdivision of Chamba district, which swept away a local, Karm Chand of Ladera village. Though a rescue team from the Bakloh police post was rushed to the spot, Karm Chand could not be saved. His body has been recovered and handed over to his family.The Manali-Chandigarh highway was locked for several hours for the second consecutive day due to multiple landslides on the stretch. A winding traffic jam was also seen on the Mandi-Kullu route via Kataula Road due to a landslide near Pandoh.Three-day yellow warningThe Shimla centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert and predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall, thunderstorms and lightening in 10 districts of Himachal Pradesh – Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kangra, Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Mandi, Kullu and Chamba – over the next three days.“The monsoon weather system will remain active across the state, except in Kinnaur and Lahaul Spiti districts, till August 30,” said Shimla MeT centre director Surender Paul.The hill-state has been receiving sporadic rainfall, while some parts have been lashed by heavy rainfall over the last week. The MeT department has advised the residents to stay vigilant and not to venture near the water bodies as flooding may occur due to the rainfall.17% rainfall deficitThis year, monsoon arrived in Himachal Pradesh on June 13, a fortnight early. However, the state also recorded a 17% rain deficit. “This time the state received 485.9mm rainfall in monsoon against the usual 606mm,” said Paul.Bangana wettest with 107mm rainfall On Friday, Bangana in Una district was the wettest place receiving 107mm of rainfall, followed by 72mm in Gohar and 56mm in Guler.Dehra Gopipur got 45mm rain, Nadaun 43mm, Sujanpur Tira 40mm, Hamirpur 33mm, Berthin 28mm, Nagrota Suriyan 27mm, Palampur 26mm and Bhoran 25mm. Dalhousie received 14mm rainfall, and Dharamshala 8.4mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-triggers-flashflood-landslides-in-himachal-101630092810341.html
28-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 1 more tests positive, active count now 30||One person tested positive for Covid-19 while no death was reported in the last 24 hours, as per the district health department officials. With this, the total count of positive patients in the district has reached 87,461, out of which 2,097 patients have succumbed to the disease since the outbreak last year.Currently, there were 30 active cases in the district.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma appealed to the public to not let their guard down and take all precautions, especially during the upcoming festival season, in view of the anticipated third wave.No vaccination camps todayWith the available stock of vaccine exhausted on Friday and the authorities not receiving any fresh stock, the administration announced that no inoculation camps will be organised at government session sites on Saturday.District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said the department did not receive any information regarding the fresh stock till Friday evening. As many as 4,337 residents were vaccinated at government and private camps on Friday. So far, 19,92,260 residents have been inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-1-more-tests-positive-active-count-now-30-101630092750957.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Untreated sewage still entering N-Choe in Chandigarh, Mohali||Untreated sewage is still being discharged into the N-Choe at various points in Chandigarh and Mohali. These are preliminary findings of a joint committee formed following the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s directions in June this year. N-Choe is a seasonal stream that originates in the north of Chandigarh and runs across the city before meeting the Jagatpura drain at Manauli village in Mohali. The water finally drains into the Ghaggar river.Tasked with submitting a report on contamination of these water bodies within two months, the committee inspecting both N-Choe and Jagatpura drain on Thursday. The committee comprises officials from the Central Pollution Control Board, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee.Lavneet Kumar, executive engineer, PPCB, Mohali, who is a part of the committee, said: “We have found that at several points, in both Mohali and Chandigarh, untreated sewage is being discharged into the natural water bodies. Even farmers use the same water for agricultural purposes downstream along the Ghaggar.”Untreated sewage refers to wastewater that contains harmful waterborne pathogens and bacteria and which has not yet gone through a sewage treatment plant. It poses a high risk to human and animal health. “We will be directing the officials concerned of both Greater Mohali Area Development Authority and Chandigarh municipal corporation to plug these points in order to comply with the NGT directions,” he said. The NGT will be taking up the case on the next date of hearing on September 22.It was on May 6 this year when lawyer and activist Sunaina filed a petition before the NGT, stating that contaminated water from Chandigarh enters drains in Mohali and eventually the Ghaggar river, and is used by nearby farmers for cultivation, thus polluting the entire food chain and jeopardising the health of people and aquatic life. The plea wanted the Chandigarh administration and Punjab to install necessary sewage treatment plants, following which, the NGT bench presided over by its chairperson and former Supreme Court judge AK Goel directed Chandigarh to ensure that sewage from the city flowing into the Ghaggar is treated and sought a report within two months. It also directed the Punjab chief secretary and UT adviser, in coordination with other officials concerned, to take appropriate remedial measures and ensure zero discharge of untreated water. In 2019, too, directions were issued to ensure the release of 100% treated water into rivers and drains by March 31, 2020. However, the NGT observed that there is hardly any significant improvement. “It is a breach of public trust under the Public Trust Doctrine. We are left with a feeling that there is no commitment to the rule of law and no concern for the environment and health of the citizens on the part of the authorities concerned,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/untreated-sewage-still-entering-n-choe-in-chandigarh-mohali-101630092691907.html
28-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana mayor threatens to terminate Tata’s contract over LED streetlights’ maintenance||Amid a row over missing LED streetlights, mayor Balkar Sandhu on Friday threatened to terminate Tata Projects Ltd’s contract citing shoddy work.The firm, which has been tasked with LED installation and maintenance in the city, meanwhile claimed that the maintenance has been hit as the MC has stalled its payments. In a statement issued after a meeting with the mayor at his camp office, Tata’s business head stated, “The company has invested crores into the project and installed over 1.2 lakh streetlights in the city. But the MC has been delaying payment to the tune of over ₹9 crore since last October. This is being done to push the company away from the project for the benefit of local contractors.”The statement further read, “The company has asked the mayor to make the payment or shut the project. We have also taken up the matter at the state-level.” Principal Secretary, local bodies department, AK Sinha has scheduled a meeting in this regard on September 4.Mayor Sandhu said the payment will not be released till the company maintains the streetlights properly. He said, “Two years have passed since the project was commenced, but the company has failed to improve its working. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and I own dairy units in Haibowal dairy complex, but even there, a large number of streetlights are non-functional. We have received several complaints from other parts of the city too. Residents are bearing the brunt of the company’s failure.” “If the company fails to resolve the issue after the meeting with the principal secretary, I will call a meeting of the MC General House to decide whether to continue with the company or terminate its contract,” said the mayor.Congress councillors Jai Prakash, Mamta Ashu and Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Bhalla, who participated in the meeting, also slammed the firm’s working. Ashu said, “I had raised the issue of the company’s failure in maintenance around a year-and-a-half ago. At that time too, the company officials claimed that they will improve but nothing changed.” Missing LED streetlightsAfter finding streetlights missing at around 900 points during a survey ordered by mayor Balkar Sandhu, the company officials assured that all these spots will be lighted up soon. The mayor, however, said the company has submitted its report but he is waiting for the MC report on the matter. “The exact number of missing streetlights will be clear after the MC submits its report, following which required action will be taken,” said the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mayor-threatens-to-terminate-tata-s-contract-over-led-streetlights-maintenance-101630092631018.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Negative RT-PCR test report must for fliers from Europe, SA, Middle-East||The Maharashtra government has made a negative RT-PCR report mandatory for passengers coming from Europe, the Middle-East and South Africa. It, however, removed the condition of 14-day mandatory quarantine for them. The decision was taken in line with the standard operating protocol (SOP) issued by the central government for international travellers to avoid confusion.“All rules for all international passengers arriving into the state including passengers from European countries, Middle Eastern countries and South Africa, will be in line with the above mentioned by the ministry of health and family welfare from time to time,” stated an order issued by Sitaram Kunte, chief secretary, on August 27.“It means they will require a negative RT-PCR report for entering the state. The RT-PCR sample collection should have been taken within 72 hours prior to the scheduled time of landing at airports in the state,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.On July 15, the state government exempted all fully vaccinated international passengers from the mandatory negative RT-PCR report, if they have completed 15 days since the second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-negative-rt-pcr-test-report-must-for-fliers-from-europe-sa-middleeast-101630092332479.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Big B’s guard, suspected of earning ₹1.5 cr a year, relieved from duty||Police head constable Jitendra Shinde – who was deputed as a guard for actor Amitabh Bachchan since 2015 – was relieved from his duties early on Friday, a day after Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale shunted him out following reports that he was earning about ₹1.5 crore annually. Shinde has been transferred to DB Marg police station in south Mumbai, said an additional commissioner of police. Shinde was among the four constables appointed to guard Bachchan. The actor has been given X-category security – two police personnel each during the day and night. There were several unverified viral posts on social media and some news reports indicating that Shinde was earning ₹1.5 crore annually. It was also alleged that he runs a security agency in his wife’s name and provides security to celebrities. As per service rules, a government employee cannot take another job during his service. However, all the allegations are yet to be verified and are being looked into, said another police officer. Cops have also started an internal inquiry to find out if Shinde has declared details of his other source of income to the government. The police administration also discovered that Shinde has been serving on the same post from nearly six years. This did not go well with Nagrale, who had recently introduced a new transfer policy for Mumbai Police constables, restricting the tenure of a posting to a maximum of five years. Hence, Shinde was transferred in accordance with the new policy. Nagrale has also ordered a departmental inquiry to ascertain if Shinde had amassed illegal wealth while serving as a guard to Bachchan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/big-b-s-guard-suspected-of-earning-1-5-cr-a-year-relieved-from-duty-101630092331142.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The mother of all chai stalls||The sun is rising behind the distant Red Fort. Its grainy golden shine is falling softly on the centuries-old stone steps of Jama Masjid (gate no. 3). Oblivious to the new daylight, scores of homeless people continue to sleep on the vast ground beneath the great mosque. The world still seems to be at rest. Except for Muhammed Irfan’s chai shop. It opens at 5 in the morning and has already served several rounds of chai to the early birds.This has to be Delhi’s most idyllic tea stall, in terms of its location. It consists of a plain counter with two wooden benches facing the Jama Masjid, which stands a few steps away. The stall itself is nestled into the shrine of Hazrat Sarmad Shahid, the Sufi mystic who was executed by Emperor Aurangzeb. One of Hazrat Sarmad’s great devotees was freedom fighter Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. His garden tomb is partly visible from the stall.There’s another remarkable aspect of the chai place. The wall behind the counter has a pair of mashaks—goatskin bags of yesteryears—hanging from the hooks. They belong to two elderly brothers who frequently fill the bags with water, drawn the old-fashioned way from a well inside the aforementioned shrine. The brothers then wear the mashak around their shoulder, like a pithu bag, and spray the dusty ground in front of the tea stall with the dargah’s cool water. This morning one of the brothers is sitting behind the counter, sewing a torn mashak. Here’s a scene straight out of 17th century Delhi.And then there’s the tea man, Irfan Khan, who with his long white beard, endearing smile, and a worn out hookah is himself a sight. Founded 40 years ago by his father, Bashir Ahmad, the stall teems with customers throughout the day. The extreme nearness to the imposing Jama Masjid often stuns the tea drinkers into silence.Soon the winter will arrive and patrons to the stall will be draped in shawls and blankets, their cold hands gratefully holding on to the steaming hot chai. The stall stays open till midnight, glowing in the dark like a lighthouse in the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-mother-of-all-chai-stalls-101630092071872.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||NABARD cluster office inaugurated in Ludhiana||A cluster office of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) was inaugurated in Miller Ganj on Friday. This office has been opened to cater to the needs of the Ludhiana cluster, which comprises four districts- Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar and Rupnagar.It was jointly inaugurated by Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), and Rajiv Siwach, chief general manager (CGM) of NABARD, Punjab.Sumanta Mohanty, general manager of State Level Banker’s Committee; SK Dubey, chairman of Punjab Gramin Bank, among others were also present on the occasion.Managing directors (MDs) as well as district managers (DMs) from Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Nawanshahr, and district central co-operative banks in Ropar also attended the inauguration.After the inauguration, Siwach had a detailed discussion with Dubey and the MDs and DMs regarding increasing investment credit in agriculture for the long-term and sustainable growth in the sector.The CGM also visited Punjab Agriculture University and reviewed the progress of projects being implemented by the university. Siwach emphasised on the swift transfer of technologies developed in labs to the field of farmers so that they can be adopted as per their farm plans.He also had a discussion with the additional director of PAU on the operationalisation of the “Grameen Chintan” Scheme for meritorious postgraduate students of the university. The CGM also discussed new projects for development and propagating agriculture technology among farmers and the need to focus on the issues faced by them. Training programs, specially designed for FPOs members with NABARD assistance, in collaboration with PAU and GADVASU, were also reviewed and discussed during the meeting. The visit ended with CGM interaction with CEOs of agriculture start-ups in the Ludhiana district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nabard-cluster-office-inaugurated-in-ludhiana-101630092154947.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||It’s Bhogal v/s Chawla for top post in UCPMA polls||Rival groups within the current executive committee of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) have announced candidates for elections scheduled on September 3 (Friday). There are eight posts in the committee. The United Alliance group of industrialists, which is supporting the group that current general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva is leading, has fielded Avtar Singh Bhogal as its candidate for president. The DS Chawla group has reaffirmed its faith in their leader, Chawla, for president. The United Alliance group has decided to field six members, who are holding the charge in the current executive committee, for the same posts. These include Manjinder Sachdeva for general secretary; Gurcharan Singh Gemco for senior vice-president; Satnam Singh Makkar for vice-president; Walaity Ram Durga for joint secretary; Rajinder Singh Sarhali for propaganda secretary and Achhru Ram Gupta finance secretary. Rupak Sood will contests for the secretary post. Chawla group is fielding Prince Bansal senior vice-president; Narinder Mahajan for vice-president, Harsimarjit Singh (Lucky) for general secretary; Kulpreet Singh Malhotra (Lucky) for secretary; Sukhwinder Singh Luthra for joint secretary; Rajesh Bansal for propaganda secretary and Varun Kapoor for finance secretary. “The nominations for the elections have to be filed on August 30 and withdrawal of nominations can be done on August 31. The elections will be held at UCPMA office at Gill road from 9am to 5pm on September 3. Results will be announced the same day,” said presiding officer for the elections Parupkar Singh Ghumman The two groups in the fray comprise current president Chawla and secretary Harsimerjit Singh Lucky and others, the six current executive members form the second group, led by general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva. Former presidents of the association, including Charanjit Vishwakarma, Inderjit Navyug and other senior members of the association have formed United Alliance group in support of the Sachdeva group.Chawla had also got an FIR lodged against 31 members of United Alliance Group for allegedly thrashing him and tossing his turban during an annual general meeting held on August 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-bhogal-v-s-chawla-for-top-post-in-ucpma-polls-101630092153469.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: OTS policy notified to regularise illegal water-sewer connections||In a major relief to defaulters, the local bodies department has notified a one-time settlement (OTS) policy for regularisation of illegal water-sewer connections and payment of pending water-sewer user charges without penalty or interest.In the notification dated August 25, defaulters have been given three months from the date to submit a nominal amount (less than 10% of the normal fee) to get the connections regularised and pay pending user charges without penalty. After depositing the fee, no other charges like road cutting, connection fees and security will be chargeable.Under the policy, if users do not get the connections regularised within three months but within six months, they will have to pay a penalty of 100% on the concessional fee being imposed under the OTS. If they still don’t pay, they will have to pay as per the normal rates, along with interest and penalty, and their connection will be disconnected.Further, no penalty or interest will be charged on principal amount, if the payment of pending user charges is made within three months, while only penalty will be waived off if the amount is paid after three months but within six months. After six months, the user will have to pay both penalty and interest and their connection be disconnected. MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said that the regularisation fee being charged under the OTS policy is less than 10% of the normal fee charged for regularising the connections. Maor Balkar Sandhu said,”It is a golden opportunity provided by the local bodies department and people should avail of this opportunity in large numbers.” Over 60K illegal connections in cityAs per the officials, it is suspected that there are over 60,000 illegal sewer connections in the city. Apart from this, the defaulters with legal connections have failed to pay over ₹200 crores as user charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ots-policy-notified-to-regularise-illegal-water-sewer-connections-101630092092845.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Auto driver, sister-in-law held for drug peddling in Ludhiana||The anti-narcotics cell of Ludhiana police arrested an auto-driver and his sister-in-law for drug peddling on Thursday and recovered 50-gram heroin from their possession. The accused have been identified as Makhan Singh, 27, of Mohalla Charan Nagar and Manpreet Kaur, 32.Inspector Rajesh Sharma, in-charge of anti-narcotic cell, said that they were arrested near Star City on Tibba Road following a tip-off. Makhan told police that his brother Angrej Singh used to smuggle the heroin and him and his sister-in-law used to deliver it, as women are rarely stopped for checking.A case under Sections 21B, 61 and 85 of NDPS act had been registered at the Tibba police station. Angrej Singh has also been nominated in the case.The accused were produced before a court on Friday and sent to judicial custody.Further he added that Angrej Singh was arrested three months ago for drug peddling, but he was bailed out. After availing bail he indulged in drug peddling again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-driver-sister-in-law-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana-101630092091006.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC launches city’s 1st climate action plan||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday launched the first Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP) to strategise ways to tackle the challenges of climate change. The plan was launched by state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray at the BMC headquarters. Mumbai became a part of the C40 Cities climate leadership group in December 2020, and is drafting the climate action plan in compliance with the C40 guidelines and criteria. The initiative was launched alongside the MCAP website (http://mcap.mcgm.gov.in), where citizens and experts can send their suggestions and recommendations till September 20. MCAP is expected to be completely ready by October, ahead of the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) to be held in November. It is being made in collaboration with World Resources Institute, India, as knowledge partners for the initiative. The action plan will focus on six areas – waste management, sustainable mobility, clean energy, urban floods and water management, urban green cover and biodiversity, and air quality. So far, city and climate profiling, and sectoral analysis have been completed. Drafting near term vision setting (2030, mid-term vision setting (2040) and long-term vision setting (2050), stake-holders consultations, along with implementation strategies are remaining. C40 connects 97 of the world’s largest cities, enabling them to “collaborate effectively, share knowledge and drive meaningful, measurable and sustainable action on climate change” It has been proposed to create a climate cell within the BMC to help with understanding the practical relevance of climate change for Mumbai, and to coordinate with various departments and the Maharashtra environment ministry to implement the MCAP. The BMC’s existing IT infrastructure will also be used for data collection and analysis. New initiatives on climate action already set in motion for Mumbai across the focus areas include BEST buses’ transition to electronic vehicle feel in the island city, and improved road networks on the transport front; underground water holding tanks planned in five flood prone spots to mitigate waterlogging; installing trash-brooms to keep floating garbage from carrying into the sea and the Mithi river clean-up project; the proposed desalination plant to supplement the increasing water demands of the city; over 5000 planned rainwater harvesting pits across Mumbai. Aaditya Thackeray said, “The plan will be ready within the next two months, and its implementation will start by November. The main objective of this framework is to formulate a comprehensive policy to address the challenges of climate change, and mitigate risks associated with it. Implementation of the plan will enable effective reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and conserve natural resources of the city.” Also present for the launch were minister of state for environment Sanjay Bansod, mayor Kishori Pednekar, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, MMRDA commissioner SVR Srinivas, Maharashtra Pollution control board president A Jarhad, and stakeholders from C40 cities, and WRI India. Meanwhile, the BMC on Friday also launched five electric vehicle to be used by the civic body. The vehicle has been taken on lease from Energy Efficiency services Limited, an energy service company of the Government of India,at a cost Rs27,000 a month, including maintenance and repairs. The BMC plans to get over 40 more electric vehicles which will be used by elected representatives and officials from the civic administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-launches-city-s-1st-climate-action-plan-101630091610934.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Aarey CEO booked in ₹3.4-cr disproportionate assets case in Mumbai||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has registered a disproportionate assets case under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act against Aarey Milk Colony chief executive officer (CEO) Nathu Vithhal Rathod for allegedly amassing total assets worth ₹3.4 crore, which is 555% more than his known source of income, the agency said on Friday.Rathod, who is currently out on bail, was arrested by ACB on May 24, along with aide Arvind Tribhuvam Tiwari. Later, cash worth ₹3.4 crore was seized from his official bungalow at Aarey Milk Colony. The cash was hidden under a bed, in gunny bags kept in the backyard and on the terrace.A resident from Aarey Colony had complained to ACB against Rathod on May 14, alleging that the CEO had demanded bribe from him for granting permission to carry out repairs in his house. It is mandatory to secure prior permission from the office of CEO to carry out any construction/repair works at Aarey Milk Colony, as the state owns the area.Suspecting that Rathod may have amassed illegitimate assets during his service all these years, ACB had initiated an open inquiry against him. During the inquiry, all the movable and immovable assets – including Rathod’s savings in bank, lockers, private investments, insurances –were scrutinised. During the inquiry, Rathod could not give satisfactory answers about the source of such a huge amount of cash seized from his official residence, said an ACB officer. Rathod was also holding charge of the deputy commissioner of Worli Dairy – which is considered to be a post held by a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aarey-ceo-booked-in-3-4-cr-disproportionate-assets-case-in-mumbai-101630091492523.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Bids invited for study for car parking lot near HC||The UT administration has started the process of conducting a geo-technical study for constructing a multi-level parking near the Punjab and Haryana high court. The department has invited bids from the enlisted and eligible contractors for the work of carrying out the investigation at the proposed site. The study is necessary for obtaining clearances from the Union ministry of environment. The UT engineering department has already started the process for the preparation of a Environment Impact Assessment study. At least 10,000 lawyers come to the HC a day; these and the litigants bring around 8,000 cars. Against this large demand, the HC has a parking capacity for 800 cars. According to the layout submitted with the HC in January last year, three underground floors have been planned. In the first phase, the parking lot will have space for over 2,800 cars. The second phase proposes installation of stacks, which will increase the capacity to 5,000 cars. The ground-level will be a green area. There will be ramps for exit and entry of vehicles to the basement parking spaces will be the only construction on it. The approximate covered area of one floor is 3.7 lakh sq ft; for the three floors, it will be over 11.1 lakh sq ft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ut-invites-bids-for-geo-technical-study-for-car-parking-lot-near-hc-101630091491084.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Narayan Rane continues his attacks on Shiv Sena, CM Thackeray||Without taking any names, Union micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) minister Narayan Rane launched a full-fledged attack on the Shiv Sena and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, as he resumed his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Ratnagiri district on Friday. Rane’s yatra, which began on August 19, came to a halt on August 24, after his arrest and release on bail for his “slap the CM” remarks. The day saw a fresh round of slugfest between the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party, amid attack, counter attacks and threats from both the sides. Rane stirred a controversy by alleging that a Sena leader had conspired to throw acid on his own sister-in-law. Rane did not name any leader and said that the additional information over the issue will be given at the appropriate time. “Who ordered the acid attack on his sister-in-law? Are these sanskars? I will expose them step by step. Disha Salian and Sushant Singh Rajput cases are yet under investigation. The law is equal for all and would not tolerate hooliganism. I will start giving back in two days after recovering from bad throat,” he said. Rane also raised questions over murders of Jayant Jadhav and Ramesh More, two former Shiv Sena workers. He also warned Shiv Sena leadership that he will expose more cases related to Sena leaders if they (Sena) continued to target him. Reacting to Rane’s allegations, Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut said he would request the state government to reopen criminal cases related to Rane. “While levelling allegations against others, Rane should first speak about the murders of his cousin Ankush Rane and firing on Chintu Shaikh in Mumbai. A few years ago, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had read out a list of criminal cases against Rane in the legislative council. We will request the state to investigate into them,” he said. Rane resumed his yatra from Ratnagiri and later proceeded to his home district, Sindhudurg . He will conclude the yatra in Sindhudurg on August 29. As part of the party’s outreach programme by newly inducted union ministers, Rane had embarked on Jan Ashirwad Yatra on August 19 from Mumbai. The yatra has been in the limelight from day 1 because of his statements and his attacks against Shiv Sena and its leadership. The controversy began as Rane, while referring to CM Uddhav Thackeray’s August 15 speech at Mantralaya, said that he would have slapped the CM had he been present there. Thackeray had allegedly goofed up between the Hirak (60th/diamond jubilee) and Amrut (75th/platinum) year of the independence and enquired about it with an official standing behind him. After his arrest and the release on bail late on Tuesday, Rane took a break of two days. He underwent a health check-up at a private hospital on Thursday after his blood sugar level went up. Though he was scheduled to take a chopper from a farm house at Karjat on Friday, the schedule saw a last-minute change due to his health issues. Rane took the chopper from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-narayan-rane-continues-his-attacks-on-shiv-sena-cm-thackeray-101630091431520.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||October 2018 boat mishap: Mumbai court grants anticipatory bail to 3 accused||A sessions court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to the owner and two officials of a speed boat company who were booked by Colaba police for a boat mishap that had killed one person on October 24, 2018. The boat was ferrying workers of a political party to the proposed Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Memorial in the Arabian Sea, ahead of the ground-breaking ceremony.Additional sessions judge Dr UJ More granted anticipatory bail to Aashim Mongia, owner of M/s West Coast Marine Yacht Services Pvt Ltd, and two company officials – Melwyn Braganza and Ruchit Sakharkar. While granting anticipatory bail to the three, the court observed that they had co-operated with the investigators so far and the investigation was complete, and charge-sheet has been already filed in the matter. Thus, the custodial interrogation of the accused was not required. Besides, the court also noted that the trio had no criminal antecedents. The state had claimed that the public works department (PWD) had hired the boats from M/s West Coast Marine Yacht Services Pvt Ltd to ferry people to the proposed site when the accident took place. The Maharashtra Maritime Board, in its detailed report, had said that boat did not have a navigational chart or Doppler log, nor were the GPS (global positioning system) and VHF (very high frequency) machine in working condition. Also, the boat should have had 24 life jackets and four buoys, which were not there. The boat owners’ counsel Siddharth Jagusthe had claimed that the navigational chart and Doppler log are physical documents that sank due to the mishap and the GPS and VHF became non-functional as water entered the boat. The company claimed that even the victim, Siddhesh Pawar, who was a worker of Vinayak Mete-led Shiv Sangram Party, was wearing a live jacket. While heading to the proposed site, the boat had hit an object near Prongs reef lighthouse, following which water had started entering it. Sakharkar had called for help from other boats to rescue the passengers on board, however, Pawar went missing in the incident and later, his body was found. Colaba police had registered a case last January for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rash navigation of vessel, causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others after 14 months since the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/october-2018-boat-mishap-mumbai-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-3-accused-101630091250789.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mayor to kick off meetings with RWAs on Sept 15||The Chandigarh municipal corporation plans to bring the mayor to the doorsteps of residents with the initiative of ‘Mayor Aapke Dwar’, an interactive feedback session of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) with the mayor and the commissioner of the civic body. The meetings will be bi-annual (twice a year). With elections for a new MC House due in December this year, the mayor is expected to start these meeting from September 15 and cover all 26 wards by the end of the month, with two wards a day. New MC commissioner Anindita Mitra had mooted the proposal to hold these meetings. “The aim is to make the MC more citizen-centric. Residents should be active participants in the decision-making process at the MC. These meetings will allow a direct line of communication between the MC and the residents,” said Mitra, adding, “We will seek priority lists from residents on areas of urgent concern and long-term needs. After these are with us, MC teams will make spot inspections in wards and take remedial steps.” Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “The ‘Mayor Aapke Dwar’ initiative will help bridge the gap between the citizens and the MC. We will be going to residents for resolving their problems and for direct feedback on the working of the MC. Suggestions will be solicited to improve our working.” Over the past six months, the MC has faced flak from RWAs on issues like the water tariff hike that was done without taking these bodies into confidence. Finally, after multiple resolutions in the MC House, the UT administration stayed the hike till March 2022. Another recent issue of resentment among the RWAs was the unsatisfactory implementation of the door-to-door garbage collection. RWAs have been repeatedly raising objections over the MC’s handling of garbage collection since December 2020. Inflated garbage collection charges added to the water bills have also stoked residents’ anger. Hitesh Puri, Chairman CRAWFED, said, “We also request that the MC should prepare an action taken report that residents will give.” As a significant aside to the ‘Mayor Aapke Dwar’ initiative, the BJP will have to contend with anti-incumbency in the December elections, with the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party expected to rake up its perceived failures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mayor-at-your-doorstep-meetings-with-rwas-to-start-from-sept-15-101630090890801.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra transport department plans monetisation of MSRTC assets||In a bid to help Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to come out of the red and make profits, the state transport department has planned to monetise its assets by handing over development rights of its lands, which includes 247 bus depots and 578 bus stations to private parties. For the purpose, the corporation is amending its policy for development of its land parcels on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis. While attracting potential investors, the redeveloped facilities will also provide amenities to passengers. Most of the bus stations and depots are located at prime places in various cities of the state. MSRTC, which runs state transport bus service across the state except major cities like Mumbai and Pune, has been in a bad shape financially. With a fleet of around 18,500 buses, MSRTC catered to around 6.7 million commuters daily in the pre-pandemic era. However, it is facing annual losses of about ₹7,500 crore.Transport minister Anil Parab said the plan would help MSRTC overcome its mounting losses while also creating amenities like toilets, drinking water facilities and canteens for passengers. “We have a passenger load of just about 40% (of pre-pandemic time). The rise in diesel prices has increased… We also have a salary bill of ₹300 crore each month. These losses are rising, as many of our buses are operating under their capacity,” he said.At present, developers must pay a one-time premium to the corporation and the property is reverted on completion of 30 years. This, officials said, has prevented the present policy from taking off and ensuring a revenue stream to the beleaguered MSRTC. Parab said that hence they were planning to develop MSRTC’s depots on a BOT basis to generate lease revenues and create facilities for commuters. However, the land will not be sold; instead, shortlisted private developers will have to lease out the commercial component and share a certain percentage of revenues with the public transport utility.Shekhar Channe, managing director of MSRTC, said the present BOT policy, which was finalised 20 years ago, granted an extra floor space index (FSI) of 0.5 in addition to the FSI of 1 for commercial development of MSRTC lands.“The land was given to the bidder who gave the highest one-time premium and the property would be returned to us at the end of 30 years. This led to a tepid response as developers did not find these terms attractive. Hence, we are planning to increase the period to 45 years which will be further extendable by 15 years, and instead of a one-time premium, we will introduce an annual lease,” added Channe. He said this would help MSRTC get steady revenue, while also making it attractive to developers. The old policy has led to the development of just around 30 bus depots and stations.Channe said the amended policy was being examined by the state government.Parab said they would divide the depots and land parcels across Maharashtra in three categories — A, B and C, and those with commercial potential will be chosen for this purpose. “The idea is to make these depots self-sustaining at the local level,” said Parab. He added that they were planning to focus on depots outside metros to ensure MSRTC commuters in the hinterlands, who depend heavily on the utility, get access to quality services.MSRTC is also looking at options like realignment of routes to reduce losses and break even. MahaCargo — the undertaking’s goods transport venture — has generated substantial business from various arms of the government. It is also working on allowing common people to use fuel pumps operated by the utility for its fleet to generate revenues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-transport-department-plans-monetisation-of-msrtc-assets-101630089995715.html
28-08-2021||Noida||2 mobile phone snatchers held after shootout with police||Two mobile phone snatchers were arrested after an encounter with police near Mahagun Mezzaria in Sector 87 on Thursday night, said police. Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 49 police station, said a woman, identified as Mobina, informed police that two bike-borne persons snatched her mobile phone near Mahagun Mezzaria. A case was registered against the suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC. Singh said police launched a search for the suspects. “A police team intercepted the motorcycle near Sector 112. The police asked them to stop for checking but the suspects opened fire and tried to escape,” he said. The police team also returned fire. One of the suspects, identified as Vipin Kumar (25), was injured on his right leg. The suspects then abandoned the motorcycle and tried to escape. The police team swiftly overpowered Kumar and his accomplice Rahul (21), a resident of Aligarh. “We recovered the woman’s stolen mobile phone, a countrymade gun and two live cartridges from the possession of the suspects. The injured suspect was sent to district hospital for treatment. Later, both the suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-mobile-phone-snatchers-held-after-shootout-with-police-101630089810594.html
28-08-2021||Noida||Four held for brewing liquor illegally at home in Greater Noida||Police on Friday arrested four persons allegedly involved in brewing liquor illegally from a house in Greater Noida’s Sector Alpha 2. Police identified them as Manoj Joshi (30) and Suhail Uddin (28) from Meerut, Abhishek (27) from Surajpur, and Govind (25) from Bulandshahr. While Govind lived and worked as a salesman at a liquor kiosk in Makoda village in Greater Noida, the others lived in the Sector Alpha 2 house.Sector Beta 2 police station house officer (SHO) Rameshwar Kumar said the police searched the house following a tip. “A joint team of police and excise department personnel conducted a search and arrested Joshi, Uddin and Abhishek from a house in Sector Alpha 2 in Greater Noida,” he said. The police team recovered 456 bottles of illegal liquor, 7 kg urea, other equipment and ₹16,700 in cash from them, he added.Police said Joshi was the mastermind of the operation. When questioned, the suspects allegedly said they supplied stock to Govind, following which police arrested him too.The SHO said that the suspects bought liquor at cheap rate from Haryana, adulterated and packaged it in Greater Noida for sale in Uttar Pradesh. Police said three other suspects in the operation were absconding.Police said they registered against all suspects under the Excise Act and sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale), and 273 (sale of noxious food or drink) of the Indian Penal Code.“The four suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody. We have launched a search for the absconding persons,” the SHO said.On August 19, 2021 three persons died after they allegedly consumed spurious liquor in Greater Noida. The victims – Vijay Kumar, 25, and his two brother-in-laws Bijjo, 30, and Jaggo, 27 were residents of Jewar. They had found illegal liquor bottles in Tappal, Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-held-for-brewing-liquor-illegally-at-home-in-greater-noida-101630089809983.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||BMC files complaint over illegal cutting of six tree branches in Dadar||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday filed a complaint with Shivaji Park police station in Dadar over alleged illegal cutting of branches of six trees at a footpath on SVS Road at Dadar. BMC in the complaint said the branches might have been cut to clear visibility of the hoarding in the area. The letter written by Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G North ward which covers Dadar, stated that BMC has received various complaints regarding illegal cutting of branches of trees which are situated at footpaths near Atul hotel and Amigo hotel.“These branches might have been cut for clearing the visibility of advertisement hoardings nearby. You are therefore requested to check CCTV footage from nearby cameras and investigate the matter to initiate action against the culprits under Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975 and inform the office accordingly,” read the letter addressed to senior police inspector at Shivaji Park police station.Dighavkar told HT, “Our staff has inspected the site and it seems that these branches might have been cut to clear visibility of advertisement hoardings. Simultaneously, we have also issued show-cause notice to the advertisement agency seeking their response on the same. We will wait for the police to investigate the matter.”Meanwhile, earlier in February a similar incident was reported in Malabar Hill area of south Mumbai, following which licences of two advertisement agencies was cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-files-complaint-over-illegal-cutting-of-six-tree-branches-in-dadar-101630089751368.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Marathas dominate Maharashtra Congress’s new executive body||Maharashtra Congress’s list of 190 office-bearers, which was announced on Thursday, has a number of members from the Maratha community. Many dynasts have also found key positions in the new team. Of the 190 members, 43 are Marathas, 28 are Muslims, 11 each are OBC-Kunbi and Brahmin, and 10 are from Scheduled Castes. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) announced 18 vice-presidents, 64 general secretaries, 104 secretaries, a treasurer and six spokespersons, along with a disciplinary and executive committee for Maharashtra.Some of the faces appointed to lead Maharashtra unit of the party are dynasts from families loyal to the Congress. Former chief ministers Vilasrao Deshmukh and Shivaji Patil Nilangekar’s sons Dhiraj and Ashok have been made general secretaries. The list of general secretaries also featured former Union minister Shivraj Chakurkar’s son Shailesh, former Union minister Vilas Muttemwar’s son Vishal. Former party MLC Sanjay Dutt’s brother Brijmohan Dutt has also been appointed as general secretary. Pradnya Satav, wife of party’s Rajya Sabha MP Rajiv Satav, who passed away after Covid-19 infection in May, has been appointed at vice-president. Of the new appointees, 9% are women, 90 are men and two are transgender persons. Around 34% of the office-bearers are from general category, 17% are minority, while 33% and 16% are from OBC/VJNT and SC/ST respectively, according to the data shared by party officials. In terms of regions, Vidarbha got the highest representation with 62% members, followed by western Maharashtra with 34%. Around 40% of the appointees are from 51-60 age group, while only 10% are in the age group of 30-40. However, dissident voices within the party unit have started emerging after the appointment. State unit chief Nana Patole, however, said, “There is no discontent within the state unit. A few names are yet to be incorporated in the list. We expect a few more appointments to be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathas-dominate-maharashtra-congress-s-new-executive-body-101630089573558.html
28-08-2021||Noida||350 women-only autos to soon roll out in Ghaziabad, Noida||The regional transport authority (RTA) has decided to rope in 350 pink autos and is in the process of finalising 20 points in Noida and eight such points in Ghaziabad from where these vehicles will ply exclusively for women commuters, said officials in the know of the matter. The decision was taken at a meeting held late on Thursday night in Ghaziabad. The initiative has been taken on the directions of Surendra Singh, divisional commissioner (Meerut), who is also the chairperson of the RTA. He has directed the regional transport officer to chalk out modalities for issuing permits for the new set of pink autos. “We have decided that for both the cities, we will rope in at least 350 pink autos and even more to cater to the needs of women commuters. The number of pink autos plying in Ghaziabad will be around 100-150 while 200-250 such vehicles will ply in Noida. We want to increase the number of pink autos as the number of women working night shifts and travelling alone has increased,” said regional transport officer Arun Kumar. For the purpose of running the pink autos, officials said they are in the process of finalising 20 points in Noida, which include key areas such as the Sector-62 metro station, Atta Market and collectorate, from where the pink autos will be easily available. “The eight points in Ghaziabad will also be finalised shortly. These points are areas where there are more women looking for transport options,” said Kumar. “Women drivers may also apply for permits of pink autos. We have an option of tieing up with driving schools, where women drivers can get 25% off in training fee. The applicant should be a native of the respective district and their husband or father should not be holding any auto permit in their names. This is being done to provide employment opportunities and a source of livelihood to needy families,” said the regional transport officer emphasising that the permit seekers should be from lower income groups. Officials said they are also trying to tie up with dealers, who will be willing to offer discounts on such autos if they get an order for a big consignment. The pink autos were introduced way back in June 2015. Officials said currently, the twin cities of Noida and Ghaziabad together have about 250 pink autos. While assessing the situation on the ground, HT found that not a single pink auto plied on any of the major roads in Ghaziabad, such as GT Road, Hapur Road, on Friday. Members of auto unions said currently, there are very few pink autos in Ghaziabad. When asked about why there were this less number of autos plying in Ghaziabad, Dilshad Ahmad, a member of the Ghaziabad Autorickshaw Chalak Sangh, said, “ As per our estimates, there must be around 10-12 pink autos running in Ghaziabad. The main issue is the cost of travel. Most of the times, we get few women passengers and this increases our cost per trip. Generally, autos in Ghaziabad operate on a shared basis and this helps us to recover the cost per trip.” “The other issue we face is frequent challans. Currently, the challan for all the autos put together in Ghaziabad is somewhere around ₹5 lakh. Moreover, in a couple of months, the city will get electric buses which will be affect our ridership. Due to these reasons, many of us are planning to leave this trade and switch to some other profession,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/350-women-only-autos-to-soon-roll-out-in-ghaziabad-noida-101630089511369.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to bring amendment in laws for OBC reservation||The Maharashtra government is in a fix over political reservation of Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local bodies which is on the verge of getting scrapped following a Supreme Court verdict that said the reservations should not cross the 50% cap. The state government is mulling to bring amendment in the laws related to local bodies for OBC reservation. Officials said even after the amendment, there are a few districts, particularly tribal dominated ones, where the OBC community is likely to lose their political reservation. To discuss the matter with political leaders, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday called an all-party meeting. Suggestions and views expressed by the leaders will be studied in detail and another meeting is likely to be held on Friday. OBCs get 27% reservation in electoral wards of municipal bodies and district councils (zilla parishads). This quota is politically important because Marathas and OBCs are locked in a tussle for political dominance in the state. The meeting was called after the state election commission recently directed to start preparations for local body polls due for early next year, and in view of the fact that holding elections without OBC reservation would lead to unrest in the community which is politically damaging for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.On March 4, the Supreme Court ruled that the reservation in favour of OBCs in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in quota. It further directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which the quota of the community be fixed, and also allowed the state election commission to hold local body polls without having reservations for OBCs. It means no seat will be reserved for OBC community candidates for any local body elections until empirical data is made available.All political leaders were of the view that the elections of local bodies should not be held until the issue of OBC political reservation is resolved.Section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 provides a 27% quota for persons belonging to backward classes, which was challenged in the court of law. The legislation for local bodies in Maharashtra provides reservation to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities based on their population in those particular bodies, whereas this data for OBCs is not available as their last census was conducted in 1931. Consequently, there are many districts where the combined reservation of all the communities exceeds the 50% cap.To resolve the issue, there is a view that instead of providing 27% reservation to OBCs, the provision can be tweaked saying that 50% cap will not be allowed to breach and OBCs will get the remaining seats of the 50% quota after providing reservation to SC and ST communities. “We will have to make some amendments as a solution to the problem, and this is one of them. Law and judiciary officials will study all legal aspects and make suggestions accordingly. In any way, OBC community will lose one-third of its political reservation in the state,” said food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is also a popular OBC leader.He admitted that the OBC community will lose political reservation in tribal-dominated districts such as Nandurbar. “There are districts where the population of ST community is 70% to 80%, and after applying the 50% cap, nothing will be left for the OBC community,” he said.“All the political parties are of the same view that political reservation of OBC community be reinstated. They have made their suggestions which will be studied by the government and another meeting will be held by next Friday,” said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He added that the leaders were also of the opinion that local body polls should not be held without OBC reservation.Going by the 50% cap suggestion, there are around 20 districts where OBC community is likely to get 27% to 35% reservation, which is more than the existing provision. In 10 districts, they will get 22% to 27% reservation and in five districts they will lose political reservation badly, said Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of Opposition and former chief minister.“The state government had no proposal to suggest. They sought our views and I explained to them the entire judgement of the Apex court. The verdict clearly states that the state will need empirical data based on political backwardness and it has nothing to do with caste-based census. The Apex court has directed the state to collect empirical data based on which political reservation of OBC community can be reinstated again,” Fadnavis told reporters after the meeting.He added, “We have asked the state government to appoint multiple committees and complete the process of collecting empirical data in two-three months like we had done to provide reservation to the Maratha community during the erstwhile government. We have requested to adopt the same strategy else the issue may get stretched for a long time.” Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole, who was also present in the meeting, said, “The state government is tapping all options to ensure the political reservation to OBCs is restored. The government is also tapping legal recourse to see that in districts, where the reservation is crossing 50% cap, the quota is restored. We are taking all political parties on board and all are on the same page for OBC reservation.”On July 5, the state legislature passed a resolution seeking empirical data by the Centre, collected under Socio Economic Caste Census 2011, for restoration of political reservation to OBCs. The state government has also filed a writ petition in the Apex court seeking the data from the Centre. It has also asked the state backward classes commission to collect empirical data of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-bring-amendment-in-laws-for-obc-reservation-101630089390741.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Murder spree: Police piecing together evidence||Three days after a 59-year-old retired army subedar, who surrendered to the police after allegedly killing his daughter-in-law and three tenants at his Sector 105 was sent to judicial custody on Friday. Police said they are yet to record the statement of a minor girl, the sole survivor of the killing spree, who is being treated at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. The police also filed and application in a Gurugram local court on Friday seeking permission to record the suspect’s movement to match it with the CCTV footage recovered from the crime spot. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Deepak Saharan said the girl’s statement could help establish the sequence of events that happened on the night of the murders -- August 24. “She must have seen something that night. If anyone else was there she will be the only impartial witness to narrate the crime scene,” he said. On the matching the suspect’s movement in the CCTV footage, he said, “This is an important evidence that can help ensure the suspect does not deny in court that he killed the four people.” Dr Deepak Mathur, the forensic expert who conducted the autopsies said that they had collected vaginal swabs from the bodies of the two women as they suspected rape. “There was discharge found on both vaginas due to which swabs were sent to a forensic lab in Bhondsi,” he said. The report is awaited to confirm or rule out sexual assault, said police.The family members and relatives of the suspect’s daughter-in-law met senior police officers on Friday. “We have assured them of justice and will record the statement of their nine-year-old granddaughter once she is stable,” said Saharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/murder-spree-police-piecing-together-evidence-101630089330023.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||Chalk out plan to complete stuck slum rehabilitation projects: Uddhav Thackeray to SRA, Mhada||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday directed Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) and Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) to chalk out plans to complete slum rehabilitation projects which have been delayed for years by private developers. He has also directed the authorities for rigorous follow up with the Central government for redevelopment of slums on their land parcels in Mumbai.Thackeray held a review meeting to take stock of the delayed slum redevelopment projects in Mumbai and suburbs. More than 300 slum redevelopment projects have been stuck in legal and technical battles, leaving residents in the lurch. Around 530 such projects are underway, while 541 have been completed. The state government has announced to take over the projects and redevelop them through SRA. “CM has directed SRA and Mhada to design a plan for their Belfast redevelopment. He has also asked authorities to weed out the difficulties by tweaking policies so that project’s redevelopments get through,” said an official from the housing department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chalk-out-plan-to-complete-stuck-slum-rehabilitation-projects-uddhav-thackeray-to-sra-mhada-101630089271518.html
28-08-2021||Other||In a bid to change Nuh’s image, admin to launch website to sell seasonal grocery||In a bid to provide employment and prevent its youth from going astray, the Nuh administration is planning to launch an e-commerce website that sells fresh seasonal vegetables grown in the district across Delhi-NCR. In April 2018, central government think-tank NITI Aayog had identified Nuh, earlier known as Mewat, as the most backward district in India. In its country-wide assessment over multiple parameters such as education, health, agriculture, financial inclusion, skill development, and infrastructure, Mewat scored the lowest at just 26%.District officials said they hope the proposed initiative will prevent youngsters from joining criminal gangs involved in online fraud, robberies and vehicle theft, for which Nuh had gained some degree of notoriety. Nuh deputy commissioner Shakti Singh said that they get almost regular complaints about youngster getting into a life of crime due to the district’s poor development. The administration then decided to play with the district’s strength. “The villagers here have a lot of agricultural land and farming is the major occupation. Due to the water quality the vegetables grown here are in more demand and are sold at better prices as compared to other places,” he said. Singh said they conducted a survey of farmed lands across the district. “Onion, tomato, radish, carrot, okra, brinjal and bottle gourd are grown widely but the farmers here are not paid as well because they would often go to smaller markets in Delhi-NCR where they may be exploited,” he said. The deputy commissioner said he called up senior officials and roped in a few NGOs to plan training sessions on language, packaging and delivery process. They then called on all village sarpanches and explained how they can involve the youth to earn their livelihood, he said. The official added that the police would verify the background of the youth.The administration is in the process of creating a website that will let all farmers upload their stock that can be delivered anywhere in Delhi-NCR, said officials. Apart from shopping, the customers can also ask to be shown the quality of the produce over live video and see how it is packed. Also included on the website would be handwoven baskets that earlier sold for ₹100 to ₹150 in local markets and on the roadsides, but have hardly any takers these days. “Vegetables will be packed in these baskets and delivered. A small basket will cost ₹25 and big for ₹50 each. Anyone buying vegetables for more than ₹500 will not be charged for the basket,” said Singh. According to the district officials’ estimates, farmers will earn at least ₹40,000 through the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-bid-to-change-nuh-s-image-admin-to-launch-website-to-sell-seasonal-grocery-101630089269977.html
28-08-2021||Gurugram||Haryana agency issues termination notice to operator of Appu Ghar water park||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) issued a termination of contract notice to International Recreation and Amusement Ltd, which manages the Appu Ghar water park, for allegedly violating the lease agreement. The notice, issued on August 19, said the company owed the authority around ₹20 crore that it failed to pay despite repeated reminders. It gave the operator 60 days to submit a reply, and if found unsatisfactory, then the authority will take action, said HSVP officials. In June 2011, the HSVP allotted IRAL 42 acres — 25 acres in Sector 29 and 17 acres in Sector 52 — to set up a water park and a commercial mall. While the water park came up in Sector 29, the land in Sector 52 remained unused. According to the notice, which HT has seen, the terms and conditions of their agreement required the operator to obtain a joint insurance, which too was not fulfilled. “... as per the clauses of the lease, all insurance policies are to be taken in the joint name of HSVP for which you were requested to submit proof regarding compliance and given 30 days to cure the breaches but till date you failed to deposit the outstanding dues and comply with lease agreement,” read the notice issued by HSVP estate officer II. The Appu Ghar operator is already facing a number of criminal cases lodged by investors for the delay in the projects. They claimed to have invested ₹350 crore and alleged that the company promised them handsome returns on the project that was expected to be completed in 2015. The project developer said the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) was looking into the matter and its decision would be applicable to all. “This matter is sub-judice in the NCLT and various other courts, and as such, the HSVP termination notice is not legally tenable. We will abide by the directions of the courts and NCLT. Our company has invested everything in this project without taking a bank loan. The last couple of years have been hard on us,” said Rakesh Babbar, a director of IRAL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-agency-issues-termination-notice-to-operator-of-appu-ghar-water-park-101630089149981.html
28-08-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests actor Gaurav Dixit in drugs case in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested Bollywood actor Gaurav Dixit who was wanted in connection with a drug case from April this year. The agency had conducted search at his residence in Andheri on April 3 and allegedly seized multiple drugs including mephedrone (MD) worth ₹1.5 lakh. Dixit had managed to flee before NCB officials reached his residence in Lokhandwala, Andheri.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed Dixit’s arrest from Mumbai and said the agency would producer him in the court on Saturday. A raid was conducted at his house on April 3 following the arrest of actor Ajaz Khan, who purportedly revealed, in his statement to the agency, that he used to buy MDMA from Dixit. Khan was arrested on April 1 after his alleged link surfaced with alleged drug peddler Shadab Shaikh, who was nabbed by the agency from his residence in Andheri on March 25 following a raid. NCB had found 61 grams of mephedrone and 160 grams of ephedrine from the spot.“During Shaikh’s interrogation, Khan’s name cropped up, and we found some incriminating evidence against the latter,” said Wankhede.During interrogation, Khan revealed Dixit’s name and said he used to purchase MDMA and other drugs from the latter. After a preliminary investigation, it was found that Dixit was supplying drugs in Bollywood.When NCB team visited Dixit’s residence in Lokhandwala on April 3, he was not present there. Agency contacted one of his relatives and his house was raided. Multiple drugs such as hashish, cannabis and MDMA were found in the fridge. “We also discovered MD in the house,” said Wankhede. During the search, the agency also found the packaging materials of drugs at several places in the house.“Dixit was staying with his girlfriend who is a foreign national. Both were entering the building, but when they saw the police vehicle and learnt about the raid, the duo fled from there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-actor-gaurav-dixit-in-drugs-case-in-mumbai-101630089090518.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Cops probing north-east Delhi riots case without knowing details: City court||A Delhi court pulled up the city police for “investigating for nine months a north-east Delhi riots case without even knowing the case details” and upheld an order by the metropolitan magistrate who directed an FIR in the case in November 2020.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said instead of investigating the complaint given by a man named Salim, the police were more interested in looking into the identity of the complainant and the accused.The court’s order comes while hearing an appeal by the Delhi Police challenging the November 23, 2020, order of the metropolitan magistrate to register an FIR on Salim’s complaint.Salim, through advocate Mehmood Pracha, claimed in his complaint that there was an attempt on his life by certain named and unnamed people on February 24, 2020, during the riots.Salim also alleged that there was an attack on his house, as well as firing, stone pelting and intimidation.He said despite repeated complaints, no case was registered against the accused he named in his complaint.On August 25, the court said the reason assigned by the investigating officer (IO) for not registering an FIR was that the alleged accused persons were complainants and witnesses in other cases.“The entire focus is upon the complainant and accused rather than the alleged offence. Without an investigation, which can only begin after registration of a case, the allegations are given a quietus (death). It must be stated, in no uncertain terms, that not only did police object to the registration of the FIR but also side stepped the allegations contained in the complaint,” Rawat said.He said there was no illegality, impropriety or infirmity in the magistrate court’s order and directed the deputy commissioner of police (north-east Delhi) to register a FIR within seven days.The judge said the stand of the special public prosecutor that the investigating officer (IO) inadvertently forgot to mention in his status report that Salim’s complaint was clubbed with another case was “ludicrous as it is preposterous”.“If this is to be accepted at face value, then what it means is that the IO/SHO concerned did not even know about the case between March and November 2020 during which they filed reply and participated in the proceedings before the magistrate, and it was only at the time of filing of the present revision petition did they somehow come to realise that they are already investigating the matter.“This leads to a conclusion that though the case is being investigated by the police, the police did not itself know that they were investigating the case and when told came to realise that it is investigating the matter, the details of which they do not know,” the court observed.Communal riots broke out in north-east Delhi in February last year, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 600 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/local-court-pulls-up-police-for-failure-to-register-fir-in-a-north-east-delhi-riots-case-101630088551840.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||No HC relief to Hindu Raksha Dal chief Pinky Chaudhary in hate slogans case||The Delhi high court on Friday declined to give interim protection from arrest to Pinky Chaudhary alias Bhupinder Tomar, president of the right wing Hindu Raksha Dal, for his alleged involvement in raising hate slogans at Jantar Mantar on August 8.Justice Mukta Gupta of the Delhi high court sought a status report from the Delhi Police and said, “Prima facie, there are all kinds of slogans and speeches being given. Let the status report be given.”The judge added: “I want to know where you were (at the time of sloganeering). You were not present at all? Let me have the complete status report.”A video of anti-Muslim sloganeering during a protest at Jantar Mantar on August 8 was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case. Bharat Jodo Aandolan, the organisers, said that they had nothing to do with the hate slogans, and that they demonstrated against “colonial-era” rules.On Friday, the court also issued notice to the Delhi Police on Tomar’s plea seeking anticipatory bail, and challenging an August 23 order of the trial court rejecting the pre-arrest bail application.On August 21, additional sessions judge Anil Antil, while dismissing Tomar’s anticipatory bail, said, “We are not a Taliban state and the rule of law is the sacrosanct governing principle in our plural and multi cultural society.”Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, appearing for Tomar, told the court that his client did not raise the slogans. He also submitted that the organiser of the event, lawyer and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay has already been granted bail.Additional public prosecutor Tarang Shrivastava told the court he has shared a video and the transcript of the allegedly objectionable sloganeering to the court.“The initial transcript is of the organisers. It shows he (Chaudhary) was very much part of the event. One video is that of a person who went live on Facebook and abused a particular community,” Shrivastava said.Jain said the investigating agency is relying only on an interview given by his client to a local news channel.“My client was not there. There is an interview they are relying on. The FIR [first information report] is for slogan chanting. I am not there in slogan chanting..” Jain argued.To this the court said, “FIR is not the complete case, it is not the end of criminal prosecution. It is at an initial stage.”The matter will now be heard on September 13.The Hindu Raksha Dal — a right wing group — had claimed responsibility for the violence on the Jawaharlal Nehru University campus in January 2020.The Delhi Police on Thursday said that their investigation has revealed that the August 8 rally was planned months in advance.Investigators associated with the case said that messages were circulated on different WhatsApp groups, and people from different groups participated in the rally.“The people we have arrested so far are connected to each other. The organisers of the event sent invitations under the banner of Bharat Jodo Andolan. People were asked to join a group called Save India Foundation through a WhatsApp number that was mentioned on the invitation for the August 8 event. One of the arrested accused, Preet Singh is the convener of the Save India Foundation,” an investigator involved in the case said.So far seven people, including Upadhyay, have been arrested in the case. Except Upadhyay, who is a lawyer, all other six arrested accused are associated with right wing groups, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-denies-interim-bail-to-hindu-raksha-dal-chief-pinky-chaudhary-in-delhi-hate-slogans-case-101630088550956.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Docs perform complex heart surgery on 1-yr-old Iraqi girl||Doctors from a city hospital successfully performed a complex corrective surgery on a one-year-old Iraqi national whose heart was growing in a pouch-like structure protruding from the body.Doctors at Max Superspeciality hospital, Saket, who conducted the operation, said the toddler was born with a condition called Pentalogy of Cantrell, a syndrome that results in five birth defects: a missing sternum (the central bone of the rib cage); a diaphragm not in place; a defect within the heart that causes mixing of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood; a missing pericardium (a flexible covering outside the heart to keep it separate from other organs in the chest cavity); and an absent upper abdominal wall leading to the intestines also pushing into the pouch-like structure next to the heart.“I have been a surgeon for 20 years and I have never seen anything like this. Dr Dagar saw one case while he was in London. We reached out to several surgeons, did 3D scans of her chest, planned everything meticulously,” said Dr Sunil Choudhary, chief of plastic surgery, Max Superspeciality hospital, Saket.Doctors said such babies mostly do not survive more than a few days as the protruding heart can easily get damaged without bone protection.“We met many doctors in Baghdad but they refused to do the surgery as they did not have such experience. We decided to come to India as many said that treatment here was good. We had to wait till she was nine months old because of Covid-19 restrictions,” said her mother Zainat Mohammed.She said, “We had to watch her carefully so that she didn’t touch her heart while playing. Now she can play like other children. She can go to school.”Doctors said the first challenge was to create enough space within the small chest cavity to fit the heart so that there wouldn’t too much pressure on it as it pumped. The doctors moved her left lung to create space between the lung and diaphragm.The defect within her heart also wasn’t a simple one. While mixing of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood can be stopped by plugging the hole in the heart, in this case, both the vessels sending the de-oxygenated blood to the lungs for oxygenation and the one bringing the oxygenated blood back to the heart were on the right side of the heart, making it difficult for the doctors to divide the chambers.“We had to short the circuitry of the heart. Now the vessel taking her blood to the lungs completely bypasses the heart and goes directly to the lungs. The blood is pumped with the help of gravity and the suction created by the lungs during breathing. Whereas, the pumping mechanism of the heart is preserved for sending the oxygenated blood throughout the body. This had to be done because we couldn’t simply separate the two parts of the heart,” said Dr Kulbhushan Singh Dagar, director, neonatal and congenital heart surgery.After the repair, doctors used a synthetic membrane to cover the heart so that it didn’t stick to other organs or the rib cage. The doctors also split open a couple of ribs to reconstruct the missing rib bone.“Usually, in such cases, the floating ribs are used to create the cage. But, that might have impacted the growth of her chest cavity and she is only one. So, we had to do something that would ensure that she can live a healthy life,” said Dr Chaudhary.Next, the doctors pulled together two of the eight muscles of the abdomen slightly to the side to prevent the intestines from reaching the chest cavity. The doctors also split the outer layer of the abdominal wall to create space in the abdomen.“We detached and moved the muscles while preserving blood supply. In children, even the important blood vessels look tiny like capillaries but we cannot afford to lose them,” said Dr Chaudhary.The child, who underwent the surgery a week ago, was moved out of the ICU in two to three days. She was discharged on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctors-perform-life-saving-surgery-on-1-year-old-iraqi-girl-with-rare-heart-condition-101630088550130.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||LG reply sought on plea questioning choice of lawyers||The Delhi high court on Friday asked Delhi Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal to respond to a plea by the Delhi government challenging his decision to allow lawyers chosen by the police to argue as special public prosecutors (SPP) in cases related to the Republic Day violence and the north-east Delhi riots.Senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said the LG can use his powers and refer a matter to the President for overriding their decision only in exceptional cases to protect the national interest and not in routine matters.Pointing to a serious conflict of interest, the government said that investigating agency can’t be allowed to appoint lawyers arguing its own cases. “SPPs appointed by us are independent persons. You can’t have SPPs which are part of the investigating arm, that is, Delhi Police,” Singhvi argued.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and Jyoti Singh issued notice and asked the LG to respond to the government’s petition, and an application seeking stay on the decision to appoint SPPs on the grounds that it will not be in the interest of “fair trial”. The matter was listed for further hearing on October 21.The Delhi government has challenged the LG’s July 23 order by which he has invoked the proviso to Article 239-AA(4) of the Constitution to refer to the President the matter of appointment of Delhi Police’s chosen advocates as SPPs in cases related to the farmers’ agitation and February 2020 riots in north-east Delhi. The decision of the President is pending in the matter.The LG did not endorse the Delhi cabinet decision of July 16 that a panel of government-appointed prosecutors will deal with the cases, leading to another flashpoint in the ongoing tussle between the elected government in Delhi and the Centre-appointed LG on administrative control over several matters.The petition has also challenged the July 26 notification appointing the SPPs to conduct the cases and also the Centre’s August 4 order endorsing the LG’s view and approving the appointments. It contended that the appointment is contrary to established legal principles and violates the constitutional guarantee of a fair trial.Singhvi argued that the LG has been routinely interfering in the appointment of SPPs and undermining the elected government and added that repeated invocation of reference power is wrong.Announcing the cabinet’s decision on July 16, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “It is unfortunate that the central government is intervening in routine affairs of Delhi’s governance through the LG . Appointing prosecutors in Delhi comes under the elected government’s domain, going by Supreme Court’s directions. The LG, however, has a veto power which can be used in rarest of the rare cases. Such routine use of the veto power is unconstitutional, anti-democratic and goes against the spirit of Supreme Court’s directions.”An official in the LG’s office reacted to the statement saying the matter pertained to the violence, and disrespect to the national flag on January 26 and not to the farmer protest. “It has nothing to do with ‘farmers protest’ as is being deliberately made out. Individuals with predetermined agenda and vested interests deliberately carried out acts on January 26, 2021 in full media presence that were not only an affront to national morale but aimed at bringing shame to India internationally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-lg-reply-on-plea-questioning-choice-of-special-public-prosecutors-for-r-day-violence-northeast-riots-cases-101630088429904.html
28-08-2021||Lucknow||Self-immolation outside SC: Ex-IPS officer held, FIR also names MP||Former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Amitabh Thakur was arrested on Friday after the Lucknow police registered a first information report (FIR) against him and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP from Ghosi, Atul Rai, on the basis of the findings of a two-member committee probing allegations of fabrication of evidence raised by a sexual assault victim and her male associate who set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court.A judicial magistrate’s court in Lucknow has sent the former IPS officer to judicial custody till September 9.Before attempting suicide along with the male associate on August 16, the woman recorded a Facebook Live video in which she named Thakur, a former Varanasi senior superintendent of police and a judge of the MP/MLA court, claiming they allegedly favoured Rai and fabricated evidence in his favour. The two succumbed to burn injuries days later. On August 17, UP police also suspended two other police officers and initiated departmental action against them for allegedly not properly compiling evidence in another cheating case involving the woman.The police said that on May 1, 2019, the woman filed a rape case against Rai at the Lanka police station in Varanasi. After the MP’s anticipatory bail was rejected by the Supreme Court the same month, he surrendered in a Varanasi court in June 2019. He is currently in jail.Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur confirmed the arrest and said that the former IPS officer was taken to the Hazratganj police station in Lucknow where an FIR under IPC sections 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record or writing with intent to save person from punishment or property from forfeiture), 306 (abetment of suicide), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) had been lodged against him and Rai.Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar said the FIR has been lodged on the basis of the interim report filed by the two-member committee which recommended registration of FIR against the MP and the former IPS officer as per its initial findings.Sharing further details, another senior police official said the FIR was lodged by senior sub-inspector Daya Shankar Dwivedi of Hazratganj police station after he was apprised of the findings of the two-member committee comprising director general (DG) (Recruitment and Promotion Board) RK Vishwakarma and additional director general (1090) Neera Rawat which probed the allegations raised by the sexual assault victim.The official said the probe committee mentioned in its findings that the sexual assault victim had written a letter to the then Varanasi SSP on November 10, 2020, stating that Thakur, who was the then IG (civil defence), in connivance with Rai, was fabricating evidence against them. He said the victim alleged that Thakur intentionally tried to create fake evidence by making an audio clip about a telephonic conversation -- allegedly between a key witness and Angad Rai, a criminal lodged in Sonbhadra jail -- go viral.He said the sexual assault victim had also mentioned that at least seven criminal cases were lodged against her and her associate, allegedly on the MP’s behest, to harass and mount pressure on her to turn hostile in the rape case. The probe committee also mentioned in its report the allegation raised by the victim and her associate that they were being forced to end their lives due to the pressure tactics.The officer said that Thakur denied all charges when questioned by the two-member committee for around 3.5 hours on Thursday.The Uttar Pradesh government had formed the committee on August 17 to look into the allegations raised in the Facebook Live video and submit a report within two weeks. The deadline for the probe committee will end in three days.Meanwhile, on Friday, Thakur had announced formation of a new political party, Adhikar Sena. The announcement came nearly two weeks after he announced that he will contest against UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath from wherever he stands for re-election in the 2022 state assembly polls.Thakur, a 1992-batch IPS officer, has faced multiple inquiries during his service tenure in the past 15 years. He was given compulsory retirement in March this year after he was reportedly not found fit for the service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/selfimmolation-outside-sc-former-ips-officer-arrested-fir-also-names-rape-accused-mp-101630088309931.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Attempts to build a ‘shrine’ for don-turned-MP Shahabuddin at Delhi graveyard||The management of the graveyard at ITO in central Delhi has a complicated problem -- one that involves religion, politics, Covid-19, and a dreaded former gangster.For the past week, the guards at the Qabristan Ahle Islam, one of the biggest burial grounds for Muslims in the city, have been told to be vigilant, especially during the night, and look out for people who are determined to build a shrine for gangster-turned-politician Mohammed Shahabuddin.Last week, unidentified supporters of the former parliamentarian succeeded in placing marble slabs, and a green cloth, usually placed over shrines of sufi saints, on Shahabuddin’s grave. A labourer at the graveyard noticed this, and informed the police.A senior police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “No FIR has been registered. There were photographs of the structure circulating on WhatsApp groups so the deputy commissioner of police concerned visited the spot. The management authorities had asked the police to intervene so that there is no further construction. No one has been arrested.”This was the second attempt by Shahabuddin’s supporters to build a shrine to him in the graveyard. Shahabuddin, who was infected with Covid-19 in Tihar jail on April 20, succumbed to the infection on May 1. His family was unable to take his body back home in Bihar, and he was laid to rest at the ITO graveyard.In May, the former don-turned-politician’s supporters started making a permanent structure above the grave when the management committee intervened and informed the police. Due to the paucity of space within the graveyard, building a permanent structure on a grave is not allowed. Also, according to the rules of the management, a shrine inside the cemetery can only be constructed if the person was a spiritual leader or a famed Islamic scholar. In 2017, when the Supreme Court heard Shahabuddin’s case, he had at least 45 criminal cases against him.An official of the committee that manages Qabristan Ahle Islam said that days after Shahabuddin’s death, a man who claimed to be the dead MP’s uncle wrote to them seeking permission to build a mazaar (shrine). But the permission was not granted. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, “Despite rejecting the request, we noticed after some days that the grave was covered with stone blocks by some labourers. There were some musclemen who had also fought with our workers. We informed the police and the work was stopped.”At the burial ground, everyone thought that the matter was laid to rest, until last week, when a workers saw some locals curiously standing in front of the under-construction marble shrine.The structure above Shahabuddin’s grave stood out because it is the only one – resembling a shrine – in one corner of the cemetery filled with Covid-19 bodies.Mohammed Shamim, caretaker of the graveyard, said, “People came at night and tried to build a shrine. Senior committee members had refused them permission. A shrine can be constructed only for a holy person or a spiritual leader. The police have been informed. Senior police officers came here and inspected the site. The work is now on hold.”Workers at the graveyard suspect that the supporters of the former Rashtriya Janata Dal MP may have climbed over the wall from the rear side of the cemetery, near the old Delhi Police headquarters, and constructed the structure at night.Haji Shamim, secretary of the Qabristan Ahle Islam, said, “I want to clarify that the committee has never given permission to build a shrine. The construction by some unidentified people is illegal and against rules. If this happens, everyone will want to build a shrine here.”Shahabuddin’s son, Osama Sahab said the family was only trying to cover his father’s grave. “People are using this issue for publicity. Our family only wanted to cover the grave. We did not want to build a mazaar.”Shahabuddin,53, was brought to Tihar prison in February 2017 on the Supreme Court’s order on a petition by Siwan-based businessman Chandrakeshwar Prasad, whose three sons were killed in two incidents. Two of them were drenched in acid before they were killed. Asha Ranjan, the wife of journalist Rajdeo Ranjan who was murdered in Siwan, also pleaded that they would never get a fair trial as long as Shahabuddin was in a Bihar jail. Shahabuddin was an accused in both the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/attempts-to-build-a-shrine-for-don-turned-mp-shahabuddin-at-delhi-graveyard-101630088251270.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s students glad to be back in class, mixed reaction from parents||When 14-year-old Deepanshu Jha, a class 9 student at a government school in Shalimar Bagh, heard on Friday that schools will reopen from September 1, he could hardly believe it. It was only after a phone call to his teacher that Jha began celebrating — at long last, he was going to meet his friends, classmates and teachers.“I’m excited about meeting my friends again. I miss my games classes, fitness training and I hope that our school resume those. My stamina has reduced due to lack of physical activity,” he said.Like Jha, several other junior school students in the national capital said they were thrilled to be going back to school after remaining at home since March last year when schools were shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.While classes briefly resumed for students of classes 9 to 12 between January and February, students from junior sections had to remain at home for the past 17 months.On Friday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said while students of classes 9 to 12 could return to schools from September 1, a decision on junior classes will be taken only in the coming days, based on the initial response from stakeholders. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday allowed schools to call back students of classes 6 to 8 from September 8.Sonam Lhadon, a class 8 student at The Indian School in south Delhi, said she hasn’t met most of her teachers since March 2020. “When I last visited our school, I was in class 6 and knew all my teachers. But in the past 17 months, I have interacted with my new teachers only virtually. I am excited to go back to school, catch up with friends and study with my teachers,” she said."I am also happy that my screentime will be reduced because my eyesight has become poorer in the past one year," she added.Prince, a class 11 student at a Delhi government school in Aya Nagar, was also happy about going offline. “Online classes are not seamless; network issues create a lot of disturbance. We understand better in a classroom. It would be good to get back to school,” he said.Parents, on the other hand, greeted the decision to reopen schools with mixed feelings. Vikas Sharma, whose children study in class 6 and 2 in DAV Public School, Puspanjali Enclave, said, “I will not be sending my daughter to class 6 because children are yet to be vaccinated. We have seen instances of the virus spreading whenever schools reopened. If my kids are alive, they will study again.”Parents’ association also condemned the move. “The people of Delhi have seen the terror of death during the second wave. Government and schools should submit an affidavit taking responsibility for the safety of children and constitute Covid safety committees in schools with parent participation to enforce all protocols,” said Aprajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents’ Association.College students, too, were happy lot on Friday. Shyama Manna, 21, a first-year masters student at Ambedkar University, said, “Our teachers recently sought feedback from us on our willingness to come to college for in-person classes. I prefer going to college since my course is performance studies. Due to the pandemic, the focus was only on theory and academics and no performance took place last year,” said Manna.(With inputs from Sadia Akhtar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-students-glad-to-be-back-in-class-mixed-reaction-from-parents-101630088131875.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Humayunpur to Hanumanpur: BJP councillor wants south Delhi locality renamed||BJP councillor from Safdarjun Enclave Radhika Abrol on Friday moved a proposal to rename Humayunpur village to Hanumanpur in the zonal committee meeting of South Delhi Municipal Corporation.The proposal comes two days after a similar request to rename Mohammadpur village was floated by the South corporation mayor.In the committee meeting of the corporation’s south zone on Friday, Abrol said that the names of all villages in Delhi were forcibly changed during the Mughal reign. “Of the many such villages, Humayunpur, falling under ward 61, Safdarjung Enclave, which is categorised as an urban village, is one,” the proposal stated.The BJP leader said that there has been a long-pending demand from the people of the village to change its name to Hanumanpur. “Keeping in view the demand, sentiments and emotions of the people of the village, it would be appropriate if the village is renamed in public interest,” it said.Abrol also said that the matter shall be sent to the naming committee of the civic body for taking an appropriate decision on the renaming request.On Wednesday, South corporation mayor Mukesh Suryan too floated a similar suggestion and even gave his “anticipatory approval” to change the name of Mohammadpur village to Madhavpuram. The proposal for renaming this village was first placed by Munirka ward councillor Bhagat Singh Tokas in a zonal committee meeting held last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/humayunpur-to-hanumanpur-bjp-councillor-wants-south-delhi-locality-renamed-101630088069874.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Delivery man killed by speeding driver, 1 held||A 41-year-old delivery man associated with a restaurant aggregator was killed after an allegedly speeding car driven by a drunk 20-year-old student hit his motorcycle near Karol Bagh in central Delhi late on Thursday night.Police said around 11.30pm, Vinod Kumar was returning after delivering an order on his motorcycle and was headed towards Jhandewalan when the car being driven by one Rachit Singhal, a BBA student, hit the bike from behind. Kumar was thrown off the two-wheeler and suffered serious injuries. He was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he died during treatment around 1.30am on Friday, the police said.Singhal was arrested and booked for rash driving and culpable homicide not amounting to murder, a case regarding which was registered under Indian Penal Code’s (IPC’s) 279 and 304, deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said.“Singhal’s medical examination report confirmed that he was drunk while driving. Initially, Singhal was booked for rash and negligent driving causing death. But when his medical report confirmed that he was driving drunk, we converted the case into culpable homicide not amounting to murder,” said DCP Singh.DCP Singh said Singhal was also found at the hospital, when the police reached there after receiving information about the accident. Singhal has been pursuing his BBA course from IP University. The car is registered in the name of his father, who is a businessman, added the DCP.Nearly 100 people, including colleagues and family members of Kumar on Friday accused the police of conniving with the suspect and “trying to weaken the case” against him. They held a protest at the Karol Bagh police station on Friday morning. They alleged that a lawyer, who according to them, was hired to represent Singhal was carrying a bag containing cash to allegedly bribe the police personnel.Kumar’s colleague, Sunil Chaudhary, who was among the protesters, said the car driver and some people known to him, including a lawyer, were inside the police station when the protest was on. When the lawyer came out of the police station, the protesters stopped him to ask what he was doing inside. The man claimed he was there for some other matter. Thereafter, he went to a car and took out a bag.“Assuming that he was there to influence the case, we took his bag, opened it and found a couple of bundles of ₹2000 banknotes wrapped in a piece of paper. As we confronted him, he went inside the police station and later escaped. We gave the cash to the station house officer (SHO),” said Chaudhary.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said the protesters thought the lawyer was trying to settle the case by bribing the police. “We have come across a video clip in which some men are seen snatching a bag from a person, taking out cash from it, and alleging the money was brought to bribe the police for favouring the accused. The lawyer, Ashish Kapoor, said he was only passing by the area, and has no link to the accused.”Kapoor, however, told the police that the protesters allegedly assaulted him and snatched his bag containing ₹5 lakh cash.No case has been registered so far in connection with Kapoor’s allegations and counter-claims by the protesters. The investigating officer earlier assigned to the case has been shifted to district lines to ensure a fair probe, a senior officer said.The officer said they were trying to find out if Kapoor is connected with the family of the accused. “If not, why was he carrying ₹5 lakh, and where was he going at the time of the alleged snatching. It has been learnt that one of the protesters has Kapoor’s money. We are looking for him,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/41yearold-food-delivery-man-dies-in-delhi-after-his-bike-is-hit-by-a-car-driven-by-a-drunk-student-101630088010551.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||South MCD kicks off process for setting up green-friendly landfill at Okhla||The South Delhi municipal body will begin the tendering process to set up an engineered landfill at a 32-acre-plot at Tehkhand in Okhla, a proposal that has been pending since 2017. The project was approved, with modifications, by the civic body’s House in a meeting on Wednesday.The project, which was taken up as part of the Municipal Solid Waste Rules (2016), was first introduced in 2017 and got an approval from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) in 2018. However, the project was last year modified to accommodate other features and was pending approval since then.The modified version was then placed before the corporation’s standing committee in March this year. More changes were made to the plan, after which it was in the House.“The project has been approved by the House now and tenders will be floated soon to award work. The project is important because it will be the first such engineered landfill in Delhi that will come up as per specifications laid out under the 2016 MSW Rules. It will largely help in reducing air and water pollution caused by the dumping of waste at the existing landfill,” said Colonel (retd) B K Oberoi, chairman of SDMC’s standing committee.The project is estimated to cost ₹55.5 crore and is scheduled to be completed within 18 months, the official added.An engineered landfill site is designed according to specifications under the MSW Rules, which require meeting certain environmental parameters to ensure it does not cause pollution or expose the immediate population to health risks.It has to have provisions for leachate collection, safe dumping, processing and disposal. The present landfills in Delhi are just open dumping sites. These do not have any mechanism to hold waste scientifically or stop leachate from the waste, which has already polluted the groundwater aquifers in the area.The Okhla landfill with a height of more than 60 metres has grown far beyond its permissible limit of 20-30 metres and is not in a position to handle any more waste. Once the new scientifically engineered site is functional, it will take the daily dumping load off the existing Okhla landfill. The existing landfill will then just be left with the legacy waste to be processed over time.The plan also includes an interlinked project to set a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant with a capacity to process 2,000 metric tonnes of waste per day, which is likely to come up on an adjacent 15-acre-plot.According to officials, the project includes collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste.“At present, the legacy waste at the existing landfill site is being done away with using bio-mining and bio-remediation methods, which is a long-drawn procedure. The new engineered site will be an effective alternative to the problem of waste building up on a daily basis and the leachate contaminating groundwater,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.At present, the SDMC area generates approximately 3600 metric tonnes of waste per day, almost 50% of which is dumped at the existing landfill site at Okhla, without any processing. “The Okhla landfill/dumpsite is spread in an area of approximately 46 acres and its present height is already beyond 60 metres, against the permissible 20-30 metres, as per SWM Rules. The landfill is not in a position to handle any more waste,” stated the finalised proposal.According to the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2021, the three landfill sites in Delhi --- Okhla, Bhalaswa and Ghazipur --- all exceeded their capacity in 2008. Most of these sites have contaminated the aquifers and groundwater in and around their surrounding residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/south-mcd-kicks-off-process-for-setting-up-green-friendly-landfill-at-okhla-101630087771081.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||To prioritise students with lab work if reopen, say Delhi’s colleges, varsities||Even as the Delhi government allowed schools, colleges, and educational institutions to reopen in the Capital, most central and state universities said they will wait for detailed guidelines before deciding on conducting in-person lessons and other academic activities. Most universities, however, said that they will prioritise students who are required to do lab work.While Delhi University (DU) announced that it will start in-person classes from August 16, the varsity later rescinded the order saying they will wait for a nod from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). On Friday, the varsity’s registrar Vikas Gupta said, “We already collected feedback from principals and will hold internal meetings to decide on the modalities. Our priority will be science students, of all years, as their course-load involves practical and project work, for which they need to visit laboratories. All other classes are likely to continue online. The final decision will only be taken after a meeting with university officials. Since we have students from across the country, we have to give at least 10 days’ notice before resuming offline classes so that our students have the time to travel to Delhi and arrange for accommodation.”Other central universities such as Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) also said they will wait for guidelines before arriving at a decision.Jamia media coordinator Ahmad Azeem said, “Though the Delhi government has allowed offline classes, we have to wait for the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) directives as well. For now, we will hold consultations with all stakeholders including our deans, students, and parents. We might also ask parents and students for their feedback to ensure a wider consultation process, following which we will approach the university’s highest decision-making body [the executive council].”RP Singh, Rector-3, JNU, said, “After getting the official notification from DDMA, the JNU Covid monitoring committee may discuss the phased reopening of the campus as done earlier.”Rector-1, Chintamani Mahapatra, also said science students will most likely get the priority due to their lab work.Meanwhile, several state universities such as Delhi Technological University (DTU), Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, and Ambedkar University of Delhi (AUD) said they will soon formulate a plan for the phased reopening based on guidelines that DDMA and the directorate of higher education are expected to issue in the coming days.IP university vice-chancellor Mahesh Verma said they will allow students the flexibility to attend classes either online or offline based on their preferences. “Since we had research scholars using our laboratories, our labs and other infrastructure are ready. We already have a Covid-19 safety protocol in place and most of our staff is at least partially vaccinated. Since 85% of our students are from Delhi, we are hoping for a good response.”DTU V-C Yogesh Singh said, “The priority will be PhD and PG students followed by undergraduate students. As far as lab work is concerned, our students are divided into multiple batches so they can be allowed to return for practicals but our class strength is around 85. So for now, we are planning that theory classes will be conducted online. If some students need to come to campus to use the internet or to interact with teachers for theory as well, we may allow that on a case-to-case basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-prioritise-students-with-lab-work-if-we-reopen-say-delhi-s-colleges-universities-101630087352351.html
28-08-2021||Delhi||Schools scramble to put Covid-19 protocols in place||With the Delhi government giving the green signal to reopen schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 1 and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowing classes 6 to 8 to return to school a week later on September 8, public and private educational institutions in the capital now face the uphill task of ensuring physical distancing on their premises, dividing teaching resources between in-person and online classes, and easing students back into the school mode.Several private and public schools that Hindustan Times spoke to on Friday said they would first work on obtaining parental consent for students of classes 9 and 11 — they have already obtained this for board students (classes 10 and 12) earlier this month, when DDMA allowed those students to return to school.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said schools must allow students who choose to stay home the option of online classes, several school principals said allowing classes in a blended mode may pose a challenge and they are awaiting orders from the directorate of education in this regard.Anuradha Joshi, principal of Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, said, “When we resumed in-person classes in January and February, we recorded 99% attendance. So, we did not have to work out modalities for simultaneous online classes. Hybrid learning may prove difficult for all schools because we will need studio infrastructure (for online classes). We are awaiting the guidelines from the education department.”Tania Joshi, principal, The Indian School, said, “Hybrid learning is going to be difficult because schools will need internet facilities and related infrastructure. But we will have to have hybrid classes because one lesson cannot be taught multiple times to different batches as the whole exercise would delay the syllabus. We could opt for live streaming, which will be challenging as we haven’t done that before.”Between January and February, Delhi schools allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to return for in-person classes. Several school authorities said their experiences from back then would enable them to devise a plan for now.“We have four gates, and each gate was used for the entry and exit of a batch of 30 students on any given day, thereby ensuring physical distancing. We had marked which batch would use the gate, staircase and room. We had requested parents to collect children immediately once school is over. The same process is likely to be applied this time as well,” said Joshi.Meenu Goswami, principal of Bal Bharati School in Pitampura, said they are also planning to get back students of classes 6 to 8. “We will send a Google form to parents for consent. Even if 25% students of classes 6 to 8 are allowed to come, we will resume in-person classes for them because parent and student confidence can only be boosted once we take that first step. As far as classes 9 to 12 are concerned, we plan to resume in-person classes from September 6 so that we have time to plan the logistics.”The school is also planning to include sports and other co-curricular activities while maintaining physical distancing. “We are likely to have classes from 8am to 1pm daily and hope to see about 50% student attendance in the first week. Engaging students in academic activities for five straight hours might be difficult at first so we may gradually start sports activities which we can plan with social distancing. Children need opportunities for outdoor activities. We will ensure that there is enough staff to enforce all Covid-19 protocols,” Goswami said.Schools will also be ensuring that the staff are vaccinated. School authorities said they will be focusing on addressing the emotional health of students as well. A senior official of the education department said the government schoolteachers have been briefed to have orientation sessions where “children can vent or share their feelings about the pandemic”.Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Group of Schools, said, “While safety measures are a must, the focus of teachers will be on rebuilding a relationship with children, bridging the gaps and taking care of the socio emotional needs of children. These students will be coming to school after a long time and a lot has happened in the meantime, so we have to work on how to make school a happy and joyful place for children.”Also Read | 'Momentous feat': PM Modi lauds record 1 crore vaccination doses in single daySeveral private school associations also endorsed the government’s decision to reopen schools. Bharat Arora, general secretary of Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools, said, “We wholeheartedly welcome this decision… We are sure all stakeholders are equally concerned about the health (of children), but together, while ensuring all safety norms, we can get back to education.”National Progressive Schools Conference, an alliance of 122 schools, said staggered classes and smaller groups will allow teachers to devote more attention to each child. Chairperson Malini Narayanan said, “Once classes begin, we will conduct tests to assess learning levels of students who will be returning to schools after a long gap.”Coaching centres in the national capital will also be reopening from September 1, the government said.Aakash Chaudhry, managing director, Aakash Educational Services Limited, said, “We would like to assure the parents that as we are reopening our premises with all precautionary measures in place. We have made it mandatory for those who wish to attend the classroom coaching to have the written consent of their parents." The institute will also facilitate contactless attendance across branches, proper crowd management in parking lots, in corridors and in lifts.“In the first phase, we will only allow class 11 and 12 students after acquiring parental consent. Online classes will continue and offline classes will work on 40-50% capacity. Our staff is vaccinated and all sanitation measures will be implemented. We are likely to reopen by September 7-8,” said Saurabh Kumar, national director, academics, Vidyamandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-covid-protocols-to-conducting-classes-in-blended-mode-schools-in-delhi-have-huge-tasks-ahead-101630086870552.html
28-08-2021||Pune||August action: PMC removes 10,798 illegal banners, billboards||The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has removed 10,798 unauthorised banners and boards over a 25-day period starting Aug 2.The action, undertaken by PMC’s Skysign Permission department and the anti-encroachment department, includes the removal of 51giant advertising billboards.According to the anti-encroachment department, the action took place in five zones across 15 ward offices.The Skysign department stated that most of the illegal hoardings, boards and banners are put up during the nights, in violation of the municipal corporation act.Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “Due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, most of the permissions for the hoardings were not given during the said period. We have now given a window of one month for fresh permissions for renewal of hoardings. Also, all illegal hoardings and banners have been removed as per the municipal corporation act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/august-action-pmc-removes-10-798-illegal-banners-billboards-101630081110202.html
28-08-2021||Pune||Athletes at Paralympics need to be encouraged: Rajnath Singh at ASI Pune||Along with the athletes who represented India at the Olympics, athletes at the on-going Paralympics need to be encouraged,” said defence minister Rajnath Singh at the Army Sports Institute here on Friday.The 2020 Tokyo Paralympics Games started on August 24 and will continue till September 5.An Indian contingent of 54 athletes are participating in various events.In 2016, India had won four medals, including two golds at the Paralympics.“All the athletes who represent the nation are leaders and their work is to show the way to others so we can get more medals. We should not be satisfied with only one medal, but work to make India super-powerful in sports,” said Singh.Singh was present for the naming of the ASI athletics’ stadium as the ‘Neeraj Chopra Army Sports Stadium Pune Cantt’, in honour of Neeraj Chopra who won the gold medal for the javelin throw at the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics.Singh also felicitated all Armed Forces personnel who represented India at the Tokyo Olympics.“Along with the athletes we should also congratulate coaches, trainer and physios, as they have also played big role in the success of athletes,” added Singh.“Defence and sports - both walk hand in hand. One can learn many techniques of defence while practicing sports,” added Singh, who was extremely happy with the performance of athletes who returned from Tokyo India’s highest medal tally so far.“Due to Covid-19 the circumstances in Tokyo were hard still our athletes came up with very good performance. Not only medal winners but all those who participated in the Olympics are winners” added Singh.Before the Olympics a preparatory camp for Boxing, Archery and the Javelin throw where organised at the ASI campus.“Army Sports Institute has world class facilities and I want to applaud their efforts. I also appreciate their efforts of making arrangements of providing equipment for athletes who were at their native places during the lockdown,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/athletes-at-paralympics-need-to-be-encouraged-rajnath-singh-at-asi-pune-101630080390647.html
28-08-2021||Pune||Monsoon revival on the cards for Pune, state, says IMD||For August, Pune district has reported a rainfall deficiency of 64 per cent as of August 26, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.As the third monsoon break continues, the city is reporting a rainfall deficiency of 42.7 mm June 1 and August 26.“For Pune city, till August 29, the city will witness cloudy skies and light rainfall. The ghat areas around August 31, may receive isolated heavy rainfall,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune.All four subdivisions of Maharashtra will receive good rainfall due to various weather systems in the next few days said IMD officials.“Isolated moderate rainfall is forecasted in Central Maharashtra till August end. Normal rainfall is forecasted in Maharashtra in the month of September,” said Kashyapi.Along with Pune district, Satara, Sangli, Amravati and Chandrapur districts in the State are also reporting a rainfall deficiency of over 60 per cent in August, while Maharashtra as a whole is reporting deficient rainfall of 42 per cent.Weather officials noted that actual rainfall in August in the state was 144 millimetres (mm) against the normal rainfall of 247.5 mm.“The western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level runs along the foothills of Himalayas. It is very likely to shift gradually southwards fromAugust 28. Currently, one upper air cyclonic circulation is located in the Northwest Bay of Bengal. Around 28, this circulation is likely to form a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal. One east-west shear zone exists and the offshore trough is from Karnataka to Kerala. One cyclonic circulation is present over Vidarbha,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-revival-on-the-cards-for-pune-state-imd-101630080209157.html
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Malwinder Mali quits as adviser of Punjab Cong chief Navjot Sidhu||Under fire for his controversial remarks on Kashmir, Malwinder Singh Mali on Friday quit as adviser to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Mali, whom the PPCC president had appointed as his adviser on August 11 for “wise counsel”, has given up the role. “I humbly submit that I withdraw my consent given for tendering suggestions to Navjot Sidhu,” he said in a statement posted on his Facebook page. Mali did not term it as his resignation and claimed, in another post in Punjabi, that the question of his resignation did not arise as he had never accepted the post. He said that a hateful campaign against him by Capt Amarinder Singh, Vijay Inder Singla, Manish Tewari, Sukhbir Badal, Bikram Majithia and others. These politicians would be responsible if any harm was done to him, he said in the statement. The voluble adviser quit the role a day after Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat gave an ultimatum to Sidhu to remove his two advisers — Mali and Pyare Lal Garg — whose statements on Kashmir and Pakistan have embarrassed the party leadership. In a Facebook post last week, Mali had said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg also criticised chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for attacking Pakistan over Kashmir. Amarinder, who was the target of Mali’s regular digs, had asked Sidhu to “rein in” his two advisers, questioning their “atrocious and ill-conceived” comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the country. However, Sidhu kept quiet, and the central leader had to issue the ultimatum amid mounting criticism from top leaders of the BJP and other parties on these sensitive issues. A former government teacher, Mali was a student union leader who turned to journalism before taking up the government job during which he also served as a public relations officer in the chief minister’s office in two different governments. Garg, a former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, is a known social and health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-chief-sidhu-s-aide-malwinder-singh-mali-quits-101630058068311.html
28-08-2021||World||Hurricane Ida: Life-threatening storm set to hit US Gulf Coast on Katrina anniversary||Weather forecasters have sounded alarm bells over Hurricane Ida which is rapidly approaching the coasts of Louisiana and Mississippi. The intensifying hurricane is expected to bring winds as high as 225 kmph to these US coastal areas when it makes landfall on Sunday. The National Weather Service warned that the storm surge can cause major damage to houses and pose a “significant threat for drownings.”“Listen to local officials and evacuate immediately if told to do so. Never drive through water-covered roads,” the US weather agency tweeted.The storm is expected to make landfall on the exact date of Hurricane Katrina landfall which brought devastation to large parts of US coastal areas in 2005. The National Weather Service said that extremely life-threatening flooding of 10 to 15 feet above ground level is possible within the area from Morgan City in Louisiana, to the Mouth of the Mississippi River.Also Read | Hurricane Ida might damage close to 1 million homes along US GulfWhen Ida reaches the coast of Louisiana, it could turn into an extremely dangerous major hurricane, according to weather forecasters, with potentially catastrophic wind damage possible where the core of Ida moves onshore. The hurricane is likely to trigger heavy rainfall from late Sunday to Monday across the central Gulf Coast from southeast Louisiana to coastal Mississippi, resulting in significant flash and riverine flooding impacts.Flooding is possible across portions of the Lower Mississippi and Tennessee valleys when Ida moves inland, the NWS said. The weather agency shared a clip of satellite imagery detailing the centre as an eye of the hurricane begins to form.This is about three hours of satellite imagery over #Ida, each frame only one minute apart and ending at 12:28pm EDT.You can see the incredible detail near the center as an eye begins to form.Keep up with the latest forecast and safety information at https://t.co/Q7hJAcQl89 pic.twitter.com/er5ZHlKlyyWhile hurricane and tropical storm conditions are ending over Cuba, heavy rain across western Cuba is predicted throughout the day today that may lead to flash floods and mudslides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-ida-life-threatening-storm-to-hit-us-gulf-coast-on-katrina-anniversary-101630169817198.html
28-08-2021||World||'Attack on Afghan territory': Taliban on US airstrike that killed 2 ISIS-K men||The Taliban on Saturday termed the US airstrike as a clear attack on Afghan territory and said the Americans should have informed the Taliban before carrying out the strike, a Taliban spokesman told Reuters. In a 'retaliatory' attack of the Kabul airport blasts, the US conducted an airstrike early on Saturday in which one ISIS-K planner and a facilitator were killed. The Pentagon confirmed that there was no exchange of information between the US and the Taliban regarding the airstrike. Without explaining a further plan of any attack, the Pentagon said it maintains its ability to defend itself until the end of the withdrawal.The Taliban will soon take full control of the Kabul airport, spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said adding that once the US troops leave, the announcement of a full cabinet will come shortly. He said officials had already been appointed to run key institutions including the ministries of public health and education and the central bank. He also said he expected the serious economic turbulence which has hit the afghani currency to ease soon, Reuters reported,With foreign troops beginning to completely withdraw from Kabul airport, the Taliban once again said that they want to maintain diplomatic ties with the US, the UK and other western nations.Reports said the Taliban have been finalising an inclusive caretaker government accommodating leaders from all ethnicities and tribal backgrounds. The government will also have an "amir-ul momineen", reports said.The group has also asked all women healthcare workers to return to work as the health sector is under immense pressure. "The Ministry of Public Health of the Islamic Emirate advises all women employees in the centre and provinces that they should attend work regularly," a statement from spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. "They will face no impediment to performing their duties from the Islamic Emirate," he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/attack-on-afghan-territory-taliban-on-us-airstrike-that-killed-2-isis-k-men-101630169771641.html
28-08-2021||World||US says 2 ISIS-K operatives killed in drone strike in Afghanistan, 1 wounded||The US department of defence has said two “planners and facilitators” of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria-Khorasan (ISIS-K) group were killed and one was wounded in the Friday drone strike carried out in Nangarhar province of Afghanistan bordering Pakistan.Initial reports said the drone strike had killed one ISIS-K operative, who was described as the “planner”.Two “high-profiled targets were killed and one was wounded”, said Major Gen Hank Taylor at a Pentagon news briefing on Saturday. “Without specifying any future plans I will say that we will continue to have the ability to defend ourselves (and) leverage over-the-horizon capability to conduct counter-terrorism operations as needed,” he added.The general and the Pentagon press secretary John Kirby who briefed reporters jointly as they have every morning for some days now, refused to share operational details of the drone strike but the fact the general mentioned “over-the-horizon” capability, the strike seemed to be have been carried out from outside Afghanistan, from another country.US President Joe Biden has said the US will retain “over-the-horizon” capability for counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan even after all American and coalition forces have left the country, which is expected by August 31.The killed and wounded operative were not identified by name and were only described as “planners and facilitators”, and were hit in one “single mission”, not multiple missions.“I won’t speak on the details of this, of these individuals, or what their specific roles might be,” said Kirby, when asked what these three individuals did and if they had directly played any role in planning and facilitating the Kabul airport that killed more than 170 Afghans and 13 military personnel.Biden has vowed to “hunt down” those responsible for the Kabul airport attack, which caused first American casualties of his presidency. “We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will hunt you down and make you pay,” he said in an address to the nation on Thursday.Asked what ISIS-K assets were destroyed in the drone strike, Kirby said, “They lost a planner, and they lost a facilitator and they’ve got one wounded, and the fact that two of these individuals are no longer walking on the face of the earth, that’s a good thing it’s a good thing for the people of Afghanistan, it’s a good thing for our troops and our forces at that airfield.”Kirby went to say that threats to the Kabul airport and the evacuation process “are still very real, they are very dynamic, and we are monitoring them, literally in real time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-2-isis-k-operatives-killed-in-drone-strike-in-afghanistan-1-wounded-101630169075630.html
28-08-2021||World||US troops started leaving Kabul airport as withdrawal deadline nears, says Pentagon||The US troops in Afghanistan have begun withdrawing from the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, the Pentagon confirmed on Saturday, as the last date for the complete drawdown of US from Afghanistan, August 31, approaches. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby confirmed the development during a press briefing on the day.Meanwhile, the Taliban has secured the control of three gates at the Kabul airport and some other areas after the US soldiers have left the gates, the group said, according to a report by Afghan news website TOLOnews.Also read | ISIS-K in Afghanistan trying to turn US exit into bloody spectacleThe announcement from the Pentagon came as several countries are eyeing the end of the civilian evacuations from Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover. Earlier in the day, the UK military said that the country would stop the evacuation of civilians and would carry on with bringing back the country’s armed forces. The last flight carrying civilians to Britain departed from Kabul. However, the country’s defence ministry had said that some Afghan civilians would be airlifted along with the British armed forces on the remaining flights.Following the Taliban’s seizure of Kabul, US President Joe Biden has deployed an additional 5,000 troops in the country to secure the international airport. On August 20, Biden also confirmed that close to 6,000 US armed forces were present in Afghanistan to assist in the civilian departure from the country.Approximately 6,800 people were evacuated from Kabul in a 24-hour period ending on Saturday, of whom, 4,000 were carried by 32 US military aircraft and 2,800 were carried by 34 flights belonging to coalition countries, the White House said. “Since August 14, the U.S. has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 111,900 people. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 117,500 people,” it further said. Nearly 5,000 people were reportedly present inside the Kabul airport awaiting evacuation out of the country.The complete withdrawal of US troops, scheduled to end on August 31, would mark the end of the US’ two-decade-long war in Afghanistan.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-troops-started-leaving-kabul-airport-as-withdrawal-deadline-nears-says-pentagon-101630168392874.html
28-08-2021||World||Two high-profile ISIS-K targets killed in US strike, claims Pentagon||The US airstrike, carried out in 'retaliation' of the Kabul blasts perpetrated by the ISIS-K, has killed two high-profile IS targets and another was left wounded, the Pentagon confirmed on Saturday. No civilians were hurt in the strike, it said adding that the US will maintain its ability to defend itself until the end of the withdrawal.On whether there was only one strike that killed those two, Pentagon press secretary John F Kirby said, "There was only one mission and as information came coming in, we found out that two were killed." Based on their past activities, they have been classified as 'high profile', the Pentagon said.Refusing to divulge their names or whether they were directly involved in the Kabul blast, Kirby said, "They were ISIS-K planners and facilitators, which is enough reason. We won't go into the details of their roles."Commenting on the threat level at areas surrounding Kabul airport, the press secretary said, "The threats are still very real and dynamic and we are monitoring them real-time." On Haqqani and Taliban link, the press secretary said, "The focus is on getting more people out. So I am not sure what benefit it does if I break down the characteristic of this groups... there is a certain amount of co-mingling."At least one of the IS planners killed in Saturday's airstrike was known to the United States, CNN has reported earlier as a US official earlier said the target was not believed to be a senior Islamic State militant, without ruling out future action against the group.Reports said that the strike was carried out in a compound in Jalalabad, which is around 150 km away from Kabul. According to a CNN report, surveillance continues on the compound until the target's wife and children left.The strike does not eliminate the threat of the ISIS-K, the Pentagon said clarifying that the situation is dynamic. "The ISIS-K lost one of their planners and facilitators. But we are not saying that we got them..so the threat is over," John said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-high-profile-isis-targets-killed-in-us-strike-claims-pentagon-101630165313533.html
28-08-2021||World||Heavy losses to Taliban in Kapisa as Afghan resistance counterattacks||Taliban suffered heavy casualties in Afghanistan's Kapisa province, as the resistance force under former vice president Amrullah Saleh gave a fitting reply to the insurgent group. The clashes are taking place in Sanjan in Kapisa province and Khost Wa Fereng district in Baghlan.The resistance forces are, meanwhile, also giving the Taliban a tough fight in Panjshir province, forcing the Sunni Pashtun group to pull back. The counter-attack is a result of violation of ceasefire by the Taliban in Panjshir.Panjshir is the only province not captured by the Taliban, which seized power in Afghanistan earlier this month in the wake of withdrawal of US forces. The counter-attack comes days after terror group Islamic State carried out blasts near the Kabul airport in which more than 150 people, and 13 American soldiers, were killed.After the attacks, Saleh asked the world to unite against terrorism. "The world must not bow to terrorism. Let's not allow Kabul airport to be the site for humiliation of humanity & "rules based world order". Let's believe in our collective effort and energy. Defeatist psyche puts you under risk more than terrorists. Don't die psychologically," he tweeted on Friday.The world must not bow to terrorism. Let's not allow Kabul airport to be the site for humiliation of humanity & "rules based world order". Let's believe in our collective effort and energy. Defeatist psyche puts you under risk more than terrorists. Don't die psychologically. https://t.co/pVOeheQAKpHe also took on the Taliban for distancing themselves from the Islamic State. Saleh said the Taliban have learnt it from their master Pakistan to deny their links with ISIS.There is still confusion between the factions of Taliban about forming an Islamic Emirate in Afghanistan. According to reports from Afghanistan, the Haqqani network has taken control of the capital city led by Anas Haqqani, brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, head of the terrorist group and deputy leader of the Taliban. Sirajuddin Haqqani is said to be passing instructions from Quetta.Meanwhile, the Taliban faction headed by Mullah Yaqoob, son of late Mullah Omar and head of Taliban military commission, is eyeing Kandahar, the traditional seat of Pashtuns. Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Barader met Mullah Yaqoob after he arrived from Doha on August 18. It was here in Kandahar that Mullah Yaqoob’s father was declared Emir ul Momeen on April 4, 1996. The religious head of Taliban, Mullah Haibatullah Akundzada, is still based in Karachi in Pakistan.Haqqani network is known as the most radical and violent branch of the Islamist movement. It has perpetrated the deadliest attacks in Afghanistan in the last 20 years. The group was formed by Jalaluddin Haqqani, who was a valuable CIA asset in the 1980s. He later allied with the Taliban and also served as a minister between 1996 and 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heavy-losses-to-taliban-in-kapisa-an-afghan-resistance-counterattacks-101630158901805.html
28-08-2021||World||Why Taliban released only one photo of 'supreme leader' Hibatullah Akhundzada||The Taliban fighters have shed the shell of secrecy and made themselves visible in front of the camera, on social media platforms after their takeover of Afghanistan. However, there is one exception and that is regarding their supreme leader Hibatullah Akhundzada's whereabouts, news agency AFP reported. In an attempt to track Hibatullah Akhundzada since the fall of Kabul, the news agency found that nothing much is known about it. As the group remains tightlipped about his details, they had only released one photograph of their supreme leader, who never made a public appearance.His day-to-day activities are not known and he only releases an annual message during Islamic holidays. "You will see him soon, God willing," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told reporters this week when asked about Akhundzada's whereabouts.Who is Hibatullah Akhundzada?Hibatullah Akhundzada is the chief of the group since 2016. The Kandahar leader who was involved in the Islamist resistance during the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan is more reputed as a religious leader than a military commander. He was announced the successor of Akhtar Mohammad Mansour after Mansour was killed in a US drone strike in 2016. It was said that Akhtar Mohammad Mansour wanted Hibatullah Akhundzada to be his successor.Reports said during the previous Taliban rule, Hibatullah Akhundzada was the deputy head of its supreme court and after 2001 following the fall of Taliban in Afghanistan, he became the head of the group's council of religious scholars.Where is Hibatullah Akhundzada?Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid was asked about his whereabouts. His reply was: "You will see him soon, God willing.""Akhundzada's absence follows years of rumours about his health, with chatter in Pakistan and Afghanistan suggesting he had contracted Covid or had been killed in a bombing. There has never been much in the way to prove these rumours, but Akhundzada's secrecy comes at a sensitive time for the erstwhile insurgency," AFP wrote.Why this shroud of secrecyThis is not new for Taliban leadership as most of the top leaders have remained in the shadows for years. Founder Mullah Mohammad Omar was an enigmatic figure who was reluctant to even meet visitors. There might be many reasons for this style and security concerns is one of them. "The Taliban consider themselves in a state of jihad as long as foreign troops are on Afghan soil and will likely keep their leader hidden until they leave. That's why the supreme leader is not surfacing," Pakistan-based security analyst Imtiaz Gul told AFP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-taliban-released-only-one-photo-of-supreme-leader-hibatullah-akhundzada-101630152254130.html
28-08-2021||World||ISIS-K in Afghanistan trying to turn US exit into bloody spectacle||ISIS-Khorasan, the Islamic State's Afghanistan and Pakistan arm, the group behind the Kabul airport attack is trying to turn the Biden administration's exit into a bloody spectacle.Hannah Allam and Souad Mekhennet, writing in The Washington Post said that for months, terrorism analysts warned that Islamic State-linked terrorists in Afghanistan would try to turn the Biden administration's exit into a bloody spectacle.On Thursday, a suicide bomber and multiple ISIS-K gunmen killed 13 US service members and at least 169 Afghan civilians in the attack at the Kabul airport.With its signature blend of complexity and cruelty, the attack was seen by many observers as a reminder to the Americans and the Taliban that, no matter who was in the presidential palace, Afghanistan would remain contested, said Allam and Mekhennet.Amira Jadoon, an assistant professor at the US Military Academy, has written extensively about ISIS-K, arguing that an unconditional US withdrawal and Taliban takeover would bring about "the most permissive" environment for the group to operate."And this is what we are seeing now," Jadoon said. "ISK's main goal right now is to stay politically relevant, disrupt efforts to stabilize the country, and also undermine the Afghan Taliban's credibility."In the hours before the attack, US and Western governments warned of a specific threat related to ISIS-K and urged people to stay away from the airport. But the crowds returned Thursday, taking their chances before the evacuation window closed for good, reported The Washington Post.In a speech from the White House on Thursday evening, President Biden blamed the Islamic State and addressed the attackers directly: "We will not forgive, we will not forget, we will hunt you down and make you pay."An August 17 US Defense Department report said, "ISIS-Khorasan exploited the political instability and rise in violence" from April through June "by attacking minority sectarian targets and infrastructure to spread fear and highlight the Afghan government's inability to provide adequate security.""The blast at the airport today is showing that unfortunately, a very bloody future is ahead of us," said an Arab intelligence official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to be interviewed, reported The Washington Post.ISIS-K began operating in Afghanistan in 2015, according to a report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies.Started in 2014 by Pakistani national Hafiz Saeed Khan, who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State's former leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, it was a small band of mostly Pakistani militants operating in the eastern Afghanistan province of Nangarhar.Some recruits came from the Taliban, though members of other extremist groups in the region also defected to the Khorasan group, according to the CSIS report.As with other Islamic State affiliates, ISIS-K has stayed nimble and able to regroup after military blows. The founder died in a US airstrike in 2016, according to CSIS.But, the United Nations estimates that ISIS-K retains a core group of some 1,500 to 2,200 fighters in Afghanistan's Konar and Nangarhar provinces. Smaller cells are scattered across the country, said Allam and Mekhennet.Attacks like the one at the airport are why armed groups are preparing for internecine battles, said an Afghan militant with ties to the Taliban and Al-Qaeda, who spoke on the condition that he be identified only by a nom de guerre, "Abu Muhammad".He also said that the terror attack at Kabul airport was "a punishment also for all those who want to leave Afghanistan to go and live in the West".Jadoon, the US Military Academy academic, and co-author Abdul Sayed reported in March that ISIS-K had claimed responsibility for 47 attacks in the first two months of 2021, comparable to the group's peak years of 2017 and 2018, when it was linked to 100 and 84 attacks, respectively.Jadoon said ISIS-K is probably contemplating a number of ways to take advantage of the fluid situation in Afghanistan right now.She said three areas to watch are the group's efforts to recruit from the Taliban and other terrorist groups, prison-break operations to free fighters and attempts to carve out strongholds in Nangarhar and Konar in order to stop the spread of ISIS-K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/isisk-in-afghanistan-trying-to-turn-us-exit-into-bloody-spectacle-101630147582883.html
28-08-2021||World||Two die in Japan after getting Moderna vaccine jabs suspended over contamination||As many as two people died in Japan after being administered Moderna Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine jabs that were among the batches later suspended over contamination reports, the country’s health ministry said on Saturday.The deceased people, both men in their 30s, died this month within days of getting inoculated with the second doses of Moderna vaccines, news agency Reuters reported quoting the ministry statement.Each had received a shot from one of the three manufacturing lots of the coronavirus vaccines that were suspended on Thursday. Their deaths are being probed; the Reuters report added. Both had a fever the day after receiving the second dose and died two days following the fever.This development comes after Japan on Thursday suspended the use of a total of 1.63 million doses of Moderna Inc’s coronavirus vaccines – over a week after the domestic distributor, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co, got reports of contamination in some of the vials.However, both Takeda and Moderna insisted on carrying out a “formal investigation” to determine the connection. “At this time, we do not have any evidence that these deaths are caused by the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine,” the companies said in a statement on Saturday.Following the suspension of vaccine doses, both Moderna and Japan said that no efficacy or safety issue had been spotted and that the move was just a precautionary measure.Also Read | Covid-19 deaths worldwide near 4.5mn markWhat Moderna said on the contamination reports?Following the findings by Takeda, Moderna confirmed in a statement of being “notified of cases of particulate matter” being observed in drug product vials of its Covid-19 vaccine.“The company is investigating the reports and remains committed to working expeditiously with its partner, Takeda, and regulators to address this,” Moderna’s statement added.According to Reuters, the US biotechnology and pharmaceutical firm said that the contamination could have been due to a “manufacturing issue” in one of the production lines at its contract manufacturing site in Spain.Rovi, a Spanish pharma company that fills and finishes Moderna Inc’s Covid-19 vaccines for markets apart from the US, said it is probing the “possible contamination” of the doses and that the issue appeared to be present only in a few batches marked for Japan.What’s the situation in Japan now?A health ministry official told Reuters that Takeda first identified the contaminated vials on August 16, and reported the issue to the government on Wednesday. The delay, the official added, occurred as the regional distributor needed time to assemble information regarding the affected vials and the locations they were in the country.The contaminants found in some of the vials are believed to be metallic particles, Japan’s public broadcaster NHK reported, citing health ministry sources."There may only be a temporal relationship between vaccination and death," Fumie Sakamoto, the infection control manager at St. Luke's International Hospital in Tokyo told Reuters, stressing on not drawing conclusions as there are “so many things” yet to be unravelled.Nearly 44 per cent of Japan’s population is fully vaccinated with the country administering more than 124 million jabs. As of August 8, as many as 991 people have lost their lives after receiving Pfizer Inc’s vaccine shots and 11 following the administration of Moderna jabs – however, none of the fatalities have been established to have had connections with the injections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-die-in-japan-after-getting-moderna-vaccine-jabs-suspended-over-contamination-101630147449283.html
28-08-2021||World||Afghanistan evacuations: Britain says last civilian flight to depart today||Britain on Saturday said that their last flight carrying civilians out of Afghanistan would depart today and the country’s troops would be evacuated using the remaining aircraft. The country's chief of the defence staff General Nick Carter said that hundreds of Afghan nationals who are eligible for resettlement in the UK are likely to be left behind.The remarks from the armed forces chief came a day after Britain’s defence minister Ben Wallace on Friday said that the country is entering “the final hours” of its evacuation in Kabul and would only process people who were already inside the airport.Also read | 'Should go back to work': Taliban tells women healthcare workers in AfghanistanWhile Wallace said that an estimated 800 to 1,100 people in Afghanistan, who had worked with the UK would not make it out of Kabul, Carter noted that the total would be in “high hundreds”.“We're reaching the end of the evacuation, which will take place during the course of today, and then of course it'll be necessary to bring our troops out on the remaining aircraft,” BBC quoted the General as saying.“It's gone as well as it could do in the circumstances... but we haven't been able to bring everybody out and that has been heartbreaking and there have been some very challenging judgements that have had to be made on the ground,” he added. However, he also said that people who have not been evacuated but leave Afghanistan through other ways “will always be welcome in Britain.”Late on Friday, the UK’s defence ministry said that more than 14,500 people, including British and Afghan nationals, were airlifted out of Afghanistan in the days following the Taliban takeover of Kabul. The UK had deployed over 1,000 military personnel at the peak of the evacuation operations in securing the Kabul airport. The last date for ceasing operations at the Kabul airport is August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-evacuations-britain-says-last-civilian-flight-to-depart-today-101630145276810.html
28-08-2021||World||'I can't breathe': Year after George Floyd's death, NBA player faces cop action||More than a year after George Floyd died after a US policemen pressed his knee against his neck, similar incident has been reported from Los Angeles. A body camera video released on Friday showed the neck of NBA player Jaxson Hayes under the knee of a cop as he gasped "I can't breathe".The footage is from July 28, when the cops went to the house of the New Orleans Pelicans center around 3 am following a 911 call from the cousin of Hayes' girlfriend. The cousin said Hayes' girlfriend was sending her text messages saying he had become loud and violent and she was scared.Watch what LAPD says about the incident:The 21-year-old ultimately was booked into jail on accusations of resisting arrest after he was evaluated at a hospital for minor injuries. But the LAPD said in a statement that their Force Investigation Division is looking into the case "due to the possibility of force being applied to Hayes' neck during the use of force"."The LAPD conducts very thorough 'use of force' investigations which typically requires the police officers to interview multiple witnesses and analyse significant amount of forensic evidence. We are still at an early stage of investigation, which can often take upto a year to complete," said Captain Stacy Spell, commanding officer of the media relations division of LAPD, in a video released by the department.This is yet another chilling reminder of the police violence against the Black people on America. Floyd's death last year led to the biggest outcry against racial injustice in the US in generations, and heightened sensitivity about using any kind of force that restricts a person's breathing.Floyd died gasping for air on May 25, 2020, after Derek Chauvin pressed his knee against his neck for up to 9 and a half minutes after being pinned down on the suspicion of using a counterfeit $20 bill. Chauvin was thrown out of the police force and given 22 and a half years in jail - one of the longest prison terms ever imposed on a US police officer in the killing of a Black person.He was convicted of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.However, there are some difference between what happened with Floyd and Hayes' incident in July. The 6-foot-11 and 220 pounds basketball player was on his back when a Los Angeles police officer’s knee was pressed to his neck for a few seconds. Floyd was pinned face-down under Chauvin’s knee.As Hayes gasped "I can't breathe" several times, another officer tells his partner "get your knee up". That officer immediately complies and Hayes is able to lift his head. In Floyd's case, three other officers were charged with aiding and abetting Chauvin with murder and manslaughter because they did not intervene.The 15-minute-long bodycam video shows how the calm incident rapidly escalated, and Hayes was tased. The officers ultimately handcuffed Hayes and forced him to sit in a chair. The video also showed blood on his arm and shirt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-can-t-breathe-year-after-george-floyd-s-death-nba-player-faces-cop-action-101630143831082.html
28-08-2021||World||Haqqani network is the sword arm of Taliban with Pakistan the common parent||The Biden administration’s Machiavellian approach in white washing the Taliban and call it a separate entity from Haqqani network shows the desperation of US to exit Afghanistan at whatever the cost. State Department spokesperson Ned Price is a spin doctor for the Biden administration, but his statement that the Taliban and Haqqani network are separate entities shows his shallow knowledge of jihadists in Af-Pak region. The fundamental rule of the game is that there are no good terrorists and political Islam is a way to seize power not sermon the believers.While one can understand the reason behind Ned Price’s lie, but if this is the understanding of the State Department then the war against terrorism globally is doomed. The rather feckless administration of Joe Biden may now cover up for sharing list of American evacuees and Special Immigrant Visa holders by drawing this unheard off distinction, but everyone knows that Mullah Omar, the one-eyed founder of the Taliban, was radicalised in Darul Uloom Haqqania in Khyber-Paktunkhwa, from which the Haqqani network derives its name. The Haqqani network is a jihad group incorporated in Pakistan with two of its members, Sirajuddin Haqqani, deputy leader of Taliban, and Khalil Haqqani, the Taliban emissary, carry USD 15 million in reward on their head. Another relative Anas Haqqani is at the center of negotiations among the various factions of Taliban as also with the Panjshiri resistance. Fact is that Kabul is under control of over 6,000 murderous cadre of Haqqani network with Mullah Yaqoob, son of Mullah Omar, playing the second fiddle.While there may be several ideological fault-lines among the various jihadists groups spawned in Pakistan, there is unity among these terrorists when the target is the democratic world. Puritan Islamists describe all these terrorist groups as “Takfirs” as they have no qualms in killing Sunnis what to talk of Shia Kaffirs in pursuance of their political objectives. So the Haqqani network’s logistics support is used by Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) to mount attack on Indian embassy in Kabul just as the so-called Islamic State of Khorasan is used by Pakistani deep state to target Indians in Afghanistan. The Jaish-e-Mohammed under the leadership of Mufti Rauf Azhar operates on both sides of Pakistani border. It fought the US led coalition forces along with the Taliban in southern Afghanistan, while its is part of training camps with Haqqani network across the Khyber Pass. If Ned Price has any difficulty in understanding this, then they should ask UK intelligence, to whom the Americans outsourced the entire Afghan policy due to their legacy relationship with Rawalpindi.Although for Biden administration it really does not matter to find out the umbilical relations between Haqqani etwork and the Taliban after they exit Kabul but the graveyard that is Afghanistan has surely buried another empire after the British and the Soviets. Only time will tell whether US loses power the Soviet way after the 1979 withdrawal (it is called de-induction in military jingo) from Afghanistan or rise yet again after the 1976 Saigon withdrawal. Either way the situation is bleak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haqqani-network-is-the-sword-arm-of-taliban-with-pakistan-the-common-parent-101630133204796.html
28-08-2021||World||Philippines extends Covid curbs in capital region, other provinces till Sept 7||The Philippines on Saturday extended its second-highest level of restrictions against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the capital region of Metro Manila and other provinces till September 7, as the country continues to battle a renewed surge in infections driven by community transmission of the Delta variant. Harry Roque, the spokesperson for President Rodrigo Duterte, said in a statement that Metro Manila will remain under the modified enhanced community quarantine. The restrictions were earlier set to end on August 31.Businesses in Metro Manila can operate up to 50 per cent on-site capacity under the restrictions. However, dining-in in restaurants, religious activities, personal care services, bars, beauty parlours will continue to remain closed. The capital region is home to over 13 million people and is currently the Philippines’ Covid-19 epicentre.Meanwhile, the second toughest restrictions on movement were also imposed in nine provinces and six cities, which have been witnessing a massive surge in infections.The Philippines, which is currently one of the worst-hit from Covid-19 across Asia, has so far reported 1,916,461 cases, 32,841 deaths and 1,741,089 recoveries. On Friday, the country recorded another high of 17,447 new cases while 113 patients died and 6,771 recovered from the viral disease, according to the department of health’s (DOH’s) bulletin.The department of health’s epidemiology bureau director Alethea De Guzman said on Thursday that daily cases and deaths were rising in the country, and classified Metro Manila as a “high-risk area”, adding the region will probably see new peaks of new infections in the upcoming days because of the upward Covid-19 trend.On Monday, the DOH said the Delta variant had spread to communities in the capital region and also in the Calabarzon region. Guzman also pointed out on Thursday that the variant has been identified in the country’s 17 regions.On the vaccination front, the government has secured 194.89 million vaccine doses till now, which is sufficient to vaccinate about 100.5 million citizens or over 100 per cent of the country’s adult population, the finance ministry said, adding the government could administer doses to everyone by January 2022.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-extends-covid-curbs-in-capital-region-other-provinces-till-sept-7-101630122903647.html
28-08-2021||World||US intelligence community divided on Covid-19 origin||With US intelligence community (IC) still divided on the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic - whether it started with an animal-to-human infection or lab leak - President Joe Biden on Friday said America will partner with like-minded countries to press China to share information on the issue.“To this day, the PRC (the People’s Republic of China) continues to reject calls for transparency and withhold information, even as the toll of this pandemic continues to rise,” Biden said acknowledging he had received an inconclusive report from the intelligence community.He added: “We must have a full and transparent accounting of this global tragedy. Nothing less is acceptable.”As widely reported earlier, Biden received a report from the intelligence community after 90 days on investigation into the origin of the pandemic, which started in China in November of 2019 but hit the United States the hardest with more than 636,000 deaths, the highest for any country.“After examining all available intelligence reporting and other information … the intelligence community remains divided on the most likely origin of Covid-19,” the Office of the Director of National Intelligence said in a short two-page summary of their findings. “All agencies assess that two hypotheses are plausible: natural exposure to an infected animal and a laboratory-associated incident,” it added.The summary said four of IC 18 elements and the National Intelligence Council assess with “low confidence” that the initial SARS-CoV-2 infection was most likely caused by natural exposure to an animal infected the virus or something 99% similar. One IC element assessed with “moderate confidence” that the first human infection was caused by a laboratory-associated incident, “probably involving experimentation, animal handling, or sampling by the Wuhan Institute of Virology”.Analysts at three IC elements were unable to rally around either of the two theories without more information and some other said both theories were equally likely.The intelligence community is unable to provide more definitive explanation for the origin unless new information comes along.But here is what the IC can say with some certainty, according to the summary. The first infections occurred no later than November 2019; the first cluster of cases were in Wuhan; the virus “was not developed as a biological weapon”; most agencies assessed with “low confidence” that SARS-CoV-2 probably was not genetically engineered; however, two agencies believe there was not sufficient evidence to make an assessment either way.“Finally, the IC assesses China’s officials did not have foreknowledge of the virus before the initial outbreak of Covid-19 emerged.”The debate over the origin of SARS-CoV-2 has raged around the world especially after former president Donald Trump supported those who argued it emerged from a virology lab in Wuhan city of China, where the epidemic started end of 2019 and then spread rapidly around the world.Trump’s action was motivated by his desire to shift blame of his mishandling of the fightback in the US, but it was also backed by many scientists such as Robert Redfield, former chief of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). He said he believed the coronavirus “most likely” escaped a lab.A WHO report widely seen as unduly accommodative of the Chinese said the virus most likely travelled from animals to humans and that the possibility of a lab leak was “extremely unlikely”.Efforts to conclusively ascertain the origin of the virus that has killed millions of people around the world, causing the largest global public health crisis in 100 years, have been marred by the lack transparency and cooperation by China, as Biden pointed out in the White House statement.The US intelligence community was divided as well. Biden had said in May that two agencies believed in the animal-to-human theory and a third agency went with the lab-leak possibility.“The majority of elements do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one to be more likely than the other,” the US president had said then.The intelligence community is still there, 90 days hence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-intelligence-community-divided-on-covid-19-origin-101630126953590.html
28-08-2021||World||14 Keralites with ISKP, blast outside Turkmenistan mission in Kabul foiled||At least 14 Kerala residents are part of the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) terror group after being freed by the Taliban from Bagram jail even as there are unconfirmed reports of two Pakistanis being picked up by the Sunni Pashtun terrorist group for trying to detonate an IED device outside the Turkmenistan embassy in Kabul on August 26. The Kabul airport suicide bombing death figures are nearing 200, including 13 US soldiers.According to reports reaching from Afghanistan, Kabul is in control of the Haqqani Network as the Zadran Pashtuns are traditionally dominant on the Jalalabad-Kabul axis with the tribe dominant in Afghanistan's Nangarhar province bordering Pakistan. ISKP is also active in the Nangarhar province and has operated with Haqqani Network in the past.It is understood that one out of the 14 Keralites contacted his home in the southern state, while the remaining 13 are still at large in Kabul with the ISKP terrorist group. After the so-called Islamic State of Syria and Levant occupied Mosul in 2014, batches of Keralites from the Malappuram, Kasaragod and Kannur districts left India to escape the land of Kafirs and join the jihadist group in the Middle East. Out of this, some families came down to Nangarhar province in Afghanistan to settle under the ISKP.Also read | US hits back at ISIS-K, 'kills' terrorist planner in drone strike in AfghanistanWhile India is worried that the Taliban and their handlers will use these radicalised Keralites to besmirch Indian reputation by indulging in acts of terror in Afghanistan, there are very credible reports coming about the detention of two Pakistanis who were trying to conduct a blast outside the Turkmenistan embassy. The Taliban are for obvious reasons tight-lipped about the entire incident but intelligence reports indicate that an improvised explosive device was recovered from these Pakistani nationals soon after the Kabul airport blast on August 26. Given that Pakistan along with the UK was involved in the US cutting out a deal with the Taliban, the incident appears to have been drowned in the mayhem after the airport attack. HT online has no independent means of confirmation.Also read | Kabul attack killed 13 US troops, many of them in 20s. Here are their storiesThe situation in Kabul is very fluid with Pakistan with the help of the Haqqani Network putting pressure on the Taliban to form a 12 member council with elements of the previous regime with the aim of getting global legitimacy, but the Mullah Yaqoob faction is reluctant. The neighbouring countries of Afghanistan are waiting for the US to exit from the Islamic Emirates on August 31 before any decision on its relationship with the Taliban is considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/14-keralites-with-iskp-blast-outside-turkmenistan-mission-in-kabul-foiled-101630120774066.html
28-08-2021||World||Joe Biden criticizes China for not aiding report on coronavirus origin||President Joe Biden rebuked China for stonewalling a U.S. investigation into the origins of the coronavirus, as his administration reported it was unable to reach firm conclusions because of Beijing’s unwillingness to cooperate. China denied that it had hindered the probe.“The world deserves answers, and I will not rest until we get them,” Biden said in a statement on Friday shortly after the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released an unclassified summary of the report. “Responsible nations do not shirk these kinds of responsibilities to the rest of the world.”The intelligence community determined the virus wasn’t created as a biological weapon and said Chinese officials had no “foreknowledge” of the outbreak, but was divided on how it came to infect humans and spread across the globe.Four components of the intelligence community said -- with low confidence -- that the outbreak was likely linked to exposure to an infected animal, according to the U.S. summary. This theory is the most widely supported by scientists, including Anthony Fauci, who is advising Biden on Covid.One intelligence community component assessed with moderate confidence that the outbreak was associated with a research lab in China. As of a few months ago, two components backed the animal theory while one backed the lab theory.The Chinese Embassy in the U.S expressed “strong condemnation” to the White House statement, and again called for investigation into the U.S. biological defense site Fort Detrick. The U.S. report doesn’t produce the answer the U.S. wants and “continuing such an effort will also be in vain, because its subject is simply non-existent and anti-science,” the Chinese statement said.“The report by the intelligence community is based on presumption of guilt on the part of China, and it is only for scapegoating China,” the statement said.No AgreementAnalysts at other U.S. agencies are unable to coalesce around either origin theory without more information, including some who think both are equally likely. To reach a conclusion with higher confidence, the intelligence community said it would need more cooperation of China, which it said continues to hinder global efforts. Beijing “continues to hinder the global investigation, resist sharing information and blame other countries, including the United States,” the summary says. “These actions reflect, in part, China’s government’s own uncertainty about where an investigation could lead as well as its frustration the international community is using the issue to exert political pressure on China.”The intelligence community overall believes that the virus infected humans through an initial small exposure no later than November of 2019, according to the report. The report says the intelligence agencies judge that the virus was not developed as a biological weapon, and most assess -- with low confidence -- that it was not genetically engineered, though two agencies believe there isn’t enough evidence to know either way. “China’s officials did not have foreknowledge of the virus before the initial outbreak of Covid-19 emerged,” the summary says. But the intelligence agencies and the global community lack clinical samples and other data from the earliest Covid-19 cases, the summary says. The report shows how far the government is from reaching a conclusion. Only five of the agencies, or components, of the intelligence community expressed any view and none did so with more than low or moderate confidence.The US Intelligence Community is made up of 18 different organizations, including the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, which released the summary, and the Central Intelligence Agency, among others.The intelligence community sprinted to provide the report within Biden’s timeline, and approached it from multiple perspectives, including consulting scientists and epidemiologists, an official familiar with the process said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The intelligence community also reached out to academic experts, as well as international allies and partners, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-criticizes-china-for-not-aiding-report-on-coronavirus-origin-101630117806987.html
28-08-2021||World||More can be done for Afghans who have arrived in Britain, says govt||The British government acknowledged that more can be done to help and assist Afghan nationals and their families settle in Britain as they escape from Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban.Britain earlier announced plans to welcome up to 5,000 Afghans fleeing the Taliban during the first year of a new resettlement programme that will prioritise women, girls and religious and other minorities."Approximately only 5% of councils have declined to sign up to our relocation and assistance scheme and close to a third of councils have already stepped up to support new arrivals, but we know there is more that can be done for those that have risked their lives supporting us", a UK government spokesperson said in an emailed statement late on Friday."This is why we are calling on all councils who have not yet come forward with a firm offer of support to help Afghan nationals and their families as they build a new life here in safety", the spokesperson said.The Telegraph newspaper reported earlier that around 30 councils have refused to take any Afghan refugees who have arrived in the UK after fleeing the Taliban.An initial request from the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government to local authorities was met with push back from around 10% of England's 333 councils, the newspaper had reported."We do not recognise these figures", the government spokesperson said in response to the report."Councils in England, Scotland and Wales will have access to a share of an additional £5 million to help them provide the necessary housing and support to Afghans who have worked for this country in Afghanistan, but who now face threats of persecution or worse," the statement added.The Taliban seized power in Afghanistan in mid-August from a US-backed government, sending thousands fleeing and potentially heralding a return to the militants' austere and autocratic rule of two decades ago.Britain has so far evacuated more than more than 14,500 Afghan and British nationals, the defence ministry said late on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-can-be-done-for-afghans-who-have-arrived-in-britain-says-govt-101630116359572.html
28-08-2021||World||Pentagon holds talks with Chinese military for first time under Biden, official says||A senior Pentagon official held talks with the Chinese military for the first time since President Joe Biden took office in January to focus on managing risk between the two countries, a US official told Reuters on Friday.The United States has put countering China at the heart of its national security policy for years and Biden's administration has described rivalry with Beijing as "the biggest geopolitical test" of this century.Relations between China and the United States have grown increasingly tense, with the world's two largest economies clashing over everything from Taiwan and China's human rights record to its military activity in the South China Sea.Despite the tensions and heated rhetoric, U.S. military officials have long sought to have open lines of communication with their Chinese counterparts to be able to mitigate potential flare-ups or deal with any accidents.   Michael Chase, deputy assistant secretary of defense for China, spoke last week with Chinese Major General Huang Xueping, deputy director for the People's Liberation Army Office for International Military Cooperation.   "(They) utilized the U.S.-PRC Defense Telephone Link today to conduct a secure video conference," the U.S. official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.   Chase focused on "managing crisis and risk," the official added.Officials said U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has yet to speak with his Chinese counterpart, in part because there was a debate about which Chinese official was Austin's counterpart.Vice President Kamala Harris said on Thursday that the United States welcomes competition and does not seek conflict with Beijing, but will speak up on issues such as maritime disputes in the South China Sea.China, Vietnam, Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines and Taiwan lay claim to parts of the South China Sea, which is crossed by vital shipping lanes and contains gas fields and rich fishing grounds.Biden has ramped up sanctions on China over alleged human rights abuses in Xinjiang and Hong Kong.In a shift from his predecessor as president, Donald Trump, Biden has broadly sought to rally allies and partners to help counter what the White House says is China's increasingly coercive economic and foreign policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pentagon-holds-talks-with-chinese-military-for-first-time-under-biden-official-says-101630115871078.html
28-08-2021||World||US hits back at ISIS-K days after Kabul attack, 'kills' terrorist planner in drone strike in Afghanistan||The US struck back at the Islamic State on Saturday as it bombed a member of the ISIS-K in eastern Afghanistan in a retaliatory airstrike less than 48 hours after a fatal suicide bombing claimed by the group killed as many as 169 Afghans and 13 American service members, news agencies reported. According to the Pentagon, the drone strikes by the US military targeted a 'planner' of the IS outfit.The ISIS-K planner was suspected of being involved in plotting future attacks, but had no direct link to Thursday’s assault in Kabul, according to a US official speaking to the Bloomberg news agency on the condition of anonymity. He added that the target, traveling in a vehicle, was killed by a Reaper drone.Also Read | ‘Leave immediately’: US embassy warns Americans to avoid Kabul airportCaptain Bill Urban, a spokesperson for the US Central Command said the unmanned airstrike occurred in the Nangahar province of Afghanistan, adding that the initial indications hint that the target has been killed and there have been no civilian casualties.The airstrikes come in the wake of US president Joe Biden warning the Islamic State attackers of retaliation for the Kabul airport attack, saying the United States would neither forget nor forgive the act. “To those who carried out this attack as well as anyone who wishes America harm know this: We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will hunt you down and make you pay,” Biden had declared.Earlier in the day, the US embassy in Kabul issued a fresh advisory for Americans, asking them to avoid travelling to the Kabul airport because of security threats. Those at the Abbey, East, North, or the new ministry of interior gates should leave immediately, it said. The country also asked the Taliban to close certain roads because of the possibility of suicide bombers in vehicles and warned there could be more attacks ahead of President Joe Biden's deadline on August 31 to withdraw American forces from Afghanistan.Also Read | Key things to know about ISIS-K behind Kabul airportThursday's bombing, which has been claimed by the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K) group, marked one of the deadliest days for American forces in Afghanistan since 2011.Meanwhile, more than 100,000 people have already been evacuated through the Kabul airport but thousands of others are desperate to leave Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover. US officials said evacuees with proper credentials still were being allowed through the gates, while as many as 5,400 evacuees currently await flights at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-hits-back-at-isis-k-days-after-kabul-attack-kills-terrorist-planner-in-drone-strike-in-afghanistan-101630114815836.html
28-08-2021||World||Hurricane Ida might damage close to 1 million homes along US Gulf||Hurricane Ida could damage close to 1 million homes along the US Gulf Coast if the storm intensifies as forecast, with potential reconstruction costs estimated to exceed $220 billion, CoreLogic said. A dangerous storm surge could hit 941,392 properties in the Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama coastal areas, the property and data analytics firm said.“The central Louisiana coast is at risk of bearing the brunt of Hurricane Ida’s extreme storm surge potential,” CoreLogic said in a statement based on the 5 pm Eastern time forecast on Friday. Ida slammed into Cuba Friday night and it’s barreling north toward the US Gulf Coast with winds that are ultimately expected to reach 140 miles (225 kilometers) per hour, and a wall of water that may reach 15 feet in height.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-ida-might-damage-close-to-1-million-homes-along-us-gulf-101630115110721.html
28-08-2021||World||List of animals affected by Covid-19 expands, US reports first case in a deer||The US government said on Friday it had confirmed the world's first cases of Covid-19 in deer, expanding the list of animals known to have tested positive for the disease.The US Department of Agriculture reported infections of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, in wild white-tailed deer in the state of Ohio, according to a statement. There were no reports of deer showing symptoms of infection, the USDA said."We do not know how the deer were exposed to SARS-CoV-2," USDA spokeswoman Lyndsay Cole wrote in an e-mail to Reuters. "It’s possible they were exposed through people, the environment, other deer, or another animal species."The USDA has previously reported Covid-19 in animals including dogs, cats, tigers, lions, snow leopards, otters, gorillas, and minks.Worldwide, most animal infections were reported in species that had close contact with a person with Covid-19, according to the agency.The USDA reported last month that white-tailed deer populations in Illinois, Michigan, New York, and Pennsylvania were exposed to SARS-CoV-2, based on a study that analyzed serum samples from free-ranging deer for antibodies to the disease.The Ohio State University College of Veterinary Medicine collected samples from the infected deer in Ohio from January to March as part of ongoing studies, the USDA said. The samples were presumed to be positive for Covid-19 in university tests, and the cases were confirmed at USDA's National Veterinary Services Laboratories, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/list-of-animals-affected-by-covid-19-expands-us-reports-first-case-in-a-deer-101630113113083.html
28-08-2021||World||Kabul attack killed 13 US troops, many of them in 20s. Here are their stories||A young husband with a child on the way. Another man who always wanted to be in the military. A man who planned to become a sheriff’s deputy when his deployment ended. Heartwrenching details began emerging Friday about some of the 13 US troops killed in a horrific suicide bombing at Afghanistan’s Kabul airport, which also claimed the lives of more than 160 Afghans.Eleven Marines, one Navy sailor, and one Army soldier were among the dead, while 18 other US service members were wounded in Thursday's bombing, which was blamed on Afghanistan’s offshoot of the Islamic State group. The US said it was the most lethal day for American forces in Afghanistan since 2011. The White House said President Joe Biden will look for opportunities to honor the servicemembers who lost their lives, many of whom were men in their early 20s.Here are details about some of the victims:RYLEE McCOLLUM, 20Rylee McCollum, a Marine and native of Bondurant, Wyoming, was married and his wife is expecting a baby in three weeks, his sister, Cheyenne McCollum, said.“He was so excited to be a dad, and he was going to be a great dad," McCollum said. She said her brother “was a Marine before he knew he was allowed to be a Marine ... He’d carry around his toy rifle and wear his sister’s pink princess snow boots and he’d either be hunting or he was a Marine. Sometimes it would be with nothing on underneath, just a T-shirt.”McCollum said her brother wanted to be a history teacher and a wrestling coach once he completed his service. Another sister, Roice McCollum, told the Casper Star-Tribune that her brother was on his first deployment when the evacuation in Afghanistan began.“We want to make sure that people know that these are the kids that are sacrificing themselves, and he’s got a family who loves him and a wife who loves him and a baby that he’ll never get to meet,” Cheyenne McCollum said.Regi Stone, the father of one of Rylee McCollum’s friends, described McCollum as “a good kid,” who was resilient, smart, and courageous. Stone shared a note that his wife, Kim, sent to their son Eli Stone, who is also in the military and deployed elsewhere. In the note, Kim wrote that she remembered telling the friends to run the other way if they had to go in first and that both of them said, “If we die doing this, we die doing what we love.”KAREEM MAE’LEE GRANT NIKOUI, 20Lance Corporal Kareem Mae’Lee Grant Nikoui, of Norco, California, sent videos to his family hours before he died, showing himself interacting with children in Afghanistan. In one of the clips, he asked a young boy to say hello.“Want to make a video together buddy?” Nikoui said, leaning in to take a video of himself with the boy. “All right, we’re heroes now, man.”Close family friend Paul Arreola said the videos show "the heart of this young man, the love he has.”“The family is just heartbroken," he said. Arreola described Nikoui as an “amazing young man” full of promise who always wanted to be a Marine and set out to achieve his goal. He is survived by his parents and three siblings.“He loved this country and everything we stand for. It’s just so hard to know that we’ve lost him,” he said, crying.Nikoui was also in the JROTC, and the Norco High School Air Force JROTC posted on Facebook that he was “one of our best Air Force JROTC cadets” and that “Kareem was set on being a Marine & always wanted to serve his country.”The city of Norco said Friday in a post on social media that Nikoui's name will be enshrined on a memorial wall in the city.JARED SCHMITZ, 20Marine Lance Corporal Jared Schmitz grew up in the St. Louis area and was among a group of Marines sent back to Afghanistan to assist with evacuation efforts, his father, Mark Schmitz, told KMOX Radio.Mark Schmitz said his son always wanted to be a Marine. He said he learned of his son's death when the Marines came to his home in Wentzville, Missouri, at 2:40 a.m. Friday.“This was something he always wanted to do, and I have never seen a young man train as hard as he did to be the best soldier he could be,” Schmitz said of his son. “His life meant so much more. I’m so incredibly devastated that I won’t be able to see the man that he was very quickly growing into becoming.”TAYLOR HOOVER, 31Staff Sgt. Taylor Hoover, of Utah, had been in the Marines for 11 years and was remembered as a hero who died serving others, his father Darin Hoover said.“He is a hero. He gave his life protecting those that can’t protect themselves, doing what he loved serving his country,” said Darin Hoover, who lives in a Salt Lake City suburb.He said he heard from Marines throughout the day Friday who said they are grateful they had his son as their sergeant.“They look back on him and say that they’ve learned so much from him,” Darin Hoover said. “One heck of a leader.”His father said his son was also a best friend to his two sisters and loved all his extended family. He had a girlfriend in California and was the kind of guy who “lit up a room” when he came in, his father said.Nate Thompson of Murray, Utah, first met Hoover when they were 10 years old in Little League football. They stayed friends through high school, where Hoover played lineman. He was undersized for the position, but his heart and hard work more than made up for what he lacked in stature, Thompson said. As a friend, he was selfless and kind.“If we had trouble with grades, trouble with family, or trouble on the field, we always called Taylor. He’s always level-headed, even if he’s struggling himself,” he said.DEAGAN WILLIAM-TYELER PAGE, 23Corporal Daegan William-Tyeler Page served in the 2nd Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment based at Camp Pendleton, California, and planned to go to a trade school and possibly become a lineman after his enlistment ended, his family said in a statement.Page was raised in Red Oak, Iowa, and in the Omaha metro area, and joined the Marines after graduating from Millard South High School. He is mourned by his girlfriend, parents, stepmom and stepdad, four siblings, and grandparents, the family said in a statement released by a family friend. The statement said the family did not wish to speak to the media at this time.“Daegan will always be remembered for his tough outer shell and giant heart,” the statement said. ”Our hearts are broken, but we are thankful for the friends and family who are surrounding us during this time. Our thoughts and prayers are also with the other Marine and Navy families whose loved ones died alongside Daegan.”RYAN KNAUSS, 23Army Staff Sgt. Ryan Knauss was remembered as a motivated man who loved his country and was looking forward to coming back to the US and eventually moving to Washington, D.C., family members told WATE-TV in Knoxville, Tennessee.Knauss’ grandfather, Wayne Knauss, told the television station that the family received word of Knauss's death on Friday, and funeral services were being planned. Knauss said his grandson attended Gibbs High School and grew up in a Christian home.“A motivated young man who loved his country,” Wayne Knauss said. “He was a believer, so we will see him again in God’s heaven.”Stepmother Linnae Knauss said Ryan planned to move to Washington after he returned to the US“He was a super-smart hilarious young man,” she said.HUNTER LOPEZ, 22Hunter Lopez, whose parents work at the Riverside County Sheriff's Department in Southern California, was a sheriff's Explorer for three years before joining the Marine Corps in September 2017, Sheriff Chad Bianco said.Bianco said Lopez planned to follow in his parents' footsteps and become a Riverside County Sheriff's Deputy after his deployment.DAVID LEE ESPINOZA, 20Lance Corporal David Lee Espinoza, a Marine from Laredo, Texas, joined the military after high school, and was being remembered as a hero by his mother.“He was just brave enough to go do what he wanted and to help out people. That’s who he was, he was just perfect," his mother, Elizabeth Holguin. told the Laredo Morning Times.Espinoza's death was confirmed earlier by US Rep. Henry Cuellar. The congressman's press secretary, Dana Youngentob, said Pentagon representatives visited Cuellar’s Washington office to inform him of Espinoza's death. Cuellar’s office also received an official death notice from the Pentagon.In a statement, Cuellar said Espinoza “embodied the values of America: grit, dedication, service, and valor. When he joined the military after high school, he did so with the intention of protecting our nation and demonstrating his selfless acts of service.”Cuellar concluded, “The brave never die. Mr. Espinoza is a hero.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-attack-killed-13-us-troops-many-of-them-in-20s-here-are-their-stories-101630111944807.html
28-08-2021||World||‘Leave immediately’: US embassy warns Americans to avoid Kabul airport||The US embassy has issued another advisory asking Americans to avoid travelling to the Kabul airport because of security threats and said that those at the Abbey, East, North or ministry of interior gates should leave immediately. “Because of security threats at the Kabul airport, we continue to advise US citizens to avoid traveling to the airport and to avoid airport gates. US citizens who are at the Abbey gate, East gate, North gate or the New Ministry of Interior gate now should leave immediately,” the US embassy in Kabul said in a statement on its website.The embassy advisory, the second in days, came as the US has warned there could be more attacks ahead of President Joe Biden's deadline on August 31 to withdraw American forces from Afghanistan. Thursday's bombing, which has been claimed by an offshoot of the Islamic State group, marked one of the deadliest days for American forces in Afghanistan since 2011. The next few days “will be our most dangerous period to date" in the evacuation, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said.Also read | 'Do not come to Kabul airport if...': US embassy on evacuation processUS forces are working under heightened security amid threats of another attack as they pressed ahead with the evacuation from Kabul's airport after the deadly suicide bombing killed hundreds, including American troops. US military officials said that some gates were closed and other security measures put in place. They said there were tighter restrictions at Taliban checkpoints and fewer people around the gates.Also read | US will transfer Kabul airport back to Afghan people: State DepartmentThe US military said it also asked the Taliban to close certain roads because of the possibility of suicide bombers in vehicles. The Taliban on Friday used a pickup truck full of fighters and three captured Humvees to set up a barrier 1,600 feet from the Kabul airport. The US would keep up manned and unmanned flights over the airport for surveillance and protection, including the use of AC-130 gunships, according to the Pentagon.US officials said evacuees with proper credentials still were being allowed through the gates as about 5,400 evacuees still awaited flights inside the Kabul airport. According to the US, more than 100,000 people have been evacuated through the Kabul airport but thousands more are desperate to leave Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover.The US embassy in Kabul issued a list of actions to be taken by Americans:• Be aware of your surroundings at all times, especially in large crowds.• Follow the instructions of local authorities including movement restrictions related to curfews.• Have a contingency plan for emergencies and review the Traveler’s Checklist.• Monitor local media for breaking events and adjust your plans based on new information.• Enroll in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) to receive Alerts and make it easier to locate you in an emergency.• Follow the Department of State on Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/leave-immediately-us-embassy-warns-americans-to-avoid-kabul-airport-101630112087897.html
28-08-2021||World||US will transfer Kabul airport back to Afghan people: State Department||The United States will transfer Kabul airport back to the Afghan people, said State Department spokesperson Ned Price on Friday (local time)."Upon our departure, we will transfer the Kabul airport back to the Afghan people," the State Department official said during a media briefing.Earlier, the Taliban spokesperson said that the group has controlled parts of Kabul airport, as an August 31 deadline for the United States is about to end."Today, three important locations in the military part of Kabul airport were evacuated by the Americans and are under the control of the Islamic Emirate," spokesman Bilal Karimi said on Twitter.Meanwhile, Pentagon said that the deadly attack outside Kabul airport the previous day was carried out by one suicide bomber and that there wasn't a second explosion at a nearby hotel."I can confirm for you that we do not believe that there was a second explosion at or near the Baron Hotel, that it was one suicide bomber," Army Major General Hank Taylor, deputy director of the joint staff for regional operations, told reporters at the Pentagon, The Hill reported.Thursday's bombing, which killed 13 US service members and at least 100 Afghans, took place "right at" the Abbey gate at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul.Defense officials initially said a second bombing had taken place outside the Baron Hotel, which is adjacent to the airfield and a key site in the effort to evacuate US and British citizens.But on Friday, Taylor said Defense officials don't know the source of that initial report."We're not sure how that report was provided incorrectly, but we do know it's not any surprise that the confusion of very dynamic events like this can cause information sometimes to be misreported or garbled," he said. "Details are continuing to be collected," The Hill reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-will-transfer-kabul-airport-back-to-afghan-people-state-department-101630111335896.html
28-08-2021||World||Unvaccinated US school teacher spread Covid-19 to 26 people||An unvaccinated teacher at an elementary school in California spread the coronavirus to at least 26 other people, including 12 students in their classroom, a new study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Friday.The health agency said the case highlights the importance of vaccinating school staff in order to protect young children who are not yet eligible for vaccines, as schools reopen amid a new nationwide surge driven by the ultra-contagious Delta variant.The CDC said the incident took place in Marin County, a suburb of San Francisco.The teacher, who reported attending social functions from May 13-16, became symptomatic on May 19 but did not take a Covid test until May 21, initially believing the symptoms were due to allergies."On occasion during this time, the teacher read aloud unmasked to the class despite school requirements to mask while indoors," the study said.In the days that followed, among the teacher's 24 students, all ineligible for vaccination because they are under 12, 22 received tests and 12 were found to be positive.Eight out of 10 students in the front two rows tested positive, an attack rate of 80 percent, as well as four out of 14 in the three back rows.The school required students to mask, each student's desk was set six feet apart from the next, windows were open on both sides of the classroom, and a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter was placed in front of the class white board.Six students in a separate grade also tested positive.It wasn't clear how the virus spread between the two classes, with researchers presuming an interaction occurred at school.However, genetic sequencing of available samples confirmed they were all part of the same outbreak, and identified the Delta variant as responsible.Eight additional cases were identified among parents and siblings of children in the two grades. Among four parents infected, three were fully vaccinated.Twenty-two of the 27 total infected people (81 percent) reported symptoms, the most frequently reported were fever, followed by cough, headache and sore throat.No one involved in the outbreak was hospitalized.The CDC said the outbreak was likely underestimated because all testing was voluntary."The outbreak's attack rate highlights the Delta variant's increased transmissibility and potential for rapid spread, especially in unvaccinated populations such as schoolchildren too young for vaccination," said the report's authors.- What works -In addition to vaccinating school staff, they stressed the need for multi-pronged mitigation strategies, including using masks, distancing and ventilation, and staying home when sick.A second CDC study also released Friday was held up by the agency's director Rochelle Walensky as an example of what happens when best practices are followed.It showed that during the winter pandemic peak, case rates among children and adolescents in Los Angeles County schools were nearly 3.5 times lower than rates in the surrounding community."We know what works. Now let us unify together to follow these steps to ensure fundamentally that our children and our future are safe," said Walensky at a press briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unvaccinated-us-school-teacher-spread-covid-19-to-26-people-101630110984020.html
28-08-2021||World||Delta variant of Covid-19 doubles hospital risk in comparison to Alpha: Study||The Delta variant of the virus that causes Covid-19 doubles the risk of hospitalisation compared to the Alpha variant it has supplanted as the dominant strain worldwide, researchers reported Saturday in The Lancet.Only 1.8 percent of the more than 43,000 Covid cases assessed in comparing the two variants were in patients who had been fully vaccinated.Three-quarters were completely unvaccinated, and 24 percent had only received one jab of a two-dose vaccine."The results from this study therefore primarily tell us about the risk of hospital admission for those who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated," said co-lead author Anne Presanis, a Senior Statistician at the University of Cambridge's MRC Biostatistics Unit.Researchers analysed healthcare data from 43,338 COVID-19 cases in England from March 29 to May 23 of this year, including vaccination status, emergency care, hospital admission and other patient information.All virus samples underwent whole genome sequencing, the surest way to confirm which variant had caused the infection.Just under 80 percent of the cases were identified as the Alpha variant, and the rest were Delta.Around one in 50 patients were admitted to hospital within 14 days of their first positive Covid-19 test.After accounting for factors that are known to affect susceptibility to severe illness -- including age, ethnicity, and vaccination status -- the researchers found the risk of being admitted to hospital was more than doubled with the Delta variant.- 'Excellent protection' -Since these samples were taken, Delta has surged and now accounts for over 98 percent of new Covid-19 cases in Britain, the authors said.Multiple studies have shown that full vaccination prevents infection with symptoms and hospitalisation, for both Alpha and Delta variants."We already know that vaccination offers excellent protection against Delta," said Gavin Dabrera, another lead author and a consultant epidemiologist at the National Infection Service, Public Health England."It is vital that those who have not received two doses of vaccine do so as soon as possible."An earlier study from Scotland also reported a doubling in hospitalisation risk with Delta over Alpha, suggesting that Delta causes more severe disease.The Delta variant was first reported in India in December 2020 and early studies found it to be up to 50 percent more transmissible than the Alpha variant, which was first identified in England in September last year.Nearly 4.5 million deaths worldwide have been attributed to Covid-19, though the final tally is likely to be higher once "excess deaths" are calculated over the pandemic period.In some countries -- and some states in the United States -- hospitalisation and death rates are the highest they have been since the first cases reported at the beginning of 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-variant-of-covid-19-doubles-hospital-risk-in-comparison-to-alpha-study-101630110059899.html
28-08-2021||World||More Kabul attacks likely, US on alert as it attempts more evacuations ahead of deadline||The US said it believes there are still "specific, credible" threats against the Kabul airport after Thursday’s suicide bombing by the Islamic State at one of its gates killed nearly 80 Afghans and 13 US soldiers. "We certainly are prepared and would expect future attempts. We're monitoring these threats, very, very specifically, virtually in real-time,” Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby told reporters.According to the White House, the next few days of an ongoing US evacuation operation are likely to be the most dangerous. US, which has taken about 111,000 people out of Afghanistan in the past two weeks, and allied forces are racing to complete evacuations of their citizens and vulnerable Afghans and to withdraw from Afghanistan by an August 31 deadline set by President Joe Biden.The White House said about 4,200 people were evacuated from Kabul during a 12-hour period on Friday and US officials said a total of approximately 5,100 Americans had been airlifted, with about 500 more waiting to leave. Tens of thousands of Afghans are still waiting to be evacuated and a crowd of people could still be seen outside the airport to try to get onto evacuation flights.Also read | The ideology and evolution of Islamic State-KhorasanSome US media, including the New York Times, cited local health officials as saying up to 170 people, not including the US soldiers, were killed in Thursday's attack—the deadliest incident for American troops in Afghanistan in a decade.Two senior Taliban officials said their forces have taken up positions in Kabul airport and are ready to take full control as early as this weekend, as soon as U.S. forces leave. According to Reuters, one senior commander said Taliban forces had taken over most of the airport, "just not a small part where the Americans still are". "As soon as the Americans leave, they just have to give us the signal and we will then take over," a second Taliban official said.Also read | Plan to mount evacuation ops in Afghanistan: MEAHowever, Kirby told reporters that the military section of the airport remains under US control. "They are not in charge of any of the gates. They are not in charge of any of the airport operations. That is still under US military control," Kirby said.White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that the US expects some engagement with the Taliban will be necessary after the withdrawal to facilitate further evacuations. "The reality is, the Taliban control large swathes of Afghanistan, including the areas surrounding the perimeter of the airport. So by necessity, that is our option,” Psaki said.Islamic State Khorasan Province has claimed responsibility for the attack, which the US said on Friday was carried out by one suicide bomber at an airport gate, not two as earlier stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-kabul-attacks-likely-us-on-alert-as-it-attempts-more-evacuations-ahead-of-deadline-101630109675619.html
28-08-2021||World||Fire at chemical factory kills 16 in Pakistan's Karachi||At least 16 people died after a fire broke out at a factory in Pakistan's Karachi on Friday, local media reported citing police and rescue officials.According to Dawn, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) Additional Police Surgeon Dr Summaiya Syed said that 16 bodies had been brought to the hospital so far, adding that more were expected.She said 12 of the bodies had been identified and were taken away by relatives, while four could not be identified immediately. All of the deceased were aged between 18 and 38, she added.Korangi SSP Shah Jehan said that police had been informed that there were 25 people still trapped in the building and feared that they may have died, according to Dawn.According to a spokesman for the Pakistan Rangers (Sindh), the area had been cordoned off and Rangers personnel were engaged in relief efforts with rescue teams.The spokesperson said that the fire had occurred at a chemical factory in Mehran Town, adding that the blaze was now under control and rescue efforts were underway.According to police officials, an Edhi volunteer, Saddam, 30, also sustained injuries while trying to extinguish the fire. Saddam, along with three other injured people, was taken to JPMC, Dawn reported||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fire-at-chemical-factory-kills-16-in-pakistan-s-karachi-101630107791544.html
28-08-2021||World||Kabul airport suicide attack: US vows revenge||The US pressed on with a monumental evacuation process from Afghanistan on Friday amid fears of more bloodshed a day after the suicide attack at Kabul airport killed well over 100 Afghans and 13 US service members, and President Joe Biden vowed to hunt down those responsible for the terror strike.In an emotional speech, Biden said the evacuations will be completed, and declared to the extremists responsible for the bombings: “We will not forgive, we will not forget. We will hunt you down and make you pay.”He said the Islamic State (IS) group’s Afghanistan affiliate was to blame for the Thursday attacks and that there was no evidence that they colluded with the Taliban, who now control the country. The group, IS-Khorasan (IS-K) – an enemy of both the US and the Taliban – too claimed responsibility for the attack. It said in a statement that one of its suicide bombers had targeted “translators and collaborators with the American army” near the Kabul airport.Two officials said on the condition of anonymity that the Afghan death toll in Thursday’s bombing was higher than first anticipated – at least 169 -- while the US said it was the deadliest day for American forces in Afghanistan since August 2011. The 13 US service members who died included 10 Marines, a Navy sailor and an Army soldier. The military has not identified them or given a service affiliation for the last victim.The attack underlined the realpolitik facing Western powers in Afghanistan: engaging with the Taliban, who they have long sought to fend off, may be their only chance to prevent the country sliding into a breeding ground for extremist militancy.At the White House on Thursday, Biden – already facing strong criticism at home and abroad over the chaos surrounding troop withdrawal that led to the Taliban’s lightning advance to Kabul -- asked for a moment of silence to honour the service members. He bowed his head, and ordered US flags to half-staff across the country.Asked by a reporter if he bore any responsibility for the deaths, he said: “I bear responsibility fundamentally for all that’s happened of late.”As for the bombers and gunmen involved, he said, “We have some reason to believe we know who they are.” He said he had instructed military commanders to develop plans to strike IS “assets, leadership and facilities”.The US warned that more attacks could come ahead of President Biden’s fast-approaching deadline to withdraw American forces from Afghanistan by Tuesday. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said: “We certainly are prepared and expect future attempts” at terror attacks as the evacuation winds down.The Pentagon also said that there was one suicide bomber instead of two previously thought.As the call to prayer echoed on Friday through Kabul along with the roar of departing planes, the anxious crowds thronging the airport in hope of escaping Taliban rule appeared as large as ever despite the bombing. Afghans, American citizens and other foreigners were all acutely aware the window is closing to board a flight before the airlift ends and Western troops withdraw.The attacks led a witness, Jamshad, to head there in the morning with his wife and three small children, clutching an invitation to a Western country he didn’t want to name. “After the explosion I decided I would try because I am afraid now there will be more attacks, and I think now I have to leave,” said Jamshad, who like many Afghans uses only one name.The names of the Afghan victims began emerging and included a news agency founder along with a number of impoverished Afghans who had gone to the airport in hopes of realising a better life.By the morning after the attack, the Taliban posted a pickup full of fighters and three captured Humvees and set up a barrier 500 metres from the airport, holding the crowds farther back from the US troops at the airport gates.General Frank McKenzie, head of US Central Command, said in the hours after the bombings that the US would adjust security outside the gates as needed, including possibly asking the Taliban to change the location of their checkpoints.McKenzie said American forces have to stand close to would-be evacuees to make sure they are not carrying any weapons that could cause even greater loss of life aboard a plane.“Somebody has actually got to watch someone else in the eyes and decide that they’re ready to come in” the airport gates, McKenzie said.The Taliban have wrested back control of Afghanistan two decades after they were ousted in a US-led invasion following the 9/11 attacks. Their return to power has terrified many Afghans, who fear they will reimpose the kind of repressive rule they did when they were last in control. Thousands have rushed to flee the country ahead of the American withdrawal as a result.The US said more than 100,000 people have been safely evacuated from Kabul, but thousands more are struggling to leave in one of history’s largest airlifts.Outside the airport, Afghans acknowledged that going to the airport was risky — but said they had few choices. “Believe me, I think that an explosion will happen any second or minute, God is my witness, but we have lots of challenges in our lives, that is why we take the risk to come here and we overcome fear,” said Ahmadullah Herawi.Many others will try to escape over land borders. The UN refugee agency said a half-million people or more could flee in a worst-case scenario in the coming months.But chances to help those hoping to join the evacuation are fading fast. More European allies and other nations were ending their airlifts Friday, in part to give the US time to wrap up its own operations and get 5,000 of its troops out by Tuesday.The Indian ministry of external affairs said on Friday that India’s priority will be to evacuate Indian citizens from the country and the Afghan nationals “who stood by us”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-airport-suicide-attack-us-vows-revenge-101630104060085.html
28-08-2021||World||Critical information about Covid-19 origin 'exists in China': US President Biden||The US intelligence community does not believe it can resolve a debate over whether a Chinese laboratory incident was the source of Covid-19 without more information, US officials said in a declassified summary on Friday.US officials said only China can help solve questions about the true origins of the virus that has now killed 4.6 million people worldwide. "China's cooperation most likely would be needed to reach a conclusive assessment of the origins of Covid-19," they said.President Joe Biden, who received a classified report earlier this week summarizing the investigation he had ordered, said Washington and its allies will continue to press the Chinese government for answers."Critical information about the origins of this pandemic exists in the People's Republic of China, yet from the beginning, government officials in China have worked to prevent international investigators and members of the global public health community from accessing it," Biden said in a statement after the summary was released.The summary, released by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, was set to worsen discord between Beijing and Washington at a time when the countries' ties are at their lowest point in decades. In the United States, activists worried the investigation could also encourage violence against Asian Americans.Reuters earlier reported that administration officials did not expect the analysis to settle debate about the virus' origin.China has ridiculed a theory that Covid-19 escaped from the state virology lab in Wuhan and pushed fringe theories including that the virus slipped out of a lab in Fort Detrick, Maryland, in 2019.The US report revealed new detail about the extent of the disagreement within the Biden administration over the so-called lab leak theory.Several organizations within the sprawling US intelligence community thought the novel coronavirus emerged from "natural exposure to an animal infected with it or a close progenitor virus," according to the summary.But they had only "low confidence" in that conclusion, the summary said. Other groups were not able to come to any firm opinion at all on the origins.One intelligence community segment, however, developed "moderate confidence" that the first human infection with Covid was likely due to a "laboratory-associated incident, probably involving experimentation, animal handling, or sampling by the Wuhan Institute of Virology" in China.A team led by the World Health Organization (WHO) that spent four weeks in and around Wuhan in January and February dismissed that theory. But their March report https://www.who.int/health-topics/coronavirus/origins-of-the-virus, which was written jointly with Chinese scientists, has been faulted for using insufficient evidence to dismiss the theory.The new US report concluded that analysts would not be able to provide "a more definitive explanation" without new information from China, such as clinical samples and epidemiological data about the earliest cases.Initially, US spy agencies strongly favored the explanation that the virus originated in nature. But people familiar with intelligence reporting have said there has been little corroboration over recent months that the virus had spread widely and naturally among wild animals."While this review has concluded, our efforts to understand the origins of this pandemic will not rest," Biden said. "We will do everything we can to trace the roots of this outbreak that has caused so much pain and death around the world, so that we can take every necessary precaution to prevent it from happening again."The World Health Organization's director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has said the group has not ruled out any hypothesis. The Geneva-based organization is set to impanel a new committee to develop next steps on studying the virus SARS-CoV-2.But epidemiological experts said the window was closing for any useful data to be collected, particularly from people infected by the disease in 2019, when the virus likely first emerged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/critical-information-about-covid-19-origin-exists-in-china-us-president-biden-101630100580198.html
28-08-2021||World||US Gulf Coast braces for hit after hurricane Ida hits Cuba's Isle of Youth||Hurricane Ida barreled into Cuba on Friday and churned toward a weekend US landfall along the Louisiana coast, prompting advance evacuations of New Orleans residents and oil rig workers as President Joe Biden issued a federal emergency declaration.By midday, Ida was packing maximum sustained winds of 75 miles per hour (120 kph), according the National Hurricane Center, which expected the storm to strengthen further before coming ashore as a major hurricane in southeastern Louisiana on Sunday.Forecasters said Ida would likely make US landfall as a category 3 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale with sustained winds of at least 111 mph and heavy rainfall.Widespread power outages and flooding from surging ocean surf were also predicted.New Orleans city officials ordered residents to evacuate areas outside the city's levee system, with voluntary evacuation notices for the rest of the parish.Baton Rouge Mayor Sharon Weston Broome signed an emergency disaster declaration and said the city had pre-positioned sand and sandbags at eight strategic locations as part of storm preparations.Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards declared a state of emergency on Thursday, and on Friday Biden issued at pre-landfall federal emergency declaration at Edwards' request. This authorized the US Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to coordinate disaster relief efforts in the state."Unfortunately, Louisiana is forecast to get a direct, strong hit from Tropical Storm #Ida, which is compounded by our current fourth surge of Covid-19. This is an incredibly challenging time for our state," Edwards wrote on Twitter.US energy companies racing to complete evacuations of offshore platforms in the Gulf ahead of the storm had reduced petroleum production by nearly 60% and gas output by almost half, federal regulators said.CARIBBEAN TAKES FIRST HITSoon after being upgraded to hurricane status, Ida smashed into Cuba's Isle of Youth, off the southwestern end of the Caribbean island nation, meteorologists said.They said the storm was expected to keep gaining strength and speed as it churned over northwestern Caribbean into the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico, endangering the coastlines of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama.If forecasts proved accurate, Ida would end up making US landfall 16 years after the region was devastated by Hurricane Katrina.Officials in US coastal areas preparing for the storm urged residents to move boats out of harbors and encouraged early evacuations.Officials in Louisiana's Lafourche Parish said they would enact a voluntary evacuation, especially for people in low-lying areas, mobile homes and RVs."By Saturday evening, everyone should be in the location where they intend to ride out the storm," Edwards said on Thursday.Cuba's meteorology institute said Ida would cause storm surges as far east as Havana. The governor of the Isle of Youth Adian Morera said an evacuation center was ready to receive families in the main town of Nueva Gerona, and sea vessels had already been secured along the coast.Jamaica was flooded by heavy rains, and there were landslides after the passage of the storm. Many roads were impassable, forcing some residents to abandon their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-gulf-coast-braces-for-hit-after-hurricane-ida-hits-cuba-s-isle-of-youth-101630100506286.html
28-08-2021||World||50% of patients still have issues after a year: Study||Around half of the patients hospitalised with Covid-19 in the Chinese city of Wuhan in 2020 had health problems including muscle fatigue, shortness of breath and depression 12 months after their discharge, a year-long study has found.Overall, their health was weaker a year after recovery compared to those who were not infected with the virus, a study published in the medical journal Lancet said on Friday.The study conducted on recovered patients highlights the lingering impact of Covid-19 in some patients, sometimes lasting for months, though most recover fully.The study done by Chinese scientists from Beijing and Wuhan assessed health outcomes at six and 12 months for 1,276 Covid-19 patients treated at Jin Yin-Tan hospital in Wuhan between January and May 2020.Meanwhile, a federal prosecutor is accusing Argentine President Alberto Fernández of apparently violating his own pandemic restrictions decree by joining a dozen other people at his wife’s birthday party in July last year.The action by prosecutor Ramiro González means Fernández could face a criminal investigation.New Zealand’s government has extended a strict nationwide lockdown through Tuesday as it tries to quash its first outbreak of the coronavirus in six months.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Friday the government expects to keep Auckland, where most of the cases have been found, in full lockdown for at least two more weeks.But she expects most other parts of the country can ease restrictions slightly from Wednesday.Clarify shoot-on-sight orders, UN tells N KoreaUnited Nations human rights investigators have asked North Korea to clarify whether it has ordered troops to shoot-on-sight any trespassers who cross its northern border in violation of the country’s pandemic closure since last year.They were referring to a report by a news site focused on North Korea, Daily NK, which published a photo of what it said was a poster describing an August 2020 proclamation prohibiting acts that impede the closure of the northern border.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/50-of-patients-still-have-issues-after-a-year-study-101630099764848.html
28-08-2021||World||‘Deplorable’ act: UNSC calls for justice||The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) urged the international community to bring the perpetrators and instigators of the suicide bombing at Kabul airport to justice, in a statement released on Friday.“The members of the Security Council underlined the need to hold perpetrators, organisers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism accountable and bring them to justice,” the statement by the 15-member council said.“They urged all states, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with all relevant authorities in this regard,” it added.Thursday’s attack injected further panic into the final days of a chaotic US-led evacuation, as thousands of frightened Afghans rushed to leave their country after the Taliban swept to power.The United Nations Security Council said it “condemned in the strongest terms the deplorable attacks”.It also “reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan to ensure the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country, and that no Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any country”.UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres has called for a meeting on Monday of the five permanent members of the council -- the United States, Britain, France, Russia and China.Russia urges efforts for ‘inclusive government’Russia called on Friday for rapid efforts to help form an inclusive interim government in Afghanistan, saying IS is trying to capitalise on chaos in the country and endangering everyone.After talks in Italy, Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said, “We see in this the additional need to speed up assistance to the Afghans, so they can form an inclusive transitional government without any further delay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deplorable-act-unsc-calls-for-justice-101630099214117.html
28-08-2021||World||Biden told another terrorist attack likely in Kabul: White House||A day after a deadly terror strike in Kabul, US President Joe Biden was told by his top security advisers on Friday that another terror attack was likely in the Afghan capital and the next few days of the mission to evacuate Afghan partners, and American and allied personnel from Afghanistan “will be the most dangerous period”.Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said in a statement that Biden was advised of the threat at a situation room briefing with his national security team and military commanders, who assured him that maximum protection measures were being taken at the airport in Kabul.The commanders also briefed the US president on the operational plans to develop Islamic State-Khorasan targets. Biden reaffirmed to the commanders “his approval of all authorities they need to conduct the operations and protect our troops”.US forces helping to evacuate people desperate to flee Taliban rule were already on alert for more attacks throughout Friday after an IS-K strike killed around 100 people outside Kabul airport.Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said the US believed there are “specific, credible” threats against the airport. “We certainly are prepared and would expect future attempts,” Kirby told reporters in Washington.US and allied forces are racing to complete evacuations of their citizens and vulnerable Afghans and to withdraw from Afghanistan by an August 31 deadline set by President Joe Biden.On Friday, some sections of the US media cited local health officials as saying 170 people died in the attack. The attack also marked the first US military casualties in Afghanistan since February 2020 and represented the deadliest incident for US troops there in a decade.Medical staff in the operating theatres of Kabul’s Emergency Hospital worked through the night treating casualties. “Everybody is concerned at this moment in Kabul, nobody knows what to expect in the coming hours,” said Rossella Miccio, president of the Italian aid group that runs the hospital.Frank McKenzie, head of US Central Command, said the US will press on with evacuations.Afghans can travel freely in future, say TalibanAfghans with valid documents will be able to travel freely in the future at any time, a Taliban official said in a televised address aimed at calming fears. “The Afghan borders will be open and people will be able to travel at any time into and out of Afghanistan,” said Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, deputy head of the movement’s political commission.Anger over list shared by US officials: ReportAccording to a controversial report done by Politico, US officials in Afghanistan naively gave the Taliban a list of Afghans who had aided US forces in the country, sparking fears that the new regime could use that information to persecute them. The report says US officials gave the Taliban names of US citizens, green card holders and Afghan allies so they could be allowed to enter the airport in Kabul.A similar development involving British officials has been reported. The UK’s defence chief promised to “get to the bottom of” a security lapse that saw documents identifying Afghan staff left behind at the abandoned British embassy in Kabul.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-told-another-terrorist-attack-likely-in-kabul-white-house-101630086450390.html
28-08-2021||India||Ex-PM Narasimha Rao’s home in Telangana to become museum. Here’s how it'll look||Former Indian Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s ancestral village Vangara in Telangana’s Karimnagar district is all set to transform into a tourism site. The latest development comes after the state tourism minister V Srinivas Goud took to Twitter on Thursday to share pictures of the proposed plan.The announcement to turn Rao’s native village into a tourism site came in September last year. At the time, Gouda had said that the village would be recognised globally to mark the centenary celebrations of late Rao. Besides, Rao’s home will be turned into a museum that will comprise a photo gallery, displaying his journey and a collection of his belongings, The New Indian Express reported.Have a glimpse of the proposed development plan of PV Vignana Vedika Park, PV Vignana Kendra Museum, Entrance Arch, PV Statue with fountain at Vanagara in memory of former Prime Minister late PV Narasimha Rao Garu.#HappeningTelangana #TelanganaTourism pic.twitter.com/g8RtwhOcVpTalking to the Hindu recently, Rao’s daughter Surabhi Vani Devi said that her father collected “over 15,000 books” and that some of them are housed in Hyderabad’s Ramananda Tirtha Memorial Trust. “Some of these books will be part of the museum being developed,” she was quoted as saying by Hindu.The personal computer that Rao’s son sent him in 1986 will also find a place in the museum, the report said. Among some of his other belongings that will be showcased at the venue will include his favourite chair, and a series of photographs exhibiting his journey.On Friday, Gouda laid the foundation stone for the museum that is aimed to draw tourists and showcase the life of the former Indian Prime Minister.“His personal typewriter, his big collection of books and many other objects the former Prime Minister used will be part of the museum,” B Manohar of Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation told the Hindu.He added that the state government is working with Rao’s family and other persons, who had contact with him, in order to share items to “recreate his life.”Devi, a member of the Legislative Council in Telangana, pointed out that their ancestral home that had suffered damage due to lack of maintenance but was later restored will allow visitors to take an “intimate glimpse” of the life of her father.According to the proposed plan of the tourist site that the Telangana government has laid down, the venue will comprise a Vignana Vedika Park, Memorial Museum and an entrance arch at a cost of ₹11 crore, of which ₹7 crore has already been sanctioned by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expm-narasimha-rao-s-home-in-telangana-to-become-museum-here-s-how-it-ll-look-101630172666454.html
28-08-2021||India||Centre releases draft rules to end retrospective tax||The Union government on Saturday released a draft of rules, including pre-conditions for withdrawing controversial retrospective tax demands from aggrieved investors such as Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc, provided they “irrevocably” withdraw all existing cases against the government and furnish an “undertaking” that they would not initiate any legal action to claim for costs, damages or interests in future.The draft will be put up in public for suggestions and comments from all stakeholders by September 4. After the deadline, the rules will be finalised by incorporating relevant suggestions to operationalise the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021 that was enacted during the Monsoon Session of the Parliament earlier this month, a finance ministry official said requesting anonymity. The Act was passed to alter “a clarificatory amendment” that was brought in by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2012 and had become contentious because of its retrospective application. The retrospective amendment had resulted in 17 messy litigations, including two arbitrations evoked by Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy Plc in foreign tribunals. India lost both last year.“To implement the amendment made by 2021 Act, draft rules have been prepared to amend the Income-tax Rules, 1962 which specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act,” the finance ministry said in a statement. The Act was amended to “bring tax certainty and ensure that once specified conditions are fulfilled, the pending Income-tax proceedings shall be withdrawn, demand, if any, raised shall be nullified, and amount, if any, collected shall be refunded to the taxpayer without any interest”, it said.Vodafone and Cairn did not respond to an email query seeking their comments on this development.The controversial amendment was made about nine years ago. The amendment was made after the Supreme Court had in 2012 ruled that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets were not taxable under the extant provisions of the Income-Tax Act.“The idea is, a sovereign government has the right to tax, but to apply it in retrospect has created a lot of discontentment,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Rajya Sabha on August 9 during a discussion on the Bill. The amendment bill was moved on August 5 in the Lok Sabha and passed the next day. The move is widely seen as investor-friendly and also brings to an end messy litigation and arbitration, especially with Cairn, which has seen the company staking claim to India’s overseas assets.The legislation proposes to amend the I-T Act, 1961, and the Finance Act, 2012, which were amended during the tenure of then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to introduce the retrospective tax law, which has since come to stand for all that’s bad in India’s tax regime.Ritesh Kumar S, executive director of IndusLaw said: “The approach adopted by the government in drafting the undertaking under the rules seems to be drawn from the two arbitration awards that have been secured by Vodafone and Cairn (respectively). The release from attachment of assets to enforce the order particularly appears to be stemming from the Cairn experience.”In July this year, Cairn was successful in its application to the French court, Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris, to freeze (through judicial mortgages) residential real estate owned by the Government of India in central Paris.To date, London-listed Cairn is pursuing the Government of India in multiple jurisdictions, primarily focused on regions with high value assets, such as the US, UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius, and the Netherlands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-draft-rules-to-end-retrospective-tax-101630172016126.html
28-08-2021||India||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee challenges Amit Shah after being summoned by ED||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee challenged Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday to try and stop the Trinamool Congress from expanding its base in Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states. Mamata too mounted an attack against the BJP led-Centre after the Enforcement Directorate summoned Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee for questioning in the multi-crore coal smuggling case, while alleging that the RJD chief was being kept in jail by BJP so that he could not take part in Bihar polls. The TMC chief also said that she would call a conference of chief ministers of all states to discuss the alleged blow on federal structure and interference of the Centre in state matters. “I challenge Amit Shah. If you have the guts, try and stop the TMC. Do whatever you can. We will expand to other states and snatch that state from you. The TMC under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee will fight till its last drop of blood in any state where the BJP has drawn blood of the citizens,” said Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary. Abhishek Banerjee, who is seen as the in-charge of the party’s expansion plans, announced in June this year that they plan to expand their base in other states ahead of the 2024 national polls to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The speeches of Mamata Banerjee and her nephew were aired live in a few states outside West Bengal including Tripura and Assam. “If BJP has the guts let them stop the TMC. If anyone thinks that they will use the ED and CBI to frighten and threaten the TMC, the more committed we will be in our aim,” he said while virtually addressing the party’s youth wing on its foundation day. The TMC after returning to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive term with a sweeping victory in the recently-held assembly elections is now eyeing Tripura where assembly polls are due in 2023. The north eastern state is being currently ruled by the BJP-- Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (BJP-IPFT) alliance. “The game has just started in Tripura. Such games will be played in many other states. Till the time we uproot the BJP the fight will be going on,” he added. “It is good to dream. Let them not make such emotional statements. We can talk on this once the TMC wins one seat in Tripura,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. TMC chief Mamata Banerjee sharpened her attack against the Centre stating that her challenges have shot up after she came to power. “Whenever the BJP-led Centre fails to fight politically they utilise the central agencies. Why blame only the TMC in the coal smuggling scam? Coal comes under the Union government. What were the central ministers doing? I can name a dozen ministers who have looted Asansol,” she said. Asansol-Durgapur in West Burdwan district is the state’s biggest industrial and coal mining zone. Former Union minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo had won from the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in 2014 and 2019. The region is home to the state’s biggest manufacturing industries including the Indian Iron and Steel Company, Eastern Coalfields Limited, Durgapur Fertilizer Project, Durgapur Thermal Power Station and Chittaranjan Locomotive Works among others along with a few hundred small and micro industries. “Getting hold of an accused and then forcing him to write down the name of another person is not done. Amit Shah, please remember that when Central ministers and BJP leaders had come to West Bengal for campaigning before the assembly elections, they had put up in hotels owned by coal mafias. Should I release the list?” she said while warning that she hasn’t been vindictive till date but if the BJP points one finger then ten fingers could be raised against it. “The BJP never made any indecent statements against the CM nor does the party want to launch personal attacks against her family members. Law will take its own course. BJP doesn’t believe in vindictive politics,” Bhattacharya said. Raising questions over the funds raised by the PM Cares Fund and electoral bonds, she also said that if the Centre tries to threaten her with ED, she will send a sack full of documents (against BJP leaders) to ED and drag the agency to court if it fails to probe. “Why is Lalu Prasad Yadav still in jail? You (BJP) have kept him in jail so that he cannot take part in Bihar elections. We know your strategy. We know who dictates and how the draft is prepared. Don’t think we are donkeys. Injustice is being done to Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra and Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi,” she added. The Calcutta high court has recently ordered a CBI probe into the allegations of post-poll violence after an enquiry committee set up by the NHRC slammed the state government. “While five BJP workers were killed, 16 TMC workers were killed in violence says the NHRC report. I have no problem with a CBI probe because the Bengal government has taken action in each and every case,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-challenges-amit-shah-after-being-summoned-by-ed-101630169855830.html
28-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Raut's 'mental health' and 'yoga' jibe on Rane and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘His mental health not well; must do yoga’: Raut takes fresh jibe on RaneA day after Union minister Narayan Rane threatened to expose Shiv Sena following his arrest and subsequent bail over the ‘slap CM’ remark, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that the former’s “egotist and revengeful attitude” has forced the BJP on backfoot. Read more...Heavy losses to Taliban in Kapisa as Afghan resistance counterattacksTaliban suffered heavy casualties in Afghanistan's Kapisa province, as the resistance force under former vice president Amrullah Saleh gave a fitting reply to the insurgent group. The clashes are taking place in Sanjan in Kapisa province and Khost Wa Fereng district in Baghlan. Read more...India will always stand by its own people: PM Modi on Afghanistan crisisDespite several challenges, India is evacuating its people from war-torn Afghanistan and will continue to do so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he unveiled renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial through video conferencing. Read more...CBI makes first arrest in Bengal’s post-poll violence caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday made its first arrests in connection with the post-poll violence in West Bengal. Two people, including a woman, identified as Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a BJP worker Dharma Mondol on May 14, CBI officials have confirmed. Read more...Foreign Direct Investment inflow jumped by 90% in Q1Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said India has the potential to become the “manufacturing hub” of the world as it attracted $22.53 billion foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first three months of the current financial year, a 90% year-on-year jump because of several policy reforms to facilitate trade and investments. Read more...NCB raids former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli’s Mumbai homeThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is conducting a raid at the Mumbai residence of actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli in connection with an alleged drugs case. The raid is underway and is led by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Read more...England ‘made better decisions’: Kohli on India’s defeatJoe Root’s England bounced back in the ongoing 5-match Test series against India by winning the third match by an innings and 76 runs at Headingley on Saturday. Speaking about the loss at the post-match presentation, skipper Kohli said his teammates couldn’t withstand the scoreboard pressure. Read more...This Harry Potter-themed Lego set is straight out of a Potterhead’s dream. WatchThe magical world of Hogwarts and its mysterious hallways and staircases are something that intrigues people of all ages. If you are someone who has dreamt of walking along the corridors of this fictional school of witchcraft and wizardry then this video is just for you. Watch here...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-raut-s-mental-health-and-yoga-jibe-on-rane-and-all-the-latest-news-101630162416381.html
28-08-2021||India||‘His mental health not well; must do yoga’: Raut takes fresh jibe on Rane||A day after Union minister Narayan Rane threatened to expose Shiv Sena following his arrest and subsequent bail over the ‘slap CM’ remark, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that the former’s “egotist and revengeful attitude” has forced the BJP on backfoot.He also suggested that Rane should practise yoga and said that his mental health is not well. “Even Shiv Sainiks will pray for his good health,” he noted, adding that the Union minister’s arrest was “legal and justified” as everyone is “equal before the law.”Raut claimed that his former party colleague was not following the directives of Prime Minister Narendra Modi when it came to the ‘Jan Ashirvad Yatra’.He said that Rane, unlike other new inductees of the Union cabinet from Maharashtra such as Kapil Patil, Bhagwat Karad, and Bharti Pawar, who are also touring the state to spread the word on works of the central government, has been “targetting the Sena, Uddhav Thackeray and the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) government.”Referring to the Union minister’s statement on exposing the Sena “step-by-step”, Raut asked, “Don’t we have his ‘Kundli’? Be prepared when we open our ‘sandook’ (box).”The Sena MP further pointed out that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will soon “realise its mistake” of inducting Rane in the Union cabinet.Also Read | 'Slap CM' row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custodyRaut also spoke about a one-on-one meeting between Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Thackeray, saying the latter told Fadvanis what he needed to do. “We have political differences with BJP. If BJP wants to shoot us over Rane's shoulders, we are ready. We had differences with (NCP chief) Sharad Pawar also but today we are together,” Raut added.Rane, who was apprehended and subsequently released on Tuesday, flew to Ratnagiri on Friday morning to resume his Jan Ashirwad Yatra. On Friday, he took fresh jibes at the Maharashtra government and Shiv Sena by saying that he didn’t do anything “wrong” and that the party only held him as it enjoys power in the state.“What has Shiv Sena given to [the] Konkan region in [the] last two years? They thought I would be scared if they took action against me. But our journey has been successful,” he added.The union minister asked – without naming anyone, who had conspired to throw acid on his brother’s wife a few years before. “Are these sanskars (tradition)?” he also asked.Also Read | Rane resumes yatra, says will expose Shiv SenaRane made the controversial ‘slap CM’ remark after Thackeray allegedly forgot the year of India’s Independence and enquired about the same from someone. He was given bail on Tuesday after his counsel appealed for the same on several grounds, including his health.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-mental-health-not-well-must-do-yoga-raut-takes-fresh-jibe-on-rane-101630162182086.html
28-08-2021||India||CBI makes first arrest in Bengal’s post-poll violence case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday made its first arrests in connection with the post-poll violence in West Bengal. Two people, including a woman, identified as Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a BJP worker Dharma Mondol on May 14, CBI officials have confirmed. The CBI conducted search operations in at least 15 locations on Saturday and registered 10 more FIRs. The total number of FIRs now stands at 21. A CBI team also faced some resistance in Nadia during its search operations with some TMC workers blocking the vehicle and shouting anti-CBI and anti-BJP slogans. The Calcutta high court had on August 19 ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder and crime against women - rape and attempt to rape – that were reported after the assembly polls. A team also went to meet the family members of Shobha Rani Mondal, mother of a BJP booth president, also allegedly killed by TMC workers, while trying to defend her son. She died on May 3. At least four special teams of the central agency, each headed by a joint director, are camping in the state and visiting the affected families to record their statements. The CBI has been ordered to probe the allegations of murder and crime against women, while the court has set up a Special Investigation Team, comprising three senior IPS officers from the state to probe the other cases of loot and arson. A seven-member committee set up by the NGRC on the orders of the high court had submitted its final report on July 13 slamming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for post-poll violence while recommending a CBI probe. The NHRC committee in its report had said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged with the state police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson. The TMC had alleged that the enquiry committee was politically motivated as some of its members had connections with the BJP. The court, however, had rejected such allegations. “While five BJP workers were killed, 16 TMC workers were killed in violence says the NHRC report. I have no problem with a CBI probe because the Bengal government has taken action in each and every case. But why would they visit the villages with BJP leaders and workers. They should work impartially,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. The BJP, however, countered that the law is taking its own course and that the party has nothing to do with this as it was ordered by the high court. “The NHRC committee was set up on the orders of the court. The CBI is conducting its probe on the orders of the court. It will be monitored by the court. Where is the BJP in this? We have nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-makes-first-arrest-in-bengal-s-post-poll-violence-case-101630162177160.html
28-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 29, 1967 — Jumna menaces city power station; two women drowned in well, child in nullah||New Delhi- Swollen by the heavy discharge from Tajewala and drains in Delhi, the Jumna rose four feet above the danger mark of 672 feet, and posed serious threat to the Rajghat power house tonight. Small bunds were being constructed outside the power station to save the turbines from the flood waters. Chief Engineer R. Seth said the power station was “so far” safe. The floods claimed three lives today. Two old women were drowned in flooded wells near Nangloi and a two year old girl in a nullah in Gulabi Bagh. Almost all drains flowing into the river have been closed because they have started flowing back. Hundreds of huts in Jumna Bazar were flooded in the backwash of a nullah. Long stretches of the GT Road have been submerged by the Jumna. Water one foot deep stood over several points near Badli. Some light vehicles were marooned in the submerged areas. According to Mr Madan Mohan Singh Director, Public Relations, Delhi more than 1,500 houses have collapsed in 130 water-logged villages. Large areas with standing crops have been submerged. The total loss is estimated at over ₹1 crore. He said the Jumna would rise further tomorrow. The discharge from the Tajewala headworks was today almost half of yesterdays. But the improvement will be seen only from Wednesday. High level The heavy discharge in the Najafgarh lake in West Delhi worsened the situation there today (August 28). The discharge from the Dhassa bund into the lake is about 1,800 cusecs against an outflow of 800 cusecs through the Najafgath nullah. This has brought many villages around the lake under water. According to engineers, the Najafgarh nullah will rise further because of the reduced discharge of the nullah into the river at Wazirabad. In addition to the 300 cusecs from the Najafgarh lake a large quantity of water from the flooded villages is being drained out into the nullah. Because the river level is almost as high as the nullah level, only a small quantity of water flows into the river. The engineers said there was no danger of the nullah bursting its banks unless it rained heavily. The Jumna has started eroding part of the refuse dump at Badli. But the civic authorities said they had recently constructed a protective wall around the dump and the flood waters would not carry sullage into the river. Engineers at the high power transmission centres of All India Radio in Khampur and Nangli said their installations were safe. These centres are across the GT Road near Alipur, which has been seriously affected by the floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-august-29-1967-jumna-menaces-city-power-station-two-women-drowned-in-well-child-in-nullah-101630158936081.html
28-08-2021||India||India will always stand by its own people: PM Modi says on Afghanistan crisis||Despite several challenges, India is evacuating its people from war-torn Afghanistan and will continue to do so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he unveiled renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial through video conferencing. "If any Indian is in crisis anywhere in India, the country stands with all its might. Be it the challenges of Corona or the Afghanistan crisis. Operation Devi Shakti brought back several people from Afghanistan. There are many challenges and the situation is difficult," PM Modi said."India has also made a new law for its own people. The present global situation shows us the importance of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. It reminds us why it's time for India to be self-reliant after 75 years of Independence," PM Modi said, without taking the name of the Citizenship Amendment Act.Repatriation of stranded most urgent priority in Afghanistan, say Modi, MerkelThe controversial law has again come into discourse as BJP leaders and union ministers referred to the usefulness of the law to give citizenship to Sikhs and Hindus fleeing Afghanistan. The law, rules of which are yet to be notified, aims to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, who arrived in India before the end of December 2014.Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal recently urged for a review of the CAA saying that India should not only rescue Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan.Separate from this law, India is offering the provision of e-visa which will allow Afghan Hindus and Sikhs to apply for a six-month visa in India.As PM Modi inaugurated the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh Smarak along with the museum galleries developed at the Smarak on Saturday, he said no country should forget their history."Those 10 minutes of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre was a turning point in our freedom movement. For that, we are here today and celebrating Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav. I am fortunate to have visited the holy soil of Jallianwalabagh several times," PM Modi said.According to the PMO statement, four Museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings, which showcase the historical value of events that unfolded in Punjab during that period. A Sound & Light show has been set up to display the events that happened on April 13, 1919.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-challenges-but-india-evacuating-people-from-afghanistan-pm-modi-101630155649594.html
28-08-2021||India||Foreign Direct Investment inflow jumped by 90% in Q1||Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said India has the potential to become the “manufacturing hub” of the world as it attracted $22.53 billion foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first three months of the current financial year, a 90% year-on-year jump because of several policy reforms to facilitate trade and investments.The surge in FDI is “an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination” amongst global investors, an official statement said. FDI inflow in the first quarter of the previous financial year was $11.84 billion.Addressing businessmen at the Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO), Goyal said every growth parameter is showing extremely exciting future. “Whether it is FDI, forex reserves, foodgrain reserves, agriculture production, manufacturing, all sectors are on a growth path. We now need to sprint ahead,” another statement quoting the minister said. JITO is a global organisation of businessmen, industrialists, knowledge workers and professionals.According to the commerce and industry ministry, FDI equity inflow grew by 168% in April-June 2021 at $17.57 billion compared to $6.56 billion in the same period a year ago. Automobile industry emerged as the top sector during the first three months of FY 22 with 27% share of the total FDI equity inflow, followed by computer software and hardware (17%) and services sector (11%), it said.In the automobile category, majority of FDI equity inflow (about 88%) was reported in the state of Karnataka, it said. Karnataka is the top FDI recipient in Q1 of 2021-22 with 48% share of the total FDI equity inflows, followed by Maharashtra (23%) and Delhi (11%), it said.Addressing JITO, Goyal said, “Traders and exporters are the twin pistons powering the economic growth engine” of India. He lauded the role of all wealth creators of the country. “You are the people who help the government take several social welfare initiatives to the poorest of the poor,” the commerce ministry statement said quoting him.“Through a series of programmes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has transformed the lives of underprivileged, women and children of this country. The business community has helped realise the PM’s vision,” he said.Under the decisive leadership of PM Modi, India is transforming in every field. Be it ‘ease of doing business’ or ‘ease of living’. “Today, a robust foundation laid in last seven years, inspires us to dream big and write our own destiny,” he said.The minister said India is fast progressing on its discussions on free trade agreements (FTAs) with several countries such as UK, UAE and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, Australia and European Union (EU).He said India and US have agreed to aspire for $500 billion trade in the near future. The world is looking for a trusted partner and that partner is India’s business community, he added.“It may be noted that recently, India emerged as the world’s second most desirable manufacturing destination overtaking US. This shows the potential & promise of India to become the ‘manufacturing hub’ of the world,” the statement quoting Goyal said.Along with that, we should also become a “Trading hub”, i.e., the place where the world comes to shop, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-direct-investment-inflow-jumped-by-90-in-q1-101630158455216.html
28-08-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel returns to Raipur from Delhi, gets rousing reception at airport||Thousands of Congress workers and office bearers gathered at the Raipur airport, on Saturday, to give a rousing reception to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who returned from Delhi after a meeting with the high command over the two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement with state health minister TS Singh Deo. Baghel, along with 53 MLAs including six ministers, six mayors and other senior leaders of the party reached Raipur airport at 3.10 pm. Supporters had started gathering at the airport since 1 pm from nearby districts. The CM, responding to questions from the media about the Delhi meeting, said, “Spoke to Rahul ji (Rahul Gandhi) in detail about Chhattisgarh. Apart from political discussions, we discussed on government schemes and the people of the state and finally I invited him to the state for which he has given his consent. Rahul Gandhi will be visiting Chhattisgarh next week.” Baghel further said that Gandhi will be on a two-day visit and will also visit Bastar. “He will stay for two days and will also visit central and north Chhattisgarh to see the ‘Chhattisgarh model’ of development and show it to the country. Gandhi will review the work done by the Chhattisgarh government for the welfare of farmers, tribal, women, youth and poor… Rahul ji will meet everyone,” Baghel said. Earlier, on Saturday morning, Congress president of Raipur, Girish Dubey sent a message on social media appealing to the party workers to reach the airport by 1.30 pm to ‘welcome’ Baghel. Around 3,000 supporters from Raipur, Durg, Kabirdham, Balod and nearby districts were present in and outside the airport carrying party flags and placards. The workers holding placards of “Bhupesh Hai toh Bharosa Hai” ( With Bhupesh there is trust ) raised slogans like “ Dilli Se Ayee Avaaz , Bhupesh Baghel Zindabad” and Chhattisgarh Ada hai , Bhupesh Baghel ke Sang khada hai” in support of Baghel. On Friday, Baghel met Gandhi for the second time in four days and said that he had told “everything” to his leader. Asked if he would still be chief minister when Gandhi arrived in Chhattisgarh, Baghel said he had invited him “as chief minister”. Singh Deo on Thursday fuelled speculation about the change saying anyone who plays in a team “wants to be the captain”. In December 2018, in the aftermath of the dominant Congress performance where they won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too. Four state leaders, Baghel, now Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, now speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi; all eyeing the Chief Minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo along with Punia and Gandhi reportedly came to a power sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-returns-to-raipur-from-delhi-gets-rousing-reception-at-airport-101630156414968.html
28-08-2021||India||ODOP scheme: UP artisans sell goods worth ₹35 lakh in 10 days at Dilli Haat||The Uttar Pradesh government's One District One Product (ODOP) scheme has popularised traditional handicrafts of the state at Dilli Haat. The state government has organised a month-long exhibition of the handicraft products, which will conclude on September 15.Some of the items on display are chikankari of Lucknow, sarees of Banaras and Azamgarh, and the sculptures made of shazar stone of Banda.Additional Chief Secretary Information and MSME, Navneet Sehgal, inspected the exhibition in New Delhi on Saturday. He also interacted with the artisans and shopkeepers and learned about their sales and facilities provided.The exhibition organised by the ODOP features 118 stalls showcasing various products. According to UP government, more than 10,000 people have visited the exhibition during the last 10 days whereas goods worth more than ₹35 lakh have been sold.ODOP is an initiative of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, aimed at finding national and international markets for one specific item of each of the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh. It will also help artisans pursue their traditional craft and earn a decent income from it.Adityanath had earlier announced that the UP government is constructing a handicraft park in Sector 29 of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) to give further push to the state's traditional handicrafts.A total of 76 industrialists have acquired land at the park spread over an area of 50 acres to set up their factories at the cost of ₹403 crore, according to state government. The factories being set up at the park will provide permanent employment to 22,144 people.The park will be similar to the Hunar Haat organised in Delhi, which is attended by over 600 artisans and craftsmen from across states and union territories displaying indigenous products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odop-scheme-up-artisans-sell-goods-worth-rs-35-lakh-in-10-days-at-dilli-haat-101630155638743.html
28-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: 1 dead as under-construction flyover collapses in Madurai||A portion of an under-construction flyover collapsed in Tamil Nadu's Madurai on Saturday, killing one person. Fire and rescue personnel were on the spot, reported news agency ANI. Dr A Rathinavel, dean of Government Rajaji Hospital, said that a person died in the collapse.Tamil Nadu: A portion of an under-construction flyover collapses in Madurai; fire and rescue personnel on the spot pic.twitter.com/QNzXXgDNhbAccording to the regional news portal of oneindia, two workers got injured in the accident and were taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. One of the workers, identified as Akash Singh from Uttar Pradesh, succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-1-dead-as-under-construction-flyover-collapses-in-madurai-101630155099232.html
28-08-2021||India||Sri Lanka starts regular flights from nine Indian cities. Details here||Sri Lanka has reopened its border to India, the country's high commission in New Delhi announced on Saturday, adding that fully vaccinated travellers will only require a negative PCR test report for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The test should be conducted 72 hours prior to arrival while an on-arrival PCR test at a certified hotel, the Sri Lanka High Commission further said.“We look forward to welcoming our closest neighbours yet again, so they may experience the variety that Sri Lanka has to offer. Our country’s heritage, culture, wildlife, nature, beaches and more have always proven to be popular among Indian travellers, and they will be able to visit destinations across the country, while following the relevant health guidelines,” Kimarli Fernando, chairperson at Sri Lanka Tourism said in a statement.Flights from Sri LankaSri Lankan Airlines, the flag carrier of the island nation, will operate four weekly flights to Chennai, three to Mumbai, and one to Bengaluru airport as per the latest schedule announced by the Sri Lanka high commission. The carrier will also resume services between Colombo and Indian cities of Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Trivandrum and Cochin with weekly flights. Two flights will be operated by the Sri Lanka airlines between Colombo-New Delhi, Colombo Hyderabad.Sri Lankan Airlines will operate four weekly flights to Chennai, three to Mumbai, and one to Bengaluru under its new schedule, and is expected to introduce significant frequency enhancements. Under the new schedules, the airline will be resuming services between Colombo and the Indian points; Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Trivandrum and Cochin with flights once a week, whilst Hyderabad and New Delhi will be connected to Colombo with twice-weekly flights.The frequency of Sri Lanka Airlines flights from Chennai and Mumbai will later be increased up to five times a week while the Bengaluru-Colombo flight frequency will be increased to three times a week. To attract more travellers, Sri Lanka’s flagship carrier has also started a buy one get one free campaign.“The relaxed guidelines are extremely clear, and we invite all travellers and travel agents to visit the portal to learn more about pre-arrival procedures, insurance and more,” Fernando added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lanka-starts-regular-flights-from-nine-indian-cities-details-here-101630154309340.html
28-08-2021||India||'Shame': Rahul Gandhi on police action against protesting farmers in Haryana||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi denounced the police lathicharge on a farmers' protest in Haryana and said that another incident where a farmer's blood is shed brings shame for India. He also tweeted a photo of a protester with blood on his face and Kurta.The farmers took out a protest rally on Saturday and were moving towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting attended by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar etc. As the rally disrupted the traffic movement on the highway, police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers in which 10 have been injured.Haryana highways blocked after farmers lathicharged in Karnalफिर ख़ून बहाया है किसान का,शर्म से सर झुकाया हिंदुस्तान का!#FarmersProtest #किसान_विरोधी_भाजपा pic.twitter.com/stVlnVFcgQProtesters present near the Bastara toll plaza around 15 km from Karnal claimed to have witnessed 8-10 people sustain injuries in the police action. The police, however, said only mild force was used as the protesters were blocking the highway, affecting traffic movement."We slam the BJP government for using of police on farmers once again, I request all farmers to come out and block all highways in the state against", said BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni.The protest call was given by Bharatiya Kisan Union opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Police said the gathering was unlawful as Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in the area. Several announcements regarding this were made, but the farmers continued blocking the traffic.करनाल में किसानों पर हुआ लाठीचार्ज न सिर्फ अलोकतांत्रिक है बल्कि अमानवीय भी है। हम इसकी निंदा करते हैं। लोकतंत्र में सभी को अपना विरोध दर्ज करने का संवैधानिक हक है।लाठी-गोली से सरकार नहीं चला करती, लोगों का दिल जीतकर सरकार चलती है। pic.twitter.com/80uhCKPZF3Congress leader and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda condemned the police action on farmers and said everyone has a constitutional right to register their protest. "A government is not run by sticks and bullets. A government is run by winning people's hearts," Hooda tweeted.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, "Khattar Sahab, today you have rained lathis on Haryanvis' soul… coming generations will remember the blood of farmers which has been spilled on the roads." Swaraj India president and key leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha Yogendra Yadav said the lathicharge exposed the true face of the Haryana Police."They (farmers) were protesting against the visit of CM Khattar and other BJP leaders to Karnal. This is the true face of Haryana police," Yadav tweeted.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shame-rahul-gandhi-on-police-action-against-protesting-farmers-in-haryana-101630153920144.html
28-08-2021||India||PMJDY completes 7 years. Here's how to avail ₹10,000 overdraft facility||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) completed seven years on Saturday and the Union ministry of finance said that over 430 million accounts have been opened under the scheme as of August 18, 2021. The scheme is touted as "one of the biggest financial inclusion initiatives in the world", it added.The scheme ensures access to financial services, namely savings and deposit accounts, remittance, credit, insurance and pension in an affordable manner to the country's poor and marginalised section of the society.PMJDY also provides an overdraft facility.What is the overdraft facility?It is a financial facility or instrument that enables an account holder to withdraw money from his/her bank account (savings or current), even if they do not have any account balance.Like any other credit facility, the bank levies an interest rate when an account holder avails the overdraft facility. Overdraft facility is usually offered for the withdrawal of a limited amount of money.Overdraft in PMJDYThe Centre's scheme allows the Jan Dhan account holders to withdraw money upto ₹10,000 in the form of a short-term loan. This limit was earlier ₹5,000 but the government doubled the amount last year.How does the overdraft facility work for PMJDY account holders?The government is allowing the PMJDY account holders to borrow more money than that is available in their accounts, it has laid down certain criteria to avail the facility.The owner of a PMJDY account who wants to avail the overdraft facility, must have been satisfactorily operating it for at least six months. Also, only one member of a particular family can avail the overdraft facility. Usually female members are favoured for this.The account holder should also have a good credit history. For overdraft of upto ₹2,000, no guarantee is needed under PMJDY.The government has also increased the upper age limit for overdraft from 60 to 65 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmjdy-completes-7-years-here-s-how-to-avail-rs-10-000-overdraft-facility-101630153703183.html
28-08-2021||India||Record ₹26,530 crore investment in Greater Noida in 4.5 years: UP govt||Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh has received a record investment of ₹26,530 crore ($3.56 billion) in the last four and a half years, the state government said in a release on Saturday. The huge investment will lead to generation of jobs for the youth of the state, it added.The UP government said that a total of 391 big investors from across the country and abroad have bought land in Greater Noida to set up their factories, which will provide employment to 71,500 people, including more than 40 per cent local youths.In order to meet the growing demand of investors, the Greater Noida Authority is setting up eight new industrial sectors and buying about 900 hectares of land, the government added.The policies put in place by the Yogi Adityanath government include promotion of IT and manufacturing, and food processing industries. Popular Chinese electronics and mobile phone companies Oppo and Vivo, Hiranadani Group, Dreamtouch Electronics, Inox Air, Lami Plastic Manufacturing are some of the big names that have shown interest in Greater Noida.In the last one year alone, when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wreaked havoc, plots ranging from 40 to 1,000 square metres were allotted to 46 investors in Greater Noida to set up their units, the Uttar Pradesh government said.The announcement of a Jewar international airport further attracted companies towards Greater Noida. In view of these developments, an integrated industrial township is being built on 750 acres by Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (IITGNL), a joint venture between Greater Noida Authority and Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-rs-26-530-crore-investment-in-greater-noida-in-4-5-years-up-govt-101630151736509.html
28-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: AIIMS doctor says need to weigh in on schools reopening in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on Delhi schools reopeningAfter the Delhi government announced the reopening of schools in a phased manner, medical experts have highlighted the need to treat children as unvaccinated individuals once they start attending schools. Read moreHave you got one dose of Covaxin? ICMR study reveals how protected you are from CovidIf you have got one dose of Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine produced by Bharat Biotech, are you protected from further infection? A recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research says that the protection level depends on whether you have contracted the infection before or not. Read moreMumbai's Nariman Point will be under water by 2050, says civic body chief; explains whyWithin 25 to 30 years, South Mumbai's Nariman Point, the state secretariat will go be engulfed by the rising seawater level, Mumbai municipal corporation Iqbal Singh Chahal has recently said. Read more6,800 new beds to be set up in govt hospitals, will be helpful if Delhi sees another Covid wave: CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that his government will add 6,800 more beds in government hospitals, adding these will be ready in six months. Kejriwal said there are nearly 10,000 beds in total in government hospitals in the national capital. Read more'Why was Rishabh Pant told to change his stance': Sunil Gavaskar bemused at umpires' decision during 3rd TestSunil Gavaskar never shies away from making his point loud and clear. After expressing his disagreements with Nasser Hussain’s comments about India’s previous generation cricketers getting ‘bullied,’ the legendary cricketer this time expressed his dismay at the umpires asking India keeper-batsman Rishabh Pant not to bat out of his crease. Read moreShraddha Kapoor, Rohan Shrestha to tie the knot? Padmini Kolhapure, Priyaank Sharma react to reportsActor Shraddha Kapoor's aunt Padmini Kolhapure and cousin Priyaank Sharma have commented on her wedding rumours. Read moreNew Aprilia RS660 starts arriving at Indian dealerships, launch imminentAprilia is gearing up to introduce the new RS660 sports bike in the Indian market soon. The middleweight superbike has already started to arrive in the company dealerships in Bengaluru hinting that the price announcement is likely to take place anytime soon now. Read moreSwara Bhasker channels her ‘social media generated rage’ into kickboxingWhether you want to shape and sharpen your style as a fighter or simply want to provide a healthy outlet for releasing stress and tension while improving upon your physical fitness like Bollywood diva Swara Bhasker, kickboxing knocks both out in a single move. Read moreMan walks between hot air balloons on a beam at an altitude of 21,400 feet. Watch nail-biting videoIn today’s edition of world records that may make your jaw drop in wonder, here is a throwback video showcasing a man creating a record by walking between two hot air balloons. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-aiims-doctor-says-weighs-in-on-schools-reopening-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101630149144578.html
28-08-2021||India||India unveils 2200 ‘life-saving’ water-testing labs||An app-based digitised platform for testing water quality for standard safety parameters, launched under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission, is now functional in 2,200 water labs across the country, an official said, requesting anonymity. Public health officials say the new facilities will help improve health outcomes, especially in children, and also help private individuals, public health engineering authorities and panchayats where piped drinking water has been provided, to monitor water quality. “Anyone can submit a sample and source coordinates of piped water supply will also be captured. The water-quality testing reports thus generated will be delivered online to the person giving the water sample and also feed a central database for continuous monitoring. This can prove to be life-saving in areas with high contamination,” the official said. The digitised platform has been developed with health inputs and safe-water parameters from the Indian Council of Medical Research, the official said. The samples are tested for a range of chemical, bacterial and other pathogenic contamination. According to estimates from the Indian Council of Medical Research, water-borne rotaviruses cause 8,72,000 hospitalisations of mostly children annually and an estimated 78,000 die from it in India. The software platform, Drinking Water Quality Monitoring and Surveillance, has been developed by the state-run National Informatics Centre. Unsafe water is a major drag on the country’s public health. “Our healthcare focus has been tilted towards child and maternal health, which also is by no means adequate. Unsafe water is a major cause of child disease burden,” said health economist Arup Mitra of the Institute of Economic Growth. The country’s flagship programme to provide rural households with piped drinking water by 2024, the Jal Jeevan Mission, has expanded to cover more than 10 million homes in 61 districts notorious for Japanese Encephalitis-Acute Encephalitis Syndrome, a brain fever in children that needs a multi-pronged approach to tackle, according to health experts. The Jal Jeevan Mission prioritises the provisioning of tap water supply to water quality-affected habitations. Thus far, of the 27,544 arsenic and fluoride-affected habitations, states have made provisions of potable water supply in 26,492. Under the mission, local communities are also trained to lead water-quality surveillance. “Locals are being trained on water quality testing using field test kits too,” the official cited in the first instance said. Nearly 820 million people in 12 major river basins of the country face “high to extreme” water stress. Getting to a water source is a long haul in rural India. According to a National Sample Survey Organisation survey, in Jharkhand, it takes women 40 minutes one way, without taking into account the waiting time. In Bihar, it’s 33 minutes. Rural Maharashtra clocks an average of 24 minutes. The piped water mission, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019, aims to change this. The programme has entered a critical stage, as officials race to meet the deadline amid a disrupting Covid second wave. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-unveils-2200-life-saving-water-testing-labs-101630147775710.html
28-08-2021||India||Have you got one dose of Covaxin? ICMR study reveals how protected you are from Covid||If you have got one dose of Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine produced by Bharat Biotech, are you protected from further infection? A recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research says that the protection level depends on whether you have contracted the infection before or not. In a pilot study conducted on 114 healthcare professionals, it has been found that previous infection plus the first dose of Covaxin is equivalent to two doses of the vaccine in individuals who have not been infected by the virus."In the results, it was observed that participants with previous SARS-CoV-2 infection after a single vaccine dose elicited IgG (N) and IgG (S) antibody levels along with NAb binding inhibition responses levels similar to infection-naive vaccinated participants who had taken two doses of the vaccine," the study said.Congratulations, says WHO chief scientist Swaminathan as India gives 10 million vaccine doses in a daySo what the study reveals is that antibodies from previous infection plus the first dose of Covaxin is equal to two doses of Covaxin in a person who has never been infected. Taking both doses of any vaccine -- Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik V-- is mandatory for the maximum protection against Covid-19. However, several studies on the efficacy of one dose, two doses are being done for the purpose of scientific research -- for a better understanding of how these vaccines are working.Two doses of either Covaxin or Covishield provide over 90 per cent protection from Covid death, reports have revealed. Several cases of reinfection or breakthrough infections have been reported in the country of late. ICMR director general Balram Bhargava recently said that these vaccines are disease-modifying and not disease-preventing, Hence, the need to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour is maximum.India has achieved the landmark of one crore vaccination on Friday, for which it received global acclaim. Apart from accelerating the pace of vaccination, India is also steady on the track of vaccine research as a trial of the mix of Covishield and Covaxin has recently got the nod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-you-got-one-dose-of-covaxin-icmr-study-reveals-how-protected-you-are-from-covid-101630145606368.html
28-08-2021||India||'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on Delhi schools reopening||After the Delhi government announced the reopening of schools in a phased manner, medical experts have highlighted the need to treat children as unvaccinated individuals once they start attending schools. Dr Navneet Wig, AIIMS, said that though children are fed up at home, it is important to look at the risks of attending schools as well, reported news agency ANI.“We have to weigh the pros and cons. We know that children are fed up at home. But we have to look at risks as well. These children are not vaccinated. Once they go to school, we have to treat them as unvaccinated individuals,” ANI quoted Wig as saying.In the wake of a decline in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday said schools, colleges, and other educational institutes can resume physical classes in a phased manner, starting September 1. Addressing a press conference at the Delhi secretariat, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia assured that no student will be forced to attend physical classes."Social distancing should be strictly followed and no student will be forced to come to the school. Consent of parents will be essential for students to come. If parents do not permit, then students will not be forced to come, they will not be considered absent either," said Sisodia.On Friday, the Delhi government said in a health bulletin that 46 fresh infections and no additional deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 0.06%. As the test positivity rate remained less than 1% for 89 days, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided to allow schools to reopen from September 1 in a phased manner.Dr Wig said stressed the need to keep balance and ensure the test positivity rate remains less than 0.5% while allowing children to attend schools for their physical and mental health, reported ANI.“We have to save our children. Respiratory hygiene, cleanliness, masks should be ensured in schools,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-have-to-save-our-children-aiims-doctor-weighs-in-on-delhi-schools-reopening-101630142997794.html
28-08-2021||India||Jaish-e-Mohammad leaders met Taliban in Kandahar, discussed J&K: Report||Leaders of Pakistan-based Jihadist group Jaish-e-Mohammad have reportedly met Taliban leaders in Kandahar in the third week of August in which the JeM has sought the Taliban's support in their "India-centric operations", news agency ANI reported, quoting senior officials of the intelligence agencies. Following the input, Jammu and Kashmir has been put on an alert as the intelligence agencies are now anticipating the movement of terrorists from across the border. In the meeting, the present political situation of Pakistan was also discussed, ANI said."We have ordered intelligence agencies to keep watch on social media. On August 24, we received input regarding the movement of two terrorists from Pakistan who are planning a grenade attack in Srinagar. All agencies concerned have been alerted for coordination," the official told ANI. "All states have been alerted to conduct security drills and keep anti-terror units on high alert," the official added.Also Read: Rise of Taliban is internal security challenge for IndiaThe Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan would provide a boost for terrorists across the world, analysts have said. While the blasts in the vicinity of Kabul airport on August 26, perpetrated by ISIS-K, indicate that terror activities have already started in Afghanistan, India is on alert. Jaish, in fact, had cheered the victory of the Taliban and, in its publication, said that the Taliban victory in Afghanistan will inspire mujahideen or holy warriors to continue "their struggle for Islam".Commenting on the impact of the Taliban's takeover in Afghanistan on India's security, Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat expressed concern that terror activities may overflow into India. "Everything that has happened (in Afghanistan) was anticipated. Only the timelines changed and certainly surprised us because we were anticipating this (takeover) happening a couple of months down the line," the General said adding that contingency plans are in place to deal with the situation in India.Taliban's stance on J&KSoon after sweeping Afghanistan, the Taliban said that J&K is an internal matter of India. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid, who recently said Pakistan is like a second home for the Taliban, commented that India and Pakistan should sit together to resolve all their outstanding issues as "both are neighbours and their interests are linked to each other".Taliban-Jaish-J&KMasood Azhar was released by the Indian authorities in 1999 in exchange for the release of the IC814 which was hijacked to Kandahar, then controlled by the Taliban. The Taliban and the Jaish are considered ideological comrades. Reports said that after the Taliban takeover, several Jaish members were released from Afghanistan prisons who are now planning to carry out a fresh strike in India.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishemohammad-leaders-met-taliban-in-kandahar-discussed-j-k-report-101630141494850.html
28-08-2021||India||Govt introduces new BH number series for vehicles: How will it help people?||The Centre has introduced new vehicle registration series to ensure seamless transfer across states. Called BH (Bharat series), it will free vehicle owners from re-registration process when they shift from one state/union territory to another.The series has been introduced by the road transport ministry, and notified by central government. The government has said that the new series will be available on voluntary basis to defense personnel, employees of central government/ state government/ central/ state public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/union territories.How long can a person keep vehicle in a state other than the parent state?The existing rules, which have been in place since past few years, allow a person to keep the vehicle in a state where it has not been registered for a certain period of time.The current rules say that a person is allowed to keep vehicle for a maximum of 12 months in any state other than the state where it is registered. The owners has to get such vehicles re-registered before the expiry of 12 months.What will be the format in BH-series?The format of BH-series registration mark will be YY BH #### XX. YY denotes the year of first registration, BH is code for Bharat Series, #### is the randomised four digit number and XX are two alphabets, according to road transport ministry.A vehicle bearing this registration mark shall not require assignment of a new registration mark when the owner of the vehicle shifts from one state to another, according to a statement from the ministry.The financial implicationsAccording to government notification, the motor vehicle tax levied by the state and union territories at the time of registration in respect to BH-series non-transport vehicle will be 8 per cent in case of vehicles costing up to ₹10 lakh, 10 per cent in case of vehicles costing between ₹10-20 lakh and 12 per cent in case of vehicles costing above 20 lakh.It further said that 2 per cent extra charge will be levied for diesel vehicles, while electric vehicles will be charged 2 per cent less tax.In case, where the vehicle bears BH-series registration mark, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied electronically. After the completion of 14th year, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied annually, which shall be half of the amount which was charged earlier for that vehicle, the notification said.When are the new rules coming into effect?The Central Motor Vehicles (Twentieth Amendment) Rules, 2021, will come into force with effect from September 15, 2021, the government notification said. The registration mark for BH-series vehicle will be generated randomly through the portal.What is the process to re-register a vehicle in other state?At present, a passenger vehicle owner for re-registration of vehicle has to take no objection certificate from the parent state for assignment of a new registration mark in another state.Also, the assignment of new registration mark is done after the road tax on prorata basis is paid in the new state. The owners had to claim the already paid amount from the state where the vehicle was registered. The government says that the new rules will put an end to this "cumbersome process".Other changes introduced by the road transport ministryThe BH-series is the latest reform introduced by the central ministry. Last year, it had mandated all vehicles sold in India before April 2019 to have high security registration plates (HSRP).It also said that vehicle documents found validated through electronic means shall not be demanded in physical forms for inspection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-introduces-new-bh-number-series-for-vehicles-how-will-it-help-people-101630138918803.html
28-08-2021||India||Kerala man’s FB page is a huge hit, provides all Covid-related info in a click||Any information on Covid-19, whether about the country or any state, is available in a click, thanks to NC Krishnaprasad’s ‘One Stop Destination’.Krishnaprasad is among one of the sought after social media activists. His webpage is subscribed by several experts and medical professionals. The Indian Book of Records honoured him earlier this month for his effort.“I started collecting statistics about the pandemic as a hobby in April 2020. Later, I found many people interested in it so I began posting all details without fail on Facebook. I have posted more than 10,800 updates since then,” Krishnaprasad, who works with the state health department as a junior clerk, said.From vaccination slots, bed availability or total cases and the number of recovered patients, ‘One Stop Destination’ carries all details of the pandemic in the state. His site also carries details of positive cases and deaths around the country and the world. The webpage is subscribed by more than one lakh people now.Krishnaprasad meticulously scans important medical journals and available scientific papers on the pandemic and shares the updates with his followers.“Since my regular job takes away a lot of time, I often post my updates at night. I have spent many sleepless nights. Many medical professionals and data experts from the country and abroad encouraged me well. I am not earning any monetary benefit from this, I just see it as my duty toward society,” said the 40-year-old. Initially, his wife, who is a teacher, helped him and he said she inspired him a lot.“Data analysis is my hobby and I worked with the Tata Mutual Fund for more than 10 years after my MBA. But later, due to domestic reasons, I had to move to Kerala and later joined the government service after clearing the state public service commission,” he said. Krishnaprasad said data collection is a painstaking effort and checking its veracity and accuracy is time-consuming and cumbersome.“I regularly scan official websites of all medical bodies, medical journals, experts, Twitter handles and research papers. My interest in analysing data, social commitment and hobby, all blend well. Many experts also share their data with me,” he said, adding that when he stopped posting due to some urgent preoccupation a couple of months ago he was flooded with inquiries.“He is a committed social worker. His data is well-researched and analysed. He’s doing a good service to society and it is no mean task to post several updates a day,” said public health expert Dr Pamanabha Shenoy.“A one-man army, his contribution is really amazing and inspiring,” said another medical expert Dr N M Arun. On August 3, the India Book of Records honoured him for his contribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-man-s-fb-page-is-a-huge-hit-provides-all-covid-related-info-in-a-click-101630138654114.html
28-08-2021||India||MHA extends Covid guidelines till Sept 30, directs localised measures ahead of festive season||The Centre on Saturday extended all existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocol in India up to September 30. Noting that the overall pandemic situation in India now appears to be "largely stable, except for the localised spread of the virus in few states”, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) directed the concerned state governments to take pro-active containment measures ahead of the upcoming festival season in the country.An official order in this regard was issued by home secretary Ajay Bhalla and sent to the chief secretaries of all states. In it, the government said that the earlier order regarding the implementation of Covid-19 protocols, which was issued on June 29, will now be enforced up to September 30. The Centre expressed concern over the fact that the total number of active cases and the case positivity rate in some districts across the country continue to remain on the higher side.Also Read | Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala casesIndia on Saturday recorded 46,759 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest single-day increase in nearly two months. Saturday’s numbers indicated a trend that has been visible over the past week to anyone studying these numbers—a nationwide surge in cases driven primarily by a recent spike in Covid-19 cases in Kerala. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the southern state now accounts for more than half of all the active Covid-19 cases in the country, followed closely by Maharashtra."The state governments/UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take pro-active containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission," the MHA letter read. "It is important to identify the warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) advisories dated 25.04.2021 and 28.06.2021."Pointing out the upcoming festive season across several states in India, the government further advised the state governments and UT administrations to ensure that there are no large gatherings. If required, necessary local restrictions should be imposed in potentially crowded places, where people must follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. "We need to continue focus on the five-fold strategy, that is, Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour for effective management of Covid-19," the government letter read.Also Read | Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of IndiaThe Centre noted that weekly enforcement data, received from the state governments regarding the enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, suggests that there is a "downward trend" in the enforcement of face masks in public, the maintaining of social distancing norms, imposition of fines, and the likes. The MHA advised the state governments to augment their respective efforts in this regard."Further, it must be ensured that areas having no virus or low virus transmission are adequately protected by progressively ramping up testing and other measures like the ILI/SARI surveillance, market surveillance, etc," the home secretary said. Warning no laxity in the enforcement of these measures, the MHA official said that the officers concerned will be made "personally responsible" for any leniency in meeting these instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-extends-covid-guidelines-till-sept-30-directs-localised-measures-ahead-of-festive-season-101630135762866.html
28-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jan Dhan Yojana helped further transparency, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On 7th anniversary of Jan Dhan Yojana, PM Modi says scheme ensured life of dignity for countless IndiansAs the Centre is observing the seventh anniversary of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted saying that the scheme has transformed India’s development trajectory and ensured financial inclusion and a life of dignity as well as empowerment for countless citizens. Read moreEfforts begin to save children from trafficking in five flood-affected districts of BiharApprehending high violations of child rights and the vulnerability of children to human trafficking in flood-affected areas in Bihar, the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog, has started preparing to stop such incidents in five flood-affected districts of the state with the support of local administration and the NGOs like Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) and Kailash Satyarthi Foundation (KSF) which have been working for child rights, officials said. Read moreTMC student leader allegedly assaulted in Tripura by ABVP activists, case filedTripura police on Friday lodged a complaint against a few Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists on the charge of allegedly assaulting and confining a Trinamool Congress Students Parishad activist, officials said. No arrest has been made so far. Read moreTamil Nadu CM Stalin moves resolution in assembly against 3 farm lawsTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Saturday moved a resolution opposing the three contentious farm laws of the central government in the state assembly, which was adopted through a voice vote. Read moreVikas Khanna shares video of his dog Plum’s first beach visit. WatchCelebrity chef Vikas Khanna often takes to Instagram to share videos of his pet dog Plum. Capturing the different antics of the pooch, the posts involving the dog often leave people with a smile. Case in point, this share by the chef about his fur baby’s first beach visit. Read moreNora Fatehi teams all-black top and leather pants with boots and bag worth more than ₹3 lakhBe it Deepika Padukone, Malaika Arora or Bollywood's rising fashionista Nora Fatehi, leather pants have become a sartorial favourite of all the biggest names in the film industry. This chic ensemble can easily elevate an off-duty look, and dancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi served an example for same for her airport look last night. Read more'Mental fortitude at its best': Cricket fraternity lauds Cheteshwar Pujara's innings on Day 3 at HeadingleyIndia batsman Cheteshwar Pujara showcased his class with the bat as he went on to score an unbeaten 91 runs on Day 3 of the third Test against England at Headingley. Pujara, who was dismissed for 1 in the first innings, and has been on the receiving end of criticism from fans, came on to bat after opener KL Rahul was dismissed for just 8. Read moreUnrealised film with Sushant Singh Rajput will be seen to completion, says Rumy JafryChehre writer-director Rumy Jafry has spoken about the script that he was working on with the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and said that he will 'surely' make the movie. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jan-dhan-yojana-helped-further-transparency-says-pm-modi-101630134814072.html
28-08-2021||India||Kerala reports surge in Covid-19 cases. These districts have the most infections||As Covid-19 cases surged for the third straight day on Friday in Kerala, the state government said it will continue with lockdowns on Sundays with only limited permissible activities. The government had given an exemption in the Sunday lockdowns in the last two weeks due to Independence Day and Onam. The decision of the Kerala government, which has been under fire from opposition parties and experts for its alleged poor management of the coronavirus pandemic, came after as the state recorded 32,801 cases on Friday, up from 30,007 on Thursday, and as the test positivity rate went up to 19.22 per cent from 18.03 per cent on August 26.There has been an upward spiral of infections for the past three days and Kerala has been consistently logging over 30,000 cases of Covid-19. Active cases of Covid-19 in the state now stand at 1,95,254, which is the highest in India. Kerala is one of the top contributors in terms of daily Covid-19 cases and accounts for more than half of the active infections in the country at present, the Centre has said.Also read | Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of IndiaKerala’s health department data shows Malappuram recorded the highest Covid-19 cases at 4032, followed by Thrissur at 3953 and Ernakulam at 3627. Kozhikode reported 3362 cases, Kollam saw 2828, Palakkad 2727, Thiruvananthapuram 2255, Alappuzha 2188, Kannur 1984, Kottayam 1877, Pathanamthitta 1288, Idukki 1125, Wayanad 961 and Kasaragod 594, according to data.The death toll in the state due to Covid-19 has crossed the 20,000 mark and now stands at 20,313 with 179 deaths on Friday.Also read | With over 32,000 fresh Covid infections, Kerala brings back Sunday lockdownKerala health minister Veena George has assured that there is no need for panic and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has rejected the "unwanted" criticism regarding the alleged mishandling of the pandemic in the state. In an article published in the Communist Party of India (Marxist)'s magazine 'Chintha’, he said Kerala has reported "no death due to lack of oxygen" and that "no one has been deprived of medical aid or bed."The Centre has suggested Kerala must take a slew of measures, including targeted testing in containment zones and genomic surveillance, to stem the surge of Covid-19 cases. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has witnessed a sustained and significant transmission of Covid-19 since July as he wrote to Kerala chief secretary on Friday. "Despite efforts by the state government on increasing testing, the test confirmation percentage still remains very high (more than 15 per cent), signalling high and widespread transmission. All 14 districts in Kerala have been identified as districts of concern due to high test positivity rates and high cases per million reported in the past four weeks," Bhalla said.Also read | Health secy asks Kerala to step up measures to contain spreadBhushan said containment zones in the state need to be defined with a special focus on the high-transmission clusters. "Such zones need to be re-defined if the proportion of cases being reported outside of containment zones is showing an increase. The buffer zone around the containment zone needs to be identified clearly and passive surveillance needs to be enhanced to detect any spillover of cases from the containment zone," he said.He said the contact-tracing efforts should further be scaled up to ensure that at least 20-25 contacts per positive case are identified and all contacts thus identified are put under quarantine.Bhalla’s letter on Friday came a day after he virtually met officials to review the steps taken by the Kerala and Maharashtra governments to check the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-surge-in-covid-19-cases-these-districts-have-the-most-infections-101630131666981.html
28-08-2021||India||Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of India||India on Saturday reported 46,759 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the most in nearly two months, as cases surged in Kerala after the festival of Onam.The worrying trend continued in the southern state, which accounted for 70 per cent of the new cases on Saturday. On Friday, it logged 32,801 cases, up from 30,007 on Thursday. On Wednesday, Kerala had recorded 31,445 cases of the infection.The test positivity rate in Kerala stands at 19.22 per cent, an increase from 18.03 per cent on August 26. On an average, Kerala reported 13,500 cases per day in July and almost 19,500 daily cases in August, as per an analysis of the health bulletin data.Why the cases are spreading in Kerala?The main reason for the spread of Covid-19 in Kerala has been attributed to Onam festivities, when the people of the state defied social distancing norms and gathered in huge numbers to celebrate the occasion.One more reason pointed out by Kerala health minister Veena George is the violation of quarantine rules by people who are recovering at home. The minister said that a study has recently revealed that 35 per cent of people in the state were found to have been infected with the disease from home.When people are asked by health authorities to quarantine at home, they are expected to isolate themselves from family members as well but that is not happening, she added.According to the Union health ministry, this trend of spike in Covid-19 cases is likely to continue for a few more days in Kerala.The worst affected districts in KeralaKerala remains one of the top contributors in terms of daily cases and is accounting for more than half of the active Covid cases in the country at present.The districts of Thrissur, Kozhikode and Ernakulam are severely hit by the resurgent Sars-CoV-2 virus, reporting more than 4,000 cases per million population in the week ending August 25, according to Union health ministry. Malappuram and Kollam are the other worst affected districts.What the statistics show?According to the statistical analysis of data done by Hindustan Times, Kerala has reported 561 new cases per million in the past week against a national average of around 25.When the same calculations are applied to the number of deaths reported due to Covid-19 in the past week, Kerala's numbers see a marginal improvement. The state has been responsible for 35 per cent of all deaths reported across India in the past week - a much lower share than its caseload.Why the situation is a cause of concern for rest of the country?The surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala have been attributed to the laxity shown by people during Onam. With the festival season just around the corner, there is a need for people to keep following Covid appropriate behaviour.The Union health ministry has been issuing warnings to the people to not let their guards down; it has even added a 30-second pre-call messages on phone advising people to step put of their homes onyl if it's absolutely necessary.Experts too have cautioned against showing laxity in view of the threat of a third wave of Covid-19.What the state government in doing?The Pinarayi Vijayan government has defended its Covid-19 strategy, countering the criticism it received from opposition parties. Apart from bringing back Sunday lockdown, the state government has stepped up the vaccination drive. George said that 70.24 per cent of the eligible population in the state (above 18 years) was vaccinated and out of this 25.3% had got both vaccines.It has also tightened containment measures, especially in areas with high number of people infected with Covid-19.The Centre has asked Kerala to impose night curfew to restrict movement of people. The state is expected to take a call on this on Saturday in a review meeting being chaired by the CM.Centre pitches inThe central government has suggested targeted testing in containment zones and genomic surveillance as the measures to check the spread of the infection in Kerala.In a letter to the Kerala chief secretary on Friday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has witnessed a sustained and significant transmission of Covid-19 since July.Bhushan said the Covid containment zones in the state need to be defined with a special focus on the high-transmission clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-kerala-s-covid-19-peak-is-a-concern-for-the-rest-of-india-101630130407708.html
28-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin moves resolution in assembly against 3 farm laws||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Saturday moved a resolution opposing the three contentious farm laws of the central government in the state assembly, which was adopted through a voice vote. With this, Tamil Nadu becomes the seventh state to oppose the farm laws after Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Kerala and West Bengal.Stalin also said that all cases filed against the farmers who staged protests against the three farmer-related legislations of the Central government, during the past one year, will be withdrawn.Ever since the three farm laws were enacted by the Centre, Stalin's Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has been demanding that the Centre withdraw the laws, which the chief minister has said are “against the interests of farmers,” reported news agency PTI. "The government has made a clear decision to pass a resolution seeking the withdrawal of these three farm laws reflecting the feelings of farmers across the country," Stalin said in June, adding there is no change on that decision.In May, Stalin said that the government will bring a resolution in the assembly asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws. He recalled that one of the promises made in the DMK’s assembly election manifesto which promised efforts to insist the Union government revoke the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.“The Union government must accept the demands of protesting farmers and revoke these three farm laws. I assure you that the promises made by the DMK on (revoking) farm laws would be fulfilled,” Stalin said.He said that neither did the Union government respect the sentiments of the farmers and revoke the three farm laws nor did it take steps to hold talks with them to find a solution to the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-moves-resolution-in-assembly-against-3-farm-laws-101630126595936.html
28-08-2021||India||‘No one is above law’, Delhi court seeks Honey Singh’s medical report, ITR in domestic violence case||A local court in Delhi said that "no one is above the law” after the singer Yo Yo Honey Singh failed to appear before it in connection with the domestic abuse case filed against him by his wife Shalini Talwar. The court also directed Yo Yo Honey Singh to appear before it on the next date of hearing on September 3, news agency ANI reported. "No one is above the law. Surprised to see how this case is being taken so lightly," metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh said, according to news agency PTI. "Honey Singh has not appeared. You have not filed his income affidavit and are not prepared with the arguments,” the court told the singer’s lawyer.The court has also sought Yo Yo Honey Singh’s medical report and details of his income tax returns. Singh's counsel said that they will file his medical records and income tax returns at the earliest even as he sought an exemption from personal appearance saying that the singer is unwell. Later, the lawyer assured the court that he will appear on the next date of hearing.Earlier this month, Yo Yo Honey Singh’s wife Shalini Talwar claimed she was subjected to physical, verbal, mental and emotional abuse by him. Shalini Talwar, the wife of rapper and music composer Hirdesh Singh, popularly known as Yo Yo Honey Singh, filed a case of domestic violence against him at the Tis Hazari court on August 3. Talwar also sought ₹10 crore compensation under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, saying she felt like a "farm animal...being treated cruelly".Also read | Beat her for leaking pics, hid wedding ring, Honey Singh's wife allegesShalini Talwar, who appeared before the court in person on Saturday, also claimed that Singh beat her many times in the last few years and she has been constantly living under fear as he and his family have threatened her with physical harm. “Due to mental harassment and cruelty imposed upon her over a period of time, she also suffered from symptoms of depression and sought medical help,” she said in her plea.Also read | Honey Singh breaks silence on wife's 'odious' allegations of domestic violenceIshan Mukherjee, who appeared in the court on behalf of Yo Yo Honey Singh on Saturday, apprised the court that she has already taken all the valuables, including jewellery, with her and said she can live at her in-laws' house in Noida in 15 days. "We are ready to accommodate her. We will build a wall. It can be provided to her in 15 days," Mukherjee said, adding that Singh has two properties worth around ₹4 crore, of which one worth ₹1 crore belongs to Shalini Talwar.On his part, Yo Yo Honey Singh has said that Talwar’s allegations are “false and malicious” and “severely odious". "I have never issued a public statement or press note in the past despite being subjected to harsh criticism for my lyrics, speculation on my health and negative media coverage in general. However, I see no merit in maintaining a studied silence this time because some of the allegations have been directed at my family - my old parents and younger sister - who have stood by me during some very difficult and trying times and comprise my world. The allegations are cynical and defaming in nature," he said in a statement on Instagram.Singh said in the statement that everyone is aware of his relationship with Talwar, who he said has been an “integral part of my crew for more than a decade now and always accompanied me to my shoots, events, and meetings.” "I strongly refute all the allegations but will not comment any further because the matter is sub-judice before the Court of Law. I have full faith in the judicial system of this country, and I am confident that the truth will be out soon," he said.Yo Yo Honey Singh and Talwar married on January 23, 2011.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-seeks-honey-singh-s-medical-report-itr-in-domestic-violence-case-101630128084277.html
28-08-2021||India||'Tremendous milestone': Bill Gates hails India for administering over 10 million vaccines in one day||American billionaire and philanthropist Bill Gates on Saturday congratulated India for reaching a "tremendous milestone" of administering 10 million vaccine doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, thus recording the highest single-day vaccine coverage so far. This, Gates said, was the result of the collective efforts of the government, the research and development (R&D) community, vaccine manufacturers, and all the health workers who made this feat possible."Congratulations, India, on reaching this tremendous milestone," Gates wrote in a tweet as he shared a news article on vaccine coverage. "The collective efforts of the government, R&D community, vaccine manufacturers, and millions of health workers have made this feat possible." Gates also tagged the Twitter handles of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union ministry of health and family welfare which, in turn, retweeted his post.Also Read | Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala casesA total of 10,064,376 doses were administered in India on Friday, bettering the previous high of 8.82 million doses set on August 16. About 6.9 million vaccine doses were administered on average across the country every day for the past week, the highest pace of the inoculation drive ever recorded in the country since the start of the mass programme on January 16.Soumya Swaminathan, the chief scientist of the World Health Organization (WHO), was also among those who praised India for administering more than 10 million Covid-19 vaccines a day, amid fears of another surge in infections. "Congratulations to the thousands of personnel involved," she said in a tweet. "Vaccination, along with public health & individual preventive measures will protect everyone!"PM Modi called the record vaccination milestone a "momentous feat" for the country. Applauding those getting vaccinated as well as those making the nationwide vaccination drive a success, the Prime Minister said crossed 10 million vaccine doses is a new record for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tremendous-milestone-bill-gates-hails-india-for-administering-over-10-million-vaccines-in-one-day-101630121267652.html
28-08-2021||India||With 46,759 Covid-19 cases, India sees highest single-day rise in 2 months||India on Saturday reported 46,759 new cases of coronavirus disease—the highest in nearly two months—pushed mainly by the surge in Kerala, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The fresh infections have now taken the nationwide tally to 32,649,947, while the death toll climbed to 437,370 with 509 daily fatalities, the health ministry data showed. This is the third consecutive day that India is seeing more than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has asked Kerala and Maharashtra to consider night curfews in areas with high infection numbers. The southern state logged 32,801 cases on Friday, up from 30,007 on Thursday and the test positivity rate stood at 19.22 per cent, an increase from 18.03 per cent on August 26. Kerala has accounted for more than half of the total active cases, followed by 16 per cent in Maharashtra.Active cases rose by 14,876 to stand at 359,775 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 1.06 per cent of total cases, the lowest since March 2020, and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.6 per cent, the Union health ministry said.As many as 17,61,110 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 51,68,87,602. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 31,852,802 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.Meanwhile, India on Friday administered more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in a single day across the nation for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16, according to data on the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard. “Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday night.More than 40.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and Union territories for inoculation, the Union health ministry said on Friday. Over 588.6 million vaccine doses have been provided to the states and Union Territories so far, the ministry said in a statement.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-40-000-covid-19-cases-for-3rd-consecutive-day-101630123029785.html
28-08-2021||India||News Updates from HT: Rajnath Singh to commission ICG's offshore patrol vessel today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Defence minister Rajnath Singh to commission Vigraha, indigenous patrol vessel, todayUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh is set to commission the Indian Coast Guard (ICG)'s offshore patrol vessel (OPV) Vigraha, seventh in the series, on Saturday, his office has said. According to the defence ministry, the 98-meter vessel will be based in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam (Vizag) and will be operated by a company of 11 officers and 110 sailors. Read moreNavi Mumbai Metro may soon be on track, oscillation trials begin todayThe Indian Railways' Research Design and Standard Organisation (RDSO) will begin conducting oscillation trials from Saturday for a section of the Metro rail system in Navi Mumbai to ensure the safety and quality of the rides ahead of its planned commencement later this year. Read moreAs Delhi schools set to reopen, medical experts urge cautionMedical experts on Friday welcomed the Delhi government's decision to reopen schools, colleges and coaching institutes in the national capital but advised parents to tread with caution by teaching Covid protocols to children. Read morePentagon holds talks with Chinese military for first time under Biden: OfficialA senior Pentagon official held talks with the Chinese military for the first time since President Joe Biden took office in January to focus on managing risk between the two countries, a US official told Reuters on Friday. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Paddler Bhavinaben Patel reaches final, will compete for gold medalBhavinaben Patel created history by reaching the final of the women's singles class 4 table tennis event at the Tokyo Paralympics after defeating world no. 3 China's Miao Zhang on Saturday. Bhavaniben will now compete for the gold medal on Sunday. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan shares details of water issues at home, apologises to fansAmitabh Bachchan took to his blog to share that he is facing water issues at home. He said that he woke up at 6 in the morning, as he had an early shoot for Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, ‘only to find the water has stopped in the home system’. Read moreShradhha Kapoor is a modern bride in Falguni Shane Peacock's dreamy couture red lehengaWedding season maybe a few months away, but there is plenty of inspiration out there for you to take cues from and nail that bridal look. Shraddha Kapoor's red lehenga from Falguni Shane Peacock's latest collection, showcased on day 5 of India Couture Week 2021, should be on that list too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-to-commission-icg-s-offshore-patrol-vessel-today-101630120199971.html
28-08-2021||India||Congratulations, says WHO chief scientist Swaminathan as India gives 10 million vaccine doses in a day||World Health Organization (WHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan congratulated India after the country administered more than 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses ahead of fears of another surge in infections. "India achieves 50% coverage (at least one dose) of adult populn - > 620 million doses administered, 10 million in the past day! Congratulations to the thousands of personnel involved. Vaccination, along with public health & individual preventive measures will protect everyone!" Swaminathan said in her tweet.India achieves 50% coverage (at least one dose) of adult populn - > 620 million doses administered, 10 million in the past day! Congratulations to the thousands of personnel involved. Vaccination, along with public health & individual preventive measures will protect everyone!Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed it as a "momentous feat" for the country. “Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” PM Modi tweeted on Friday night.A total of 10,064,376 doses had been administered on Friday, bettering the previous high of 8.82 million doses set on August 16, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s Co-WIN dashboard. An average of 6.9 million vaccine doses has been administered across the country every day in the past week in the highest pace of the inoculation drive ever recorded in the country since the start of the mass programme on January 16.Also read | Create awareness about Covid vaccination especially among villagers: PresidentIndia has now administered about 621 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, giving at least one dose to more than half of its 940 million adults and the required two doses to 15 per cent. This means that 51 per cent of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots with 35.9 per cent partially vaccinated and 15.1 per cent has received both doses. The government wants the entire adult population covered by December.The chief of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI), Dr NK Arora, said it is a matter of pride for the Indian health system. Dr Arora also said that the country hopes to vaccinate 12.5 million people in a single day soon. In order to achieve complete vaccination by the end of this year, the country has to give jabs to 10 million every day until December 31.Also read | Covid-19 bigger blood clot threat than vaccines: UK studyThe sharp rise in vaccinations came as India reported more than 40,000 new Covid-19 cases for a second consecutive day on Friday. The infections, which fell to a five-month low of 25,166 in the middle of the month, have gone up in the last three days, mainly in Kerala.India reported 44,658 new Covid-19 infections on Friday, taking the total to 32.6 million, the most in the world after the United States. The country’s death toll rose by 496 to 436,861. Kerala has accounted for nearly 60 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases in the past week and more than half of the total active cases, followed by 16 per cent in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whos-swaminathan-praises-india-after-10-mn-vaccine-doses-given-in-a-day-101630118282261.html
28-08-2021||India||2 Vistadome special trains to start from today. Check timings, ticket prices here||The Indian Railways' Vistadome tourist special trains will run on two popular routes—Guwahati-New Haflong in Assam and New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar Junction in north Bengal—from Saturday. According to the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), the introduction of the Vistadome trains are meant to help tourists experience the scenic beauty and to display the cultural heritage of the region during the unique journey.The Guwahati-New Haflong train with special Vistadome coaches will travel through the scenic Dima Hasao district. The train between New Jalpaiguri (NJP) and Alipurduar Junction will pass through the foot of the Darjeeling Himalayas at Sivok, crossing the Teesta river, the tea gardens of Bagrakot, Oodlabari and Dalgaon and the dense forests at Chalsa, Madarihat and Raja Bhat Khawa, the NFR said on Thursday."Introduction of Vistadome trains is meant to help tourists experience the scenic beauty and to display the cultural heritage of the region during the unique journey. The joint effort with the tourism department will help to boost the tourism sector and as well as the local economy," Anshul Gupta, general manager of NFR in Guwahati was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Here are the key features of the two special trains:. The Vistadome coaches are equipped with state of the art glass windows and all-glass roofs and provide a 360-degree view.. The coaches also have observation lounges for the purpose of site seeing. The rotational seats of the coach are designed to provide added comfort to passengers.. The coaches are also provided with a digital entertainment system and Wi-Fi facilities. For the safety of passengers, CCTV cameras and a fire alarm system have also been installed.. A railway official said that the New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar train will have a Vistadome coach, two air-conditioned chair cars and two non-airconditioned chair cars, apart from a luggage car and a power coach.. The price of the ticket for the Guwahati-New Haflong train is ₹1,150, while the Vistadome coach in the New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar train with a 44-seating capacity will have a fare of ₹770, the air-conditioned chair cars will cost between ₹300 and ₹400 per seat and a non-airconditioned seat will cost only ₹85, railway officials said, according to PTI.. The Guwahati-New Haflong train will travel twice a week—Wednesday and Saturday—from Guwahati at 6.35am and reach New Haflong at 11.55am, covering a distance of 269km. It will have only two stoppages at Manderdisa and Maibong stations. While coming back, the train will leave New Haflong at 5pm and reach Guwahati at 10.45pm.. In Bengal, the train will leave New Jalpaiguri at 7:20am and will reach Alipurduar Junction at 1pm covering a distance of 169 km through the Dooars Hill region. During the return journey, the train will leave Alipurduar Junction at 2pm to reach New Jalpaiguri at 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-vistadome-special-trains-to-start-from-today-check-timings-ticket-prices-here-101630108496655.html
28-08-2021||India||President Kovind to visit Gorakhpur, lay foundation of UP's first AYUSH university today||President Ram Nath Kovind, who is currently in Uttar Pradesh as part of his four-day visit to the state, will travel to Gorakhpur on Saturday, the third day of his tour. President Kovind is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the AYUSH University and inaugurate the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya in the city on the same day. President Kovind, who was in Lucknow on the first two days of his visit, will move on to the temple town of Ayodhya on Sunday, the last day of his visit to the state, according to an official release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Also Read | Ayodhya visit is highlight of President Ram Nath Kovind ’s 4-day trip to UPThis will be President Kovind's second visit to Gorakhpur in four years, and preparations have already been completed to mark his arrival. According to officials familiar with the development, the President will land at Gorakhpur around 10:40am; thereafter, he will travel to the Bhathat area of the district for inaugurating the first AYUSH University of Uttar Pradesh.The state government plans to spend ₹815 crore on the construction of AYUSH University, for which it had acquired 52-acre land for the university near Pipri and Tarkulhi villages. The AYUSH University will be run according to the guidelines of the Central Council of Indian Medicine, regarding the establishment of Ayurveda, Unani, homeopathy, yoga, and naturopathy educational institutions in the university, a state government official said.Also Read | Prez to visit Ayodhya by special train, lay foundation of Ayush univ in GorakhpurAfter addressing a public meeting at the site, the President will leave for the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya campus to dedicate the university to the state. He will leave for state capital Lucknow later in the day, according to those aware of the President's itinerary.Ahead of the President’s visit, Uttar chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Gorakhpur on Tuesday to review preparations for the events. Adityanath inspected the spots and directed officers to maintain sanitation, security, adequate seating arrangements for the invitees besides ensuring that common people did not face any problems during the programme. He also directed the state government officials in charge of the events to prepare a list of all the invitees.Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath University, a private institution, has been established by Gorakhnath Temple Trust. It has been named after Guru Gorakhnath—the founder of the Nath Panth. With two new universities, Gorakhpur will now have four. Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University and Madan Mohan Malviya Technological University are enrolling the students inspiring for higher education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-visit-gorakhpur-lay-foundation-of-up-s-first-ayush-university-today-101630107458785.html
28-08-2021||India||PM Modi to unveil renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial today: Check key features||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the renovated complex of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Punjab’s Amritsar on Saturday at 6:25pm via video conferencing. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said in a statement that PM Modi will also inaugurate museum galleries developed at the memorial in Amritsar. The virtual event will display multiple development initiatives taken by the government to upgrade the complex, it added.At 6:25 PM this evening, a programme will be held that will interest the people. The renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh Smarak will be dedicated to the nation. India will never forget the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh. https://t.co/Gjy0D03QYZThe PMO said that Union minister of culture G Kishan Reddy, Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, ministers of state for culture, governors and chief ministers of Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs from Punjab, and members of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust among others will be present on the occasion.The revamped memorial was to be inaugurated on April 13 this year to mark 102 years of the massacre, but it had to be postponed owing to Covid-19 related restrictions.Key features of the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial:. Four museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings. The galleries display the historical value of events that took place in Punjab during that period, with the fusion of audio-visual technology, including projection mapping and 3D representation, as well as art and sculptural installations.. A sound and light show has been set up to display the events that took place on April 13, 1919, when the British forces fired on a large and peaceful gathering of protesters, killing over 1,000 people and injuring hundreds of them.. The Shaheedi well has been repaired and restored with a redefined superstructure. The heart of the Bagh—the flame monument—has been repaired and restored, the water body rejuvenated as a lily pond and the pathways have been made broader for better navigability, the PMO said.. Several new and modern amenities have been added including redefined paths of movement with appropriate signages, illumination of strategic spots, landscaping and hardscaping with native plantation and installation of audio nodes throughout the garden. Newer areas have been developed for housing the Salvation Ground, Amar Jyoti and Flag Mast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-renovated-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-today-check-key-features-101630107562302.html
28-08-2021||NA||News highlights: Pentagon says drone strike killed two ‘high profile’ ISIS targets in Afghanistan, reports AFP||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Jaishankar, Blinken discuss Afghanistan, other shared goals, says US Dept of StateSecy of State Antony Blinken spoke with EAM Dr S Jaishankar. They discussed broad range of shared priorities, incl continued coordination on Afghanistan & in UN. Both agreed to remain closely coordinated on shared goals & priorities to deepen US-India partnership:US Dept of State pic.twitter.com/HpnE6FXVe3The US Department of State said that Secrertary of State Antony Blinken and external affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed a range of shared priorities, including cooperation in Afghanistan, reports ANI.Kerala govt to impose stringent lockdown in areas with critical spreadKerala Govt issues additional COVID guidelines; says special intensified stringent lockdowns will be enforced in the urban wards/panchayats with critical spread where WIPR (weekly infection population ratio) is above 7 pic.twitter.com/vi1ho2VEvpKerala government to impose stringent lockdown in urban wards and panchayats with a critical spread where the weekly infection population ratio is above 7, reports ANI.Sikha Mitra to join TMC tomorrow, says need political platform to work for people's welfareI will join TMC tomorrow. I decided to join the party again because my experience says that you can't do big things for the welfare of the people without a political platform: Sikha Mitra, former MLA & wife of late West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra pic.twitter.com/fMXEpmRcJAFormer MLA Sikha Mitra said that she would join the TMC tomorrow. "I decided to join the party again because my experience says that you can't do big things for the welfare of the people without a political platform," she said, reports ANI.France in talks with Taliban on humanitarian operations, says President Macron#BREAKING France is in talks with the Taliban on humanitarian ops: Macron pic.twitter.com/ZIhHOMLvB6French President Emmanuel Macron said that his country is in talks with the Taliban on humanitarian ops, reports AFP.US says drone strike killed 2 'high profile' ISIS targets in Afghanistan#BREAKING Pentagon says drone strike killed two 'high profile' ISIS targets in Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/elg570fl8zThe Pentagon has said that the drone strike in Afghanistan has killed two high profile ISIS targets, reports AFP.Last British flight for evacuating civilians from Afghanistan leaves KabulLast British flight evacuating civilians from Afghanistan has left Kabul, bringing to an end an operation that has airlifted almost 15,000 Afghan and British citizens in the two weeks since the Taliban took control: ReutersThe last British flight for evacuating civilians from Afghanistan has left Kabul, reports ANI.West Bengal extends Covid-19 curfew until September 15 with some relaxationsWest Bengal Govt extends COVID restrictions till September 15 with some additional relaxations; allows coaching centres to reopen with 50% capacity pic.twitter.com/ljkcwIVSvvThe West Bengal government extended the Covid-19 restrictions in the state until September 15, with some additional relaxations. Coaching centres have been allowed to function at 50% capacity, reports ANI.Nearly 6,800 people evacuated from Kabul in last 24 hours: USApproximately 6,800 people were evacuated from Kabul in the last 24 hours. Since August 14, the US has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 111,900 people. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 117,500 people: White HouseThe US White House said that approximately 6,800 people were evacuated from Kabul in the last 24 hours while the country has facilitated the evacuation of approximately 111,900 people so far, reports ANI.PM Modi says govt remodeling every historical monument associated with independenceModi said that like the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial, every historical monument associated with Independence to be remodeled.PM Modi says every nation should preserve its historyPrime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address during the dedication of the renovated Jallianwala Bagh Memorial to the nation, said that it was the responsibility of every nations to preserve its history. "Our history teach us a lot and show us the way forward. We've seen scenes similar to the Jallianwala Bagh incident during the Partition," he said.Watch | PM Modi dedicates renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial to nation2 held as CBI makes first arrests in West Bengal post-poll violenceCBI arrested two persons, Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, the first arrests in connection to the post poll violence in West Bengal. Also, the agency has registered 10 more FIRs as the total FIRs filed now stands at 21.Kerala reimposes night curfews following 4th straight day of over 30,000 new Covid-19 casesKerala government has imposed night curfews beginning next week as the state reported over 30,000 single-day Covid-19 infections (31,265 cases) for the fourth straight day. Also, 153 more people succumbed to the illness. The active caseload crossed the 200,000-mark and stood at 204,086.2 dead, 2 injured after truck overturns in Shimla's Grawag areaTwo persons died & two others were injured after the truck they were travelling in overturned in Grawag area of Shimla, Himachal Pradesh today morning. The injured have been referred to IGMC Shimla from CHC- Kotkhai: Shimla Police pic.twitter.com/daj5vLuTmBTwo people died and two others were injured after their truck overturned in Grawag area of Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, reports ANI.Sri Lanka reopens borders to Indian travellersSri Lanka has reopened its borders to India. Fully vaccinated travellers will only require a negative PCR test report conducted 72 hours prior to arrival & an on-arrival PCR test at a certified hotel: High Commission of Sri Lanka in New DelhiSri Lanka reopened its borders to Indian travellers, the country's high commission in Delhi said. A negative RT PCR report not older than 72 hours is required and passengers to undergo on-arrival testing at a certified hotel, reports ANI.Farmers block Panchkula-Shimla highway near Chandimandir Toll PlazaHaryana: Farmers block Panchkula-Shimla Highway near Chandimandir Toll Plaza in Panchkula to protest the lathi charge in Karnal pic.twitter.com/ZmcPXU93xpFarmers blocked the Panchkula-Shimla highway near the Chandimandir Toll Plaza in protest against the police baton charge in Karnal, Haryana, reports ANI.Rakesh Tikait all roads in Haryana will be blocked until 5pm to protest police's baton charge"To protest the baton-charge in Haryana's Karnal, all the roads will be blocked till 5 pm in the state," says BKU leader Rakesh TikaitSurajpur Toll Plaza (Kalka-Zirakpur Highway) has been blocked by protesting farmers, tweets Commissionerate of PanchkulaFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that all roads in Haryana will be blocked till 5pm to protest the police's baton charge on farmers in Karnal, reports ANI.3 doctors shortlisted out of 9,427 suggestions for Padma awards: KejriwalWe received 9,427 suggestions for Padma Awards. Our committee led by Deputy CM Manish Sisodia has shortlisted the names of three doctors- Dr SK Sarin from ILBS, Dr Suresh Kumar from LNJP, and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja from Max Hospital for Padma Awards: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/ieDJieb3i3Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said that three doctors, Dr SK Sarin from ILBS, Dr Suresh Kumar from LNJP, and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja from Max Hospital, have been shortlisted for Padma awards, reports PTI.Delhi reports no new Covid-19 related deaths for third straight dayDelhi reports 29 new #COVID19 cases and 48 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 393Total recoveries: 14,12,212Death toll: 25,080 pic.twitter.com/2pLhDI3OQiDelhi reported no new Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours while 29 more people tested positive for the disease, reports ANI.'We will emerge stronger': says TMC's Abhishek Banerjee after ED's summonBJP thinks it can put pressure on us by using ED (Enforcement Directorate) against us but we will emerger stronger: TMC General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee after ED summoned him and his wife in coal scam pic.twitter.com/isGVmfqpZKTMC leader Abhishek Banerjee said "BJP thinks it can put pressure on us by usig ED (Enforcement Directorate) against us but we will emerge stronger" after the ED summoned him and his wife in coal scam, reports ANI.94,893 MT food grains distributed in Tripura under PMGKAY last year: Nirmala SitharamanUnder third phase of PMGKAY, 12,107 MT of foodgrain was provided to 24.21 lakh beneficiaries in May 2021, 12,134 MT to 24.26 lakh beneficiaries in June, 12,126 MT to 24.25 lakh beneficiaries in July and 6,493 MT to 12.98 lakh beneficiaries in August (as on Aug 12) in Tripura.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman shared details of the quantity of food grains distributed under Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in Tripura during the various phases of the scheme.Number of beds in Delhi govt hospitals increased by 70%: CM Kejriwalसरकारी अस्पतालों के अंदर 6,800 नए बेड तैयार किए जा रहे हैं, ये बेड छह महीने में बनकर तैयार हो जाएंगे। आज दिल्ली के सरकारी अस्पतालों में 10,000 बेड हैं, ये 70% का इज़ाफ़ा है: दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री अरविंद केजरीवाल pic.twitter.com/p3NPm0sYmWDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the number of beds in government hospitals increased by 70%, reports ANI.SC lauds Bombay HC practice of appointing young lawyers as arbitratorsThe Supreme Court has lauded the Bombay High Court’s practice of appointing young lawyers as arbitrators, saying it helps in training them in alternate dispute redressal mechanisms.Delhi govt to strengthen doorstep delivery of services, set up 6,800 new beds in hospitals: Arvind KejriwalThe Delhi government will strengthen doorstep delivery of services and set up 6,800 new beds in its hospitals, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday.6 drug peddlers held in GuwahatiAssam Police have arrested six suspected drug traffickers and seized a large quantity of illegal IMFL in the city in separate operations, a police spokesperson said on Saturday.Delhi CM Kejriwal launches Mayur Vihar-I cloverleaf, says commuters will benefit a lotDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated the cloverleaf of the Mayur Vihar-I flyover on the Delhi-Noida link road and also launched cycle tracks, ramp, loop and service road on the flyover.ED summons TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, wife Rujira for questioning in money laundering and coal scam casesED summons TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, wife Rujira for questioning in money laundering and coal scam cases, report agencies.Over 60.25 crore Covid-19 doses provided to states, UTs: CentreThe Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday said that 60,25,95,250 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far through the direct state procurement category.ED attaches assets worth over ₹363 cr of jewellery firm in MMTC fraud caseThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has attached assets worth over ₹363 crore of a jewellery firm in a money laundering case linked to an alleged fraud against public sector enterprise MMTC.MHA extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till September 30MHA extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till September 30. Asks states to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during upcoming festive season and if required, impose local restrictions.Fire breaks out at Delhi factory, no casualtyA fire broke out at a plastic manufacturing factory here Saturday morning, officials said.No casualty was reported in the incident that took place in Friends Colony Industrial area, they said.Cardiac trouble due to post-Covid complications: GehlotA day after undergoing angioplasty, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said he was unable to go among the people during the past several days as he was suffering from post-Covid health issues.Two die in Japan after shots from suspended Moderna vaccines - Japan govtTwo people died after receiving Moderna Covid-19 vaccine shots that were among lots later suspended following the discovery of contaminants, Japan's health ministry said on Saturday.India has great scope to become indigenous ship-building hub: Defence ministerDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the country has "great scope" to become an indigenous ship-building hub, while pointing out that the Centre has introduced policies to help the domestic industry become world class.46 child labourers rescued in UP's SultanpurAs many as 46 child labourers were rescued during a two-day campaign conducted in the district by a cross-department team, officials said Saturday.Delhi govt directs private, unaided schools to vaccinate staff ahead of reopeningThe Delhi government has directed private aided and unaided schools to vaccinate their teachers and staff ahead of the reopening for classes 9-12 from September 1.Delhi court seeks medical report, ITR of singer Honey Singh in domestic violence caseDelhi court seeks medical report, ITR of singer Honey Singh in domestic violence case, reports ANI.Chinese embassy slams US 'political manipulation' in Covid-19 origins reportChinese embassy slams US 'political manipulation' in Covid origins report, reports AFP.Is Twitter down? Outages reported on Saturday morningTwitter appeared to be down on Saturday morning as users reported issues with the social media platform.Kerala recorded 32,801 Covid-19 positive cases and 179 deaths yesterdayOf the 46,759 new Covid-19 cases and 509 deaths reported in India in the last 24 hours, Kerala recorded 32,801 Covid-19 positive cases and 179 deaths yesterday.India logs 46,759 fresh Covid-19 cases, 509 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 46,759 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 3,26,49,947, while the death toll climbed to 4,37,370 with 509 daily fatalities, according to Union health ministry update on Saturday.Evacuation operation from Kabul is finished, says FranceFrance says its evacuation operation from Kabul is finished, reports Reuters.Congratulations, says WHO chief scientist Swaminathan as India gives 10 million vaccine doses in a dayWorld Health Organization (WHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan congratulated India after the country administered more than 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses ahead of fears of another surge in infections.Tropical Storm Nora a hurricane threat to Mexico's coastA rapidly strengthening Tropical Storm Nora is rolling toward a brush at possible hurricane strength along Mexico’s Pacific Coast and the Baja California Peninsula over the weekend.Meat shops to remain closed on Monday on the occasion of Krishna JanmashtamiMeat shops will remain closed on Monday, 30th August on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).Joe Biden criticizes China for not aiding report on virus originPresident Joe Biden rebuked China for stonewalling a U.S. investigation into the origins of the coronavirus, as his administration reported it was unable to reach firm conclusions because of Beijing’s unwillingness to cooperate. China denied that it had hindered the probe.US kills ISIS-K planner in drone strikeThe US said it conducted a drone strike against an ISIS-K planner in Afghanistan’s Nangahar province and initial indications showed the target was killed.US airstrike targets Islamic State in AfghanistanUS airstrike targets Islamic State in Afghanistan in retaliation for deadly Kabul airport attack: Pentagon.Mahabodhi Temple reopens for general public after 5 monthsThe world heritage Mahabodhi Temple in Bihar's Gaya reopened for the general public after nearly five months on Friday. The shrine had been closed since April this year due to the Covid-induced lockdown in the state.Origins of Covid may never be definitively identified: US Intelligence Community assessmentThe US Intelligence Community (IC) assesses that the origins of the novel coronavirus disease may never be definitively identified without additional information, the declassified summary of a report commissioned by US President Joe Biden revealed on Friday.Single-use plastic plates, cutlery, cups may face ban in England, government saysSingle-use plastic plates, cutlery and cups are among a raft of items that could be banned in England as part of a new public consultation being launched in the autumn, the British government said on Saturday.2 Vistadome special trains to start from todayThe Indian Railways' Vistadome tourist special trains will run on two popular routes - Guwahati-New Haflong in Assam and New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar Junction in North Bengal from Saturday.President Ram Nath Kovind to visit GorakhpurPresident Kovind is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath AYUSH Vishwavidyalaya on Saturday and inaugurate the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya in the city on the same day.PM Modi to virtually unveil renovated Jallianwala BaghPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate the renovated Jallianwala Bagh complex in Amritsar on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-28-2021-101630107097193.html
28-08-2021||India||2024 LS polls: Oppn grouping faces internal challenges||The 19 Opposition parties, which hope to collectively take on Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the next national election, have to settle thorny internal issues before looking at the larger political goals.To start with, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s demand to set up a core committee, a smaller panel of Opposition leaders, has not found support from all quarters. A section, particularly those in the Left, has argued that it would be difficult to pick and choose 4-5 leaders from a group of 19 parties.Banerjee’s logic was that this working group can interact frequently and prepare the groundwork before the top leadership of these 19 parties meets to take decisions. But at least three other leaders saw this proposal of an executive panel as “very difficult” to implement. “Who would be included and who would be kept out? This might create a further divide,” said a senior leader who is an active member of the Opposition group.With leadership issues still a potential sore point between the parties, some leaders have already told Sonia Gandhi to continue to chair this group. “I have requested Sonia ji to continue holding such opposition meetings,” Sitaram Yechury said.Yechury’s appeal assumes significance as it is widely anticipated that Gandhi, who played a lead role after the 2004 general elections to bring non-NDA parties under the umbrella of the United Progressive Alliance, is set to step down as Congress president in the next organizational election. “Sonia Gandhi is the only leader who commands the respect of each and every opposition party. She has the stature and ability to bring so many divergent political outfits under one umbrella,” said a leader from another regional party, who agreed to Yechury’s proposal. The next meeting of the opposition group is due in October after their 10 day-long protest programme ends on September 30.In the first meeting on August 20, Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked India’s top opposition leaders to rise above individual compulsions “in the interest of the nation” and start planning “systematically” for the “ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections”.Sonia acknowledged that it would be a “challenge” to keep the group together. She said, “together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively together.”“We all have our compulsions, but clearly, a time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above them,” said Gandhi, ahead of a daunting task of bringing various regional outfits with conflicting interests to form a grand coalition to take on a formidable Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the next polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-grouping-faces-internal-challenges-101630104415406.html
28-08-2021||India||Over 1,000 hectare of our land encroached by Mizos, claims Assam forest officer||SILCHAR: Mizoram civilians backed by state police officials have encroached more than 1,000 hectare of land in Assam’s Cachar district, a senior Assam forest officer alleged on Friday. Divisional forest officer of Cachar district, Tejas Mariswamy said, “Armed civilians from Mizoram backed by police officials have encroached more than 1000 hectares of Assam’s land. It didn’t happen overnight but slowly and strategically people from Mizoram did it”.Mariswamy was among the senior officials who rushed to the Assam-Mizoram border after a group of Mizo civilians are alleged to have forcibly stopped road construction labourers who were building a road between Khulicherra and Bagewala village in Cachar district on Thursday.The construction workers alleged they were attacked with stones and threatened with guns and other weapons. “The masked attackers were carrying guns but they didn’t shoot,” said the construction workers. Senior police officials including SP Cachar, Ramandeep Kaur, DIG South Assam Range, Debojyoti Mukherjee, additional SP of Cachar, Partha Pratim Saikia and DSP (Border), Gaurav Agarwal along with divisional forest officer of Cachar district, Tejas Mariswamy rushed to the spot to control the situation.Mariswamy later said: “What happened at Khulichera yesterday and today was just a glimpse of the entire scenario. They stopped our works in front of senior officials and threatened us also. They have now constructed camps on our land. I tried to talk to the forest officials of Mizoram but they did not respond.”Assam’s forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who is also the legislator from the Dholai seat where the land is located, however, refused to confirm the claim.“If the DFO has claimed that 1000 acres have been encroached, I am sure he has some information. I am yet to visit the area where some incident have reportedly happened yesterday. Before that I cannot make a comment on this,” the minister said, according to reports.Hindustan Times reached out to forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who is also the local legislator but he refused to comment.Work was temporarily stopped on Thursday but Assam police officials attempted to resume the work under strict security arrangements on Friday morning. But they failed again as hundreds of civilians from Mizoram’s side stopped Assam officials.Government officials, who have been told by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to adopt a resist and retreat strategy, backed down, keen not to escalate the situation and left the spot.Superintendent of police of Mizoram Kolashib district, Vanlalfaka Ralte, rejected the allegations levelled by Assam officials. Ralte said Assam was constructing road on Mizoram’s land which angered the Mizo civilians. “We cannot force our civilians to protest because Assam government is making road on Mizoram’s land. Even the Assam police officials were supporting this illegal act.”Cachar SP Ramandeep Kaur disputed this version. “The work was going on under Pradhanmantri Gramin Sadak Yojana which is located 3 kilometres from the Mizoram border according to the Survey of India map. This is a Assam government’s sanctioned work which cannot be in Mizoram’s territory,” the Assam police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-000-hectare-of-our-land-encroached-by-mizos-claims-assam-forest-officer-101630096892088.html
28-08-2021||India||Kerala reports another surge with 32,801 fresh Covid-19 cases||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday justified the state’s containment strategy and asked critics which model should the state follow if the present one is ineffective. On Friday, the state reported another hike with 32,801 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22 per cent after 1,70,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities taking the death toll to 20, 313. The active cases also increased to 1,95,254, said the state health ministry. Four districts reported more than 3000 new cases-- Malappuram 4032, Thrissur 3953, Ernakulam 3627 and Kozhikode 3362. In last three days the state has been reporting over 30,000 cases and it has been attributed to the recently-concluded Onam festivities. In the wake of the high caseload, opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the health crisis worsening in the state. Earlier the CM used to hold a regular briefing at 6 pm but for the last two weeks it has not been happening and the opposition said he was ignoring reality. But the CM in a hard-hitting article in ‘Chintha,’ a party-sponsored weekly, said there was a concerted plan to discredit the state and its model of development and exhorted party workers to expose such elements. “There is a discussion that the current strategy is inappropriate. Some people neglect facts and try to create confusion. They are flagging unnecessary controversies to create a smoke screen,” he said in his write-up asking critics to tell him which model the state should adopt. He said in the state no bodies floated in rivers and none died on roads and nobody has gone to bed with an empty stomach in trying times. But opposition leader V D Satheesan reiterated his charge that the CM was scared to face the media and people. “He can’t justify his doings in a party mouthpiece like this when the state is in a grave situation,” he said. The Congress said the whole state was pushed to the ICU due to the poor handling of the situation. 70% population vaccinated State health minister Veena George said 70.24 per cent of the eligible population in the state (above 18 years) was vaccinated and out of this 25.3% had got both vaccines. She said though cases are showing an upward trend, the situation is under control. “There is no unusual rush in hospitals. Almost 50 per cent ventilators and ICU beds are vacant,” she said adding the mortality rate still remained lowest in the country at .5 per cent while the national average was 1.25 per cent. “On May 13, 43,000 cases were reported with a TPR of 29%. Two months later it came down to 10,000 and TPR was in 10-12 per cent range. But now again cases are going up and it will stabilise soon,” she said. “According to the Indian Council of Medical Research Kerala’s virus undercounting factor is 6% while it is 33% in some other states. In vaccination and testing, it continues its good track record. By September 20, we are planning to give at least one dose of vaccine to all eligible people,” she said adding the Centre has agreed to supply enough doses. The Kerala government meanwhile has decided to tighten containment measures and decided to impose complete lockdown on Sunday. The Union Government had asked the two worst affected states, Kerala and Maharashtra, to impose night curfew to restrict movement of people. The state is expected to take a call on this on Saturday in a review meeting being chaired by the CM. The state had lifted lockdown in the last two weeks in view of Independence Day and Onam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-another-surge-with-32-801-fresh-covid-19-cases-101630095211637.html
28-08-2021||India||Centre forms committee to streamline revenue litigation in Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Centre has formed a committee to streamline revenue litigation pending before the Supreme Court, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the top court on Friday after the judges sought reduction in long delays in filing tax appeals.The committee comprising representatives of the National Informatics Centre, law ministry, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), Central Board of Indirect Taxes (CBIT, and the department of revenue will work on an electronic case management system by which revenue litigation from tribunals and high courts can be monitored to provide for a time-bound mechanism for filing appeals in the top court.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah earlier directed the Centre to come out with a mechanism to reduce delays since appeals for direct and indirect taxes were being filed much beyond the stipulated period of 60 days for regular appeals and 90 days for filing special leave petition (SLP).In February this year, the Supreme Court spotlighted this problem after an appeal against the order of the Customs Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal was filed after a delay of 536 days. The delayed move upset the bench. “Repeatedly, it has come to the notice of this Court that appeals in revenue matters involving indirect taxation are being filed with a gross delay,” the bench said.On Friday, the top court gave the government three more months to come up with a solution in view of the constitution of a committee. “A committee has been constituted of various stakeholders to ensure due adoption of technology to streamline, monitor, and seamlessly integrate all phases of government litigation,” the bench noted as it posed the case after three months.The bench also directed the revenue secretary to personally monitor and provide assistance to the committee, both with regard to domain knowledge and technical assistance.The order to set up the committee came after the bench at the last hearing on August 6 expressed displeasure at the government’s inaction.“We find the recalcitrance on the part of the Ministry of Finance in the Department of Revenue unacceptable. However, before we take the next step of issuing a contempt notice, we give a last and final opportunity to the Union government to sort out the issue and come before this Court with a concrete plan of action, beyond circulars,” the court said on August 6.The court further stated, “The Union government, in the Department of Revenue must find an answer to this state of affairs by ensuring that matters which are required to be litigated are litigated with all necessary dispatch and matters not worthy of being pursued are set to rest”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-committee-to-streamline-revenue-litigation-in-supreme-court-101630094491150.html
28-08-2021||India||SC stays Gujarat order allowing private hospitals to run without clearance||Noting that “in an effort to save people from the pandemic, we are killing them by fire”, the Supreme Court on Friday stayed a Gujarat government order allowing private hospitals and nursing homes in the state to comply with the ‘building use certificate’ requirement by March2022.Refusing to tolerate violations of such nature in view of several cases of hospital fires in the state, a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said: “The building use permission is meant to ensure that a structure meets the norms under the law for the desired purpose. You cannot have a nursing home operating from the fifth floor of a building without any lift.”At least 16 Covid patients and two nurses were killed in a hospital fire in Bharuch in May this year. A fire in the ICU of a hospital in Surat also took place in the same month wherein no casualties were reported. Prior to that, eight persons were killed in a fire at a Covid hospital in Ahmedabad while another five were killed at another Covid hospital in Rajkot last year. Taking into account the cases, the top court had ordered for mandatory fire safety audits of all hospitals across the country and the appointment of a nodal officer for every Covid hospital. This issue is still pending consideration of the court.Despite the cases, on July 8, the state government ordered that no action would be initiated against private hospitals and nursing homes without ‘building use certificate’ till next year.The bench had found the order “prima facie in breach of the Supreme Court direction”. Sensing an attempt by the state government to protect the illegalities committed by developers and hospital owners, the bench said: “There is a mafia link between developers, planning authority and law enforcement agencies and in the process, common citizens suffer. We have seen the consequence of fire at Bharuch, Ahmedabad and Surat and we see the government is constantly exempting the developers from complying with law. We are not conniving in it by passing orders. As judges, we cannot cure all ills in society but we need to ensure compliance with law.”In Gujarat, it is mandatory for all commercial establishments to obtain building use (BU) permission under Regulation No. 3.9 of the Comprehensive General Development Control Regulations, framed under the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976. Fire safety certificate is a necessary prerequisite for obtaining BU permission.The court ordered the July 8 notification to be put in abeyance as it was found to be contrary to section 122 of the 1976 Act that provides for BU permission.The state government argued the order was passed keeping in view an expected third wave of the pandemic. Appearing for the Gujarat government, advocate Manisha Luvkumar said the state was strictly enforcing requirement of fire no objection certificate from hospitals and that 4,569 out of 5,850 hospitals had already acquired one. However, on the compliance of BU permission, a short breather was provided to the hospitals. “The power vested in the state is to facilitate efficient administration of the Town Planning legislation.. An exemption from complying with development control regulations under the 1976 Act has no nexus with availability of facilities during pandemic. Is this in furtherance of the law?” the bench said. While factoring the medical care facilities ahead of a possible third wave, the judges told the state to adjust their affairs in such a manner that premises having no BU permission are not put to use.The bench also said that for the past two decades, the Gujarat high court had passed several orders, asking building establishments in the state to comply with the BU permission. Several hospital owners had approached the top court, claiming that sealing action had been initiated against those without BU permission. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, representing Ahmedabad Hospitals Association, said at least 30,000 beds were at stake as the state had never insisted upon BU permission for close to four decades.The bench said, “At present what this notification does is to suspend any development control regulations for eight months. If a building comes up in total violation of the rules in the name of pandemic, can any action be taken against it. There has to be some nexus with the pandemic. This notification offers a windfall to the developers.” Meanwhile, the court received a report on the fire incidents at the Ahmedabad and Rajkot hospitals from the Commission of Inquiry headed by retired Gujarat high court judge, justice DA Mehta. The judges, however, were wary of sharing the content before it was tabled in the Gujarat assembly.Appearing for the Centre and Gujarat government, solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta said the report will be tabled in the next session, expected to begin on September 28. The court directed the SG to prepare a compilation of reports received from all states on the fire safety audit compliance ordered by the court in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-gujarat-order-allowing-private-hospitals-to-run-without-clearance-101630092632317.html
28-08-2021||India||Health secretary writes to Kerala govt over Covid surge||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Kerala, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday sent another letter to the state government, expressing serious concern over the situation and listed immediate measures to contain the surge.In the letter addressed to Kerala chief secretary VP Joy, Bhushan said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on priority basis and increase tests considerably to check high transmission. All 14 districts have reported high test positivity rate in the past four weeks and the state continues to report more than half of the total cases of the country, he pointed out in the letter.The health secretary also asked the state to strictly go by the norms of the Union government on high transmission clusters and strengthen contact tracing measures. All district administrations will have to comply with the accepted norms of home quarantine and there should be an intensive follow up on such cases. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be enforced at any cost and mass gathering should be avoided, Bhushan said in the letter.The state has also been asked to enhance genomic surveillance in areas of high transmission and samples of all breakthrough infections (those getting infected after taking both doses) should be sent for detailed genome sequencing tests. He also asked the state to streamline vaccine policy and devise an action plan for each district. “I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring the five-fold strategy of ‘test, track, treat, vaccinate and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour’ may result in further surge in the state,” Bhushan said in the letter.Kerala, for the third consecutive day, reported more than 30,000 cases on Friday, about 65% of total cases reported in the country. On Friday, the state reported 32,801 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22% after 170,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities, taking death toll to 20,313 in the state. Active cases also increased to 195,254, said the state health ministry. More than 3,000 new cases were reported in four districts, including Malappuram 4,032, Thrissur 3,953, Ernakulam 3,627 and Kozhikode 3,362.Kerala health minister Veena Geroge was not available for comments. But a senior health department official said the state has been following these norms after the visit of the central team in the first week of August. Union health minister M Mandaviya also visited the state on August 16 and held detailed talks with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the sorry state of affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secretary-writes-to-kerala-govt-over-covid-surge-101630092451158.html
28-08-2021||India||Yet to establish if J’khand judge’s death due to conspiracy: CBI to HC||RANCHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the death of Dhanbad additional judge Uttam Anand, informed the Jharkhand high court on Friday that it is still investigating if the accident that caused the death of the judge was a case of routine accident or part of a conspiracy.The central agency on Friday submitted its weekly report before the high court’s division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad.People aware of the matter said that CBI informed the court that based on its investigation, while accident caused the judge’s death, it is yet to establish whether it was done as part of some conspiracy.CBI also informed the court that it was going to conduct Narco test of the two arrested accused---Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma---to get behind the truth. The court directed the central agency to ensure proper security of the two accused, and if required use air travel for their transport, the people said.Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court have taken suo motu cognisance of the incident that took place on July 28, when the judge, who was out on his morning walk, was hit by a vehicle near Randhir Verma square in Dhanbad.The apex court directed CBI, which took over the case from the SIT formed by the Jharkhand police, to file a status report every week with the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yet-to-establish-if-j-khand-judge-s-death-due-to-conspiracy-cbi-to-hc-101630092211050.html
28-08-2021||India||ED accuses TMC leader Kunal Ghosh, senior scribe of money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday filed a supplementary chargesheet in the Saradha chit fund scam, accusing Trinamool Congress (TMC) general secretary Kunal Ghosh and senior journalist Suman Chattopadhyay of money laundering through their companies, reported news agency PTI. Ghosh was the CEO of the Saradha group’s media division. He was suspended from the TMC in 2013 for alleged anti-party activities. The group shut down its operations the same year. Ghosh was in judicial custody for 34 months after being arrested by the West Bengal police in the Saradha case. He was released on bail in October 2016. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which started probing the Saradha case in 2014 following orders of the Supreme Court, named Ghosh in its first chargesheet filed in October 2014. Chattopadhyay, on the other hand, was arrested by the CBI in 2018 and remanded in judicial custody for more than a year in connection with the I-Core chit fund case. He was granted bail on health grounds by the Supreme Court last year. For the first time, sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) were added in the supplementary chargesheet the ED filed before a special court in Kolkata on Friday. Sudipta Sen, the owner of the Saradha Group, is now in jail. The company raised around ₹2500 crore, primarily from lower income group people, by promising high returns. In October 2014, Ghosh, Sen and Saradha Group director Debjani Mukherjee were named in the CBI’s first chargesheet. They were accused under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. The ED on Friday filed a supplementary chargesheet against Ghosh, his company Strategy Media Plus Communications, and Suman Chattopadhyay and his companies Disha Production and Media and Ekdin Media with the prayer for punishment for money laundering and confiscation of attached assets worth ₹96.55 crore, including ₹2.67 crore owned by Ghosh and ₹1.72 crore owned by Chattopadhyay, PTI reported. ED officials did not comment before the media. “I provided all records in 2013. Why did the ED take eight years to file the chargesheet? This is a tactic by the central government to keep me under pressure,” Ghosh said from Tripura where the TMC is trying to build its organisation and take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the next assembly polls. Chattopadhyay earlier served as the editor of Ananda Bazaar Patrika and Ei Shomoy, a Bengali daily. He launched his own newspaper, Ek Din, and allegedly raised money from I-Core. The I-Core group came under the scanner after a police complaint was lodged in Bhubaneswar. Many heavyweights have been accused in the Saradha ponzi scam in the past. In January 2019, the CBI filed a chargesheet against Nalini Chidambaram, wife of former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, alleging that she received ₹1.4 crore from the Saradha Group between 2010 and 2012 for handling investigations started by various probe agencies. The CBI alleged that Manoranjana Sinh, the estranged wife of former Union Minister Matang Sinh, introduced Sudipta Sen to Nalini Chidambaram. Retired IPS officer Rajat Majumdar, who allegedly had links with the Saradha Group, was accused in the CBI’s second chargesheet filed in November 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-accuses-tmc-leader-kunal-ghosh-senior-scribe-of-money-laundering-101630092030956.html
28-08-2021||India||Expedite matters related to aviation infrastructure: Scindia to five CMs||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has sought the personal intervention of chief ministers of five states -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland and Odisha -- in matters related to land allocation and funding to boost aviation infrastructure in the regions, the Union government said on Friday.The aviation minister has already written to the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh in this regard.In a letter to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Scindia said the Airport Authority of India (AAI) needed 152.5 acres of land for airport expansion work but the same was yet to be handed over by the state government.Scindia also told Vijayan that an amount of ₹5.29 crore is outstanding on the part of the state government as viability gap funding (VGF) share against the Regional Air Connectivity Fund Trust (RACFT).In his letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Scindia highlighted that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had projected land requirements of 234.21 acres at Akola airport for development of basic strip and additional infrastructure but only 149.95 acres was handed over so far.Scindia also urged the state government to consider removal of a chimney at Solapur to allow the Centre to connect the airport under the regional connectivity scheme. Similarly, he sought the intervention of Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for the acquisition of 20 acres of land at Khajuraho airport for a basic runway strip and operational requirements.In his letter to Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, the minister said a land area of 107 acres is required for extension of runway at the Dimapur airport by 310m for operations of A320 aircraft.Scindia wrote to Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik that the AAI has projected a land requirement of 178 acres at the Jharsuguda airport for its phase-two expansion. “The land is yet to be handed over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expedite-matters-related-to-aviation-infrastructure-scindia-to-five-cms-101630091730854.html
28-08-2021||India||India administers record 10 million vaccine doses in a day||India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive broke a new record on Friday. More than 10 million doses of the vaccine were administered in a single day across the country for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16, according to data on the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard.According to the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard, a total of 10,064,376 doses had been administered on Friday, bettering the previous high of 8.82 million doses set on August 16.“Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday night.Buoyed by Friday’s record numbers, the country’s pace of vaccination, which has been patchy so far, has settled into high gear. In the past week, an average of 6.9 million doses has been administered across the country every day – the highest pace ever recorded in the country, according to HT’s dashboard.Friday’s single-day inoculation record comes just a day after India touched another crucial milestone – the country covered half of its adult population with at least one shot of the vaccine on Thursday.Till Friday night, India has administered nearly 621 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to nearly 480 million people with 337.4 million people vaccinated and 141.8 million people having received both doses of the vaccine. When seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that 51% of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots – 35.9% have been partially vaccinated and 15.1% having received both doses.“The daily average has been going up steadily because of several factors that include improved vaccine supplies from the manufacturing side, better logistical arrangements and advance information on availability of vaccine supplies. All this has made a difference and it will further improve in coming weeks, which is why states that are lagging behind, or are seeing upsurge in cases, have been asked to improve their vaccination rate,” a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified, said.Also on Friday, the health ministry advised all states and Union territories to prioritise those beneficiaries who are due for their second vaccine dose, people familiar with the matter said. If required, the states and UTs should earmark certain days and centres for the exercise so that no one misses their second vaccine dose, the states were told.“Second dose obviously is the priority as that should not be missed. States have been asked to make arrangements accordingly like special drives for that,” said a central government official, on condition of anonymity.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also chaired a high-level meeting on Wednesday with all states and Union territories to review the progress of Covid-19 vaccination and advised states to focus on enhancing second dose coverage as well as immunisation of school teachers and staff (both government and private).States were asked for prompt utilisation of Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP) funds that centre has allocated. On July 8, this year, the Union Cabinet approved a new scheme ECRP-II package, amounting to ₹23,123 crore, and released its first instalment of ₹1,827.80 crore on July 22. The Centre, earlier this month, released ₹14,744.99 crore to effectively fight Covid-19.India’s drugs regulator has approved six Covid-19 vaccines for emergency use in India, of which three are being currently administered in the country. The six approved vaccines are Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Russian-made SputnikV, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, and the American vaccines manufactured by Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).Government experts have been reiterating that the third wave of the viral disease may not happen if preventive measures are strictly taken, and that includes fast vaccinating people at risk.“We know that these vaccines are disease modifying vaccines; these are not disease preventive vaccines, and therefore, it is very important to continue wearing a mask even after getting vaccinated. Mask usage has to continue. We know that vaccines reduce the disease severity; they reduce the possibility of hospitalization, and also avert death to the tune of nearly 98-99%,”said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research and secretary, Department of Health Research, during Thursday’s press briefing on Covid-19.He also said that mass gatherings will have to be discouraged to curtail the spread of infection.“Full vaccination offers protection against severe disease and death, and should be a pre-requisite if attending a gathering is critical,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-record-10-million-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-101630091551169.html
28-08-2021||India||Dhanbad judge death: CBI yet to zero in on reason behind accident||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the Jharkhand high court on Friday that the Dhanbad additional judge had died due to an auto accident but they are still probing if it was a routine accident or part of a larger conspiracy.The central investigating agency on Friday submitted its weekly report before the division bench of Chief Justice Dr. Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad of the Jharkhand HC.People aware of the development said the investigating agency informed the court that as per their probe while the accident was behind the judge’s death, they are yet to establish whether it was done as part of some conspiracy..The CBI also informed the court that they are conducting a Narco test on the two accused---Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma---to get at the truth. The court then directed the probe agency to ensure proper security of the two accused, and if required use air travel for their transport.Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident that occurred on July 28, with CCTV camera footage showing a vehicle seemingly swerving deliberately to hit the judge, who was out on his morning walk, and speeding away.The apex court directed the central agency to file a status report every week with the high court.Additional district judge Uttam Anand was brought dead to the hospital, about an hour after he was hit by a vehicle near Randhir Verma Square in Dhanbad.The CBI took over the investigation from the SIT headed by an ADG rank officer of Jharkhand Police at the state government’s insistence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhanbad-judge-death-cbi-yet-to-zero-in-on-reason-behind-accident-101630091251980.html
28-08-2021||India||In 11 states, less than 25% of oxygen plants operational: Govt||The Union health ministry has put 11 states under the “red” category for making less than 25% of the total sanctioned medical oxygen plants in these states operational, according to a health ministry presentation to the state governments.The ministry also said that 35%, or 425, of the total 1,222 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants sanctioned by the Centre since October 2020 have become operational so far. And about 50% of the remaining are likely to be operational by September 15, officials said.A comparison of the ministry’s presentation with the reply submitted to Parliament on July 20 shows that 190 new plants have been made ready in the last 37 days. Till July 20, 245 plants were up and running.The Centre announced that new oxygen plants will be set up across the country after the April-May peak of Covid-19 triggered an unprecedented shortage of medical oxygen, with reports suggesting there may have been hundreds of deaths nationwide during this period because the gas was in short supply.In October 2020, during the first wave of Covid-19 cases, the central government invited tenders for 162 PSA oxygen plants -- by April 2021, only 33 of these were operational, according to a tweet by the Union health ministry on April 18.“We are regularly holding review meetings with the state health departments on oxygen plants to speed up the commissioning work,” said a senior health ministry official, at a meeting with state health departments.The official said that most of the states have assured the Centre that they will cross the 50% mark by September 15, and all the plants would be commissioned latest by December end this year. “We have been asking them to ensure most plants are running as early as possible,” the official said.To motivate the states, the ministry had put all states and Union territories under three categories depending on the number of oxygen plants that have been made operational.Red states are the states where up to 25% of the sanctioned plants are functioning, orange states have 25-50% of the sanctioned plants operational, and green, the best, such as Haryana and Gujarat, have over 50% plants running.According to the ministry presentation, Andaman and Nicobar Island has not been able to start even a single of the three plants sanctioned, while Mizoram could make only 1 of the 14 operational.An official of Andaman & Nicobar administration said there was delay in getting the equipment and the plant would be operational by September end. “The slow progress has been due to variety of reasons. Some hospitals where the plants are to be installed are at restoration stage. Once those issues are sorted, we should be able to commission all the plants,” said R Lalramnghaka, Mizoram’s special secretary, health and family welfare.Rajasthan, which has been able to make only 10 of the 51 plants sanctioned functional, has informed the health ministry that all the plants will be running by September 15. A Rajasthan health department official, on condition of anonymity, said, “There was delay on account of manpower issues. We have 12 plants installed and another 15 are under process. Only at four places, the civil work by the state government is pending,” the official said.The other states in the red zone are Chhattisgarh (16%), Madhya Pradesh (20%), West Bengal (20%), Himachal (21%), Bihar (23%), Jharkhand (24%), Tripura, and Meghalaya. A West Bengal official there is some delay in the supply but every day one or two plants are being commissioned. “There would be substantial progress by the mid of September. Work is going on,” the official said.With inputs from bureaus in Jaipur, Kolkata, Guwahati and Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-11-states-less-than-25-of-oxygen-plants-operational-govt-101630091070750.html
28-08-2021||India||Health secretary writes to Kerala govt, asks it to ramp up Covid-19 containment||With Covid-19 cases steadily rising in Kerala, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday sent another letter to the Kerala government expressing serious concern over the situation and listed immediate measures to contain the surge. In the letter addressed to the state chief secretary VP Joy he said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on priority basis and increase tests considerably to check the high rate of transmission. All 14 districts have reported high test positivity rate in the past four weeks and the state continues to report more than half of the total cases of the country, he pointed out in the letter. The Union health secretary asked the state to strictly follow the norms of the Union government on high transmission clusters and strengthen contact tracing measures. All district administrations will have to comply with the accepted norms of home quarantine and there should be an intensive follow up on such cases. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be enforced at any cost and mass gathering should be avoided, he said in the letter. The state has also been asked to enhance genomic surveillance in areas of high transmission and samples of all breakthrough infections (those getting infected after taking both doses) should be sent for detailed genome sequencing tests. He also urged the state to streamline vaccine policy and an action plan for each district will have to be devised. “I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring the five-fold strategy of ‘test, track, treat, vaccinate and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour’ may result in further surge in the state,” he said in the letter. State health minister Veena George was not available for comment. But a senior official of the health ministry said the state has been following these norms after the visit of the central team in the first week of August. Union Health Minister M Mandaviya had also visited the state and held detailed talks with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. Opposition Congress and BJP have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the sorry state of affairs For the third consecutive day the state reported over 30,000 cases which is about 65 per cent of the total cases in the country. On Friday it reported another hike with 32,801 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22 per cent after 1,70,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities taking the death toll to 20, 313. The active cases also increased to 1,95,254, said the state health ministry. Four districts reported more than 3000 new cases-- Malappuram 4032, Thrissur 3953, Ernakulam 3627 and Kozhikode 3362.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secretary-writes-to-kerala-govt-asks-it-to-ramp-up-covid-19-containment-101630090470777.html
28-08-2021||India||Disparity in vaccine coverage in Karnataka worries experts||Despite a considerable reduction in the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka, experts are worried about the disparity in the distribution of vaccines, pointing out that in 20 of the 30 districts, the vaccination is below the state average while six districts reported less than 50% vaccination (single or double). According to the government, so far 3.95 crore people have been vaccinated in the state so far. Out of this, around 3 crore people have received the first dose, while 95 lakh people received the second dose of the vaccination. “In a recent policy change, the Karnataka government had decentralised Covid management, with district government getting more powers. But, in areas where the state government should be active, such as distribution of vaccine, there is a problem,” said a member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who didn’t want to be named. The expert added that the districts with the lowest vaccination coverage are in the underdeveloped northern part of the state. “Bengaluru city (BBMP and Bengaluru urban) has the highest number. Naturally, the capital with the highest population will get preference, but the state of North Karnataka is concerning, especially many districts share the border with Maharashtra,” he added. Responding to the concern, health commissioner Trilok Chandra said that measures provide additional vaccine allocations to districts with a lower vaccination rate. Meanwhile, according to data from the state health and family welfare department, Karnataka has recorded 14,421 Covid-19 infections and 126 deaths among people who have had taken the vaccine, out of which, 11,881 infections and 109 deaths were reported among those who took the first dose, and 2,540 infections and 17 deaths were reported among the fully vaccinated. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said since the number of cases is only a small percentage of the total number of vaccinated, the cases are not alarming. “As per the information, we have less than 100 of these patients required hospitalization. So, vaccination is effective,” he said. For the number of the death reported due to reinfection after vaccination, a senior health department officials said that the co-morbidities of the patients are being investigated. “Most of the deaths have taken place in Mysuru and Hassan. Genome sequencing is being conducted in these districts,” the official added. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru city, which has reported the highest vaccination rate in the state, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has announced that it would allow most commercial establishments in the city to operate, conditional to compliance with Covid appropriate protocols. Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP, said that the commercial establishments must ensure the 100% vaccination of their staff at their own cost. He also said that the first dose of the vaccine must be administered to all employees by August 31. To ensure the compliance of all shops, industries, hotels, and offices, the state government has also asked the employees in these places to keep the proof of their vaccination at the workplace and produce them “as and when required.” It has also warned of legal actions under the Epidemic Disease Act in case of any violations of compliance. BBMP’s decision to resume shops in the city came a day after state health minister K Sudhakar said that more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered so far in Bengaluru. “Bengaluru crossed one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday. Big applause to all those involved in this Largest Vaccination Drive,” he tweeted on Thursday. Karnataka reported 1,614 fresh Covid cases on Friday and 17 more deaths, taking the tally of total infections to 2,944,764 and death toll to 37,248 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disparity-in-vaccine-coverage-in-karnataka-worries-experts-101630090053777.html
28-08-2021||India||Registration drive on as unorganised workers await relief in Karnataka||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday flagged off a registration drive in the state for e-Shram, a union government-led initiative to set up a national database of unorganised sector workers hit hard by Covid-induced lockdowns.The Centre rolled out the scheme on Thursday with an aim to register around 380 million workers from this sector and provide them an e-Shram card, which will help them in availing of benefits of social security schemes being implemented by the central and state governments. Karnataka targets to account for around 10.80 million unorganised workers.Bommai said the state was identifying unorganised workers in the state. “For unorganised workers there was no security of employment, life insurance, health, educational or any other facilities. Along with security of livelihood, they should be paid equally for the same amount of work,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) in Kannada, attributed to Bommai.The registration comes at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state has been accused of not providing adequate financial relief to sections worst hit the pandemic-induced lockdowns.“Be it daily wage earners or agricultural workers, they should be paid adequately for their work,” Bommai said.The statements come at a time when several workers from this sector are yet to receive any financial relief announced by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, totalling around ₹2,100 crore, for those worst hit by the lockdowns.“In the first package we have issued relief only to washermen and barbers. Now we have verified beneficiaries, collected Aadhaar data, de-duplicated names and have sent for the approval to release ₹215 crore from the finance department,” Akram Pasha, Karnataka’s commissioner for labour department, cane development and sugar, told Hindustan Times. “Around ₹60 crore was already paid to some of these sections so far.”Pasha said there were 3 million construction workers and another 1.4 million workers in 11 categories that include washermen, barbers, mechanics and domestic help, among others.However, there were doubts raised if the financial package, ranging between ₹2,000 and ₹5,000 for various sections, was adequate to compensate for loss of livelihood for months, Hindustan Times reported on May 20.The taxi and auto drivers’ association, domestic workers’ association and several others have pointed out that most of their members are yet to receive any compensation.In May last year, Yediyurappa announced a similar financial package of ₹1,610 crore which, among others, was aimed at providing ₹5,000 each to about 60,000 washermen, 230,000 barbers, 775,000 auto and taxi drivers, among others.However, this time around there has been a sharp decline in the number of beneficiaries too, according to the statement by the chief minister’s office.In the case of auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers, a one-time relief of ₹3,000 has been announced for 210,000 beneficiaries from an estimated 775,000 last time around.Senior government officials said that in the first package, authorities could not trace all the beneficiaries accounted for, resulting in reduced delivery of benefits. One of the flaws, people aware of the complexities of the matter said, was that the government failed to recognise that there were more than one driver per auto or car, and more than one from the same profession in the same family.A total of 210,000 auto drivers were given relief across Karnataka last time around when, in fact, there are around the same number of auto-rickshaws in Bengaluru alone.There are no exact statistics on the unorganised workforce in most urban centres in the country mostly due to the lack of any unions, recognition from the government or issue of identification cards, activists and union members said. Among the most vulnerable are domestic workers, who have been forced to remain at home without pay, activists said.The tedious paperwork for just ₹2000-5000 was another hurdle as these beneficiaries have to register on Seva Sindhu, provide a cache of documents including a certificate from the employer (residence of where the domestic worker is employed) or get a signed letter from a gazetted officer.There were reports of touts seeking as high as ₹300-500 commission from unorganised workers to give out relief, raising more questions on the mechanism for relief disbursal.According to government data, out of the total 1,823, 445 applications it received on Seva Sindhu (apart from those already registered) for relief, there were 35,839 from the same family and 1,38,754 rejected applicants.Other eligibility criteria led to a disqualification of 4,17,667 applications, data shows.And of this, only 2,14,731 applicants have received the relief, totalling ₹42.95 crore as another 1,191,047 await their turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/registration-drive-on-as-unorganised-workers-await-relief-in-karnataka-101630090050763.html
28-08-2021||India||Rane resumes yatra, says will expose Shiv Sena||Stepping up his fight against the ruling party in Maharashtra, Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday said that he knew a lot of things about the Shiv Sena and its leaders and warned to bring out all cases “step by step”.Without naming anyone, Rane said he knew who had conspired to throw acid on his brother’s wife a few years ago. “Who ordered the acid attack on my sister-in-law? Are these sanskars (tradition)? I will expose them step by step,” the minister said as he resumed his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Ratnagiri district.In a veiled attack on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the Sena chief, Rane said: “What did one achieve by arresting a Union minister? I will bring out cases step by step.”Earlier this week, the minister was arrested over his remarks that he wanted to slap the chief minister for allegedly confusing the number of years since India got independence during the latter’s August 15 address. He was granted bail by a Mahad court, on a surety of ₹15,000, on the following day.A bitter critic of Thackeray ever since he was expelled from the Sena in 2005, Rane also raised questions over the murders of two Sena workers, Jayant Jadhav and Ramesh More. He also threatened to “expose” the Sena if the latter continued to target him.“The (suicide) cases of Disha Salian and (actor) Sushant Singh Rajput are still under investigation. The law is equal for all and will not tolerate hooliganism. I will start giving back in two days after recovering from a bad throat,” the former chief minister said.Reacting to Rane’s allegations, Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut said he would request the state government to reopen criminal cases related to the Union minister.“While levelling allegations against others, Rane should first speak on the murder of his cousin Ankush Rane, and firing on Chintu Shaikh (office bearer of an outfit headed by Rane’s son Nitesh) in Mumbai. A few years ago, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had read out a list of criminal cases against Rane in the legislative council. We will request the state to investigate them,” he said.After visiting Ratnagiri, Rane proceeded to his home district Sindhudurg to conclude the yatra on August 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rane-resumes-yatra-says-will-expose-shiv-sena-101630089870741.html
28-08-2021||India||AIADMK leader seeks Stalin’s help to restart probe into amma’s death||Amid the ongoing slugfest over the Kodanad heist and murder case, a senior leader of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has brought up another sensitive case – the probe into J Jayalalithaa’s hospitalisation and death. In a social media post on Friday, AIADMK’s three-time MP V Maitreyan asked chief minister M K Stalin to vacate a Supreme Court stay on investigating Jayalalithaa’s death. He cited DMK’s election promise to fast track the investigations. “Every cadre will be relieved if a decision (from the investigation) comes that there was no mystery surrounding her death.” In August 2017, a one-man Justice Arumugasamy commission was set up to probe Jayalalithaa’s death. The commission examined more than 100 witnesses, including bureaucrats, politicians, doctors and nurses from Chennai’s Apollo hospital, where the late AIADMK supremo was admitted for two and a half months. Jayalalithaa died in December 2016. Following her death, factions emerged in the AIADMK and close confidante V K Sasikala, meant to take over the reins, was imprisoned in February 2017, with the Supreme Court convicting her in the disproportionate assets case. O Panneerselvam had rebelled against Sasikala, so she picked Edappadi Palaniswami to be a chief minister while she was going to be away in jail for four years. But Palaniswami and Panneerselvam merged their factions, and one of the conditions laid down by Panneersevam to do so was to conduct a probe into Jayalalithaa’s death. But so far, Panneerselvam hasn’t deposed before the commission. The commission has been embroiled in controversies and has had several extensions to its tenure. Apollo Hospitals, accusing the commission of being biased, went to the Supreme Court challenging the constitution of the commission. In April 2019, the top court stayed further inquiry. The commission has been idle since then.Maiteryan added that he was aware that the DMK government was taking steps to resume the commission’s probe since 90% of the work was complete and sought the chief minister’s help to get the stay vacated and finish the commission’s probe at the earliest. However, this isn’t the first time that Maitreyan, who was propped by Jayalalithaa and has a sourced relationship with AIADMK’s present dual leader of Palaniswami and Panneerselvam, is making such a demand. In 2017, he demanded that the Union government order a probe either by the CBI or by an SIT, or a judicial inquiry into her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-leader-seeks-stalin-s-help-to-restart-probe-into-amma-s-death-101630089636284.html
28-08-2021||India||Health secy asks Kerala to step up measures to contain spread||As virus cases gallop in Kerala, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday sent another letter to the government expressing serious concerns over the situation and listed immediate measures to contain the surge. In the letter, addressed to the state chief secretary V P Joy, Bhushan said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on a priority basis and increase tests considerably to check the high transmission. All 14 districts have reported a high test positivity rate in the past four weeks and the state continues to report more than half of the total cases of the country, he pointed out in the letter. He asked the state to strictly go by the norms of the Union government on high transmission clusters and strengthen contact tracing measures. All district administrations will have to comply with the accepted norms of home quarantine and there should be an intensive follow up on such cases. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be enforced at any cost and mass gathering should be avoided, he said in the letter. The state has also been asked to enhance genomic surveillance in areas of high transmission and samples of all breakthrough infections (those getting infected after taking both doses) should be sent to detailed genome sequencing tests. He also urged the state to streamline vaccine policy and an action plan for each district will have to be devised. “I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring the five-fold strategy of ‘test, track, treat, vaccinate and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour’ may result in a further surge in the state,” he said in the letter. State health minister Veena Geroge was not available for a comment. But a senior official of the health ministry said the state has been following these norms after the visit of the central team in the first week of August. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had also visited the state and held detailed talks with CM Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secy-asks-kerala-to-step-up-measures-to-contain-spread-101630089635104.html
28-08-2021||India||China claims to have given 2 billion jabs to citizens||China has administered 2 billion doses of the coronavirus vaccine, fully inoculating 889.4 million people in the world’s most populous country, the National Health Commission said on Friday amidst concerns over the efficacy of their domestic shots against the Delta variant.Of the total 2 billion doses, half of them have been given in just 10 weeks, according to official figures that are sporadically released by the Chinese government. Beijing said it breached the 1 billion-mark on June 19.In absolute figures and scale, China is far ahead of any other nation in the world. So far, China has fully vaccinated 62% of its total population, more than even countries such as Germany and the United States, that have completely inoculated over 59% and 51% of their populations respectively.More than 889.4 million people have been fully vaccinated in China till Thursday, NHC spokesperson Mi Feng said. Continuous efforts will be made to advance the mass vaccination campaign, Mi told a press conference on Friday, warning against any laxity among people of the country.URGENCY TO VACCINATEAfter a peak in June that was followed by a slight slump in daily vaccinations, China pushed to boost inoculation rates from July, when the highly contagious Delta variant triggered its worst country-wide outbreak since last year.On average, Beijing is currently administering 12.3 million shots per day, according to figures by Our World in Data.At this pace, China is well on its way to fully vaccinate its 1.4 billion-population by end of the year, Beijing’s top respiratory expert Zhong Nanshan said at a press conference earlier this month. He previously said China was targeting to complete vaccinations of 80% of its population by the end of 2021.The outbreak triggered in July is now under control, but authorities have kept up the inoculation campaign.CONCERNSOver the months, there have been questions about the China-made vaccines by -- state-run Sinopharm and privately owned Sinovac -- especially against the Delta variant, which drove the country’s July outbreak.Several officials said many of those infected during China’s July outbreak were already vaccinated, but more details are needed.Both of the vaccines have been approved by WHO, but there have been calls to provide data proving the jabs work against Delta.Phase 3 trials of Sinovac-CoronaVac around the world have reported the effectiveness of vaccine between 50% and 84%. The Sinopharm shot had shown a 78.1% efficacy rate against symptomatic Covid-19 cases in Phase III clinical trials, World Health Organization data showed. However, its efficacy fell to just over 50% against preventing infections, a study conducted in Peru earlier this year. Still, officials from the South American country said the shot is acceptable by WHO standards.WHO recommends efficacy of at least 50% against symptomatic disease before approving a vaccine.Anecdotally, officials in countries that received Chinese doses have also hinted that the vaccines may be less effective against the Delta variant.Indonesian officials said in June that cases of breakthrough infections were seen among doctors and medical workers who were hospitalised despite being vaccinated with Sinovac. Malaysia too announced in mid-July that it would stop using the Sinovac’s vaccine amid concerns about its efficacy.To be sure, most vaccines developed across the world have seen their efficacy decline against the variant, but the lack of data has eroded confidence.Zhong said in July that the vaccines are 100% effective against the Delta variant in preventing severe disease, but did not provide any data.BOOSTER SHOTSChinese President Xi Jinping has also said the country will strive to provide 2 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses to the world throughout this year and offer $100 million to COVAX, the global vaccine sharing programme.Speaking at the NHC press conference in Beijing on Friday, Zheng Zhongwei, an NHC official, said that experts in China have recommended making booster Covid-19 doses available to some groups such as employees at higher risk of exposure to the virus and those who have weak immunity or are aged above 60.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-claims-to-have-given-2-billion-jabs-to-citizens-101630089633476.html
28-08-2021||India||State model is intact: Kerala CM hits back at Oppn||Amid a big surge in virus cases, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday justified the state’s containment strategy and asked critics which model should the state follow if the present one is ineffective. On Friday, the state reported another hike with 32,801 cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22 per cent after 170,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities, taking the death toll to 20, 313. Active cases also increased to 195,254, said the state health ministry. Four districts reported more than 3000 new cases – Malappuram 4032, Thrissur 3953, Ernakulam 3627 and Kozhikode 3362. In the last three days, the state has been reporting over 30,000 cases and it is attributed to the just-concluded Onam festivities. In the wake of high caseload, opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the sorry state of affairs. Earlier, the CM used to hold a regular briefing at 6 pm, but for the last two weeks it was not happening, and the opposition said he was running away from reality. The CM, in an article in ‘Chintha,’ a party-sponsored weekly, said there was a concerted plan to discredit the state and its model of development and exhorted party workers to expose such elements. “There is a discussion that the current strategy is inappropriate. Some people neglect facts and try to create confusion. They are flagging unnecessary controversies to create a smokescreen,” he said in his write-up. He said in the state no bodies floated in rivers, and none died on roads, and nobody has gone to bed with an empty stomach in trying times. But opposition leader V D Satheesan reiterated his charge that the CM was scared to face the press and people. “He can’t justify his doings in a party mouthpiece like this when the state is reeling under the grave situation,” he said. Congress said the whole state was pushed to the ICU due to poor handling of the situation. Meanwhile, state health minister Veena George said 70. 24 per cent of the eligible population in the state (above 18 years) was vaccinated, and out of this, 25.3% received both vaccines. She said though cases show an upward trend situation is under control. “There is no unusual rush in hospitals. Almost 50 per cent of ventilators and ICU beds are vacant,” she said, adding mortality rate remained lowest in the country at 0.5 per cent while the national average was 1.25 per cent. “On May 13, 43,000 cases were reported with a TPR of 29%. Two months later, it came down to 10,000, and TPR was in the 10-12 per cent range. But now, cases are going up again, and it will stabilise soon,” she said. “According to Indian Council of Medical Research, Kerala’s virus undercounting factor is 6% while it is 33% in some other states. In vaccination and testing, it continues its good track record. By Sept 20 we are planning to give at least one dose of vaccine to all eligible people,” she said, adding the Centre has agreed to supply enough doses. Meanwhile, the government has decided to tighten containment measures and decided to impose a complete lockdown on Sunday. The Union Government had asked the two worst-affected states, Kerala and Maharashtra, to impose night curfew to restrict the movement of people. The state is expected to take a call this Saturday in the Covid review meeting being chaired by the CM. The state had lifted lockdown in the last two weeks because of Independence Day and Onam festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-model-is-intact-kerala-cm-hits-back-at-oppn-101630089632983.html
28-08-2021||India||IIT prof alleges irregularity in caste bias probe||An assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, who alleged caste discrimination at the institution, claimed irregularities in the investigation process in an open letter to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday.In the letter, Vipin P Veetil, a 36-year-old assistant professor of economics who resigned citing caste bias in July, said that the head of the department – who was named in his complaint -- was allegedly liaising with members of the investigation committee looking into his claims of caste-based discrimination at the institution. Veetil said that he sent two letters to the institute asking Jyotirmaya Tripathy, the head of the department of humanities and social sciences, to temporarily step down from his position while the investigation is on but didn’t receive a response. Veetil said the situation sent a “wrong signal” to members of the department and might inhibit other faculty members from speaking out. “These features are merely the superficial manifestations of a far deeper rot: the subjugation of truth, justice, and scholarship by caste. A subjugation which is maintained with administrative structures that reproduce themselves,” Veetil wrote, calling for affirmative action within the board of governors and heads of department. Veetil joined the department of humanities and social sciences in March 2019 but resigned on July 1, saying in his resignation letter that he was moving to another institution due to caste bias at IIT-Madras.On August 13, he approached the National Commission for Backward Classes in Delhi and complained that he was denied opportunities due to his caste. Veetil belongs to the other backward class community.“I wrote the open letter because I wanted the minister to know what was going on. The basic principles of natural justice demand that a person accused in the complaint should step down from positions of power during the length of the probe,” he said. In response, IIT-Madras said it did not permit discrimination of any kind, including religion or caste and that there are grievance redressal mechanisms in place for students as well as employees, and the process is initiated promptly when a complaint is received. “Students are familiarised with this during their orientation programme. Faculty join in ones and twos, they meet the dean, director and head of department and are provided documentation on the processes followed in the institute,” the institute said in a statement.“In this instant case too, as soon as a complaint was received, a committee has been constituted to look into it. The committee members, as always, do not include anyone connected with the complainant or the department/individuals against whom the grievance is lodged. The committee is enquiring into the matter and is expected to submit its report shortly,” the statement added. Tripathy couldn’t be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitprof-alleges-irregularity-in-caste-bias-probe-101630089630747.html
28-08-2021||India||Round One to CM Baghel in Chhattisgarh tussle||Bhupesh Baghel appeared to gain the advantage in the tussle for the chief minister’s chair in Chhattisgarh after a marathon meeting with the Congress top brass on Friday, saying that he invited former party chief Rahul Gandhi to visit the state next week and that the latter had accepted.Baghel, who met Gandhi for the second time in three days,said that he had said “everything” to his leader.“There was political conversation, talk about policies, about the state of Chhattisgarh. In the end I requested Rahul ji to come to Chhattisgarh and he accepted. He will come next week.”Asked if he would still be chief minister when Gandhi arrived in Chhattisgarh, Baghel said he had invited him “as chief minister”.The developments came three days after Baghel and his rival for the CM’s chair, state health minister TS Singh Deo, held long meetings with Gandhi, after which Baghel flew back to Raipur, organised a show of strength, and met loyalists. Ahead of Friday’s crucial meeting, at least 45 of the party’s 70 lawmakers also flew to the Capital.Congress leaders involved in the deliberations said during the meeting with Gandhi, Baghel spoke about the achievements of his government and listed some schemes to emphasise his success story before inviting the former party president to Chhattisgarh next week. Also present at the meeting were the party’s party general secretary incharge, PL Punia, and party general secretaries Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and KC Venugopal.Asked about the reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement, Baghel pointed to a public denial by Punia. “Previously, Punia ji had made this clear. Once the general secretary says this, is anything left?”Two Congress leaders pointed out that the show of strength of MLAs by the CM went in Baghel’s favour. “With the BJP aggressively playing the OBC (other backward class) card, the leadership also didn’t want to do anything against the wishes of the MLAs that would help the BJP,” said a senior leader on condition of anonymity.Baghel is an OBC leader.Another leader said that even if Baghel managed to save his seat for now, it would be “necessary to accommodate” Singh Deo suitably.The second leader added, “Singh Deo might be offered a better portfolio and may even be elevated to the deputy chief minister’s position. The other way out is to give Singh Deo a key assignment in the central leadership, but that is unlikely to accepted by a man who wants to be the CM of Chhattisgarh.”The conflict between Baghel adn Singh Deo stems from a reported power-sharing agreement between Baghel and Singh Deo reached in December 2018 when the Congress swept Chhattisgarh with 68 of 90 seats.At the time, four state leaders, Baghel, current state home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, current speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the top post.As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged the front-runner, but fuelled by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo along with Punia and Gandhi reportedly came to a power sharing arrangement.On Thursday, Singh Deo had indicated to the friction between the two leaders when he said that anybody that played on a team, “dreamt of being captain”.His aides said that Singh Deo wanted the Congress to live up to the conditions of the reported power sharing agreement. Singh Deo has been in Delhi for at least a week.Even as Baghel travelled to Raipur on Tuesday night, people close to Singh Deo argued that they did not want to cause a “conflict” between supporters by flying to Raipur.Beginning Thursday night, and then again on Friday morning, more than 45 MLAs, including four ministers and six mayors, left for Delhi. Some MLAs told HT on Thursday that they were going after phone calls from the CM’s aides. A few, however, also said that they had gone independently.On Friday morning, the MLAs met Punia, and later in the evening went to the Congress headquarters where they met general secretary KC Venugopal.Punia and Chhattisgarh Congress chief Mohan Markam issued statements on Thursday night that the “Delhi leadership” had not summoned the MLAs.Talking to the media at Raipur airport before leaving for Delhi, Baghel said Venugopal sent him a message on Thursday confirming a meeting with Gandhi. “As per his direction, I am going there and I do not have more information,” he said.Asked why MLAs were flying to Delhi, Baghel added, “Why can’t they go to meet their leaders? I got a call therefore I am going. Due to the pandemic, nobody could have visited Delhi for a long time and now they have gone to meet leaders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/round-one-to-cm-baghel-in-chhattisgarh-tussle-101630089575634.html
28-08-2021||India||Telangana govt opposes Centre’s funding of Veligonda project in Andhra||The Telangana government on Friday wrote to the Union water resources ministry opposing the Centre’s funding for Andhra Pradesh’s Veligonda project as it supposedly diverts water from the Krishna river outside its basin, according to state government officials.The Veligonda project in Andhra will be undertaken in the Prakasam district with the hope to irrigate drought-affected areas in the districts of Prakasam, Nellore, and Kadapa by diverting floodwater from the Krishna river to the Srisailam reservoir.In a letter dated August 26 to the commissioner, State Projects Wing (ministry of Jal Shakti), Telangana state irrigation department engineer-in-chief C. Muralidhar requested the Centre to verify if the Veligonda project is eligible for funding under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sanchayi Yojna- Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Program (PMKSY-AIBP). “It is learnt that the Veligonda project of Andhra Pradesh is being considered in the list of projects for funding under PMKSY-AIBP during the period 2021-26. … In this connection, it is stated that this project was taken up by erstwhile Andhra Pradesh based on surplus waters of river Krishna and does not have any clearance of CWC,” said Muralidhar’s letter. The letter added that the Veligonda project (taken up in the erstwhile undivided Andhra Pradesh state) is shown as “unapproved project at item 1.10 of Schedule-2, Pg No. 29 Of Gazette notification dated 15.07.2021.” It argued that Telangana has also “vehemently opposed” the same (project).Officials from Andhra Pradesh and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) refused to comment on the matter. Post bifurcation of Telangana from Andhra in 2014, the state was allotted 299 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) out of the total capacity of 811 TMC from the Krishna basin, while the rest was allocated to the latter. Since then, issues between both states about water sharing have been cropping up from time to time, concerning irrigation and drinking water projects at the Krishna and Godavari rivers.The letter from Telangana’s irrigation department comes just days before a crucial meeting between officials from the KRMB and Godavari River Management board (GRMB), along with officials from both states in to be held in Hyderabad on September 1 to discuss modalities and issues concerning the Centre taking over all of the projects under the Krishna and Godavari rivers, which run across both states. The meeting, according to an official from Telangana who requested anonymity, was earlier scheduled for August 27 with an agenda comprising 14 issues but was postponed to September 1. The meeting will essentially discuss the implementation of both the river managements taking over all the projects from both river basins. Earlier on July 15, a gazette notification for the same was passed by the Centre, which stated that the KRMB and GRMB will take control fully from October 14.Moreover, as per the agreement between both states, the KRMB also has to shift to Andhra, while the GRMB will permanently be in Telangana. As of now, the KRMB is in Hyderabad given that it is still the joint capital of both states till 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-opposes-centre-s-funding-of-veligonda-project-in-andhra-101630089575042.html
28-08-2021||India||Delhi schools to reopen in 2 phases from Sept 1||Schools, colleges and other educational institutes in the Capital can resume physical classes in a phased manner from September 1, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday after a decision taken by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on account of a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the city.Delhi added 46 fresh Covid-19 cases and no additional deaths on Friday, according to data from the state government’s daily health bulletin, recording a positivity rate of 0.06%. This number has been below 1% for 89 days, and below 5% for 99 days. The city has added a daily average of 32 cases over the past seven days, and has only 412active cases as of Friday.“The kind of education that can be imparted through physical classes can never be substituted by online classes. So we have decided to allow schools to open,” Sisodia, also the state education minister, said at a news briefing at the Delhi secretariat.“From September 1, all government schools will open for classes 9 to 12, all private schools can also resume classes for 9 to 12 standards. Coaching centres can also start classes for students of 9 to 12 standards,” he said, adding that colleges can also resume physical classes from September 1.While Sisodia said the government will observe the situation for a week before resuming junior classes, a senior DDMA official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the authority has approved classes 6 to 8 to restart from September 8. No decision has been taken on reopening junior classes yet, he added.Soon after the announcement, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “In view of decreasing Covid cases, schools are being slowly reopened in Delhi with complete precautions, so that the learning loss for students can be reduced. We have to bring back life on track and take care of studies as well as health of students.”The government, however, stressed that parents will be forced to send children to school, and online classes will continue for those who opt for them. “No child will be forced to attend physical classes and there will be no compulsory attendance. Consent of the parents will be must for students to attend physical classes,” Sisodia said.Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for schools will be issued in the next few days, he said.Schools in Delhi have been shut since March last year when Covid-19 cases first started rising in the country. Classes resumed for a brief period in January and February this year, but were suspended in April as a brutal second wave (fourth for Capital) of Covid-19 stretched the health care infrastructure to its limits.A statement from the LG office said, “After detailed discussions with experts the need to maintain continued vigil , strict enforcement of COVID appropriate behaviour along with adherence to the strategy of Test, Track & Treat was emphasized... As regards opening of schools it was agreed to by all the members that in the first instance classes 9-12 may be opened (from September 1) subject to strict adherence of the SOPs prepared for the schools by the Education Department. It was emphasized that adequate school preparedness, strict enforcement of SOPs and daily monitoring should be undertaken to avoid any instance of spread of infection in schools.”At present, India’s vaccination drive only covers adults, with just one vaccine – Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D -- getting an approval for administration in children above 12 years of age. Once the vaccination drive opens for children, likely in October, those with comorbidities will be given priority, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) said earlier this week.“We need to ensure that the teachers and the staff are vaccinated. Among children, only the co-morbid and the obese will need vaccination. The infection is airborne, so masking is important. The precautions can include reducing the number of hours, calling students in at staggered timings, and having two shifts of teachers,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College.Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director at Apollo hospitals, said, “Children have already missed out on 18 months of schooling, how long can it continue? The situation has to be dynamic, if cases start going up it has to be switched back to online classes. Schools have to enforce social distancing, masking, and hand washing.”In Delhi, 98% of school staff – both teaching and non-teaching – have received at least one dose of the vaccine. “In the last month, we organised special drives to vaccinate teachers and school staff. Around 98% teacher and other staff in government schools have taken at least one dose of vaccine. Private schools also told the government that the majority of staff is vaccinated,” Sisodia said.There is no official data on the number of teachers who have been fully vaccinated.The decision to reopen schools drew mixed reactions from parents and teachers.The Delhi Parent Association criticised the government’s decision. “We feel that the government is taking the decision to open schools under the pressure of private schools, so that they can collect fees for all items from the parents. The government and schools should take full responsibility for the safety of the children by giving an affidavit in the court. A Covid safety committee should be constituted in schools with parents, who can inspect the school regularly to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour and protocols,” the association said in a statement.Welcoming the decision, Gargi Vidyarthi, whose daughter is a Class 12 student, said, “I am happy that the Delhi government has issued this order. When children are going for holidays and outing, schools are at least safer because they follow Covid-19 safety protocols.”The National Progressive Schools Conference, which has over 120 Delhi schools at its members, said that the staggered classes and smaller groups of students will allow teachers to give more attention to children.“We had only been focusing on practicals till now as per government orders and will now focus on theory classes. Once classes begin, we will conduct tests to assess learning levels of students who will be returning to schools after a long gap. Teaching plans will be developed accordingly,” the organisation’s chairperson Malini Narayanan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-in-2-phases-from-sept-1-101630089572367.html
28-08-2021||India||CM Stalin announces ₹317.4cr package for SL Tamilian refugees||Chief minister M K Stalin on Friday made a slew of announcements in the Tamil Nadu assembly amounting to 317.4 crores for the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in the state, including house rebuilding, basic amenities and educational schemes.The government took the decisions after inspecting refugee camps, Stalin said. As many as 304,269 Sri Lankan Tamils have entered southern Tamil Nadu as refugees since 1983 during the civil war between the Lankan army and the militant group Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), that fought for separate statehood for Tamils. Around 58,822 are living in 108 refugee camps spread out in 29 districts of Tamil Nadu while 34,087 live outside of these camps, Stalin remarked. “I assure you that this government will give them a protected and dignified life,” he told the assembly later on.Stalin also said his government will soon set up a high-level advisory committee, under the minister for minorities and non-resident Tamils’ welfare K S Masthan, to enhance the living conditions of the refugees, and grant them dual citizenship. It was also an election promise of the DMK to urge the Union government to grant citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamils living in India. “Not just Tamils who live here, our government is concerned about the lives of Tamils who live across the world, and we will take care of them,” Stalin said on Friday.To improve living conditions, the state has allocated ₹231.5 crores to reconstruct the 7,469 houses, which were in dilapidated condition in the refugee camps. In the first phase, ₹108.8 crores would be utilised for 3,510 houses. Basic amenities such as electricity, toilets and drinking water will be provided with ₹30 crores. On the education front, Stalin said that the government would offer free education and hostel expenses for 50 Sri Lankan Tamil students living in refugee camps who have been selected for engineering courses. Similarly, the government will also bear expenses for the top five students studying agriculture and engineering courses. The government will also meet the expenses for those who want to pursue higher education. The chief minister also increased the existing scholarships to students pursuing other courses and introduced an employment skill development program for about 5000 youngsters living in camps. A measure to provide ₹25,000 for each of the 300 self-help groups (SHGs) was also initiated. He also announced providing free gas stoves and connections for each family with a subsidy of ₹400 each for five cylinders. The chief minister announced Rule 110 (of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Rules), which was introduced by the late former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to pass suo motu resolutions without holding discussions.Political analysts say that Stalin is addressing the issue of Sri Lankan Tamils given the fact that the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) founded by Tamil nationalist S Seeman soon after the war with LTTE chief V Prabhakaran as their idol has garnered 6.7% votes in the results of assembly elections announced on May 2. NTK is now the third largest party in Tamil Nadu which is a huge leap from the 1% vote share it received in the 2016 assembly elections. “Based on only the Eelam cause, NTK has scored so much so Stalin is also focussing on it,” says political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “Regarding dual citizenship, it is in the hands of the NDA government, but they will not look into it now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cmstalin-announces-317-4cr-package-for-sl-tamilian-refugees-101630089570654.html
28-08-2021||India||Amid power tussle, Rawat seeks to be relieved of Punjab duties||Congress general secretary Harish Rawat said on Friday that he wanted to be relieved of the responsibility of handling Punjab, where a bitter fight between the chief minister and the state unit chief continues to roil the party.Rawat, a former chief minister of Uttarakhand, said he wanted to focus on his home state that goes to the polls simultaneously with Punjab early next year. He is the chief of the party’s election campaign committee in Uttarakhand.“I have discussed the issue with the party national leadership to find a solution to it as I would be majorly focussing on Uttarakhand elections. That solution may include replacing me from the responsibility of Punjab state in-charge if the leadership thinks so,” he told reporters in Dehradun on Friday.The Congress is aiming to displace the Bharatiya Janata Party in Uttarakhand in assembly polls next year.Rawat said that striking a balance between his roles in Punjab and Uttarakhand wasn’t a problem in the digital era. “Sitting in Uttarakhand, I am able to speak to a block president in Punjab through phone which has made the life easier. Also, the distance between Uttarakhand to Punjab is only about 300km which is not to far,” he said. He also met party chief Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. When reporters asked Rawat if he has sought to be relieved as the in-charge of Congress’ Punjab affairs so that he can concentrate on the upcoming polls in his state, the former Uttarakhand CM replied in the affirmative.The senior leader has been at the centre of the infighting that engulfed the Punjab Congress unit since May. He was part of a three-member panel that brokered an interim solution between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh in June and later emerged as the party’s chief troubleshooter in the state.Rawat earlier dropped hints about his wish to be relieved of the Punjab responsibilities during an interview to HT on August 19. “Having the roots of my political life in Uttarakhand, I would be emphasising on the upcoming assembly elections in the state by putting all my efforts to ensure party’s win. I have spoken to the party national leadership to find a solution between my responsibilities of Punjab and my home state for the same,” Rawat had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-power-tussle-rawat-seeks-to-be-relieved-of-punjab-duties-101630089510678.html
28-08-2021||India||Sidhu warns against power being curtailed; aide quits||A combative Navjot Singh Sidhu issued a veiled threat to the Congress as one of his key advisers was forced to quit over controversial remarks on Kashmir on Friday, deepening the party’s factional crisis in poll-bound Punjab.Sidhu’s comments came on Thursday night, hours after his rival, chief minister Amarinder Singh, held a show of strength with 55 of the party’s 80 lawmakers in the state. It appeared to be in response to party general secretary Harish Rawat asking the Punjab Congress chief to remove two of his advisers after their comments kicked up a row.“I’ve conveyed to the high command that if I meet public expectations through the Punjab model, I’ll not let the Congress lose ground in politics for 20 years. But if you don’t allow me to take decisions, I’ll hit back hard,” Sidhu told a gathering of traders and businessmen in Amritsar.“Without having the right to decide, being a mere showpiece is useless,” he added.At the event, Sidhu also indirectly attacked Singh and his policies. “I neither take an oath nor do I promise, but I commit,” he said.Rawat, who is also the Punjab affairs in-charge, downplayed Sidhu’s remarks.“I will see the context in which Sidhu made these remarks. Mr Sidhu is the respected chief of the Punjab unit. Who else has the power to take decisions if not the state presidents?” he said.Singh and Sidhu have been locked in a bitter war for control of the party in Punjab since May.In June, the central leadership brokered a truce and elevated Sidhu to state unit chief overriding the CM’s objections. But the fragile peace was shattered earlier this week when leaders close to Singh and Sidhu publicly attacked each other, throwing the party in turmoil.Since then, both leaders have moved to consolidate support with Sidhu loyalists even saying that they had lost faith in Singh. But on Wednesday, Rawat signalled his support for Singh, telling ministers close to Sidhu that the party will fight the 2022 elections under the sitting CM’s leadership.At the heart of the controversy are the statements made by two of Sidhu’s newly appointed advisers, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg.In a Facebook post last week, Mali said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg criticised Amarinder for attacking Pakistan over Kashmir.Singh immediately condemned the remarks and called them “atrocious” and “anti-national”. Mali later clarified that these were his “personal views” but Rawat told reporters on Thursday that the remarks were totally unacceptable and that he asked Sidhu to remove them. Singh immediately criticised the comments and called them “atrocious” and “anti-national” but Sidhu remained quiet.On Friday, facing increasing criticism both within the party and outside, Mali quit. “I humbly submit that I withdraw my consent given for tendering suggestions to Navjot Sidhu,” he said in a statement on Facebook.Mali did not term it as his resignation and claimed, in another post in Punjabi, that the question of his resignation did not arise as he had never accepted the post.He alleged that Singh and other leaders ran a hate campaign against him.A former government teacher, Mali was a student union leader who turned to journalism before serving as a public relations officer in the chief minister’s office under two different governments. Garg, a former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, is a known social and health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-warns-against-power-being-curtailed-aide-quits-101630089210537.html
28-08-2021||India||Delhi HC notice to Centre over WhatsApp, FB petitions against the new IT rules||The Delhi high court on Friday sought the Centre’s response to pleas by WhatsApp and Facebook challenging the new Information Technology Rules, 2021, specifically the “traceability” provision.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued a notice asking the Centre, through the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), to file a reply on the petition for a stay on the implementation of the rules.Appearing for the Centre, its counsel sought an adjournment saying that the main counsel in the matter was not available. This, however, was opposed by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook, respectively. They said that the Centre should at least file their replies to the petition.The court, while issuing notice, posted the matter for hearing on October 22.In May, WhatsApp moved the high court challenging the IT rules saying that the provision of “traceability” is a violation of the right to privacy according to Indian law. The Facebook-owned messaging service has said that the concept is contrary to the end-to-end encryption policy designed to ensure that messages were strictly private. It said that “traceability” would reveal to whom the message was sent.WhatsApp has urged the high court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Intermediary Rules as unconstitutional, ultra vires to the IT Act and illegal, and sought that no criminal liability be imposed on it for any alleged non-compliance with Rule 4(2) which requires enabling the identification of the first originator of information.Also Read | India notifies Drone Rules 2021, license regulations eased: 10 pointsThe Union government had, however, defended the rules.The government had also stated that while it respects the right to privacy, no fundamental right, including the right to privacy, is absolute.WhatsApp has also contended that “traceability would not be effective in finding the originator of a particular message because people commonly see content on websites or social media platforms and then copy and paste them into chats”. It said that it would also be impossible to understand the context of how it was originally shared.WhatsApp has said that it does not believe traceability can be imposed in a way that cannot be spoofed or modified, leading to new ways for people to be framed for things they did not say or do. It added that such massive data collection also makes messaging platforms inherently less secure by opening up more avenues for hacking.The plea said the traceability requirement forces the company to break end-to-end encryption on its messaging service, as well as the privacy principles underlying it, and infringes upon the fundamental rights to privacy and free speech of the hundreds of millions of citizens using WhatsApp to communicate privately and securely.It said WhatsApp enables government officials, law enforcement, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, scholars, teachers, students, and the like to exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression without fear of retaliation.It said the rule violates the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression as it chills even lawful speech and citizens will not speak freely for fear that their private communications will be traced and used against them, which is antithetical to the very purpose of end-to-end encryption.Facebook has also filed the plea seeking similar relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-notice-to-centre-over-whatsapp-fb-petitions-against-the-new-it-rules-101630088431371.html
28-08-2021||India||Dip in demand, steep fall in prices hit tomato farmers of Maharashtra, Haryana||Wholesale prices of tomato have fallen steeply to a nearly three-year low, as loss-making farmers in Maharashtra and Haryana dumped produce or fed them to cattle, a repeat of a familiar pattern of price volatility.Sliding rates of some vegetables amid record horticulture production point toward a vegetable deflation that could crimp farm incomes, analysts say.In Haryana’s Toshan on Friday, fresh harvests sold ₹50 per crate of 25 kg, or about ₹2 per kg. On the other hand, the price crash had not moved rates much in cities. In Delhi’s retail markets, the vegetable sold between Rs20-30 per kg.India’s headline wholesale price index inflation slowed to 12.1% in June 2021, down 1.8% in June 2020. Vegetable prices stood -8.73% (repeat minus 8.73%), against a -0.78 (repeat minus 0.78%) decline in June, official data show.The current glut, economists say, has to do with the cobweb pattern of agriculture, which means that farmers decide what to grow depending on the previous year’s price realization.India is set to reap its highest ever horticulture crop production at 329 million tonne in 2020-21, a nearly 3% rise in output, according to latest official estimates.Farmers in Nashik, a major trade centre, said they were incurring heavy losses and abandoning their produce because selling rates were not enough to cover even transportation costs. Farmers in Haryana too said they weren’t able to recover costs.According to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, a federal body, a farmer incurs a minimum of ₹4 to grow a kg of tomato on own land. With leased land and hired labour, the cost of growing one kg of tomato can go up to ₹8-10.“Forwarding agents are telling us that Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai wholesale markets have lowered their demand for the past two days between 6-8%. This is the immediate reason for the fall in prices,” said Prakash Kumawat, an official at the agricultural produce marketing committee in Nashik.Nyay Singh, a grower in Chakri Dadri in Haryana, said he had abandoned his entire produce harvested 10 days ago, of about four crates of 25 kg each.Three commonly consumed vegetables – tomato, potato and onion – are prone to frequent seasonal price fluctuations. When prices crash, small growers who can’t afford to hold on to their produce are affected the most. On the other hand, sudden price spirals tend to hit household budgets of consumers.Potato output is set to surge 10.5% over last year’s, while tomato and onion production during the 2020-21 cycle is set to be marginally higher. Official data show onion output will likely be 26.9 million tonne in 2020-21, up from 26.09 million tonne last year. Tomato output is estimated to be 21 million tonne in 2020-21 compared to 20.55 million tonne in 2019-20.“If the production estimates contained in the agriculture ministry’s advance estimates of horticulture are accurate, such a fall in tomato prices are not to be expected, but this year isn’t likely to be good for vegetable growers,” said Ashok Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.Experts say lack of growers can get consistent prices, while consumers can be shielded from price shocks if there’s adequate food processing facilities to make tomato puree. Wholesale prices of tomato have fallen steeply to a nearly three-year low leading loss-making farmers in Maharashtra and Haryana to dump the produce or feed them to cattle, a repeat of a familiar pattern of price volatility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dip-in-demand-steep-fall-in-prices-hit-tomato-farmers-of-maha-hry-101630088254497.html
28-08-2021||India||Mysuru gang-rape: Now, another minister puts blame on survivor||Another Karnataka minister on Friday made a controversial remark while reacting to the Mysuru gang-rape incident, saying the survivor should not have gone to the deserted place, a day after his colleague made a similar statement.“Whether they are a young couple or newly married couples, they should not go to such places at all. We can’t tell everyone not to go there. We can’t keep the police in every single spot and be vigilant. Only when it comes to light can the police take action,” Anand Singh, minister for tourism, environment and ecology, said on Friday.A 22-year-old college student was allegedly raped by five men near Chamundi Hill on the outskirts of Mysuru on Tuesday. The woman and her male friend, who was assaulted by the gang, are undergoing treatment in a private hospital, police said.Reacting to Singh’s remarks, Dr Yathindra Siddaramiah, Congress legislator from Varuna in Mysuru district, said: “We are no one to dictate what time women should go out. It is the government’s job to give everyone protection. Its not their job to see who went where at what time. Instead of making such statements, the ministers should perform their responsibilities.”Singh’s comments came a day after state home minister Araga Jnanendra questioned the timing of the survivor’s visit to the deserted spot where she was gangraped. As the home minister’s comments sparked a war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, he said the opposition party was politicising the issue. “The rape has happened there in Mysuru, but the Congress is trying to rape me. They are trying to gain political mileage in that incident,” he said on Thursday.Jnanendra withdrew his comments on Friday after facing a barrage of criticism, saying he had “no intention to hurt anybody”. “I had withdrawn the statement made earlier on the Congress party leaders. We are committed to ensuring the safety of all sections in the society,” Jnanendra said while addressing a press conference.Shivaram Hebbar, Karnataka’s minister for labour, on Friday, defended the home minister and said: “This is an unfortunate and heinous (crime). It could happen to anyone under any government. It has not happened only when our government is there. Such incidents have happened for years, under the Congress and all governments . This (oppostion balming the BJP) is a political ploy.” .He also said that security measures will be tightened to ensure the protection of all, especially women, in the state. “A police investigation is underway to nab the culprits. The girl is under medical care at a hospital. Security will be tightened further to ensure the protection of all, especially women,” he added.Reacting on the incident, Manjula Manasa, an advocate and former chairperson of the Karnataka State Women’s Commission, said on Friday: “I feel disgusted that despite being an MBA student I don’t know why she came here at that time. That is a mistake too.”Meanwhile, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that the state director general of police, Praveen Sood, will supervise the investigation into the gang-rape case. “The DGP is going to Mysuru. I have directed him to supervise the investigation and crack the case at the earliest,” the CM told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-gang-rape-now-another-minister-puts-blame-on-survivor-101630088189979.html
28-08-2021||India||BCI proposes to frame laws to restrain lawyers’ strikes||The Bar Council of India, the apex regulator for Indian lawyers, has proposed to frame rules to restrain lawyers from going on strike and take disciplinary action against individuals and associations who defy the rule, BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra told the Supreme Court on Friday.The top court sought Mishra’s assistance in July this year to formulate concrete steps to prevent lawyers from going on strike, which it has ruled, was an “illegal act” to obstruct access to justice.Mishra said the proposed rule to curtail strikes by lawyers will be discussed at a meeting of state bar councils on September 4. In addition, he said action is also proposed against advocates who instigate others on social media to go on strike.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah welcomed the proposal.“We appreciate the proactive steps taken by the BCI in this regard. BCI shall file an affidavit in this Court before the next date of hearing,” the bench said before posting the case in the third week of September.The case before the court pertained to an appeal by the District Bar Association, Dehradun which approached the Supreme Court against a Uttarakhand high court judgment that restrained lawyers in the district courts from going on strike.The high court verdict of September 25, 2019, relied on data for the period between 2012 and 2016 to show that lawyers in Dehradun district were on strike for 455 days (on an average 91 days per year) and in Haridwar district for 515 days (about 103 days per year), which seriously affected the functioning of courts and contributed to the pendency of cases.The Supreme Court upheld the high court judgment on February 28, 2020, and took suo moto cognizance of the tendency among lawyers to go on strike despite a clear bar imposed by the Supreme Court. The top court also recalled that BCI also passed a resolution on September 29, 2002, asking lawyers not to go on strike.Since lawyers nevertheless continued to go on strike, the Supreme Court did not close the Uttarakhand case.“Taking a serious note of the fact that despite the aforesaid decisions of this Court, still, the lawyers/Bar Associations go on strikes, we take suo moto cognizance and issue notices to the Bar Council of India and all the State Bar Councils to suggest the further course of action and to give concrete suggestions to deal with the problem of strikes/abstaining of work by the lawyers,” the bench said in its February 2020 order.Section 48 of the Advocates Act empowers BCI to give directions to the State Bar Councils. The 2020 verdict ruled that bar associations of advocates, and not just the advocates, were under the disciplinary jurisdiction of the bar councils.When the court did not get a response from the bar council to its initial notice, the judges sought the BCI chairman’s assistance. Mishra told the court on Friday that state bar councils were unable to meet due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a meeting had been scheduled to discuss the proposed rules next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bci-proposes-to-frame-laws-to-restrain-lawyers-strikes-101630088011122.html
28-08-2021||India||Plan to mount evacuation ops in Afghanistan: MEA||India is considering the possibility of mounting more evacuation flights to bring back nationals still in Afghanistan even as the government has adopted a cautious approach to recognising any new set-up in Kabul in view of the fluid situation there.At least 20 Indian nationals and some 140 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were unable to access Kabul airport to board a military evacuation flight on Wednesday, reportedly due to impediments created by the Taliban. The security situation at the airport has taken a turn for the worse after Thursday’s devastating suicide attack by the Islamic State-Khorasan that killed nearly 100 people, including 13 US military personnel.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi declined to give an exact number for Indian citizens who are still in Afghanistan, saying the figure changes as requests come in from people to be evacuated, though he acknowledged that at least 20 Indians had missed the flight from Kabul on Wednesday.“Our overall assessment is that the vast majority of Indians who wished to return have been evacuated, but of course, some more are likely to be in Afghanistan. I don’t have an exact number for that,” he told a regular weekly news briefing on Friday.Describing the situation on the ground as “very difficult”, he said India is in touch with “various parties regarding when we can mount evacuation flights”.The last evacuation flight had about 40 people, and there were reports that Afghan nationals were facing difficulties in reaching the airport. “Some Indians, say around 20...were also trying to reach [the airport] and as you’ve seen the kind of chaos at the airport, they could not reach. And so our flight had to come without these Indian nationals,” he said.Indian evacuation flights have so far brought back more than 550 people, including more than 260 Indians, from Kabul or Dushanbe. The government has also facilitated the evacuation of Indians through other countries.These evacuation efforts have involved coordination with several countries, particularly the US, which controls Kabul airport, and Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Iran.While the current focus is on the safe evacuation of people, India, like other countries, has adopted a wait and watch attitude on the issue of recognising any Taliban regime in Kabul.“The situation on the ground is uncertain...Currently, there is a lack of clarity or no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun here regarding recognition,” Bagchi said.“We continue to monitor the situation very carefully,” he said, adding there various reports about whether the next set-up in Kabul will be inclusive and whether other elements of Afghan polity will find representation in it.“There is a peace process, and discussions are ongoing now. Let’s wait and see how it develops,” he said.Bagchi reiterated that India will “stand by Afghans who stood by us”, and said a recent incident of an Afghan MP being sent back to Turkey after she travelled to New Delhi on her diplomatic passport was the outcome of “confusion”.After the security situation deteriorated following the Taliban takeover on August 15, groups of people raided one of India’s outsourcing agencies handling Afghan passports with Indian visas.“In the light of the loss of Afghan passports containing Indian visas, our authorities were in a state of high alert,” he said, adding that the resultant confusion led to the “unfortunate incident of denial of entry” to the Afghan MP.Responding to a question on the status of Afghans who enter India through a new emergency e-visa regime, Bagchi said they would be allowed to stay in the country for six months.“We will take it from there...that’s the current plan for six months. This is an evolving situation, I think making long-term plans has not been the best of ideas considering the changes of the last few days,” he said.“India has always been a place where people have come in times of distress, people have come here before this problem started. Discussions are going on to see what can be the modalities, how to deal with Afghans already here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-mount-evacuation-ops-in-afghanistan-mea-101630087712485.html
28-08-2021||Today's||The centrality of OBCs in Indian politics||The politics of backward caste assertion in India is undergoing a new resurgence. The possible culmination of a series of events, mostly unrelated to each other, is likely to transform Other Backward Classes (OBCs) from an administrative category to a political one. And this has the potential to irreversibly change the nature and character of Indian democracy.Let’s trace these events. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s victory in 2014 (and 2019) was not just due to greater consolidation of the upper castes, but also because of the deep inroads the party made among the lower castes, especially among the lower backward castes. The ascendance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has helped the BJP to continue harnessing the electoral potential of these communities.The BJP, for the first time, announced the formation of a national-level OBC Morcha in 2015 to be headed by SP Singh Baghel, recently inducted into the Union Cabinet. In October 2017, the central government announced a commission to sub-categorise OBCs into different groups. The commission, headed by Justice G Rohini, has, since then, received 11 extensions to submit its final report. The mandate of the Justice Rohini Commission, in principle, was based on the rationale presented by the Hukum Singh Committee (constituted by Rajnath Singh as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2001), to distribute the benefits of reservation equitably among the groups comprising OBCs.After this, a series of constitutional amendments were introduced, with important implications for the reservation architecture in the country. The 102nd Amendment Act in 2018 made the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) a constitutional entity. The 103rd Amendment Act in 2019 created provisions for 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections (EWS). The 104th Amendment Act extended the reservations for the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) for another 10 years. And the most recent 105th Amendment Act on August 10 restored the power of states to make their OBC lists.It is in this backdrop that the emerging debate on a caste census needs to be understood. The political consolidation behind the idea of enumerating castes indicates that it is now inevitable. However, it is not clear at the moment who will be the eventual winners and losers from the exercise for a range of reasons.One, a lot will depend on how political jostling shapes the mechanics of the caste census. But equally, there will be a political fallout from other associated demands such as lifting the cap of 50% on reservation, re-organising the status of each caste within their quota group, developing a better framework to identify the creamy layer (a threshold which is supposed to be made up of several indicators, but, at present, is limited to annual income), and perhaps extending reservation to the private sector. These associated demands will not remain limited to OBCs alone. The rise of a new discourse on sub-categorisation among the intended beneficiaries may even cast a long shadow on SC and ST reservations as well as on general category EWS beneficiaries.Two, since the 1990s, many state-level parties have exclusively relied on OBCs as their political base. This has, however, seen a rupture in the past decade. While the BJP received approximately 20% OBC votes in the 2009 general elections and state-level parties around 42%, in the 2019 elections, the BJP’s OBC vote share increased to 44% and the share of state-level parties reduced to 27%. This period witnessed a political fragmentation with the rise of new parties that are exclusively mobilising non-dominant OBC castes. The BJP hopes to cement its political base further with the sub-categorisation of OBCs, while state-level parties such as the Rashtriya Janata Dal hope to emerge as champions of the larger OBC constituency by demanding a caste census.But it is too early to determine who benefits from which demand. The BJP’s hesitation in taking a clear stand on the caste census, or the repeated extensions to the Rohini Commission, makes it evident that the party is unsure of the eventual fallout of a firm decision on any of these fronts. Similarly, state-level parties are nervous as they are aware that contradictions such as the one between dominant and non-dominant backward castes are now out in the open and it will be hard to put the genie back in the bottle.Three, caste enumeration in the census will not only provide a more precise estimate of each group at a very fine-grained geographical level, but also associated information on the socio-economic conditions of each jati. This is likely to result in a million mutinies and multiple demands. This is not to argue that the fear of either should stop the project of bringing the groups, which have not received their fair share, into the mainstream. But it is to recognise that the project of democratising power is often marked by a backlash.The decision to implement the Mandal Commission recommendations in 1989 saw violent protests across the country and several people died. In the second phase too, when OBC reservation was extended to educational institutions during United Progressive Alliance-1, there were marches and demonstrations across university campuses and state capitals. However, given the political consensus among parties on having some sort of reservation architecture, it is not clear whether the backlash will be limited to occasional rhetoric or lead to violence.Four, the Rohini Commission’s initial assessments indicate that among the approximately 2,500 jatis in the OBC list, over 1,000 have no representation at all in the 27% quota. This has also led to a wide disparity in state-level representation in nationally conducted exams (such as IIT-JEE or Union Public Service Commission) to recruit candidates. The Rohini Commission is learnt to have drawn up a proposal to divide the OBC list into four categories. Once the fine-grained caste census becomes available, it will shed light on the intra-OBC differences in access to benefits. This may well open up a discussion, depending on the emerging OBC sub-categorisation discourse, on re-designing the formula for implementation of reservation policies for SCs and STs (remember Nitish Kumar’s politics of positing Mahadalits against the Paswans or the BJP’s gambit of positing non-Jatav Dalits against Jatav Dalits).Finally, while caste has remained a primary marker of socioeconomic status and access to opportunities, social justice demands have to be rooted in the emerging political economy realities and challenges, even as they change them. The emerging discourse will not only reignite the debate on the basis of citizenship — individual or group-based. This may also lead to a renewed demand to tinker with the current electoral system too — moving from a first-past-the-post system to a more proportionate representation model.As India celebrates its 75th anniversary of Independence, it is time that we must re-formulate our social contract for a more egalitarian power-sharing arrangement, especially with the thousands of invisible communities who make up the bulk of our population. However, we must be prepared to deal with the brewing million mutinies that might come along the way.Rahul Verma is fellow, Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New Delhi.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-centrality-of-obcs-in-indian-politics-101630162358789.html
28-08-2021||Today's||Are we entering a new phase of Covid-19?||With news from Afghanistan dominating the headlines, it’s no surprise that it’s completely captured our attention. A tragedy of this horrific dimension can be riveting. What’s less explicable is that our 18-month-old concern about Covid-19 has been almost forgotten. No doubt, for many, that’s a relief. But the news on this front is good and needs recognition. It’s something to cheer about.The facts are convincing. After weeks, when daily cases seemed to plateau at 40,000 levels, the latest seven-day average shows they’ve fallen below 34,000. The R Number, which crossed 1.2, has reduced to 0.9. Even in Kerala, where the daily tally of cases is half the national total, and the positivity rate in all 14 districts has crossed 10%, the seven-day average has stabilised. Onam, no doubt, has set that back, and though cases have increased, hospitalisation has not.So, is India, at last, exiting the second wave? And are we entering a new phase of Covid-19? Dr Soumya Swaminathan, the World Health Organization’s chief scientist, clearly thinks so. “India could have reached some sort of stage of endemicity”, she says. That sounds carefully worded and measured until you hear the rest of her comment. “It’s very feasible we may continue like this with a few local but not severe ups and downs…that’s what seems to be happening.” That could explain Kerala.Now, the endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus. It’s very different to the epidemic stage when a virus overwhelms a population. In our case, what could have propelled us to endemicity is the massive second wave of April-May, which left behind seropositivity levels of 68%, and the fact that over 600 million people have received a single dose of a vaccine.So how does Swaminathan view the fear — it’s much more that than a probability — of a third wave? “No one has a crystal ball and it’s impossible to predict a third wave”, she says. Politely but firmly, she contradicts the voices forecasting when it will happen, who it will affect and how severe the impact will be. “One cannot say with certainty when, where and how bad it will be.” Actually, before all of that is the question: Will there be one? Swaminathan’s viewpoint suggests India could experience local or regional ups and downs, but it’s unlikely to see a nationwide third wave similar to the second wave.Swaminathan is also clear about the possible danger lurking in the future for unvaccinated children. It’s quite possible they could be infected in larger numbers than earlier, but they are unlikely to fall seriously ill. Of course, we must prepare for this, but there is no cause for panic. Some of the ill-informed forecasts, both now and earlier, have created unwarranted alarm.Meanwhile, when, not if, India reaches United Kingdom (UK) levels of vaccination, ie 75% of the adult population — which is, of course, way short of the government’s seemingly unachievable target of fully vaccinating every adult before the end of 2021 — India will also be “reasonably secure” as the UK seems to be today. Infections won’t stop, but instances of serious disease will be far fewer, and hospitalisations limited.Finally, what Swaminathan believes could be happening in India could also be the future that lies ahead for the rest of the world. I’m putting it simply, but not, I hope, simplistically. She believes — actually, the verb she used was hopes — Covid-19 will convert from its present epidemic status to an endemic one, as vaccinations spread across the world and people continue to observe Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.“We cannot reasonably hope to eliminate or eradicate the virus”, she says, “but in a year or so, perhaps by the end of 2022” we could see the virus take on a form we can more easily — that doesn’t necessarily mean happily or, even, willingly — live with. However, at that point, it’s also possible it may not be much more threatening than influenza.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/are-we-entering-a-new-phase-of-covid19-101630162178396.html
28-08-2021||Today's||Remembering Aurobindo and his quest for unity||We are now being encouraged to look back on the horrors of Partition on the eve of Independence Day. But in a message broadcast on All India Radio on August 14, 1947, the day before the country was divided, one of the most prominent philosophers and yogis of his time, Sri Aurobindo, saw hope in the Indian belief in the unity of all things.Aurobindo was born in Bengal, but educated at a British public school and then later, Kings College, Cambridge. He returned to India and entered the service of the Gaekwad of Baroda. From there, he moved to Kolkata (then, Calcutta) and joined politics because he wanted to establish a movement demanding Independence in place of “the futile ambling Congress methods then in vogue”. He was arrested and jailed. On receiving intimation of another arrest, and this time, deportation, he moved to Puducherry (then Pondicherry), which was a French colony at the time. He spent the last 40 years of his life there, evolving his philosophy through writing and yoga.In his broadcast message, Aurobindo described five dreams he had for India’s future, which unfortunately was overshadowed by Jawaharlal Nehru’s tryst with destiny speech. I was only reminded of these when I was invited to take part in a webinar this Independence day. It was arranged by Auroville, a universal city in the making, near Puducherry, dedicated to the idea of human unity, based on the vision of Aurobindo and his collaborator known as “The Mother”.The theme of Aurobindo’s message which struck me was unity. Not surprisingly, bearing in mind the timing of the broadcast, he dreamt first of reuniting India. That has not been fulfilled, and in the present climate, it might be considered anti-national to even think of it. But is it anti-national to dream, as Aurobindo also did, of “increasing recognition of the need for peace concord, and common action” in Indo-Pakistan relations?Aurobindo’s dream of a World Union has also not been fulfilled. It could be argued that the world has become more united over the last 74 years, but, at this time, the need for greater unity is particularly obvious. Countries must be united to make the Glasgow climate conference a success. United States President Joe Biden moved to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord after he was sworn in. His climate envoy, John Kerry, said that the Glasgow conference is “the last best chance to avoid the worst consequences of the climate crisis”.Having sat back and watched helplessly as the Taliban swept back to power in Afghanistan, G7 nations, are scrambling to try and formulate a united stand to prevent this regime, like its predecessor, from committing human rights abuses and sheltering international terrorists.The last two dreams of Aurobindo were about India giving its spiritual gifts to the world. He believed “more and more eyes are turning towards her (India) with hope and there is even an increasing resort not only to her teachings but to her psychic and spiritual practice”. That, I believe, continues today. In a collection of essays called The Renaissance in India and Other Essays On Indian Culture, he wrote, “In the larger ideas of it (spirituality) that are now coming on us even the greatest religion becomes no more than a broad sect or branch of the one universal religion.”So, even in the tragedy of Partition’s disunity, when religion was taken as a justification for hideous violence, Aurobindo held on to his faith in unity. Furthermore, he maintained that unification was “a necessity of nature, an inevitable movement which only human imbecility and stupid selfishness can prevent.” Unfortunately, there is still no shortage of imbecility and selfishness today.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/remembering-aurobindo-and-his-quest-for-unity-101630162175387.html
28-08-2021||Today's||In Afghanistan 2001, as ‘doctors from India’||The 9/11 attack shook the world, and the United States (US)’s retaliation to it was swift and decisive. India had been quietly supporting the Northern Alliance, a key local component in the battle against the Taliban, and had set up a field medical facility for the rebels in Tajikistan’s Farkhor in the 1990s. After the Taliban’s defeat, it was decided to offer medical assistance in Afghanistan, and defence teams were sent to set up medical centres. An Indian Army team was sent to Kabul, and an Indian Air Force team to Mazar-e-Sharif.These teams usually comprise a surgeon, a physician, and an anaesthetist. Our mission was shrouded in secrecy, and we were told not to disclose our defence backgrounds. We were simply “doctors from India”. We left Delhi on December 2, 2001. Since there were no flights into Mazar, we flew into Tashkent, and from there, our ambassador took us by road, accompanied by KGB agents, to facilitate security clearances. We were first received by the Hazara leader, Muhammad Mohaqiq, and his soldiers at Hairatan. Then we went to Mazar, 70 km away. The following day, we moved to the foreign service guesthouse, which was our residence for the next couple of weeks.Having met Mohaqiq, the next part of our mission was to meet the two other warlords of Mazar — Uzbek leader Abdul Rashid Dostum and Tajik leader Mohammad Atta Noor. Our ambassador took us for a formal presentation to each of them, and then, he returned to Tashkent. Our “umbilical cord” with our parent had now been cut. We were at the mercy of our new custodians in this alien, insecure land, to fend for ourselves.We decided to hit the ground running. Instead of setting up our establishment, we acquired a section of the region’s main hospital, Mazar General Hospital, and established our medical facility there. A quick survey of the health care facilities, however, left us disappointed. Given the scarcity of infrastructure and the poor quality of doctors, we used our resources to set up an operation theatre and outpatient department.I was soon performing a range of surgeries, some of which had never been performed before in the region. As our popularity grew, more patients flocked to the “Indian doctors”. Most of the local doctors didn’t know English and were reluctant to join us. But some young doctors knew a bit of English and were keen to learn. We gladly took them under our wing.After doing our due diligence, we then chose an abandoned barrack within the hospital premises as our living quarters. We made modifications to render them suitable for living, and moved in two weeks later. One of the locals was even kind enough to give us a TV and a CD player. They all were fond of Indians and were huge Bollywood fans, with shops full of Hindi movie CDs for hire. This was an oasis in our social desert.None of us knew how to cook, but we were lucky to find a local septuagenarian who fit the bill — he knew a bit of English and could cook. But provisions were hard to come by. And so, we made ourselves feel better by making minor “variations” to our menu. For lunch, we usually ate “tomato and potato”, and for dinner, we had “potato and tomato”. Breakfast was always Maggi noodles.With work and our basic living taken care of, we now confronted our next issue — social survival. Our only lifeline was our ambassador at Tashkent via a satellite phone. He would charge our account from Tashkent and inform us, permitting each of us five minutes of talk-time per week with our families in India. We were also instructed to be careful in our interactions, stay neutral and not be perceived as close to any warlord or group.I went into Afghanistan full of fear and apprehension. However, following my return, whenever I reminisce about my time there, I have nothing but fond memories, all the travails notwithstanding. I remember how much the locals appreciated us and our work. It, in its own way, reaffirmed my faith in God. My country honoured me with a presidential award, the prestigious Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM), in recognition of my meritorious services there. Dr (Group Captain) Deepak Rautray is a surgical oncologist The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-afghanistan-2001-as-doctors-from-india-101630162062407.html
