29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Forces behind farmers’ stir want to derail economy of Haryana: Dushyant||Advising Haryana farmers to understand the murky politics behind the ongoing stir against Centre’s three farm laws and why Haryana remains the epicentre of the protests, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday the only objective of the agitation is to destabilise the state, derail its economy and destroy its robust agriculture.Asking the peasantry to understand why this movement has not crossed into neighbouring Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, the deputy CM while addressing the media said some people of Punjab are creating law and order problems in Haryana.Upcoming assembly elections in Punjab and UP are another reason behind some forces desperately trying to keep the stir alive, he said.“Gullible farmers of Haryana are being used by outsiders as a shield to run the agitation and the state peasantry should see-through such nefarious designs of the anti-Haryana elements,” he added.“Majority of the 40 leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, spearheading the agitation, are from Punjab and UP but highways are blocked in Haryana. Why?” Dushyant said, accusing Congress of adopting ‘shoot and scoot’ policy.“Why is Haryana the epicentre of the agitation? Why are there no road blockades in Punjab and UP after Saturday’s developments in Haryana? It’s because they want Haryana to remain in turmoil so that its economy and agriculture can be weakened,” he said.Action will be taken against Karnal SDM for telling cops to ‘break farmers’ heads’: DushyantCondemning Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha’s instructions to the police to “break the heads of the protesters if they breach the cordon to reach the BJP meeting venue”, he said that action will be taken against the IAS officer.“What the officer is saying in the video clip does not meet the ethical standards that an IAS officer is expected to maintain,” Chautala said.Responding to a question on police crackdown on farmers in Karnal that left a dozen-odd farmers injured, the deputy CM said: “Equally unacceptable was the aggression shown by the farmers when they attacked cops with agricultural implements.”“Farmers, in the garb of the agitation, stopping political programmes and not allowing the public to move is bizarre. What is their agenda?” he said.The deputy CM said what is the objective of the ongoing agitation when Haryana has been procuring foodgrains smoothly and giving MAS, besides opening new mandis.“Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and later his successor Navjot Singh Sidhu have repeatedly praised agriculture practices of Haryana, admitting that agriculture in Punjab has failed due to flawed policies. It is also due to this reason that some people in Punjab are causing an unrest in Haryana,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forces-behind-farmers-stir-want-to-derail-economy-of-haryana-dushyant-101630261787462.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Curbs likely in districts with high Covid-19 positivity rate||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,666 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing its count to 6,456,939. The tally of active cases slightly increased to 52,844 as 3,510 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours.State health minister Rajesh Tope said they will follow the directives issued by the central government. On Thursday, the central government suggested to the state government to impose restrictions in districts where the test positivity rate is higher during upcoming festivals. He also said they are working on to vaccinate all teaching and non-teaching staff by September 5, which will be their first step towards reopening schools in the state.The state saw 131 casualties and the total fatalities now stands at 137,157. Pune reported the highest toll with 24 deaths. Of them, 21 were found in the district and the rest three in the city. It was followed by Solapur and Satara with 18 fatalities each.As August is coming to an end, the daily cases continue to remain stagnant in Maharashtra. Despite relaxations granted by the state government, no significant change was observed as daily cases remained between 4,000 and 5,000 cases. Going by the trend, the state is likely to report around 1.5 million this month, which is much less than what was recorded last month.Till Saturday, the state had reported 145,333 cases, compared to 226,29 reported in the corresponding period last month. The total cases reported in July were 239,854 and in June 316,283 cases were reported.The health minister said that they need to be very careful as many festivals are lined up, which may lead to a spike in cases that has happened in Kerala. “Onam led to a spike in cases in Kerala, considering this we also need to be careful as many festivals are lined up in the coming months such as Gauri Ganpati, Dussehra and Diwali. This is the reason the central government issued the guidelines, which will be followed by the state. The final decision will be taken by the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray),” Tope told reporters in Jalna on Sunday.“Even though the trajectory of daily new cases has shown a decline over the last month, there are some districts in Maharashtra which are showing early signs of upsurge in Covid-19 cases and test positivity… In view of mass events and public gathering expected during celebrations of upcoming festivals (including Dahi Handi and Ganesh Utsav) in Maharashtra, it is advised that the state may consider imposing and enforcing local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and mass gatherings,” stated a letter written by Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare on August 27.Tope said that they have directed the state administration to complete vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff by September 5. “We have asked to complete the vaccination drive of teaching and non-teaching staff by September 5. They have also been told to hold a special drive for the same, if required,” he added.He said that this is a first step towards opening the schools and further decision will be taken after holding deliberations with the state task force.Maharashtra is the state with highest number of Covid-19 cases. Now, it also has maximum Delta plus variant cases.On Sunday, Mumbai clocked 345 cases and reported a total 743,499 cases till date. It also recorded two fatalities taking the toll to 15,974.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 203,210 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.29%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 12.03%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state also vaccinated only 111,774 people on Sunday and has administered a total 57,165,318 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-curbs-likely-in-districts-with-high-covid-19-positivity-rate-101630261671789.html
29-08-2021||Other||Deepender Hooda seeks action against Karnal SDM over Saturday’s lathicharge||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Sunday condemned Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha’s instructions to the police to “break the head of the protesters” during the farmers’ protest in Karnal on Saturday, and demanded action against him.Interacting with the media in Bhiwani, Hooda said, “The use of such words by an SDM-rank official against farmers, who are protesting for their rights for the last nine months, are unacceptable and the government should take strict action against him.”“The instructions given by the IAS officer shows how much the government respects the farmers and how much it is concerned for them,” he added.Hooda was referring to a video clip in which the SDM can be seen briefing cops on how to stop protestors from marching towards the venue of BJP meeting.“I’m the duty magistrate and I’m giving you these instructions in writing. Hit them with your cane straightaway. Any doubt? Will you hit them? Will you let them cross this barricade? There is no doubt, no confusion,” he had said in the video.“The next government will be of pro-farmers and the officers who think of democracy as a rule of ‘lathi tantra’ will have to give answers for their actions,” Hooda said.“Such words were said by the officer after getting patronage from the BJP-JJP coalition,” the Congress MP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deepender-hooda-seeks-action-against-karnal-sdm-over-saturday-s-lathicharge-101630261663151.html
29-08-2021||Other||FIR against 3 over Madurai flyover collapse||Police on Sunday filed an FIR against three people in connection with the collapse of an under-construction flyover in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai district which led to the death of a construction worker. Tamil Nadu’s highways minister blamed the contractor for callousness. A case has been registered against project in-charge Pradeep Kumar Jain, engineer Satendra Verma, and hydraulics machine contractor Baskaran under sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of IPC, said an official in Madurai. Finance minister and Madurai MLA Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and state highways minister EV Velu along with district officials reviewed the situation. Velu told reporters that the accident happened due to the carelessness of the contractor. “This was an accident that was avoidable,” Velu said. The flyover has been under construction for the past two years as part of the Madurai-Natham four-lane highway project Rs. 545 crore monitored under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and is to be completed in April 2022. To ascertain the cause of the accident, he said that they have to probe if there has been a malfunction in the hydraulic machine as a thread had been found broken. “This flyover isn’t under the Tamil Nadu government. This is fully under the union government under SagarMala Project and the NHAI is monitoring it and allocating funds for it,” said Velu. “But our people are going to use this flyover. Our officials reached the spot within 15 minutes.” The minister said that no safety measures were followed. “This is entirely the contractor’s fault. No one else can be blamed. The contractor should have put an engineer on the site to supervise the labourers.”The accident happened on Saturday evening when a portion of an under-construction flyover collapsed at Narayanapuram in the district. One of the guest workers, identified as Akash Singh from Uttar Pradesh, succumbed to his injuries. The state highways minister has instructed the district collector to review the situation on site by bringing a team from National Institute of Technology (NIT)-Trichy to submit a report so that the state government along with NHAI can decide on further course.The highways minister added that after the DMK formed the government in May, a team has been set up to study road projects to report cases of negligence following which contractors were issued notices. The complainant in this case is the NHAI’s team leader for the project A Anilkumar. “Before the end of the week, the NIT team will submit a technical report that will reveal the cause of the accident based on which we will take further action,” said a police official of the Tallakulam police station where the case is registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/firagainst-3-over-madurai-flyover-collapse-101630261661362.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to come up with revised OTS policy for building violations||The Punjab government has decided to come up with a revised one-time settlement (OTS) policy for non-compoundable building violations.The state local government department has prepared a draft policy, “The Punjab one-time voluntary disclosure and settlement of building constructed in violations of the building bylaws policy, 2021”, after incorporating suggestions of all stakeholders, including municipal corporations, councils, nagar panchayats and improvement trusts. The earlier policy was conceptualised and notified during the tenure of former local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, but was put in abeyance after Brahm Mohindra took charge in June 2019. Mohindra then termed the policy faulty and asked officials to revise it before re-implementing it. The policy was held back as it received a lukewarm response. The new draft policy aims to keep check on non-compoundable building violations so that they could be corrected once the policy is notified, said an official aware of the development. “It will provide people the opportunity to get their unauthorised residential and commercial units regularised by paying composition fee, which has been slashed by 25% than the previous notified policy,” the official said. The regularisation policy is meant to ensure that the existing unauthorised buildings were aligned with parking, fire and safety standards, as it was no longer feasible for the government to demolish such structures.Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said all formalities have been completed and the draft policy has been sent for legal noting.“After going through the suggestions from stakeholders, we have redrafted the earlier policy so that maximum people can be benefitted. The notification related to the fresh policy will be out soon,” Mohindra said.Under the new policy, an applicant will have to make structural changes in the building, if required, to fulfil the requirement of fire safety and parking within two months from the date of submission of details and will also submit mandatory clearances from other departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-come-up-with-revised-ots-policy-for-building-violations-101630261542319.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC pulls up state, MSRTC for plight of ST bus commuters||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently pulled up the ministry of transport and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) over the condition of State Transport (ST) bus stands and depots across the state. After being informed of lack of facilities such as drinking water, nursing rooms, toilets, unhygienic kitchens and absence of sufficient police personnel which affects the hygiene and safety of commuters, through a public interest litigation (PIL), the HC expressed its displeasure and asked the authorities to respond to the grievances raised on behalf of 8 million commuters who travel by ST buses every day. The division bench of justice VK Jadhav and justice Shrikant Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by activist Mukesh Rajesh Bhatt on August 25, was informed by advocate AP Lohade of the various lacunae in the services being provided by MSRTC at its depots and bus stands. Lohade also informed the bench of the total lack of security and unhindered access to unauthorised travel agents on MSRTC premises which resulted in the abduction of a disabled boy who was later found murdered away from the depot. The PIL also highlighted lack of medical facilities.The petitioner stated that after the murder of the boy, he had conducted a survey of various bus stands and depots across the state and had taken photographs of the facilities and MSRTC canteens within the depots which showed food was unhygienic and not fit for consumption. Lohade added that apart from this, depots also lacked clean drinking water. He submitted that despite usual commuters on ST buses belonging to the lower strata of the society including the elderly and women from rural areas, there were no nursing rooms nor any stand-by ambulances stationed at bus stands and depots which is a standard requirement at these places. He added that provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act that mandated having basic first aid kits on every public transport bus was also flouted. While submitting that nearly 80% commuters his client had spoken to had expressed dissatisfaction, Lohade sought an urgent intervention of HC to alleviate the troubles of the commuters. After hearing the submissions and perusing the outcome of the survey and other documents placed on record, the bench said, “We are aware that most of the travellers in public transport buses are poor persons having no voice to raise their dissatisfaction against the so-called facilities provided by the respondent – MSRTC – at various bus stands. Further, we are shocked to see security lapses, which not only resulted in the earlier incident as pointed out by the petitioner, but also the recent incident in which one woman traveller was assaulted by a private travel agent with a knife, when she refused to board his private vehicle.”Holding that MSRTC and the road transport ministry were answerable for the lapses, the court asked the state and MSRTC to respond and posted hearing of the PIL to September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-pulls-up-state-msrtc-for-plight-of-st-bus-commuters-101630261541214.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 4 held for impersonating ED officials, extortion||:The Delhi Police on Thursday arrested four people from Delhi, who impersonated officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and sent fake notices to people on behalf of the agency to extort money from them.Police said one of the arrested men, identified as Santosh Rai, is a habitual cheat allegedly involved in over 30 cheating cases registered in Delhi and other states, such as Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh, over two decades. Police said Rai produced a South Indian movie titled “Godse” with the money he earned from his criminal activities. However, the movie was never released. He was previously running an admission racket, in which he duped aspirants seeking MBBS seats in leading medical colleges across the country, said police. Rai was arrested for his involvement in running many such fake MBBS admission rackets in south Indian states and Delhi in the past. Police said a Saket court also sentenced him to one-year rigorous imprisonment in a case registered against him in 2008. In the present case, Rao was impersonating a special regional officer named Rajeev Singh in the Central Region Office of the ED, and sent a notice under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act to a customs clearing agent from northeast Delhi, demanding ₹50 lakh to settle the matter. However, no such officer named Rajeev Singh was there in the agency, said a senior police officer associated with the investigation.“Rai posed as an ED official and issued a notice to the customs clearing agent, with the intention of extorting money from him for “settlement” of a fictitious case,” said an ED officer, who did not wish to be named. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj said earlier this month, the crime branch received a complaint from the ED, which alleged they had received several complaints about a person who impersonated an ED officer and extorted money from people after sending fake notices on behalf of the agency. “Preliminary enquiry revealed the fake notices were sent using some apps to spoof e-mails from NIC mail and calls were made from different government office numbers to terrorize the victim. A case was registered and teams were formed to nab the frauds,” said Bhardwaj.Investigators said the customs clearing agent, who was one of the complainants, was convinced to tell the suspects that he was ready to settle the matter and pay the first instalment of ₹7 lakh. It was decided that the money will be delivered near the Parliament Street police station in central Delhi on August 26.The teams of the ED and the Delhi Police’s crime branch laid a trap and the caught two men when they arrived to collect the money. One of them was Rao, and the other was Bhupender Singh Gusain, who posed as a lawyer. Their interrogation led to the arrest of their associates--Kuldeep Kumar and Sanjay. All four are in their forties, said police. “Their interrogation revealed that one Afzal Ahmed, who is out on parole, hatched the conspiracy with Kuldeep, Sanjay and one Arjun Raghav, who further included Rai in it. Rai roped in one Aakash Chauhan, who is a cyber fraud expert,” said the DCP. Police said Sanjay, who makes projector screens for a living, ran his business from a rented property owned by the customs clearing agent. It was Sanjay who asked the other gang members to target his landlord. His role was to monitor the activities of the customs clearing agent after he receives the notice and the calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi4-held-for-impersonating-ed-officials-extortion-101630261366378.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Institutions should do research in the midst of regular patient care’||As the Covid-19 pandemic in India may be entering an endemic stage, vaccines will continue to be the mainstay to deal with this viral disease. While that covers the prevention aspect, definite treatment options still elude the medical community, prompting the urgent need to boost indigenous research and investment in scientific processes. Hindustan Times spoke to Dr Sanish Davis, president of Indian Society for Clinical Research, on the research landscape in India or the lack of it. Edited excerpts:Could India have done better in Covid-19 clinical trials and research? It would be easy to say we could have done better but we must look at the Covid-19 trials against the backdrop of the entire clinical trial environment in the country. In 2019, the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules were announced in India, a development that created a more robust regulatory framework for the conduct of clinical trials in the country. Prior to that, clinical trials in India faced very challenging times with activism, misinformation and regulatory uncertainty, resulting in a significant drop in clinical trials done in the country. Clinical trials were beginning to pick up but the pandemic hit and it temporarily halted this progress. The focus turned more towards Covid-19 trials and rightly so. In 2019 we were doing around 4% of global clinical trials in India and that number has since dropped to less than 2% overall (industry-sponsored Covid and non-Covid research). India has the second-highest population in the world and the highest disease burden; so, the percentage of clinical trials in India is nowhere near what we should be doing. However, we must also take pride in the research and development work being done in India in the fight against the pandemic which has resulted in the discovery and development of both drugs and indigenous vaccines.Is the Indian scientific community well equipped and trained to design and conduct good quality clinical trials?India has an abundance of high-quality research talent, world-class sites, a large and diverse patient pool and perhaps one of the most stringent clinical research regulatory environments in the world. Ultimately, the real quality of our research will be demonstrated in audits and inspections, and I am happy to say the findings of such inspections will validate the high quality of clinical research being done in India. What are the shortfalls or areas of concern in the Indian clinical research environment? More than shortfalls, we see opportunities. The pandemic has helped us look at clinical trials in a new paradigm and highlighted the importance of two major aspects — how digital adoption can advance and hasten the clinical trial process without compromising on quality, safety or patient centricity, and how collaboration across stakeholders will aid safe, secure and conducive ecosystem of trials. Institutions should be sensitised about the importance of doing research in the midst of regular patient care. There is also a need to reach out to a vast swathe of population to help them understand the importance of clinical trials. A recent opinion piece in the British Medical Journal highlighted fake trials or what are known as zombie trials. What is the extent of such fraudulent trials in India? In most cases, fake or zombie trials can be traced to independent trials. However, the number of such trials is almost negligible. Much like any other service industry, you will have players operating at both ends of the spectrum and it is important to note that fake or zombie trials are clearly an exception rather than the norm. There are two broad types of clinical trials — regulatory and academic. Regulatory clinical trials require three main components — approval of the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) or Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), scrutiny of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) for approval to conduct the trial and registering the trial in the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI), an open-source public information platform hosted at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Medical Statistics. Due to the above protocols, the chances of a fake trial or unsupervised trial are highly unlikely. Most countries have a debarment list, a kind of blacklist that features researchers or organisations that have indulged in fraudulent practices. Isn’t it important for India to have such a list? Undoubtedly, a blacklist or a debarment list is important and required. In the US, a debarment list is maintained by US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). This list is accessible to pharmaceutical companies and contact research organisations to verify if an investigator they want to work with is on the list. In India, the National Medical Commission (erstwhile Medical Council of India) for academic studies and CDSCO for regulated trials should maintain a debarment list. CDSCO does regulatory inspections at sites and hence they are well placed to constitute, review and update the list. This will increase the confidence in the clinical research ecosystem in India and will also ensure an additional layer of checks and balances for all stakeholders of clinical research, including patients. What has been ISCR’s contribution to encourage and promote good quality research during the pandemic?The pandemic has played a catalytic role in driving more digital adoption. We have collaborated not just with the regulators but also with all stakeholders to embrace these new changes through workshops, direct discussions and training sessions. The opportunity to do things virtually has also led to an incremental increase in the number of training sessions and webinars organised by our various councils which have been extremely well received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/institutions-should-do-research-in-the-midst-of-regular-patient-care-101630261364562.html
29-08-2021||Other||Son-in-law, 3 grandsons arrested for elderly man’s murder in Lko suburbs||Lucknow Four people (three grandsons and a son-in-law) were arrested on Sunday for the murder of 75-year-old Gopi Kashyap, who was found lying dead on a cot outside his house in Juggaur village under Chinhat police station on Saturday morning. The motive behind the murder was monetary gain. One of his three daughters Ritu Kashyap had lodged an FIR of murder against unidentified assailants, as blood was oozing out of his nose and ears. Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (DCP) east, Sanjiv Suman informed the media that those arrested included Dilip Kumar, 38, two brothers Jai Singh,28, and Shiv Singh, 21, and their cousin Manish, 19. He said Dilip Kumar was son-in-law of the deceased while the three others were his grandsons. Ram Saran, the father of Jai Singh and Shiv Singh, is eldest son-in-law of the deceased while Manish’s father Munna is his second son-in-law. The press note issued by Lucknow commissionerate stated that the deceased’s youngest son-in-law and his three grandsons smothered him to death by putting a pillow on his face when he was sleeping alone outside his house. The victim had recently sold his parental land worth ₹ 3 crore and nearly ₹40,00000 had already been transferred into his bank account. The dispute over share in the amount was the main motive behind the crime, police added. The police said the four accused were arrested after they confessed their crime during rigorous interrogation and revealed how they executed the murder. They said the accused had been sent to jail after the competent court sent them to judicial custody on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soninlaw-3-grandsons-arrested-for-elderly-man-s-murder-in-lko-suburbs-101630261363545.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Wanted in weapon seizure case, criminal arrested from IGI airport||The Moga district police detained a wanted criminal, Baldeep Singh, from Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, on Saturday as he was attempting to escape to Canada via Ethiopia. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) DH Nimbale said on Sunday that the accused was wanted in several cases, including the one in which four weapons were recovered from the Zero Line on the India-Pakistan border in Tarn Taran district, on Saturday. The SSP said Baldeep’s brother Arshdeep Singh is a notorious gangster in the state police’s records and he is now living in Canada.Arshdeep’s name figured in several crimes, including murders of a gangster Sukha Lamme and of a Dera Sacha Sauda follower from Bathinda Manohar Lal.“Using his links, Baldeep had ordered to smuggle weapons from Pakistan for extortion and other crimes. The recovery was made with the help of the Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday,” he added.Deputy superintendent of police Jashandeep Singh Gill said Baldeep had secured a study visa for Canada and the Moga police had intimated the airport authorities about it.“Baldeep was apprehended at the airport on Saturday and a team of Moga police was rushed on Saturday morning. He will be questioned for his criminal activities,” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wanted-in-weapon-seizure-case-criminal-arrested-from-igi-airport-101630261361255.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Take action against Karnal SDM for ‘break’ heads remark: Chaduni||Senior BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni demanded sacking and police action against sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha for his alleged instructions to the police to “break” farmers’ heads during their protest in Karnal A 2018-batch IAS officer deputed as duty magistrate during the farmers’ protest in Karnal, was caught on camera asking police to “break farmers’ heads”.Chaduni, who was at Guru Nanak Bhawan in Ludhiana to attend the meeting Mazdoor, Kisan, Dalit Front, Punjab, said though the farmer who was injured in the police lathicharge in Karnal on Saturday died of a cardiac arrest, he was subjected to police brutality before succumbing to injuries.Speaking on the sidelines of the meeting, Chaduni said that misinformation is being spread that farmers were protesting near the BJP meeting venue. “The Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 near Karnal where the lathicharge took place is 15km from the private hotel where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired a meeting of the state BJP,” said Chaduni.“People could see how the farmers are being treated with contempt. We are holding a meeting on Monday and if the government fails to take action against the SDM, we will intensify the protest,” said Chaduni.He said that the cops, few among them relatives of politicians, deliberately attacked multiple times on the head of unarmed farmers.“Many of the farmers have suffered senior injuries on the head. Some of the farmers are complaining of impaired vision. Many farmers have their nose broken and the SDM, who was behind it, is being sheltered,” said Chaduni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/take-action-against-karnal-sdm-for-break-heads-remark-chaduni-101630261241036.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai saw 28% more vaccination in August than July||Despite frequent disruptions in the vaccination drive at public centres owing to shortage of vaccine doses, 28% more beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Mumbai in August compared to the last month. According to data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), between August 1 and 28, more than 1.9 million citizens were vaccinated in the city, as compared to 1.4 million vaccinated in the corresponding period last month.It stated that in the first 28 days of August, 1,919,971 vaccine doses were administered, which is 420,836 doses more than the 1,499,145 vaccine doses administered during the corresponding period in July.However, one reason for the rise in vaccination is the shift from public centres to private centres in August compared to July. In July, private hospitals administered 669,814 vaccine doses that went up to 984,262 in August. Doses administered at public vaccination centres also slightly increased than last month. In the first 28 days of July, 829,331 vaccine doses were administered at public vaccination centres that went up to 935,709 in August in the corresponding period.A BMC official from health department said, “The number of vaccines administered at private hospitals went up because these also include figures of those administered second doses. The data, in a way, represents those who took their first dose at private hospitals, especially those in the 18 to 45 years of age group, considering vaccination at public centres was shut for the below 45 age group for 20 days straight. This is that segment of citizens who did not mind paying for the vaccine. However, in the coming days, figures for public centres are also expected to increase significantly.”Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The increase in vaccination at private centres is also because of vaccination drives conducted by NGOs and those administered under corporate social responsibility (CSR), which led to the numbers in private centres going up in August.”Meanwhile, as of August 28, 9,143,824 vaccine doses have been administered in the city ever since vaccination was kicked off on January 16. Of these, 6,728,736 were first doses and 2,415,088 were second doses. BMC’s target is to fully vaccinate 9 million citizens in the age group of 18 to 45 who are working class. The data reveals that 3.9 million of these nine million have been given at least one dose of vaccine and 377,891 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-saw-28-more-vaccination-in-august-than-july-101630261121159.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab block roads, burn effigies over lathicharge in Haryana||Chandigarh/Sangrur/JalandharFarmers blocked roads and highways in Punjab for two hours on Sunday in protest against the lathicharge on peasants in Haryana.Owing allegiance to various farmer bodies, the protesters burnt the effigies of the BJP-led Haryana government for using “force” on farmers in Karnal.Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting.The two-hour-long agitation in Punjab that started at noon also caused inconvenience to commuters, who got stuck in traffic snarls at several places.The protest caused disruption of vehicular traffic at many places and affected routes along the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway, Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway, Amritsar-Ganganagar highway and Ferozepur-Zira road.Farmers also burnt the effigies of the central government in villages of Sangrur, Barnala and Patiala districts and blocked state and national highways. In Sangrur, the Chandigarh-Sangrur national highway was blocked at Kalajhar toll plaza, Ludhiana-Sangrur road at Ladda toll plaza and Sangrur-Patran road at Kheri village. In Barnala, farmers blocked the Bathinda-Chandigarh nation highway at Badbar toll plaza, Barnala-Ludhaina NH at Sanghera village, Barnala-Moga NH at Pakho and Barnala-Mansa road at Handiay from noon till 2pm. In Patiala, the Chandigarh-Patiala road was blocked near Rajpura, besides other state highways.During a protest in Amritsar, Kisan Sangharsh Mazdoor Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar should resign on moral grounds as he has no right to continue on the post after the police action on farmers.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) staged protests at 56 places in the state and castigated the “shameful” act of the Khattar government.In Jalandhar, the farmers blocked the PAP Chowk on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana national highway. Similarly, the Kisan Majdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) members blocked the national highway in Lohian Khas . KMSC president Salwinder Singh said the Haryana government must take action against the erring police officials. Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also condemned the Haryana police action on farmers in Karnal.“Deplorable assault on the protesting farmers is an attack on fundamental rights of every Indian...earned after innumerable sacrifices during the freedom struggle, It impinges and impedes on the spirit of the Constitution and breaks the backbone of India’s democracy!!” he said in a tweet and also shared a video of “use of force” by police on farmers in Haryana.Condemning the police action, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) declared to support the “Bharat Bandh” call by farmer unions on September 25. In a statement, AAP’s kisan wing Punjab president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan slammed the Haryana CM for indiscriminate violence against farmers. “The BJP will have to pay the price for such a repressive policy,” he said. He also lashed out at Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for alleged cane-charge on farmers in Amritsar.Amarinder had on Saturday expressed shock at the “brazen brutality” of the Haryana Police and had slammed Khattar for “unleashing such a vicious assault on the peacefully protesting farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-in-punjab-block-roads-burn-effigies-over-lathicharge-in-haryana-101630260943788.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||IIT-B develops app that will alert when Covid vaccination slots are available||To help people book a Covid-19 vaccination slot conveniently, a team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), have designed an app that allows applicants to set up alerts for the availability of slots nearby.CoVaccinator is a mobile application for android phones designed by researchers from Industrial Engineering and Operations Research (IEOR), IIT-B, that can access data from the servers of the Co-Win portal. Once downloaded, users can log in using their registered mobile numbers akin to the Co-Win portal and book slots.What sets this application apart from Co-Win is the option to set up an alert for available slots at centres near the user. “The rush for vaccination has subsided as the drive intensifies. However, people have been facing trouble looking for available slots and then by the time they book, the slots are gone. To avoid this, we have enabled the alert option,” said Manjesh Hanawal, associate professor, IEOR, who heads the team.One can log in, search for available centres by pin code, district and centre name. The user can then set up an alert for the centre of their choice.“The mobile application gets regular updates from the servers of the Co-Win portal. As soon as a slot is available in the centre of your choice, you get an alert on the phone. By clicking on the update, you can log in to the application and book a slot. You can save the time of looking for slots, finding the centre and then booking an appointment,” said Hanawal.As of now, none of the web and mobile-based portals can facilitate auto-booking for slots that are available for security reasons. Hanawal said that the application has been developed to help people find vaccination slots, alert generation when vaccination becomes available in a centre.“One can download certificates and add beneficiaries. We are exploring if we can add a feature that will auto book slots when the slots become available. This app is built using approved Application Programming Interface (API) from the Co-Win platform,” said Hanawal, adding that the application will soon offer information on other vaccination drives such as drive-ins or arrangements made by local government bodies, all at one place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitb-develops-app-that-will-alert-when-covid-vaccination-slots-are-available-101630260708095.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 40 Covid cases, three deaths||ChandigarhPunjab Sunday reported three more Covid-related deaths and 40 fresh cases, taking the overall figures to 16,369 fatalities and 6,00,551 infections, according to a medical bulletin.The three fresh fatalities were reported from Ferozepur, Mohali and Tarn Taran districts. Among the new COVID-19 cases, Bathinda reported nine, followed by six each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.The number of active cases in the state dropped to 392 from 405 Saturday.With 47 recoveries, the number of such persons reached 5,83,790, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-40-covid-cases-three-deaths-101630260705322.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||DU’s executive council likely to approve FYUP||In addition to approving reforms under the National Education Policy (NEP), including the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP), Delhi University’s executive council will on Tuesday also discuss other important matters such as providing financial assistance to students who lost their parents to Covid-19, setting up digital infrastructure support for colleges and departments, and naming two new facilitation centres in outer Delhi.The matters on the agenda are likely to be passed, because there are only two elected teacher representatives in the EC, which is the university’s highest decision-making body. DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA) vice-president Alok Pandey also said the teachers will hold an online demonstration on August 31 to protest against the NEP-based reforms, arguing that they were approved in last week’s academic council (AC) meeting without much consultation. Last Tuesday, the university’s AC passed the NEP-based reforms including FYUP, multiple entry-exit scheme allowing students to exit the course at any year, and academic bank of credits (ABC) which will allow students to earn credits for different courses from the next academic session (2022-23).“The University shall retain the three years honours degree as well as well as assimilate in its structure the four years honours degree and four years honours degree with research,” said the minutes of the August 24 meeting.Along with approving the minutes, the EC will also deliberate on a fee waiver programme for students who lost their parents to Covid-19. Students can submit a copy of the application including necessary documents to the colleges and departments for waiver or assistance. Colleges can take the approval of governing body to extend the waiver.Pandey said the concession won’t help students much. “Though it is a welcome move, the fee components included in the waiver don’t account for a large amount of the fee. Colleges and the university will have to allow for other forms of concession as well. Though full waiver won’t be possible, university has agreed to allow multiple forms of financial assistance,” he said.Another set of pandemic-induced reforms, including setting up DU Digital Infrastructure Support for Colleges and Departments (DUDISCD). The committee will assist colleges and departments develop more effective e-learning processes and create in-house digital infrastructure. The committee will also set up a resource centre that will help record and edit videos to be disseminated through a centralised DU platform.The university has also announced that it will set up facilitation centres in Roshanpura in Najafgarh and Bhati Kalan in Fatehpur Beri on plots allotted by the Delhi government. In August, HT reported that DU was considering naming an upcoming college at Fatehpur Beri village in south Delhi after late Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Union minister Sushma Swaraj.These centres will cater to students staying in far-flung areas of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) as a first step toward opening a full-fledged college. Examination and admission-related facilities will be extended to the students through these facilitation centres.While the administration proposed four names — Sushma Swaraj, Swami Vivekananda, Veer Savarkar and Sardar Patel — the academic council proposed five more names. The EC agenda item for Tuesday states: “The Council resolved that the name of these Colleges/Centers may be given after the names of Sushma Swaraj, Swami Vivekananda, Veer Savarkar, Sardar Patel. The Council also suggested including the names of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Savitri Bai Phule, Arun Jaitley, Choudhary Brahm Prakash and CD Deshmukh. After general discussion/suggestions, the Council resolved that the vice-chancellor be authorised to finalize the name.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-executive-council-likely-to-approve-fyup-101630260701125.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 17 injured in gas cylinder blast in Dharavi, 5 critical||At least 17 were injured including four minors following a gas cylinder blast reported in a slum area of Shahu Nagar in Dharavi in Mumbai on Sunday. Five patients are critical and 12 are stable. “Two patients are on ventilator support, including an 8-year-old boy, have over 50% burns on their faces. As a result, their faces have swollen and they are unable to breathe on their own so we have to incubate them for artificial breathing support,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital. “They are quite critical. They have been admitted under the medicine department. The remaining patients are stable,” he said.The minors have been identified as Alina Ansari, 5, Faiyaz Ansari, 16, Attazam Ansari, 4 and Sonu Jaiswal, 8. The incident was reported around 12.15pm, which took place opposite Hotel Mubarak in Dharavi. Two fire engines, one jumbo water tanker and a team of civic and police officers reached the site immediately.All the injured were rescued and rushed to Sion hospital. However, access to the site was difficult due to the narrow lane, the BMC officials said.A BMC official said, “It looks like the gas cylinder was already leaking but was left unattended outside on a road and suddenly caught fire. It appears that someone dropped a cigarette after smoking beside it unknowingly. The fire was doused by 12.50pm.”The five who are in critical condition include Sataradevi Jaiswal, 40, who has suffered 60% burns, Shaukat Ali, 58 with 60% burn injuries, followed by Sonu Jaiwal, 8, whose face is burned. Anju Gautam, 28, and Prem Jaiswal, 32, also suffered burn injuries on their face, while Sabina Ahmad, 32, and Meharunissa Khan, 4 sustained minor burn injuries and their condition is stable. According to BMC officials, not all injured are locals, but a few also include passersby who were walking through the narrow lane when the blast took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-17-injured-in-gas-cylinder-blast-in-dharavi-5-critical-101630260221161.html
29-08-2021||Gurugram||Encroachment drive on at Sadar Bazar ahead of second pedestrian-only trials||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started a 10-day anti-encroachment drive in Sadar Bazar to pave the way for restarting pedestrian-only trials on the main market road from mid-September, officials said on Sunday.The move comes after Gurugram was shortlisted among 30 cities selected for the second round of the Streets4People Challenge, organised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. MCG officials said that heavy encroachment by street vendors is proving to be a major obstacle for turning the area into a no-vehicle zone and the only way forward is to have “complete control” over it.“If encroachments and trials occur simultaneously, the entire project is once again doomed to fail. For converting Sadar Bazar streets into pedestrian-friendly stretches, it is vital that all possible encroachments are removed from the area and the scope for such future violations are either completely closed or minimised to the lowest possible extent,” Jitender Garg, joint commissioner, MCG, said.Garg said that to remove encroachments, the MCG has constituted a special enforcement team comprising eight bouncers, a supervisor, two operators to use earthmovers, and a crane operator for towing vehicles.“The team will be present in Sadar Bazar around the clock. Earlier, we would carry out encroachments periodically and within a few days, the illegal street vendors would return to the same spot. In the 10-day drive, MCG officials will be revisiting the same spots after a gap of 20 minutes to ensure there is no scope for future encroachments and action against the violators can be taken immediately,” said Garg, adding that teams of MCG officials would continue to inspect and monitor the area even after the drive is completed.The MCG, while signing up for the event in September 2020, proposed to convert a 600-metre stretch of Sadar Bazar, between Jama Masjid and post office, into a pedestrian-friendly stretch and turn it into a model road for the city.However, when the MCG had banned vehicles as part of a trial run on March 20 this year, shopkeepers of the market held a protest against the move, with MCG acceding to their demands soon after.In July, the MCG constituted a seven-member expert committee for drawing up a design to make the stretch pedestrian-friendly, following which the civic body planned to restart the project in August.Garg said that on Friday and Saturday, the MCG carried out extensive anti-encroachment drives in the presence of a heavy police force, in which 80 street vendors were evicted and 35 illegal ramps were demolished.“There are three main areas where encroachments are in high presence, at the Sadar Bazar, Bada Bazar, and Gurudwara Road, essentially covering the stretch between Kamla Nehru Park and Naya Bazar. Clearing these spaces will create parking space for accommodating at least 250 four-wheeler vehicles. This will solve the main problem over which the first trial had faced resistance. Once the encroachments are cleared, we are aiming to start the trial from mid-September,” said Garg. As part of its new design, the MCG is also setting up toilets, carrying out civil work, lighting and other electrical works in the area.The main contention of shopkeepers during the March trial run was the commute between the parking site and the market would discourage many from visiting the market and lead to a loss in business.In March, the MCG had set up parking sites at Old Jail Complex, Grover Ground and the ground near Session House, each located 600-800 metres from Sadar Bazar, from where visitors had to either travel on foot to the market or avail of a shuttle service arranged by the MCG.“We are not against the trial but the timing of it could not be worse. Shopkeepers are still reeling from the effects of Covid-19. Business is at an all-time low, and we fear that such trials will further impact our earnings. The MCG needs to ensure that the shopkeepers are on the same page and that parking spots are located in the vicinity for customers,” said Bablu Gupta, the president of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/encroachment-drive-on-at-sadar-bazar-ahead-of-second-pedestrian-only-trials-101630259926852.html
29-08-2021||Gurugram||Houses in Jamai Colony, set up on Aravalli land, to be razed||Faridabad agencies are gearing up to clear illegal houses constructed in Jamai Colony over five acres of Aravalli land, on the lines of a demolition drive in Khori village that was recently completed, officials said on Sunday. Around 300-400 houses are constructed in Jamai Colony in violation of norms, officials said.Following the recent orders of the Supreme Court, in which Faridabad agencies were directed to clear all illegal encroachments from forest land, a four-member team of the Faridabad Police inspected the area on Saturday. Officials said that notices have been sent to around 300-400 families living in the area. “A team has already visited the area on Saturday and asked residents to vacate within three to four days. Notices have already been given to the residents there by the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) for vacating the area before demolition starts. The colony is set up on MCF land and demolitions are likely to start next month,” a senior official of the Faridabad Police said, requesting not to be named. Officials said that a team of the Urban Local Body (ULB) had started a demolition drive in the colony in 2019, but it was stopped following protests by residents. In the third week of July, the Supreme Court, while hearing a case about the illegal constructions in Khori village of Faridabad, observed that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applies to all such structures without any exception.” After the court issued directions, the forest department started preparations to raze all illegal structures, including farmhouses, banquet halls and institutes, constructed on forest land. Until now, 10 farmhouses that were set up in the Aravallis have been demolished in Faridabad, officials said. Last week, MCF told the Supreme Court that it has removed all structures in the Khori Village that came up on 150 acres of Aravalli forest land, along with 10 of the 140 illegal farmhouses “acting without exception while taking action against encroachments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/houses-in-jamai-colony-set-up-on-aravalli-land-to-be-razed-101630259925637.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Healthcare staff facing Covid burnout?||A 27-year-old resident doctor from BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai Central always carries a strip of anti-anxiety pills in her pockets. At night, she breaks into a sweat when images of the over-crowded Covid-19 wards flash in her sleep. In May, she had a mental breakdown and had sought psychiatric help from a private doctor.“I have been taking care of Covid-19 patients since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. The first wave was exhausting and frightening as we didn’t know much about the virus. But by the time the second wave hit us, we were already mentally and physically burnt out, and I couldn’t take it anymore,” she said.Nair Hospital was the first civic-run hospital that was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Since the start of the pandemic, the hospital has treated over 18,000 Covid-19 patients and hundreds of resident doctors like her, have been the backbone of the hospital.Although the pandemic curve has flattened and the daily Covid cases have come down to below 400 on an average compared to 10,000 cases recorded in April this year, it has left a long-lasting impact on the mental health of the healthcare workers (HCWs) including doctors, nurses radiographers, lab technicians and anaesthetists, Class 4 employees among others. With an anticipated third wave, they urgently need mental health support, claim doctors.Increased alcohol useA 37-year-old Class 4 employee who works at the morgue of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel turned into an alcoholic to cope with the burnout in the second wave. “He has been in the morgue for the past 10 years but I never saw him so distressed. In April, he was handling 10-15 bodies daily. He would maintain distance from us. Soon, he submerged himself in addiction. Now, he is undergoing counselling at the psychiatry department of the hospital,” said his wife.During the first and second waves, HCWs had to handle grief, console patients’ families, and other issues added to their mental burnout. Many of these workers had to isolate themselves from their families to avoid the chances of transmission Covid-19. This has caused a severe interruption in family life and relationships.National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) conducted a survey among 3,083 HCWs across India. They published their findings in April in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry which revealed that 26.6% and 23.8% of the respondents had anxiety and depression respectively.“In the backward stepwise logistic regression analysis, HCWs with anxiety disorder were more likely to be doctors/nurses/hospital assistants, older, female, unmarried, without a leisure activity, report increased alcohol use and suicidal thoughts after pandemic onset, and having a history of receiving mental health interventions,” reads the study—Mental health issues among health care workers during the Covid-19 pandemic.Many suffer from anxiety, distressEven after 18 months since the outbreak of the pandemic, city psychiatrists are getting a lot of HCWs who are suffering from anxiety, distress and depression due to the pandemic.A psychiatric clinic, Aavishkar Center along with MediaMedic Communication started a mental care helpline number—9172284386 for the HCWs in June. Since, its launch, the helpline has received 632 calls. Almost 90% of the callers complained of anxiety, frustration and fear-related Covid-19 duty in hospitals.“HCWs are experiencing elevated psychological distress, burnout, and increased risk of mental illness. In April, when cases shot up, there were shortages of beds and oxygen. So, these young resident doctors had to prioritise the treatment of patients. In this, many have lost their critical patients. Now, they feel responsible for their death,” said Dr Nirmala Rao, director of the centre. “They are under too much distress which is also affecting their personal relationships,” she added. Considering the good response at the helpline number, now it is being made available to the public. It will be functional between 9am and 6pm daily.In many cases, the HCWs who were asymptomatic carriers ended up infecting their family members which further added to their mental health. “My husband and both of my in-laws contracted Covid-19 from me. My father-in-law who was 68-year-old succumbed to the infection. I still feel guilty for it,” said Sunita Rao, 34, a nurse with the government-run JJ Hospital.No leaves for mental health ailmentsDr Harish Shetty, a well-known psychiatrist said that HCWs aren’t even getting the time for recovery amid the ongoing fluctuation of the pandemic curves. “With rising variants, there may be more pandemic waves like the anticipated third wave. This means that healthcare providers won’t get the required rest for their mental health. While we are focusing on vaccination and more research on the virus, we need to focus on caregivers also,” he said.Medical colleges have started counselling their HCWs but due to the fear of getting stigmatised, many opt for private counselling. “Mental health still gets stigmatised, hence many of the HCWs avoid getting counselling in their own department and approach doctors outside to maintain their secrecy. Several HCWs from lower working grades don’t even consult psychiatrists or psychologists until it is too late,” said Dr Rao.Many young resident doctors claimed that there are no leaves for mental health ailments. “Our hospitals talk about the need for mental health but we don’t get any sick leaves for it. We are being denied leaves for recovery from anxiety and depression due to Covid-19 duty for months. No one fights for us,” said a resident doctor from Nair Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/healthcare-staff-facing-covid-burnout-101630259924294.html
29-08-2021||Gurugram||Residents protest lack of infra, poor services by developer||Residents of BPTP Park Serene in Sector 37D on Sunday held a protest against the developer for failing to complete the installation of necessary infrastructure and providing inadequate services, despite obtaining an occupancy certificate (OC) from the Department of Town and Country Planning. The president of the residents’ welfare association, PK Naithani, said that if problems faced by residents are not resolved soon, they will go on an indefinite strike. They alleged inaction by authorities despite repeated complaints filed against the developer. The protesters said that the developer did complete pending works after getting a partial OC. “The sewage treatment plant (STP) is incomplete and has lesser than required capacity. The sewage water is not treated properly and is dumped on the roadside. The sewer lines in Sector 37D are non-functional and the developer has to manage the service, but there is no action on the ground,” said Naithani. Residents alleged in July and August, the electricity supply was down for 160 hours in total, with the longest outage lasting for 36 consecutive hours, because the developer has not handed over the electricity distribution to the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN). They also said that the basement is in a poor condition due to frequent flooding and waterlogging, with seepage at several spots. “We have to park vehicles on the surface as basement parking is flooded. We also demand that the structural integrity of the towers be tested by independent auditors. The developer should take steps to stop further depletion and repair the harm done so far,” said Hemant Kumar, a resident. However, the developer said that several infrastructure services are yet to be installed by government agencies, which has led to problems. “Electrical infrastructure, including our 33KV substation, is ready but it can only be energised once the main feeder 33KV substation at Sector 99 is commissioned, which shall be taking time. Diesel generators are working in power failure situations. As master stormwater drains are yet to be laid, we have no other option but to pump out water to adjoining areas to avoid flooding of our site. The club will be made operational within six months but alternative arrangements have already been made for residents,” Rajeev Gupta, the managing director of BPMS, a sister concern of BPTP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-protest-lack-of-infra-poor-services-by-developer-101630259922980.html
29-08-2021||Gurugram||Lal dora areas identified, agri land to be mapped next||Officials of the Haryana government on Saturday said they have completed drone mapping of lal dora (non-agricultural land) villages and the Survey of India will map revenue estates (agricultural land) from August 31. The mapping of the revenue estates is expected to take six months, senior government officials said.Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary, revenue and disaster management department, Haryana, said that the Central government has given its approval for mapping the revenue estates by the Survey of India. The cost of the work will be borne by the state government, he said. Lal dora land in every village is generally used for residential purposes, without any revenue record. The term lal dora was first used in 1908 to define basti (population) land of a village that was used only for non-agricultural purposes. To separate lal dora from agricultural land, the revenue department demarcated land around villages as lal dora.Kaushal said that mapping of lal dora land in 6,329 villages of 22 districts was completed on August 24, with the Survey of India having processed the data of 5,333 villages so far.According to the revenue department, the mapping of lal dora areas will ensure that properties in these areas get official recognition, for residents to avail of loans from banks on immovable property and villagers being able to buy or sell properties. Kaushal urged the district deputy commissioners to publicise the registration of properties being done free of cost under the Svamitva [Survey of Villages And Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas] scheme in the villages. Kaushal said that earlier, lal dora areas were exempted from building by-laws/construction laws/scheduled areas etc., which led to a growth of these properties. Also, lack of registration led to conflicts over the demarcation of spaces. Despite owning a property, there were no papers to establish the ownership of the property and there was no proper demarcation of the land used by the villagers and land owned by the panchayat, due to which public spaces, such as playgrounds, ponds, drains etc, were encroached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lal-dora-areas-identified-agri-land-to-be-mapped-next-101630259921607.html
29-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Over 330K vehicles violated traffic rules till July this year||The Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate has fined 335,253 vehicles in the last seven months for traffic violations, of which nearly 180,000 were two wheelers, said officials. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ganesh Prasad Saha said that the total fines imposed was over ₹2.45 crore. “Around 150,000 vehicles were four-wheelers and and 4,248 heavy vehicles. April had the most number of challans at 57,715 that amounted to ₹34,69,900. March had the most penalty amount of ₹54 lakh against 56,636 challans. This year, the traffic department seized 3,629 vehicles, including 1,430 cars, 1,133 motorcycles and 600 heavy vehicles, till July 31,” he said. Expressing concern over rule-breakers not clearing the challans against them, he said, “A Lok Adalat will be held in the Surajpur district court on September 11 where offenders may get a chance to avail a 50% waiver on the penalty if they clear their challan,” he said. “So far, we have sent 289,000 challans to the violators’ residential addresses of the violators. We have also called over 100,000 violators over phone whose mobile numbers did not match with the number linked with the vehicle,” he said. This has been made possible after GB Nagar traffic police had CCTV cameras installed at various traffic signals across the district to capture violations. “Traffic police personnel posted at all traffic signals have been directed to take pictures of vehicles violating stop lines and zebra crossings on their smart phones,” the DCP (traffic) added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-over-330k-vehicles-violated-traffic-rules-till-july-this-year-101630259380478.html
29-08-2021||Noida||104 O2 cylinders went missing from Sanjay Nagar district hospital during peak of 2nd Covid wave||More than 100 oxygen cylinders meant for Covid-19 patients were allegedly stolen from Sanjay Nagar District Combined Hospital (SNDCH) during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. Police have booked some unidentified persons based on the hospital authorities’ complaint, and an investigation is underway.The hospital -- an L2 category facility -- dealt with patients having moderate Covid-19 symptoms and had used 60 oxygen cylinders per day between April 11 and May 11 this year.“On June 8, 2021, our nursing staff said that 104 oxygen cylinders, including 82 D-type and 22 B-type, went missing from the hospital. We formed a committee of five officers immediately to probe the incident. It also came to light that an oxygen supply vendor had not returned 49 oxygen cylinders, and attendants of patients allegedly took away the remaining 55 cylinders amidst the mad rush in the hospital from mid of April... We have decided to uphold a payment of ₹3 lakh to the oxygen supply vendor,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent, SNDCH.“We have hospital marking on our oxygen cylinders and are numbered in an order. Following an FIR, an oxygen vendor returned 49 old and worn-out oxygen cylinders, without our marking. The remaining 55 cylinders are still missing, and we suspect that attendants of patients may have taken those away. Now, it is up to the police to recover the missing cylinders and take action against the suspects,” he added.The hospital filed a police complaint on Thursday (August 26), and an FIR was lodged against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 380 (theft) the same day at the Madhuban Bapudham police station. The hospital authorities have also written a letter to additional chief secretary (health), director general (medical health), divisional health officials and district officials on this matter.“During the second Covid-19 wave, the hospital was equipped with CCTVs, and common people were also abstained from entering the premises. The oxygen cylinder stock and other equipment are the responsibility of the hospital. If they suspected that attendants of patients were stealing oxygen cylinders, they should have reported the incident immediately. The incident will be investigated thoroughly,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity.Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1), said, “We have lodged an FIR based on a complaint filed by the hospital authorities. We will investigate the case thoroughly.”Meanwhile, the 100-bed hospital installed two new oxygen plants of 150 litres per minute (LPM) and 500 LPM, with centralised oxygen supply, in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/104-o2-cylinders-went-missing-from-sanjay-nagar-district-hospital-during-peak-of-2nd-covid-wave-101630259260535.html
29-08-2021||Noida||Monsoon rains fail to revive polluted Hindon in Noida||The monsoon has failed to revive the Hindon as pollution levels in the river have worsened in July as compared to June, according to the latest report of the state pollution body. The river continues being rated under category ‘E’, making it unfit for bathing or propagation of aquatic life, the report said.According to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board’s (UPPCB’s) report for July, the river does not have presence of dissolved oxygen (DO) against the minimum requirement of 5 milligrams per litre (mg/l), while the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels have worsened since June. However, the low presence of coliform levels is the only positive takeaway, the report said.UPPCB analysis of the samples collected from downstream of Kulesra in Noida, for July 2021, found the BOD levels to be 54 mg/l (18 times higher than the permissible limit) as against 46 mg/l in June. At the same time, DO levels have been consistently zero throughout the year so far in Noida. The last spot where the river had some DO level (2.20 mg/l) was at Karhera village bridge, Ghaziabad, and Mohan Nagar Road Bridge, Ghaziabad (1.90 mg/l). However, soon after that the DO levels go nil as soon as the river reaches Chijarsi at Ghaziabad border and thereafter at Kulesra, Noida after which the river meets the Yamuna.The faecal coliform levels have reduced to 150,000 most probable number (MPN)/100 ml (against 1.1 million in June), the UPPCB report said. However, the coliform levels for July are still much higher than the max permissible limit of 2,500 MPN/100 ml. The higher level of coliform shows that high volume of sewage is flowing through the river, experts said.According to the data from the India Meteorological Department, Gautam Budh Nagar received about 100mm rainfall till July. “For a healthy river to support outdoor bathing, DO must be 5 mg/l. The BOD is the oxygen required to diffuse biological matter, and it must not exceed 3 mg/l,” says Sushmita Sen Gupta, senior programme manager (water pollution), Center for Science and Environment (CSE).Manoj Mishra, environmentalist and river pollution expert, said, “The rains can revive a river temporarily or do improve the water quality. But we have to understand that it’s the source of pollution that needs to be addressed. Monsoon would pass, but the pollution sources will remain there.”According to UPPCB officials, it’s the unauthorised and untapped sewer from illegal settlements along the river that pollutes it. “The sewage treatment plants are working properly and we are also keeping tabs on the industrial waste. However, the river receives untreated waste from a number of unauthorised settlements and some drains that fall into it untreated,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB (Noida region).Hindon comes from Saharanpur and enters Greater Noida from Chijarsi border after passing through Meerut, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, and Ghaziabad. After covering a length of 50km across Gautam Budh Nagar district, the river disappears in almost equally polluted Yamuna at Momnathal in Tilwara village of Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/monsoon-rains-fail-to-revive-polluted-hindon-in-noida-101630258900461.html
29-08-2021||Noida||Four of gang arrested in Noida; 2 stolen vehicles, 27 mobile phones recovered||Four people, including a teenager, were arrested on Sunday for allegedly being part of a gang involved in street crimes. The gang was active in the National Capital Region for the past several years, police said, adding that two stolen two-wheelers and 27 mobile phones were recovered from the arrested suspects.The suspects were identified as Sushil Bose, 19, Deepak, 28, Ujaib, 27, and Naseem (43), all residents of Delhi. According to police officials, they were held during routine checking near the Delhi-Vasundhra border.“The suspects would often use the border area as their escape route. Besides a stolen motorcycle and a scooter, 27 phones that had been snatched from various places in Delhi-NCR were recovered,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.Police said that some of the phones have already been traced. Deepak and Sushil were the snatchers, while the other two helped them sell off the stolen items, they said.“The gang, active for several years, has several other members who are being traced. They all have criminal history. They would often steal two wheelers and then use these vehicles to carry out snatchings,” said the SHO.He also said that the gang had snatched a phone just two days ago in an area under the Sector 24 police jurisdiction.The four were booked at the Sector 20 police station under Section 414 (assisting in concealment or disposal of stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a magistrate who sent them to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-of-gang-arrested-in-noida-2-stolen-vehicles-27-mobile-phones-recovered-101630258780420.html
29-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Three footover bridges planned for pedestrians’ safety||The Greater Noida authority is planning to build footover bridges (FOBs) at three locations -- Surajpur-Kasna road near district magistrate office, Kailash hospital near Pari Chowk intersection and near sector Gamma 2 -- in less than a year’s time to provide safe passage to pedestrians.The authority has started issued a tender to hire the agency that will build these FOBs under the build-operate-transfer scheme. Under it, the agency will have 10 years to earn revenue to recover the cost, plus earn profit, from advertising on the bridge space and then transfer it to the authority. This way, officials from the authority said, the authority will not have to spend any money on the project.“If all goes per plan, then the work will start on these three FOBs by September-end and will be open for public in nine months from that day,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Greater Noida Authority.The locations where the FOBs are slated to come up are heavy and high-speed traffic zones that pose a risk to pedestrians and people have long been demanding a resolution to this almost daily affair.“The authority has been promising the FOBs at these three points for a long time, but nothing has happened. We hope that now this time the work will not get delayed and general public will not be made to suffer for more time. Pedestrians have to face a lot of risk and trouble in the absence of FOBs,” said Alok Singh, founder member of Active Citizen team, a social group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-three-footover-bridges-planned-for-pedestrians-safety-101630258660512.html
29-08-2021||Noida||G Noida construction site workers protest death of colleague||Greater Noida: Workers at an under-construction site in Manjukhera village in Greater Noida on Sunday protested the alleged negligence of the developer following the death of a 30-year-old colleague, police said. The victim, identified as Santosh Kumar, was a native of Nepal and had been working at the construction site of a mobile phone company for the past six months.Arvind Pathak, station house officer (SHO), Dankaur police station, said, “Kumar, who lived in a makeshift house inside the premises, had gone to sleep after finishing his work on Saturday night. When he did not wake up on Sunday morning, his colleagues went to his room and found him dead.”Kumar did not have external injury marks. “We discovered that the victim had been unwell for a week. He had complained of fever and weakness and was given medicines. It appears that he died of his illness. We have sent his body for post-mortem and are waiting for the report,” Pathak added.During the Sunday protest, the labourers demanded compensation to the victim’s kin because of the negligence of the developer. The Dankaur police reached the site and pacified the protesters later in the day.We have not received any complaint yet, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-construction-site-workers-protest-death-of-colleague-101630258600533.html
29-08-2021||Patna||JD(U) national council passes resolution; says Nitish can 'become' PM||The national council of the Janata Dal (United) (JD(U)) on Sunday passed a unanimous proposal saying that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is an able politician who can lead the nation as its Prime Minister.JD(U) president Lalan Singh, who put forward the resolution which deemed Nitish Kumar as ‘prime ministerial material’, said that the Bihar chief minister is not the Prime Ministerial candidate in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and he is not a contender for the post but he has all the qualifications and is competent to become the Prime Minister.The JD(U) national council is being held at the Karpuri Auditorium of the JD(U) state headquarters. Members of the JD(U), as well as party workers, voiced their support in favour of the resolution. During the national council meeting, the appointment of Lalan Singh was also approved, thus making his ascendancy to the JD(U) party chief, the party’s principal general secretary KC Tyagi told LiveHindustan. Union minister RCP Singh, JD(U) parliamentary board president Upendra Kushwaha, parliamentarian Basistha Narayan Singh and 200 other officials were also part of the meeting. Tyagi said that the resolution was passed to remove all ‘doubts’. He further added that nine resolutions were passed in the meeting.Caste censusKC Tyagi said JD(U) refutes rumours that caste census will lead to mobilisation of backward classes against the upper castes. He said that the caste census favours all along with poor upper castes and said that the census will give real figures.Tyagi also said that all the parties across the country are in favour of it. PM Modi also discussed the matter in a meeting with the delegation led by Nitish Kumar. Tyagi claimed that PM Modi did not reject this demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-national-council-passes-resolution-says-nitish-can-become-pm-101630258098288.html
29-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Now, fast train service at four more metro stations on Aqua Line||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) said on Sunday that it has decided to stop fast trains at four more stations -- Sector 50, Sector 83, Sector 101 and Sector 143 -- from Tuesday.Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC, said that the agency reviewed the operation following the commuters’ demand. “We have decided to stop fast trains at four stations, and the trains will also continue to skip five other stations from Sector 144 to 148. There will be no change in the train timings,” she said.With an aim to reduce the travel time during the peak hours, the NMRC had started the fast train service between Noida and Greater Noida from February 1 this year. The service was made available from terminal stations -- Noida Sector 51 station and Greater Noida’s Depot station -- from 8am to 11am, and 5pm to 8pm on weekdays to cover the peak rush hour.Out of the 21 stations on the Aqua Line, 10 stations at sectors 50, 81, 83, 101, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147 and 148 with low ridership earlier have been skipped under the new system. However, owing to the public demand, the NMRC allowed to stop the fast train at the Sector 81 station from August 2 this year.Brajesh Sharma, a resident of Antriksh Golf View 2 in Noida Sector 78, said that this is a good move. “There are a number of residential complexes, including ours near Sector 101 metro station. We had demanded that the NMRC stops the fast train service at these stations. This move has come as a big relief for daily commuters and office goers. We hope that the NMRC stops trains at other five stations too, and it also provides the last mile connectivity.”The Aqua Line Metro, shut amidst the Covid-imposed lockdown, resumed services after 40 days on June 9, 2021. In the past three days -- from August 26 to 28 – the metro has recorded 12,837, 13,334 and 12,460 commuters, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-now-fast-train-service-at-four-more-metro-stations-on-aqua-line-101630258240521.html
29-08-2021||Noida||Noida landowners stage protests in Sector 145; demand quick demarcation of plots||Landowners on Sunday staged a protest against the Noida Authority alleging delays in handover of residential plots in Sector 145. Several senior citizens and children were also present in the protest.The landowners claimed that despite the bulk of the registries being done five years ago the plots are still yet to be demarcated. Noida Authority officials familiar with the development told PTI that there is a possibility that demarcation exercise could start from next year onwards.“An assurance for this was given to the plot owners during their meeting with Noida Authority officials following another protest on August 26,” officials told news agency PTI.During the demonstration, dozens of protestors assembled around the 30 metre road between Sector 144 and Sector 145 with banners and placards. The protesters were urging the authority to earmark their plots and give them physical possession. The protestors also wore black bands around their arms to mark their grievance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-landowners-stage-protests-in-sector-145-demand-quick-demarcation-of-plots-101630257547875.html
29-08-2021||Other||Who decided on Capt as leader for 2022 polls, Pargat’s poser to Rawat||Jalandhar Punjab Congress general secretary and Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh has questioned state party affairs in-charge, Harish Rawat, on his statement that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will be the leadership face of the Congress in 2022 assembly polls. “Rawat should explain who took the decision and when. If such a decision has been taken, then it will have an impact on the politics of Punjab,” Pargat said, adding that according to his understanding, the Mallikarjun Kharge committee, formed to end factionalism in the Punjab unit in June, had decided that the state assembly polls would be held under the leadership of Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. On Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s statement last week that, “Without having the power to decide, being a mere showpiece is useless,” Pargat added that Sidhu was pointing to Rawat. On the cancellation of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), Pargat said the issue needed to be dealt with transparency and without legal complications. “We should not get stuck in any legal tangles like the Bargari sacrilege and Behbal Kalan firing cases. The CM needs to work with compassion,” he added, claiming that the party needed to call a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) under the supervision and monitoring of the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) to ensure Punjab’s citizens know the truth.On the use of force on farmers in Haryana on Saturday, Pargat, said, “The BJP is intentionally disrupting the peaceful protest of farmers and is down to playing its dirty games. The SAD is equally responsible for giving the country these three black farm laws, as it had a cabinet berth in the Central government, but did not stop it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/who-decided-on-capt-as-leader-for-2022-polls-pargat-s-poser-to-rawat-101630257521911.html
29-08-2021||Ranchi||13-yr-old gang-raped by seven in Ranchi, four minors held||Four out of seven accused were arrested on Saturday for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl at an isolated location under Mandar police station in Ranchi district on August 26, police said on Sunday. A Mandar police station official said that the four arrested accused are minors. The exact age of the other three accused, who are currently absconding, will be known after their arrest. Superintendent of police (SP), Ranchi (rural), Naushad Alam, said a case was registered with Mandar police station on the statement given by the victim. “The girl’s medical test was conducted, following which we registered the case and nabbed the culprits. Those apprehended have shared the names of the other accused. We are conducting raids to arrest them,” an official said. As per the complaint, one of the minor accused, who was friends with the girl, called her to a specific location. When she reached there, he, along with his six friends, raped her, said a police official. Police said the victim narrated the incident to her parents after reaching home. Later they approached the police and filed the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/13yrold-gang-raped-by-seven-four-minors-held-101630254700827.html
29-08-2021||Other||SHO axed for settling death case through negotiation||East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha on Sunday suspended the station house officer (SHO) of Malahi police station for his alleged laxity, causing deviation from the standard operating procedure (SOP) in handling a death that occurred in a road accident. Confirming this, SP Navin Chand Jha said the SHO, identified as Rajesh Kumar, has been suspended for trying to settle the death of a woman in an accident through panchayati (negotiation).“He preferred not to register the case and no autopsy of the body was conducted. This is clear negligence and dereliction of duty on part of SHO and a clear deviation from SOP,” said Jha.According to the police, a woman, identified as Dhaniya Devi, succumbed to her injuries in the course of treatment at a hospital in Pagarpur (East Champaran) after she met an accident near Sirni Brahmasthan under Malahi police station on August 24.“Instead of taking action against the guilty bike driver in the case, the SHO started pressurising the victim’s relatives to apply for an FIR against the unknown. He did not take action and the matter was hushed up through panchayati. At the same time, the body was cremated by the relatives without conducting an autopsy so that the guilty bike driver in the case could be saved from the case,” said a police officer, refusing to be identified.Suspended SHO Rajesh Kumar could not be contacted for comment..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-axed-for-settling-death-case-through-negotiation-101630254640902.html
29-08-2021||Other||An English-to-Marathi dictionary to aid students preparing for NEET||PUNE: To make medical education more accessible to vernacular medium students preparing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), Pune-based LFU (Lift for Upliftment) has launched an English-to-Marathi dictionary catering to the science syllabus of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT).While students can appear for the NEET in the Marathi language, there are no textbooks or reference books available in Marathi. LFU – which provides free coaching for NEET to deserving underprivileged students – realised that language is becoming a barrier for students from tribal and rural areas who otherwise have the potential to get admission in government medical colleges.Dr Farooque Faras, vice president of LFU, said, “As per government statistics, exactly 31,239 students had opted to appear for NEET in the Marathi language in 2019. Sadly however, there is no textbook or reference book in the Marathi language.”Dr Santosh Chate, who was teaching LFU students in Melghat last year said, “Tribal students do not look at English with ease and comfort. There is a lot of fear in their mind when it comes to English. Many even drop the idea of pursuing a medical education because of the language barrier. Last year, we had to take a lot of effort while teaching them and making them understand Marathi and tribal languages. Next year, we are also planning to add tribal languages like Korku and Gondi to the dictionary.”The English-to-Marathi dictionary has the Marathi equivalents of all English words mentioned in the chemistry and biology books of NCERT Classes 11 and 12. While medical education has become expensive, it has also become difficult for students belonging to humble backgrounds to train themselves for the NEET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/an-english-to-marathi-dictionary-to-aid-students-preparing-for-neet-101630254520254.html
29-08-2021||Other||20-member entourage leaves for south India for ‘Sadbhawna Yatra’||A 20-member entourage of pilgrims from Darbhanga left for ‘Sadbhawna Yatra’ to south India on Sunday to commemorate the nationwide ‘Amrit Mahotsav’ to celebrate the country’s 75th year of Independence. “For the first time since the launch of flight operation under UDAN scheme at Darbhanga airport, an entourage of pilgrims took the benefits of civil aviation facility introduced to bring small towns on the air map of country,” said convenor of Sadbhawna Yatra Samiti, Darbhanga, Manikant Jha.UDAN, which stands for ‘Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik’, a Central government scheme launched in 2016, aimed at making air travel affordable. Darbhanga Mayor Baijyanti Devi Khedia and other officials concerned presented tricolour to the team members, while giving them a warm send-off on the occasion.Addressing on the occasion, the Mayor said such activities promote tourism and facilitate cultural exchange between people living in different parts of country.Earlier in July this year, nearly 68,000 passengers travelled from Darbhanga airport, while notching a fifth place in terms of passenger footfall among the 69 airports under domestic airport category, according to a source familiar with data released by Airport Authority of India. Darbhanga airport is connected to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmadabad, Hyderabad, Chennai and Kolkata by airlines operators SpiceJet and IndiGo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20member-entourage-leaves-for-south-india-for-sadbhawna-yatra-101630254400978.html
29-08-2021||Other||North Bihar rivers in full spate; 1,800 evacuated in Gopalganj||Incessant rains and heavy discharge of water from Gandak barrage at Valmikinagar have resulted in increased water levels of the majority of rivers passing through northern Bihar, forcing the residents of the Gopalganj district to evacuate.Over 1800 people have been evacuated in the past few hours following the surge in the water level of Gandak, Naval Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate (DM), Gopalganj, said. “A total of 25 villages situated in low lying areas have been affected due to waterlogging. Hence, over 1800 people have shifted to a safer place,” said the DM. While describing the water level of Gandak above the danger mark, Choudhary said, “We are going to run community kitchens at four places in Gopalganj block and keeping a tab on the situation.” Besides Gandak, the water levels of the Daha, Khanua, Sidhavalia, Ghoghari rivers have risen. As a result, water has started spreading in low lying areas of dozens of villages in Kuchaikote and Thawe blocks of the district.However, officials ruled out any threat to the Saran embankment on the Gandak river. “The patrolling of the embankment has been intensified,” said Gopalganj DM. Meanwhile, the water level of Lalbakeya, Gandak, Chatiya and Sikarahana rivers in East Champaran and Pandarai, Sikarahana, Harbora, Oraiya and Masan rivers in West Champaran has increased following the heavy discharge of water (3.14 cusec) on Sunday and heavy rainfall in Nepal and its catchment area. In East Champaran, the threat of flood looms large in four blocks, including Areraj, Sangrampur, Sagauli and Banjariya. “There are reports of water gushing into agricultural land. We are alert,” said Anil Kumar, additional district magistrate (ADM), disaster management, East Champaran.When contacted, Kumar Ravindra, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Pakaridayal, confirmed the disruption of road communication between Sheohar and Motihari through Patahi due to floodwater inundating the road between Devapur and Belwaghat in East Champaran. Meanwhile, 175 people have been affected in Bagaha 2 block in West Champaran district following the water gushed into villages. “A community kitchen is tunning in Chakdaha (Bagaha 2),” said Shekhar Anand, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Bagaha..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/north-bihar-rivers-in-full-spate-1-800-evacuated-in-gopalganj-101630254340925.html
29-08-2021||Other||{First rally | Post-alliance} SAD-BSP step up poll drive, woo Doaba’s Dalit votebank||Phagwara The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), an ally of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab for the 2022 assembly polls in the state, on Sunday declared its state unit chief Jasvir Singh Garhi as candidate from Phagwara (reserved) seat. BSP national coordinator Akash Anand, who is also the nephew of party supremo Mayawati, announced the decision at the first joint rally of the two parties since the alliance was formalised. Phagawara is the Centre of Doaba, a region with the highest proportion of Dalit population. According to the seat-sharing arrangement between the parties, the BSP will fight on 20 of 117 assembly seats.At the ‘Alakh Jagao Rally’ (Reignite your pride), SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that if voted to power, it will provide 33% reservation in government jobs to students who pass out from government schools.Sukhbir also raised issues of delay in welfare schemes, including Shagun Scheme or Blue cards, and post-matric scholarship scheme. “The Congress government in Punjab has stopped the post-matric scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste students to deprive Dalit students of higher education,” speaker after speaker alleged at the rally.Attacking chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Sukhbir alleged the Congress government had ruined Punjab while its ministers and MLAs of the ruling party have the sole agenda loot Punjab. “Besides looting the state, the government has failed to continue social welfare schemes launched during SAD government,” he claimed, adding, “All theses schemes will be restored and the current SC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot will be jailed.” He claimed that the SAD-BJP alliance had unnerved the Congress, the BJP and the AAP.Claiming that the SAD-BSP alliance will last for 25-40 years or more, he said the SAD snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) because it “stabbed” Punjabis and farmers in their back.“We have to fulfil the dreams of Kanshi Ram, the BSP founder. All of us have to work with unity to ensure we voted in to form the next government,” Anand said at the rally.MP Ram Gautam, who is also the national coordinator of the BSP, alleged that the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government that the Congress led were scam-tainted. “The BSP is with farmers and will always support them. We have also protested shoulder-to-shoulder in their protest on for the past few months. The AAP government in Delhi was the first to implement the Centre’s three farm laws and the party is an off-shoot of the RSS.”“Four ministers of the Congress government in the state are already under the lens for committing ₹multi-crore scams,” alleged Garhi.Every speaker who addressed the rally also flayed the use of force on farmers by the Haryana Police in Karnal on Saturday. They also delayed their arrival at the rally venue, in view of the two-hour blockade called by Punjab farmers to protest the lathi-charge against Haryana farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-rally-post-alliance-sad-bsp-step-up-poll-drive-woo-doaba-s-dalit-votebank-101630254280812.html
29-08-2021||Other||Katraj-Kondhwa road widening will not be completed by September||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) looks set to miss the September 2021 deadline for completion of the Katraj-Kondhwa road widening project as work has not been moving ahead due to land acquisition issues.While a total 288,124 square metre was to be acquired from 195 land owners for the project, the PMC has managed to acquire land from only 33 out of the 195 owners in the past two-and-a-half years, with the remaining 162 owners asking for cash compensation from the corporation. As a result, the PMC contractor has completed only 25% of the work till date.V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department, said, “The road widening work will not be completed till September 2021 as we are yet to acquire the necessary land for the project from 162 people. As of now we cannot say when the project will be completed.”Giving 162 land owners cash as compensation for acquiring their land is not possible for the PMC as project costs would touch Rs700 crore. Sudhir Chavan, executive engineer of the road department, said, “It is not feasible to give cash to all the people whose land will be utilised for the project. We had proposed to give them floor space index (FSI) and transfer development rights (TDR) as compensation according to land acquisition rules. We are planning to continue the scheduled work on a step-by-step basis.”With residents from Katraj and Kondhwa facing traffic snarls every day, there is a major need to widen the road to avoid traffic congestion. “New societies are coming up on both sides of the road. After the second wave of covid, traffic has increased again which is leading to traffic jams every day. If the project is completed, the problem of traffic jams will be solved,” said Rajat Deshmukh.To address the traffic woes in the area, the PMC will construct the 3.5 km Katraj-Kondhwa road between Rajas society chowk and Khadi machine chowk. The corporation has planned three grade separators and two vehicle underpasses along the stretch. The foundation stone laying ceremony for the project was held on November 2, 2018 in the presence of the then Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. A PMC-appointed contractor began the work of increasing the width of the road from the existing 15 to 20 metre to 84 metre. The project cost was estimated to be Rs225 crore, including GST, and the deadline was set for three years with the project to be completed in September 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/katrajkondhwa-road-widening-will-not-be-completed-by-september-101630254221823.html
29-08-2021||Other||‘Dead’ doctor posted to Bihar’s DMCH||A posting order for doctors issued by the Bihar health department on August 12 purportedly carries the name of a lady doctor who died around 11 months back.This is the second time in five months that the health department appeares to have goofed up with its posting order for doctors. Earlier, on March 8, the department promoted and posted as civil surgeon of Sheikhpura, Dr Ram Narayan Ram, who had died on February 7.According to the latest order, Dr Shiwangee was posted to Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH) as a senior resident in the department of anesthesiology. However, the head of the department at the hospital said he was shown news reports of her death last year."Some journalists showed us newspaper cuttings of the news related to the doctor's death last September when she was posted at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital in Patna. All I know for sure is that she has not joined my department as yet," associate professor and head of the department of anaesthesiology at DMCH, said.The government’s rule requires the 406 doctors on the list to join their place of posting within a week from the date of the order.“You should pose this question to the department,” said Dr Manibhushan Sharma, medical superintendent, DMCH, when asked about Dr Shiwangee’s posting to the anaesthesiology department of his hospital.“We get to hear from people that the doctor, posted here as per the order, died some 11 months back,” he added.Dr Sharma then cited a technicality to suggest that her name could have been added “erroneously” to the list.“The posting order in the case of Dr Shiwangee clearly mentions under the column of ‘online registration number’ that she ‘did not apply’ [for posting]. Registration numbers are mentioned in case of applicants [seeking posting]. So, how was a person, who did not apply, posted to some place. Her name may have figured erroneously in the list,” he said, referring to the fact that only those who applied for these merit-based preferential postings could have been on the list but the entry against Dr Shiwangee's name suggested she hadn't applied, which pointed to the possibility of a goof-up.The head of department of anaesthesiology at Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Patna, where a doctor named Shiwangee was previously posted, said: "One Dr Shiwangee, a senior resident, died after some days of her posting to our department last year. However, I will not vouch for the fact whether she is the same doctor the health department has posted to the DMCH," said Dr Ashok Kumar.A senior officer in the health department refused to comment, saying he was not the competent person to speak to the media.It is clear that only the health department can confirm if it has indeed ended up issuing a posting order for a doctor who died in September last year. However, a doctor, who was a batchmate of the deceased anaesthesiologist, said on condition of anonymity, "There was only one Shiwangee in our batch to take up MD anaesthesiology. Moreover, the government order does not mention any other Shiwangee in the list of 406 doctors reshuffled.”He, too, pointed out that the posting order clearly mentioned against her name that she 'did not apply' when the health department invited applications in February for merit-based choice posting for doctors, who had completed their post graduation course from state-run medical colleges, for the mandatory three-year tenure in government facilities. It could only mean one thing, he said.The earlier goof up in the March 8 order involving Dr Ram Narayan Ram was raised by opposition leaders in the legislative council to embarrass the government.Health officials had then clarified that the incumbent was alive during the interviews for promotion and the department did not get to know about the doctor’s death in the intervening period before the transfer orders were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dead-doctor-posted-to-bihar-s-dmch-101630254221309.html
29-08-2021||Patna||PM Modi praises Sukhet Model||An initiative called the Sukhet Model, adopted by Dr Rajendra Prasad Agriculture University in Madhubani and local agricultural research centres to check pollution in the villages, was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Maan Ki Baat address on Sunday.The PM said that the initiative has given strength to the Swachh Bharat Mission, besides providing benefits to the farmers. In his address, the PM talked about the major highlights of the Sukhet Model, like how cow dung and waste from houses of villagers are collected and in return, the villagers are given money for gas cylinders. He said the waste collected from the villages is used in manufacturing vermicompost, which is made available to farmers. The PM said the model has a four-fold benefit, like pollution free environment in villages, waste disposal, monetary assistance to villagers for gas cylinders and availability of organic fertilisers to farmers. “ Just think, how such initiatives can increase the strength of our villages. It is a subject of atma nirbharta. I will urge all panchayats to think about doing something like this,” the PM said.The Sukhet Model was launched by the agricultural department as a part of the Climate Resilient Agricultural Programme in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pm-modi-praises-sukhet-model-101630254160917.html
29-08-2021||Other||PMC sanitation staff to get GPS-enabled wrist watches as monitoring devices||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning to give sanitation and road sweeping staff GPS (Global Positioning System)-enabled wrist watches so as to be able to monitor them.Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner, PMC, said, “This will help in monitoring the sweeping and solid waste management system. We get many complaints that roads are not getting cleaned properly and that garbage is not being lifted daily in some areas. That employees are remaining absent and there is no proper system monitoring them. The GPS system will help track each employee from the central control room, whether he/she is working at the designated place.”“The PMC is not the only municipal corporation to introduce the system. Some municipal corporations have already initiated it. Even Telangana has introduced it for the entire state. The corporation is negotiating with the agency to bring down the prices of these wrist watches and the overall system. The wrist watches would be required for almost 13,000 employees,” Khemnar said.According to civic officials, there are many employees with jobs in the solid waste department or sweeping section who are taking home salaries without doing the designated work. Under the existing system, employees need to be present at the Aarogya Kothi in each ward office, where they need to first sign on the muster. Later, the supervisor is expected to keep a watch on these employees but that is not being carried out effectively. The civic administration is keen on introducing the GPS-based system as it would force employees to do their jobs properly while giving good service to citizens. Later, the system will be introduced for others like drivers, with PMC vehicles already having a GPS system.“After clearing all the technical doubts, the municipal administration will place the proposal before the standing committee for approval,” said Khemnar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-sanitation-staff-to-get-gps-enabled-wrist-watches-as-monitoring-devices-101630254100251.html
29-08-2021||Patna||Edu institutions set to hold classes at full strength under Unlock 6||Days after the state government allowed educational institutions to function with full capacity and conduct exams, city-based schools and colleges are gearing up to conduct classes from Tuesday. The relaxations, which were introduced recently on August 25, are a part of Unlock 6. Several prominent schools, including Mount Carmel, St Dominic Savio’s High School, Don Bosco Academy, are set to reopen for primary students from Tuesday, while other schools, which have already reopened, are preparing to call students at full strength. Mary Alphonsa, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said on Sunday, “Following the government’s guidelines, we will resume classes for students of classes 4 to 6 from Tuesday and for classes 7 and 8 from September 6. All Covid-19 safety guidelines are being followed for safety of students.” The state government earlier allowed schools to call to students of classes 9 to 12 from August 7.“We are also currently conducting terminal examinations for classes 10 and 12 in conventional mode, which will conclude on September 2,” she added. Similarly, Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy, said, “We welcome the government’s decision of allowing classes to resume at full capacity. The move will encourage parents to send their wards to school and improve attendance.” Meanwhile, teachers also heaved a sigh of relief as conducting online and offline classes was hectic for many. “It was very difficult for teachers to conduct online and offline classes, as we need to repeat the same content twice. Besides, completing syllabus is also tough as we spend double time to cover the same topic,” shared a class 10 mathematics teacher. Meanwhile, parents of kindergarten and primary students are reluctant to send their wards to school as threat of Covid-19 looms large. Anjali Sharma, mother of a class one student, said, “I am apprehensive to send my daughter to school owing to Covid-19 threat. I will continue teaching her at home.” PU clears pending examsPatna University has released exam schedule for clearing pending semester exams. As per exam schedule, students of Bachelors of Arts, Science and Commerce students will take the exams from September 10 to October 5 at five exam centres.Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare at PU, said, “Final year exams are going on, while semester exams of degree part II students are scheduled. After completion of exams, normal classes will begin at respective colleges following Covid-19 safety guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/edu-institutions-set-to-hold-classes-at-full-strength-under-unlock-6-101630254040774.html
29-08-2021||Patna||Man held for chain snatching||Kadamkuan police on Sunday arrested a 22-year-old for allegedly snatching gold chains in Patna, sub-inspector of Kadamkuan police station Mukesh Singh said. Police recovered a looted gold chain, a pistol and one live cartridge from the accused, identified as Rohan Kumar.Rohan told the police that he started chain snatching to collect money for his sister’s wedding as some relatives started taunting him for sitting at home without a job. “Soon, I somehow purchased a pistol and started snatching chains in Patna. I deposited some money for my sister’s wedding. I had also gone to jail for the same crime a few months ago,” he added.Singh said, “Rohan admitted his involvement in many incidents of chain snatching. The police are interrogating him to get the details of other members of his gang. He will be sent to jail after interrogation.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-held-for-chain-snatching-101630253982195.html
29-08-2021||Other||PMC to reclaim 108 social spaces from elected representatives||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has passed a resolution to reclaim 105 social spaces that have been developed as centres of public activity by local representatives. The civic administration claimed that the absence of prior permissions or documentation to start the respective social spaces prompted this move. Further, the corporation will not rent out these spaces to get income by floating tenders for the public properties.A final proposal seeking retrieval of the said properties from different social organisations, social workers, self-help groups, Ganesh mandals and elected members of corporations has been prepared by the social welfare department. There are 137 such social spaces out of which 108 have been selected for reclamation and lease according to the department. Legalities such as signing of memorandums or agreements have been missing for the said properties for more than a decade now, while a few of them have been fetching a pittance as compared to the space allocated to occupants, the department said. The current effort is aimed at bringing all such spaces under a uniform policy.PMC joint municipal commissioner Dnyaneshwar Molak said, “A report has been readied and sent to the commissioner for approval. The said properties were given as per the old rules while recently, new guidelines have been introduced. The PMC is following the new guidelines to ensure that social spaces get the necessary rental income which can add to the revenue earnings of the corporation. Once approved, tenders will be released by the civic body as per the guidelines of the Municipal Corporation Act.”The report sent to the commissioner for approval points out that some of the social spaces that were leased out had been sublet in violation of the Municipal Corporation Act. The act stipulates that spaces cannot be sublet by the lessee to others and this will invite action or even termination of the contract or memorandum of understanding.Social activist Altaf Shaikh said, “Most of the social spaces located at strategic locations have been taken by elected representatives. Currently, there is no policy for allotment of these spaces and hence, violations are being seen every now and then. Once the policy is framed, proper tendering and allocation of these plots can be carried out so that the deserving ones get these places for carrying out social work. Most of the time, elected representatives are seen occupying these spaces to carry out their work and the real purpose namely, citizens’ benefit is lost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-reclaim-108-social-spaces-from-elected-representatives-101630253980220.html
29-08-2021||Patna||JD-U nation council reiterates demand for caste census, says law not enough for population control||The national council meeting of the JD-U on Sunday endorsed all the decisions taken at the party’s national executive meeting held in New Delhi on July 31, when Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh was made the party president.JD-U general secretary KC Tyagi later said while talking to media persons that Lalan Singh was now formally coronated as the national president of the party. The council also passed a resolution that the party chief would head the party’s parliamentary board in keeping with the party’s Constitution.“It has also been decided that the party would contest assembly election in Uttar Pradesh and Manipur. The party would like honourable seat-sharing in UP and other states. In 2017, the party did not contest despite demand and that affected our expansion. The council also reiterated its demand for caste census, for which Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had led an all-party delegation to the PM earlier this month,” he added, emphasising that JD-U had remained the most reliable partner of the BJP.The council also passed a resolution demanding that the Rohini Commission recommendations be made public. In 2017, the Centre had set up Justice Rohini Commission, which favoured sub-categorisation of reservation for other backward castes (OBCs) in the government sector by splitting 27% quota into different categories of OBC for equitable distribution of benefits among different sub-castes. After several extensions, it could submit its report, dividing 2633 OBC sub-castes in the central list into four sub-categories with 2%, 6%, 9% and 10% quota to add up to 27%. However, its report has not yet come out.The council, while favouring the need for population control, reiterated Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s stand that the objective could be best achieved by creating awareness and boosting education among girls, as Bihar had experienced over the last one and half decades. Kumar also presented facts as to how the total fertility rate (TFR) had come down from over four to three and it could reach two with the expansion of girls’ education and resultant self-reliance due to a range of initiatives for them.“Merely making a law will not serve the purpose. It needs an overall approach as it requires a change in mindset, which can come only through education and empowerment,” he added.In his address, Kumar also batted for caste census and its importance to frame policies and programmes for the left out parties. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that he was also part of the delegation to PM and there has been no opposition to the demand for caste census from any quarter, which speaks about its need.The council discussed a range of issues, including organisational strengthening, upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states and the party’s expansion plans in its quest for national status.The council also tried to dispel speculations about the internal rift in the party by presenting a united front. Lalan Singh was effusive in his praise of union minister RCP Singh, from whom he took the baton of party’s national chief, in the presence of Nitish Kumar and all the senior party leaders. RCP Singh said that Lalan Singh was an old associate and the party would grow further under his leadership.During the discussion, Nitish Kumar’s potential for being a PM candidate also surfaced, though it was stated that he was not a candidate for the post, but had all the qualities.RCP Singh said that there was no substitute to Kumar and his work spoke for him not only as of the reformist Bihar CM but also as a capable union minister in important ministries like Railways and agriculture..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-nation-council-reiterates-demand-for-caste-census-says-law-not-enough-for-population-control-101630253860842.html
29-08-2021||Other||New civic corporations for Pune metro region not off the table: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar hinted at the formation of new municipal corporations in the Pune metropolitan region in the near future. On Sunday, Pawar held a meeting with the people’s representatives, officials from the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), and the district administration to discuss the draft Development Plan (DP) for the metropolitan region published by PMRDA. Ajit Pawar said that valid suggestions would be incorporated in the DP. The deadline for filing suggestions and objections to the draft DP has been extended till September 15. Pawar said that in the light of the increasing population in some areas under the metropolitan region, the formation of new municipal corporations cannot be ruled out,Elected officials at the meeting pointed out that the draft DP should have provisions for such a possible required infrastructure, in terms of newly formed administrative units. “There is recurring demand for a separate municipal corporation in Hadapsar. In the areas of Chakan and Rajgurungar, the population has been increasing. After some years, a separate corporation for areas around Pimpri-Chinchwad could be thought of, considering the number of industries and population in that area,” said Ajit Pawar. Pawar mentioned that when a new administrative unit is formed space is required to build offices and other infrastructure. “If a tehsil is converted into a district, then land has to be given for government offices, like central building, police stations. There have been suggestions in the meeting to consider these points as well in the draft DP,” said Pawar. He said that some of the suggestions that came up in the meeting were really good and the PMRDA officials have been instructed to incorporate those in the draft DP. PMRDA has published the draft development plan for the PMRDA region and the 23 villages recently merged into the PMC limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-civic-corporations-for-pune-metro-region-not-off-the-table-ajit-pawar-101630253681439.html
29-08-2021||Other||Ajit Pawar accuses Centre of double standards: Says yatras could lead to spike in Covid cases||PUNE Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, speaking on Sunday in Pune, said that on the one hand the central government is asking Maharashtra to take care given the rising number of Covid cases in Kerala, but on the other hand it is asking newly inducted union ministers from the state to undertake rallies where crowds are gathering.The NCP leader alleged that ongoing wide Jan Ashirwad (blessings of people) yatras of the BJP are happening despite there being a danger of a spike in Covid cases. Ajit Pawar said, “On one hand the central government is asking us to take care (of Covid cases) and on the other hand it is asking the four newly inducted ministers (from Maharashtra) to take out rallies. People are gathering at these rallies, which will obviously affect the cases.”Pawar, who interacted with the media in Pune on the side-lines of a meeting held to discuss the PMRDA’s draft development plan, was reacting to BJP leader Narayan Rane’s criticism of the MVA government “Wherever these rallies are taking place and gatherings are happening, we will see the effect (of increased cases) in the coming days. Though we are of the opinion that cases should not increase, but still if it happens at these places where rallies are taking place, who shall be held responsible? This must be considered as well,” Pawar said.Reacting to Rane’s arrest, Ajit Pawar said the newly inducted union minister should have behaved more responsibly and avoided unnecessary provocation. The BJP’s nation-wide Jan Ashirwad Yatra began earlier this month to enable newly inducted ministers in the recent cabinet expansion to reach out to people. Earlier on Friday, the deputy CM also sought to downplay a controversy involving Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab’s purported commented in a video that went viral, in which he was seen instructing the Ratnagiri police to arrest Rane immediately and use force if necessary. “The arrest happened only after all the legal proceedings took place. His (Rane) supporters had moved court seeking anticipatory bail which was rejected. I haven’t seen the videos, but as a guardian minister of Ratnagiri District, he (Parab) must have been contacted by the police and he asked them to follow the law,” Pawar informed. Rane, a recently sworn-in union minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) was arrested earlier last week for his controversial comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He has since been granted bail.Pawar said currently the country’s highest number of Covid cases are coming from Kerala. “After some festival celebrations, cases have increased there. We have upcoming festivities such as Dahi handi, Ganesh utsav, Navratri and Diwali, which are celebrated with a lot of enthusiasm. If a mass gathering happens or Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed, then Covid cases will increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ajit-pawar-accuses-centre-of-double-standards-says-yatras-could-lead-to-spike-in-covid-cases-101630253320255.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Railways have big role in putting Ayodhya on global map: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that railways have a big role to play in putting Ayodhya on the global map.The UP chief minister was addressing a Ramayan conclave in Ayodhya.“Railways have a big role to play in putting Ayodhya on the global map. Minister of state for railways Darshana Jardosh ji’s arrival here will prove helpful in accelerating the ongoing railway projects and taking forward the development journey of Ayodhya,” he said. President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the conclave.“After a long wait of five centuries, with the compassion and efforts of our Prime Minister, the construction work of the grand temple of Lord Ram is going on in Ayodhya. Today, inauguration and foundation stone of several projects have been laid by Rashtrapatiji (President),” he said.“Lord Ram is for everyone,” the CM said. The Supreme Court verdict of November 9, 2019 in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land title dispute case had paved the way for the construction of the temple. Adityanath also presented a statue of Lord Ram to the President on the occasion. Governor Anandiben Patel, who also addressed the gathering, said: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has contributed a lot to Ayodhya’s development and has a special affinity for the city.”After the construction work of the Ram temple started, Ayodhya had found place on the tourism map of the world, said the governor.The governor also pointed out that Deepotsav celebrations of Ayodhya had made the temple town famous across the world.The BJP government started the Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya in October 2017, about seven months after coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in March 2017. CM Adityanath presides over the celebrations in Ayodhya every year on the eve of Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/railways-have-big-role-in-putting-ayodhya-on-global-map-yogi-101630252601372.html
29-08-2021||Other||Over 258,000 people across 16 districts affected by floods in Assam||More than 258,000 people across 16 districts of Assam have been affected by floods caused by heavy downpours in the past few days and more than 6,200 are reported to have been displaced and staying in relief camps, officials informed on Sunday. “The water levels of major rivers are showing a receding trend and there’s no alert for more heavy rainfall in the next few days. Hopefully, the situation will improve rapidly soon. Thankfully, there have been no human deaths reported across the state thus far,” said Dhiraj Saud, state project coordinator, ASDMA. According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), Lakhimpur is the worst-hit where over 105,257 people are affected, followed by Majuli (57256) and Dhemaji (35539). The other affected districts are Barpeta, Biswanath, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Dibrugarh, Golaghat, Jorhat, Kamrup, Morigaon, Nagaon, Sivasagar, Sonitpur and Tinsukia. Forty revenue circles and 732 villages in the affected districts have been affected by floods. Nearly 24,705 hectares of standing crop have also been submerged in the affected districts, the ASDMA stated. A total of 91 relief camps have been set up in 10 of the affected districts and 6,218 people who have been displaced due to flooding in Chirang, Dhemaji, Majuli and Bongaigaon districts are residing in relief camps at present. While over 239,000 domestic animals and poultry have been affected by floods, no human lives have been lost to date. A total of 78 houses have been damaged due to floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-258-000-people-across-16-districts-affected-by-floods-in-assam-101630252122792.html
29-08-2021||Other||8 arrested for taking ₹20 lakh in cash, 30 tolas of gold from jeweller after posing as IT officials||PUNE: The Pune police arrested eight men for kidnapping a jeweller by posing as Income Tax officials and robbing him of gold and cash worth ₹20 lakh and 30 tolas of gold. A complaint was lodged by Nandkishor Kantilal Verma (41), on Friday, and a case was registered in the early hours of Saturday. The plan to do this was found to have been hatched by Verma’s friend who allegedly pretended to have gotten kidnapped along with him. The arrested men were identified as Vyas Gulab Yadav (34), Bhaiyasaheb Vitthal More , Kirankumar Nayar (31), Maruti Ashokrao Solanke (30), Umesh Arun Ubale (24), Ashok Jagannath Sawant (31), Suhas Suresh Thorat (32), Rohit Sambhaji Patil (23), according to the police. Yadav, More and Shyam Achyut Tormal (31), gathered Nayar, Solanke, Ubale, Sawant, Thorat, and Patil and executed the plan.On Thursday night, the complainant was with his friend, who is also an accused in the case, at Jambhulwadi road when the group of men arrived in a car. They introduce themselves as IT department officials and told him that they had come to conduct a raid at his house. The complainant got scared and followed their instructions, as the victim was asked to sit in the car. The men then took him to Swami Narayana temple and stopped the car on the service road. The men then produced weapons and asked him to give ₹75 lakh.“The men threatened them and then took them back near his house and took the cash and gold from his house. All this while Yadav was with him, pretending to have gotten kidnapped as well. After they had left, he consulted with his family members and people who had knowledge about the IT department and realised that he had been cheated. The next day he approached the police and lodged a complaint,” said Sushma Chavan, assistant commissioner of police, Swargate division of Pune police. “The main accused accompanied Verma to the police station to lodge a complaint and pretended that he did not know anything about the plan. However, during the course of the investigation his suspicious behaviour let us to believe that he was somehow involved. Upon Interrogation he revealed the plan in bits and parts,” said Rahul Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2 Pune“The officials of Bhaarti Vidyapeeth police station traced them to Kolhapur and when they found the car and the men in it they tried to flee. Officials jumped on the car and broke the windshield to stop them from escaping. It is because of them that we got all of them and the car,” said Jagannath Kalaskar, senior police inspector of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.Yadav and the complainant are close friends which is why he knew about the latter’s financial situation. Verma ran a business along with three of his brothers and had refused to give money to Yadav when he had asked for it. Yadav had asked for ₹6 lakh from Verma in order to buy a shop.“Yadav wanted the money to buy and shop. Two of the accused are also booked in a case of murder registered in Beed. They wanted to use the money for legal fees and other proceedings in that case,” said DCP Patil.Vyas himself does not have a criminal history. However, he approached More who has multiple cases registered against him in the past. More gathered the others and planned for 20 days before stealing from Verma. A case under Sections 363, 364(a), 395, 394, 397, 387, and 506 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-arrested-for-taking-20-lakh-in-cash-30-tolas-of-gold-from-jeweller-after-posing-as-it-officials-101630249660070.html
29-08-2021||Bangalore||NCB sleuths bust interstate drug racket, 3400 kilograms of Marijuana seized||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials on Sunday said it has busted another interstate drug racket and seized 3400 kilograms of Marijuana with an approximate on-street selling price of ₹21 crore.“Based on specific intelligence developed by NCB Bangalore, a joint team of NCB Bangalore and Hyderabad on 28/08/2021 seized a truck of Maharashtra registration and three persons near (the) toll booth on Hyderabad ring road. On thorough examination, it was found that 3400 kg of Ganja was concealed into the truck. It was packed systematically in 141 gunny bags,” Amit Ghawate, zonal director, NCB (Bangalore Zone) said in a statement on Sunday.The bust comes at a time when Karnataka has been heavily cracking down on narcotics in its continued war on drugs that continues to seep into India’s IT capital and other large cities through intricate networks and innovative ways to avoid detection.In this case, the gunny bags were concealed under tarpaulin sheets and further covered by varieties of nursery saplings in huge quantities in the truck.“It was difficult to detect the contraband,” according to the statement.At least three people, who are suspected to be from Latur district in neighbouring Maharastra were arrested. Law enforcement authorities and other drug control agencies have been using one seizure to get information on more such operations to dismantle a large web of networks.“This operation was developed out of earlier operations, wherein seizure of a total quantity of 3992 kg of Ganja was affected resulting in the arrest of 16 persons and subsequentbusting of 3 separate Ganja trafficking networks,” according to the statement.There is also an alleged “kingpin” for this particular consignment who is based out of Maharashtra, the NCB said. The source of the contraband is the Andra Pradesh and Odisha border.The narcotics detection agency said that these drugs are peddled in various colleges, parties and other places through an elaborate ground network.“During the year 2020, a total quantity of 1971 kg of Ganja was seized, resulting in the arrest of 8 persons. This year by the end of August 2021, a total quantity of over 7500 kg Ganja has already been seized by the NCB, Bangalore zone, resulting in the arrest of 25 people. The two enforcement actions of the NCB and recent substantial seizures of Ganja clearly indicate that the Ganja traffickers have been desperate and taking the risk of carrying maximum quantity of the contraband at a time,” the agency statement noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ncb-sleuths-bust-interstate-drug-racket-3400-kilograms-of-marijuana-seized-101630248402466.html
29-08-2021||Other||Punjab chief secy reviews progress of cancer hospital in New Chandigarh||Chandigarh Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan reviewed the progress of the construction work of the 300-bed Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre in Medicity, New Chandigarh, (SAS Nagar) on Sunday. All pending works in C-wing shall be completed before September 15 to enable the installation of radiology equipment, it was decided at the meeting. “The ultra-modern cancer tertiary care facility is to be made operational by November,” she told officers, adding that she will be doing a weekly review of progress on the project. The chief secretary, who had visited the project site last week, held a review meeting with director Tata memorial centre Mumbai Dr RA Badwe, principal secretary, health and medical education, Alok Shekhar, PWD principal secretary Vivek Pratap. Mahajan added the installation of the Linac machine in D-wing should begin from September 3. Dr RA Badwe said the procurement of equipment was on track. Expressing satisfaction over the progress, Mahajan asked the entire project executing team to achieve and finish targets as per schedule. Punjab has given 50 acre free of cost for the ₹664 crore project. The cancer care centre will be equipped with high-end diagnostic and treatment facilities such as two linear accelerators, brachytherapy, PECT CT, bone marrow transplant (BMT), CT simulator, MR simulator, interventional radiology and surgical facilities. The hospital will start radiotherapy, radiology, CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, X-ray, mammography, medical oncology, chemotherapy, day-care ward, pathology, laboratory facilities and minor OT, besides OPD services in surgical oncology, medical oncology, radiation oncology, palliative care preventive oncology for the public from November onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-chief-secy-reviews-progress-of-cancer-hospital-in-new-chandigarh-101630247742847.html
29-08-2021||Pune||Pune man allegedly kills wife for giving birth to girl, held||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested a 26-old-man for allegedly killing his wife for giving birth to a baby girl. The incident took place on Saturday.The deceased woman was identified as Changuna Jadhav (20), while the arrested man was identified as Yogesh Kailas Jadhav (26), both residents of the Chandanwadi area of Chandkhed in Mawal.The man works as a labourer while the woman was a housewife, said police.The police suspect the man to have killed the woman in the hours between 8pm on Friday and 8:30am on Saturday. The husband allegedly strangled the woman while she was asleep.As per the complaint the arrested man had started assaulting his wife from the time she delivered a baby girl. The birth of a girl child had caused friction between the two as the man blamed the woman for the gender of the child, said police.“They had been married since 2018. They have a six month old daughter. After the daughter’s birth, they had started fighting because of his belief that she was responsible for giving birth to a girl child. He tried to run away on his bike after killing her. We followed his vehicle to Mahalunge where he was arrested,” said police sub-inspector Sandeep Gadilkar of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case.Police sub-inspector (PSI) Gadilkar of Talegaon Dabhade police station is investigating the case.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 498(a) (domestic violence), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-allegedly-kills-wife-for-giving-birth-to-girl-held-101630245700505.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar says Jan Ashirwad Yatras will impact Covid-19 numbers in state||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar targeted the Centre on Sunday accusing them of violating the Covid-19 preventative measures imposed by them through the Jan Ashirwad Yatras organised by the newly inducted Union Cabinet ministers.“On one hand, the central government is asking us to take appropriate measures (to contain the spread of Covid-19) and on the other, it is asking its four newly-inducted ministers (from Maharashtra) to take out rallies and yatras. The gatherings in these rallies will impact the spread of Covid-19,” the deputy chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader also said that the effect of these rallies will be seen in the coming days if Covid-19 cases rise at the locations where these rallies were held. “In the next few days, we will see the effect of these rallies wherever they are taking place. If Covid-19 cases rise in the areas where the rallies are taking place, who will be responsible for it?” Ajit Pawar said.MVA’s criticism of Jan Ashirwad YatrasThe Maha Vikas Aghadi, which consists of the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress, earlier also expressed their criticism towards the Jan Ashirwad Yatras which were undertaken by Union Cabinet ministers who hail from the state.Shiv Sena leader Chandrakant Khaire last week claimed the Jan Ashirwad Rally in Aurangabad lasted past 10pm, flouting Covid-19 rules, according to a PTI report. The Sena mouthpiece Samaana said that these rallies were meant to ‘hypnotise’ people.It was also during one of these rallies that Union minister Narayan Rane last week allegedly said that he would "slap" Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, which led to the Union minister’s arrest and clashes between cadres of the BJP and the Shiv Sena in Mumbai and across several places in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-says-jan-ashirwad-yatras-will-impact-covid-19-numbers-in-state-101630244602014.html
29-08-2021||Bhopal||Two held in MP's Ujjain for forcing Muslim man to chant 'Jai Shri Ram': Police||A Muslim scrap dealer was allegedly threatened and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' by two men at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain district, following which the police have arrested the accused duo, an official said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Saturday and two purported videos of it have gone viral on social media. Talking to reporters, R K Rai, Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP), Mahidpur, said, "The incident happened on Saturday when scrap dealer Abdul Rasheed, a resident of Mahidpur town who has been doing this business here for a long time, went to Sikli village under Jharda police station area to collect some scrap in his mini truck." However, Rasheed was forced to leave the village and also threatened against doing his scrap business in the area. When he left the village, two men intercepted him at Pipliya Dhuma, manhandled him and forced him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The man somehow got out from there after giving in to their demand, he said. Jharda police station in-charge Vikram Singh Ivne said that an offence was registered against the two accused, identified as Kamal Singh (22) and Ishwar Singh (27), for disturbing communal harmony, and they were arrested. The duo was booked under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 505 (2) (public mischief), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), among others. Meanwhile, two videos of this incident went viral on social media, which drew the ire of several netizens. In one purported video, the two men were seen throwing scrap from the victim's four-wheeler and asking him not to enter the village again, while another video shows them threatening and forcing him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. It shows them asking him how he dared to enter their village and the victim chanting the slogan as told by the accused. Reacting to the incident, Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said that similar incidents had earlier occurred in Indore and Dewas in the state. "Has it been happening under a specific agenda? The government is watching everything as a mute spectator. An atmosphere of anarchy is being created in the entire state and the law is being mocked," he said while demanding a strict action against the accused who are "disturbing peace" in the state. Minister for Medical Education Vishvas Sarang said the state government was taking strict action in all such incidents. "We are committed to taking action and preventing such incidents. But the questions remain as to why such videos are being made viral from the social media department of Congress. Whether the Congress is behind making such videos and spreading them?" he said. It is a matter of investigation whether these incidents are planned, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/police-arrest-2-in-ujjain-mp-for-forcing-muslim-man-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-101630243710438.html
29-08-2021||Other||Over 500 Congress workers join TMC in Assam||Over 500 Congress workers from Cachar district of Assam officially joined Trinamool Congress Party on Sunday following the footsteps of former president of All India Mahila Congress Sushmita Dev.Sushmita Dev asked her newly joined colleagues to form a strong IT setup to counter the BJP. Recently, she claimed that Congress completely lost the digital war to BJP and the TMC is going to fight the BJP digitally.On Sunday afternoon, Dev distributed TMC flags to all the newly joined members and asked them to display them in front of their houses.“BJP spreads lies in a cleverly presentable manner that attracts common people which Congress did not realise. We are going to make our own IT setup so strong that we will highlight the lies of the BJP before common people using digital media. This is the need of the hour and we are going to train each and every member of the Trinamool Congress on how to stay relevant on social media. We’ll constantly discuss BJP’s lies and our party members will counter the BJP in their own language,” She said.Her father and former Union minister Santosh Mohan Dev died in 2017, he was a Congress leader. On Sunday, during the TMC event, Dev displayed her father’s portrait and also paid floral tribute to him before her speech.“At one point, Mamata Banerjee left the Congress party but she did not forget the ideology. I have already said that my father’s principles are always with me and I haven’t compromised those. He is my political guru also and I will always carry his legacy wherever I am.”Regarding her future plans, Sushmita Dev said that the central committee of the Trinamool Congress Party is targeting the upcoming assembly election in Tripura and she is going to play a vital role in strengthening TMC in that state. But their ultimate goal is to dethrone the BJP in the centre.“Congress party lost elections to BJP in almost all the states but BJP failed to cross the Trinamool hurdle in West Bengal. Whoever likes to take a stand against BJP is welcome to our party now. Hundreds of people from various parts of the northeast have already called us and expressed their desire to join the Trinamool Congress Party. We are going to fight hard in Tripura but our ultimate goal is to dethrone the BJP from the centre,” she said.Along with the young brigade, some senior Congress leaders who were part of Sushmita Dev’s father’s team in the Congress party, also joined Trinamool Congress on Sunday.Buru Sen, a 64-year-old Congress worker said, “Our lives and political careers have always been about Congress party. In the toughest moments, we did not leave the party but today, I have finally decided to join Trinamool Congress. The present Congress party is biased on issues like Barak Valley and Brahmaputra Valley. They joined hands with a communal party like the AIUDF and deprived many genuine Congress workers.”Sushmita Dev criticised the Congress for joining hands with the AIUDF to win the election in Assam. “Assam Pradesh Congress Committee, at one point, made a written resolution that at any circumstances, Congress will not join hands with communal forces like the BJP and the AIUDF. Now, after the election is over, they are talking about dissolving the alliance. But no Congress worker can say that their party will never join hands with the AIUDF again during any election.”Sushmita also informed that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and National general secretary of the All India Trinamool Congress Party, Abhishek Banerjee, along with some other leaders of the party are going to visit Barak Valley soon. She left for Kolkata to meet Abhishek Banerjee and other party leaders after the joining event on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-500-congress-workers-join-tmc-in-assam-101630244202207.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Will fight it legally: Sanjay Raut says after ED slaps notice on Uddhav aide||Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab received a notice from the Enforcement Directorate on Sunday, Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said.Taking to Twitter, Raut posted in Marathi that the ED issued a notice to Parab as soon as the Jan Ashirwad Yatra ended for the day. He added that he would take legal recourse against the move.शाब्बास!जन आशीर्वाद जत्रेची सांगता होताच अपेक्षे प्रमाणे अनिल परब यांना ई.डी.ची नोटीस बजावण्यात आली . वरचे सरकार कामाला लागले. भुकंपाचा केंद्रबिंदू रत्नागिरीत होता. परब हे रत्नागिरीचे पालक मंत्री आहेत.chronology कृपया समज लिजीये. कायदेशीर लढाई कायदयानेच लढू..जय महाराष्ट्रThe minister has been asked to appear before the probe agency on Tuesday in connection to a money laundering case, according to news agency ANI.A close aide of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Parab recently became embroiled in a controversy over his alleged role in the arrest of Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narayan Rane on August 24. Rane was arrested from Ratnagiri, a district of which Parab is the guardian minister. The BJP alleged that Parab exerted "political pressure" to arrest Rane, following his controversial remark against chief minister Thackeray.BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil had on Saturday threatened that his party would seek police action against Parab if the Shiv Sena failed to take action against the transport minister.However, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar defended his ministerial colleague.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-fight-it-legally-sanjay-raut-says-after-ed-slaps-notice-on-uddhav-aide-101630241809127.html
29-08-2021||Other||‘J&K colleges with 100% vaccinated staff, students can open’: Govt||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday allowed higher educational institutions with 100 percent vaccination of staff and students to open for ‘limited on-site’ classes after a review of the Covid-19 situation in the Union territory.The institutions have been asked to organize vaccination camps in consultation with the district administrations. The review of the Covid situation was conducted under the chairmanship of chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta on Friday.Mehta reiterated that there was a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in all the districts “in view of the uneven trend observed in daily Covid cases”.In an order on Sunday, the chief secretary said that all schools, including coaching centres, shall continue to remain closed for onsite or in-person teaching till further orders. However, the higher educational institutions can be permitted to commence with limited in-person teaching subject to 100% vaccination of staff and students and specific permission of concerned deputy commissioners.“Such institutions can organize special vaccination camps in consultation with district administration,” the order said.The other educational institutions can allow the attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.The schools and colleges have been closed in Jammu and Kashmir since March when the second wave of Covid-19 had started.Lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Friday gave first hints towards the gradual reopening of education institutions in the UT.“With improved Covid scenario and 100% vaccination among students and teachers, we plan gradual reopening of education institutions,” he had said while chairing a weekly meeting of the Covid task force, DCs and SPs at Raj Bhawan.Sunday’s order reiterated that the maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering shall continue to be restricted to 25.Like the previous week, there shall be no weekend curfew in any district.“The night curfew shall remain in force in all the districts from 8 pm to 7 am,” it said.The daily Covid-19 cases in J&K continue to remain low with a lowest of 93 cases and a highest of 166 cases in the past week.Jammu and Kashmir administration on July 25 had lifted the weekend curfew from all the districts of the Union territory as the Covid cases continued to remain low.The deputy commissioners have been asked to focus on the positivity rate in their respective medical blocks and intensify management and restriction of activities.“There shall be a renewed focus on Panchayat level mapping of cases and effective micro-containment zones shall be constituted wherever unusual spikes of cases are noticed,” it said.The officials have been asked to also focus on second dose vaccination.“Intensive vaccination drives shall be taken up in all districts to ensure timely administration of the second dose besides maximizing the first dose to vulnerable groups,” the order stated.The department of health and medical education, J&K, has been asked to ensure adequate availability of Covid dedicated health and logistics including ambulatory infrastructure based on their assessment of the case trajectory.“Entry into parks can be permitted to a vaccinated person with due verification,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-colleges-with-100-vaccinated-staff-students-can-open-govt-101630242102380.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi police asks people to celebrate Janmashtami at homes, warns of action against those violating guidelines||The Delhi Police on Sunday asked people in the national capital to celebrate the festival of Janmashtami at their houses owing to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The police also asked people to avoid gathering at temples during the celebrations and warned of action against people violating the existing guidelines in place to check the spread of the infection in the city.“Devotees will not be permitted to visit temples on Janamashtami as DDMA guidelines prohibit religious gatherings. We will urge people to celebrate it at their homes and not to gather at temples. Action will be taken against those violating guidelines,” news agency ANI quoted RP Meena, DCP, southeast Delhi, as saying.Also read | Maharashtra govt insists on Covid-appropriate behaviour as festive season nearsWhile religious places were permitted to reopen in the city, no visitors were allowed in the premises, according to the last order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). “All social / political / sports / entertainment / cultural /religious / festival related gatherings and congregations” should remain prohibited throughout Delhi until August 31.Also, the announcement by the Delhi police came a day after the Union ministry of home affairs had written to all states and Union territories to remain cautious during the upcoming festive season. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had written to all the chief secretaries on Saturday saying, “State Governments/UT Administrations are further advised to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming season and if required, impose local restrictions with a view to curb such large gatherings.” The letter came following the ministry’s order to extend all Covid-19 related containment measures until September 30, 2021.Meanwhile, the devastating Covid-19 second wave in the national capital has subsided significantly and the number of daily new infections have fallen too. At its peak, more than 25,000 single-day infections were reported in Delhi.The total confirmed infections now stand at 1,437,685 after 29 people tested positive on Saturday and the death toll remained at 25,080 with no new fatalities reported for three days from August 26 to 28. As of Saturday, 13,016,787 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city, a government bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-asks-people-to-celebrate-janmashtami-at-homes-warns-of-action-against-those-violating-guidelines-101630235406318.html
29-08-2021||Other||‘Will give Mamata Banerjee red carpet welcome...’: Assam CM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamool Congress (TMC) are welcome in Assam as the party will help divide votes of the Congress and help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said in north Bengal’s Siliguri town on Sunday. On a short trip to Siliguri to meet the family of late former Assam legislator Aloke Ghosh, Sarma said, “West Bengal chief minister’s entry in Assam and Tripura will only help the BJP. Wherever she goes and does politics, she will divide the votes of Congress and other parties and help the BJP. If she comes to Assam, we will give her a red carpet welcome.” Asked whether Sushmita Dev, the former Silchar MP who recently joined the TMC, would pose a challenge to the BJP in Assam, Sarma said, “She is known to people in one district only. She will divide Congress votes.” Commenting on post-poll violence in Bengal, he said, “The assembly elections were closely contested both in Assam and West Bengal. The fact is that not a single stone was thrown at any house in Assam. But here, the Calcutta high court had to instruct the CBI to investigate. This speaks volumes.” “There are only 12 Bengali Hindu people in the detention camps in Assam and the process is on to give them relief,” said Sarma when asked about detention camps set up during enforcement of the National Register of Citizens in his state. “There will be no cases against the Gorkhas in Assam. We have decided to drop all cases against them in the foreigners’ tribunals. We have also given the Gorkhas protected class status even in tribal belts and community blocks,” said Sarma. On August 4, the Assam cabinet decided not to prosecute members of the Gorkha community. The decision was welcomed by Gorkhas who have a sizeable presence in Bengal’s Darjeeling district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-give-mamata-banerjee-red-carpet-welcome-assam-cm-101630235561975.html
29-08-2021||Ranchi||13-year-old allegedly gang-raped in Ranchi; 4 minors held||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by seven men, including one of her minor friends, at an isolated location under Mandar police station in Ranchi district on August 26, officials said. Superintendent of Police, Ranchi (rural), Naushad Alam, said the case has been registered with Mandar police station on basis of the complaint registered by the survivor.“After conducting the medical test, a case has been registered and four accused have been nabbed so far,” said Alam.Mandar police station officials said all four accused apprehended are minors, while the exact age of three other accused would be known only after they are held.“Those apprehended have shared the names of the other accused. We are conducting raids to arrest them,” an official said.As per the complaint, police officials said, one of the minor accused, who was friends with the girl, called her to a specific location. When she reached there, his other six friends were also present who allegedly raped her.Police said she narrated the incident to her parents after reaching home. They then approached the police and filed the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/13yearold-allegedly-gang-raped-in-ranchi-4-minors-held-101630234660542.html
29-08-2021||Pune||Yourspace: Punekars give thumbs up to eco-friendly Ganesh festival||With the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) banning the sale of idols on roadsides, residents are increasingly resorting to making their own Ganesh idol out of shadu mati, a type of clay. These idols are eco-friendly and do not pollute during immersion. There will also be no processions this year due to the Covid pandemic. Activists believe even sound pollution will reduce as a result. Should this be di rigueur even after the pandemic? Punekars share their views...Festivals, political events should be held in eco-friendly mannerI welcome the state government’s decision to celebrate the Ganesh festival as per guidelines due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Even otherwise, all festivals should be celebrated in an eco-friendly manner and the government should frame and implement such norms from time to time. The same should apply to political functions as well.Prakash NaharI support government’s decision on restriction due to pandemicPune is the land of origin of the Ganesh festival. However, the festival has lost its charm over the last few years as people make it commercial. We experience noise pollution and traffic problem during the festival. Therefore, I support the government’s decision to restrict the event and celebrate it in a more eco-friendly manner. Government should also set a code of conduct during celebrations of all festivals in public places.Sushas KulkarniPrecaution is still necessaryI like to celebrate Ganesh festival in a simple manner. It is a noble way of celebrating any festival, not only the Ganesh festival. I support the government’s decision on the background of the Covid-19 situation. We will have to take precautions now amid the possibility of a third wave. A festival is celebrated every year, but human life is precious.Sunil DayalLearn from past experienceFrom last year’s experience, my family has decided to celebrate the Ganesh festival in a simple way. There is a need for restrictions as people do not behave responsibly if the restrictions are eased. People haven’t learnt from the first and second waves of Covid-19.Nikeet DesmukhCelebrate festivals responsibly amid pandemicGanesh festival spreads happiness, so we should behave responsibly due to the Covid pandemic and rise in cases in the city. Many people indeed depend on such festivals for livelihood, but life is precious. Even if the government implements strict restrictions we should behave responsibly only then we can keep ourselves and others safe from the virus.Abhijeet WaghmareGovt should not impose restrictions during festivalsThe government has stipulated simple, unostentatious celebrations, without crowds and strictly Covid-19 protocols during the ten days which mark the state’s biggest public festival in which people from all communities participate. Government should not impose strict restrictions on festivals. Festivals of any religion are an expression of joy and happiness, togetherness, devotion. This year, we should be allowed to celebrate this festival in a big way.Vikrant JadhavCelebrate festivals without harming natureWe can celebrate all festivals without harming nature and even people in our surroundings. There are a lot of festivals which various communities celebrate for expressing love. Last year, we had celebrated all festivals with simplicity. There was no big celebration. We should follow the same thing this year also. It is good for individuals as well as for society.Nitin DeshpandeFestivals should be celebrated with family and friendsLast month, many people lost their lives due to heavy rains. We should not forget that. All festivals should be celebrated with our family and avoid public gatherings and functions. This year we should be more cautious and behave in a manner that will be safe for us and the people in our surroundings.Jyoti NikamMany people depend on such festivals for livelihoodFestivals provide employment opportunities for many. In a pandemic situation, when people have lost their jobs, the government should not put strict restrictions on the festivals. Ganesh festival is one of the prominent festivals in Maharashtra, especially in Pune. This year, people are excited to celebrate the Ganesh festival in a big way as last year it was a low-key affair.Dilip JamdadeCelebrate but with Covid precautionsPeople are fed up with the restriction. They are under tremendous pressure for the last one and a half years. Festival is one of the reasons which will put a smile on the faces of people. We should celebrate the Ganesh festival in a big way by following three basic rules to wear a face mask, follow social distancing norms and sanitise hands as often as possible when one is out in public places. Also, Pune has done maximum vaccination so with precautions all mandals should be allowed to celebrate the Ganesh festival with fervour.Deepak Bhosale||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yourspace-punekars-give-thumbs-up-to-eco-friendly-ganesh-festival-101630234180808.html
29-08-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Finding my ‘voice’ to echo sentiments of a nation - Afghanistan||The week has been dominated by news from Afghanistan. Whatever is happening there, the images that are being made public are nothing short of heartbreaking. No wonder, most of the stories that are written about Afghanistan follow the same ethos, as the land has been witness to some conflict or the other since the past many decades. And the book ‘The Kite Runner’ is no exception.Khaled Hosseini’s book is already a phenomenon and I am sure that most of you must have read it. It is a powerful story of friendship, betrayal and redemption set mostly in Afghanistan. I had read the book years ago when it was recently published. And I remember being blown away, not just with the story, but the way the story blended with the political theatre in Afghanistan.We had travelled to Bengaluru for a play and the director of the play – Akarsh Khurana – bought a book at the book store to the theatre premises. It was a play based on ‘The Kite Runner’. I was immediately intrigued, as I did not know how the story would have translated on stage. I had seen the film which released in 2007, directed by Marc Forster, and that was one of the first screenplays I had read in my life. It was possible for the world of the book to be set up in the film, but I did not know how that could be set up on stage. Since we had a few hours before our show, I started reading it.The script by Matthew Spangler was engaging and I finished reading it in one go. One thing I noticed was that the play had followed the pattern of the protagonist being the narrator of the story. And because of that, the protagonist had a sizeable chunk of the lines and most of them were monologues. Akarsh asked me how I found the play and I told him that it will take a really good director to do justice to this script.A few months later I received a text from Akarsh telling me that he intended to direct the play and asked if I would like to play the protagonist – Amir. This made me extremely happy and afraid at the same time. Happy, because I had an opportunity to play the lead of one of the most coveted books of all time. And afraid because, I had read the script and I knew what a big responsibility it was! Not to mention the fact that while I could speak and converse in English, this was a completely different ball-game.I took my time to answer and it reached a level where Akarsh playfully threatened to end our friendship if I didn’t say yes. I knew that the rehearsals would be intense, in fact I wanted them to be so. I also knew that I would have to relocate to Mumbai for a few months for the rehearsals and the shows. I had just completed the shoot of my film and it had been a grueling few months and I would have liked to unwind, but I realised that this was too good an experience to pass up. I shifted to Mumbai and began rehearsing.It all started at the basics. There are many English words that I had read before, even written sometimes. But, I had never used them while speaking. It was the first time I was pronouncing them and realised that I had been pronounced them wrongly in my head all this while. It was a 65-pager script and I was on stage all the time. My character had at least 30 to 35 pages of dialogue. Memorising it became another task. While I have directed plays where actors had a lot of dialogue, this was a new experience! Akarsh stressed on movements while we were memorising lines so that both – the movements and the dialogue – become a part of our muscle memory.While that was going on, I was struggling to find the tone of the character. The journey of the character was from a 12-year old to the mid-20s to early 40s. And I was supposed to play all ages! The play started with my character’s monologue, and that was about an extremely traumatic incident. Akarsh was telling me to not play it that way and to narrate it like I would to a bunch of friends at a bar. While I understood what he was saying, I wasn’t able to implement that and it was getting frustrating for me.One day, I requested Akarsh for some one-on-one time. We spoke at length and while we were speaking casually, he asked me to start with my monologue. And just like that I had found the tone!With that in hand, rehearsals resumed in full swing. And a few days later, our opening date was decided! More on that, next week..Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-finding-my-voice-to-echo-sentiments-of-a-nation-afghanistan-101630233820778.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||15 injured in cylinder blast in Mumbai's Dharavi, five critical||At least 15 people, including four minors, were injured on Sunday after an LPG cylinder exploded leading to a minor fire at a shanty in Mumbai’s Dharavi area. All the 15 injured were rushed to Sion hospital of whom the condition of five are said to be critical having received 70 per cent burn injuries.According to officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the incident was reported from the Shahu Nagar area in Dharavi around 12.20 pm.An official said three fire engines have been rushed to the spot to douse the fire and cooling operation is underway.(With inputs from Mumbai bure)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-injured-in-cylinder-blast-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-five-critical-101630230845598.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||On Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha's video, Dushyant Chautala says use of such language by IAS officer 'condemnable'||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday broke his silence over Saturday’s police lathicharge on protesting farmers in Karnal, as he condemned sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha’s instructions to the police to “break the head of the protestors.” Action will be taken against Sinha, Chautala said.Also Read | Karnal lathi charge: Opposition slams Khattar govt“The use of such kind of words by an IAS officer for farmers is condemnable. Definitely, action will be taken against him. In a clarification, the SDM said he didn’t sleep for the last two days. He probably doesn’t know that the farmers also don’t sleep 200 days a year,” the deputy chief minister said.In a clarification, he (Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha) said he didn't sleep in the last two days. He probably doesn't know that farmers also don't sleep on 200 days a year: Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant ChautalaChautala was talking about a now-viral video clip, in which Sinha can be seen briefing the policemen on how to stop protestors from marching towards a venue where a meeting of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was scheduled to be held. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state BJP president OP Dhankar were to attend the meeting.“No matter what happens, nobody will cross this barricade,” the IAS officer is heard instructing the policemen, referring to farmers. “Let me make it clear, break the heads of all those who try to cross. I am the duty magistrate, and I’m giving you these instructions in writing. Hit them with your cane straightaway. Any doubt? Will you hit them? Will you let them cross this barricade? There is no doubt, no confusion. We won’t let them breach this barricade. We have enough force backing us up,” he says.After the lathicharge, angry farmers had blocked roads and highways across Haryana demanding the release of fellow protestors arrested by the police. The blockade was lifted only at 7:30pm, after all those arrested were released.Also Read | Angry over lathicharge on protesters in Karnal, farmers block highways in Haryana for nearly 5 hours, commuters sufferFarmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against three contentious central agricultural laws on various borders of Delhi since November 2020. Total 11 rounds of talks have failed to resolve the standoff between the farmers and the Union government. The BJP is in power at the Centre, and its leaders have faced protests by farmers in both the states.On January 26, a tractor rally in the national capital led to clashes between the farmers and Delhi Police.Get our Daily News Capsule||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-karnal-sdm-ayush-sinha-s-video-dushyant-chautala-says-use-of-such-language-by-ias-officer-condemnable-101630230368942.html
29-08-2021||Patna||Mined sand valued at ₹179 cr goes missing in Bihar||A big mining scam has surfaced in Bihar’s Rohtas district with at least 52.7 million cubic feet (cft) sand, valued at ₹179 crore, disappearing from the mining department’s stock within three months between May and July this year, officials aware of the developments said.In the first week of August, the mining department accused mining contractor Aditya Multicom Private Limited (AMPL) of stealing the sand and registered criminal cases for theft and instituted proceedings for recovery of the amount from the company.The AMPL has responded by alleging that the department had cancelled its license for stocking the sand for sale in off season and seized the stored sand in April and the officials in custody of the seized sand were responsible for the theft. It has approached the Patna high court over the matter. The mining department officials didn’t respond to this charge.The mining department in 2015 awarded AMPL 5-year license for mining of sand from Sone river in Aurangabad and Rohtas districts beginning January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2019. The contract to the company was extended for one year up to December 31, 2020 and later up to September 30, 2021.The AMPL surrendered its mining license in the last week of April, 2021 alleging it was suffering huge losses due to illegal sand mining which could not be stopped despite several letters to district and state officials.The AMPL also had another related licence to store sand at 17 different points in Rohtas district to sell in off season. This is known as K-License and it was valid up to December 31, 2021.On May 1, AMPL’s K-License was suspended by the department till verification of the stock was done. The sub divisional magistrates of Dehri and Bikramganj, and assistant director mining Rohtas verified the stocks and found 48.3 million cft sand was stored at 17 points maintained by the company.The mining department later cancelled the firm’s K-License in the first week of July, alleging the company had violated storage rules.Later in the same month, the department’s project management unit (PMU) claimed that the total quantity of sand stored at the 17 points was 57.6 million cft, and only 4.927 million cft of sand was actually found at the storage sites on an inspection done around July 20. Following this, cases were filed under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Bihar mining minerals rules, 2019 against AMPL in the first week of August, assistant director mining, Gopal Kumar said.The AMPL has questioned the department’s findings citing differences in the quantity of sand mentioned by the department in two different accounts. The company also claimed that since the mining department was the custodian of the stored sand after the company’s K-License was suspended and later cancelled, it should therefore be held accountable for the missing quantities.The company also claimed that it had paid the royalty for mining settlement and the K-License in advance but was deprived from selling the sand.The CPI-ML Kaimur district secretary and environment activist Vijay Yadav said that the officials under whose watch such huge theft, which in any case could not have been committed in a day or a week, should also be held responsible. Yadav has requested the Patna high court to take cognisance of the matter so that the racket ruining public exchequer, rivers and ecosystem in the region is exposed.In July this year, Aurangabad superintendent of police (SP), deputy superintendent of police (DySPs) of Aurangabad and Dehri and the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Dehri were among the 17 top officials suspended by the state government for their alleged involvement in illegal sand mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mined-sand-valued-at-rs-179-cr-goes-missing-in-bihar-101630230640121.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Agra doctors free toddler who got his head stuck inside pressure cooker||A toddler who got his head stuck inside a pressure cooker while playing with it was extricated following two hours of painstaking efforts by a team of doctors at a private hospital here.The doctors, however, had to beckon a mechanic who arrived with a grinder machine and helped the team in cutting the utensil.According to the family members, the one-and-a-half-year-old boy was playing at his maternal uncle's house in Khatipara in Lohamandi locality in the city on Saturday when he got his head stuck inside the cooker.The family members tried to extricate the head at home but failed. They then took the boy to SM Charitable Hospital where Dr Farhat Khan and his team were able to save child after two hours of painstaking efforts."The cooker was cut with the help of a grinder while following all safety norms… We were able to extricate the child safely," Khan said.The family members expressed gratitude to the team for saving the child."We express our sincere thanks to the team of doctors. It’s because of their efforts that the child was saved," said a family member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/agra-doctors-free-toddler-who-got-his-head-stuck-inside-pressure-cooker-101630226728159.html
29-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot discharged from hospital||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who underwent an angioplasty, was discharged from Jaipur’s SMS hospital on Sunday. On Friday, a stent was placed in one of his arteries that had 90% blockage. The doctors said that the CM’s angioplasty was successful and recovering well. He was discharged on Sunday. He was welcomed by his family members and the staff at his residence after which he tweeted, “I have reached my official residence safely. I would like to thank all the staff including all the doctors, nursing staff, ward boys, sweepers of SMS Hospital who took good care of me.” “I have seen that the hospital staff deserves praise for the effort made in SMS to serve all the patients well,” he said.  “The Chief Minister has been discharged from the hospital as per the opinion of the doctors’ and is recovering well,” said Lokesh Sharma, OSD to the CM. Earlier in the day, his son Vaibhav Gehlot, along with health minister Raghu Sharma visited Ganesh temple in Jaipur. On Saturday, the CM had asked residents of the state to follow Covid containment protocol, including wearing masks, maintaining social distance and hygiene apart from getting vaccinated. He also advised consultation with a doctor if anyone continued to face problems after recovering from the infection, as the slightest negligence can have serious repercussions, he said. Reflecting on his illness, the CM said he kept working without any rest in the last three months after recovering from Covid during the peak of the second wave of infection and it took its toll. “I could not take proper rest as advised by the doctors. Due to this, I am having post Covid-19 problems for so long...,” Gehlot tweeted on Saturday. The CM added that the doctors have advised him complete rest for a few days after which he will serve the people of the state as before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-discharged-from-hospital-101630225061158.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police ASI shoots himself on duty, hospitalised||An Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police (ASI) of Delhi Police has been admitted to the hospital after he allegedly shot himself with his service revolver during his duty on Sunday.According to Delhi Police, the incident happened at 8:30 in the morning, when ASI Ramchandra, who was posted in a PCR, allegedly shot himself on his shoulder, with his service revolver.The ASI was then rushed to the hospital, where his condition is now said to be out of danger, said police.Delhi Police further said that in his statement Ramchandra has said that he has been going through depression for the last few days.The investigation is underway by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-asi-shoots-himself-on-duty-hospitalised-101630221917146.html
29-08-2021||Indore||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauds Indore for becoming India's first 'Water Plus' city||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded Madhya Pradesh's Indore for becoming the first “Water Plus” city in the country. PM Modi’s praise for the city came while he was talking about the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan on the 80th episode of his Mann Ki Baat radio address.Also Read | Indore becomes India's first 'Water Plus' city. Here's why it matters“Whenever we talk about Swachh Bharat, Indore’s name automatically comes up. This is because the city has created a unique identity for itself when it comes to cleanliness and people of Indore deserve applause for this. Indore has topped Swachh Bharat rankings for many years now. But people have now decided that they are not merely content with the ranking. They want to move forward and achieve something new,” he said.Mann Ki Baat Highlights: Sanskrit strengthens cultural ties, says PM ModiResidents have made up their mind to keep Indore a Water Plus city, PM Modi further said. “Such a city is one where no sewage is released into a public water source without treatment. Citizens have themselves come forward to link drains in their houses to sewage lines and have also carried out the Swachhata Mission. Because of this, the volume of sewage water mixing into the waters of rivers Saraswati and Kanh has vastly reduced. This improvement is visible as well,” the Prime Minister explained.Also Read | PM Modi hails India's 'Yuva Shakti' in 80th episode of Mann Ki BaatAt a time when the nation is celebrating the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, we all should take a resolve to not let the cleanliness mission weaken, he added. “The more Water Plus cities we have in the country, the more beneficial it will be to us,” PM Modi remarked.Indore, the largest city and commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh, was, on August 11, declared as the first Water Plus city in India by the Union government under the Swachh Survekshan 2021. To earn such a distinction, a city needs to fulfil three criteria: dirty water from it should not enter a river or drain, all public toilets there should be cleaned and connected to sewage lines, and 30 per cent of its sewage water should be recycled and reused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-lauds-indore-for-becoming-india-s-first-water-plus-city-101630219705566.html
29-08-2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot recovering after angioplasty, may be discharged today||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who underwent an angioplasty on Friday at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur, is recovering and likely to be discharged on Sunday, officials said. A stent was placed in one of his arteries that had 90% blockage, they added. “Chief minister underwent [an] angioplasty successfully on Friday. He is recovering well. All protocol follow-up tests were done and they are normal. A team of doctors is looking after him. He is in good health and cheerful condition. Today he was mobilised, and will be sent home probably on Sunday,” the health bulletin issued by Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal, SMS medical college said. Earlier in the day, Gehlot tweeted that he was not able to tour and meet people of the state for the past several days due to post Covid health issues. Reflecting on his illness, CM said he kept working without any rest in the last three months after recovering from Covid during the peak of the second wave of infection and it took its toll. “I could not take proper rest as advised by the doctors. Due to this, I am having post Covid-19 problems for so long...,” he said. The CM added that the doctors have advised him complete rest for a few days after which he will serve the people of the state as before. Gehlot also asked residents of the state to follow Covid containment protocol, including wearing masks, maintaining social distance and hygiene apart from getting vaccinated. He also advised consultation with a doctor if anyone continued to face problems after recovering from the infection, as the slightest negligence can have serious repercussions, he said. Meanwhile, state Congress leaders such as Mahesh Joshi and Mahendra Choudhary visited temples and held prayers for CM’s health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ashok-gehlot-recovering-after-angioplasty-may-be-discharged-today-101630212279029.html
29-08-2021||Kolkata||Sikha Mitra, widow of ex-Bengal Congress chief, to return to Trinamool today||Former West Bengal MLA Sikha Mitra and widow of late state Congress president Somen Mitra will rejoin Trinamool Congress on Sunday.Speaking to ANI on Saturday, Mitra confirmed the development and said she had never left the TMC officially."I will join TMC tomorrow. I have decided to join the party again because my experience says that you can't do big things for the welfare of the people without a political platform," she said.The former MLA had resigned from her Chowringhee seat in 2014 citing growing differences with the TMC."I never left TMC. I never joined another party. I am re-joining and the party will give me a flag tomorrow. Some more people will also join TMC with me," said the former MLA.When asked about her new responsibilities in TMC, Mitra said, "I don't know what will be my exact responsibility, but I have been asked to work for a committee for women and have to go in the district level and meet people."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sikha-mitra-widow-of-ex-bengal-congress-chief-to-return-to-trinamool-today-101630202879148.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Only 16 takers for 76 leftover EWS seats in Chandigarh’s schools||After the UT education department recently issued a notice for leftover 76 vacant seats reserved for EWS students in 18 private unaided schools of the city, the education department has received only 16 responses.The entries were opened between August 16 and 22 and seats could be applied through Google forms. Confirming this, officials of the district education officer (DEO)’s office in Sector 19 said, “The demand for these seats depends on the schools where the vacancies have been announced. People tend to apply to more popular schools while those who don’t get admission there end up joining government schools.”Officials added that a similar trend was also seen in leftover seats in the EWS admissions in 2020: 74 seats were vacant in nine schools of the city, however, only around 20 applications were received at the time.UT director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We had announced these admissions through various mediums to ensure people were aware of them. We have closed the admissions for now and won’t be extending the last date to apply.”Brar added that he will also review whether people were facing difficulties applying or whether they were facing any problems from the school’s side.Director of Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26, Atul Khanna, said, “Since the session for entry level classes has started already, it is possible that kids are already enrolled in school or they were not aware that another session of admissions had been announced. Once admissions for entry level classes for the new session starts, people will start applying again.”While there are no vacant EWS seats at his school, Khanna said that they enrol around 40 kids under the EWS category every year for which the school directly receives between 200-300 applications.In private unaided and recognised schools, 25% seats are reserved for EWS students under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. For EWS admission, the annual income of the family needs to be less than ₹1.5 lakh and an income certificate issued by the administration has to be provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-16-takers-for-76-leftover-ews-seats-in-chandigarh-s-schools-101630186357315.html
29-08-2021||Other||Stray dog bites 4, including 8-yr-old boy, in Zirakpur||A stray dog bit four persons, including an eight-year-old boy in Kishanpura area of Peermuchalla in Zirakpur on Saturday.The victims have been identified as Shanti Devi, 50, Anju, 49, Muskan, 20, and Puneet Gambhir, 8 -- all residents of the same locality. Shanti Devi was bitten in the arm and referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, where her condition is stated to be critical. The other three are undergoing treatment at the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. Aman Sharma, a resident of the society, said, “We have protested against the dog menace several times but the authorities only turned a blind eye towards the menace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stray-dog-bites-4-including-8-yr-old-boy-in-zirakpur-101630186297371.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU planning to reopen campus for final year students||Panjab University (PU) is finally planning to reopen campus for final-year students in the first or second week of September.In the first phase, however, only those with practical and thesis work will be allowed to return. This was discussed in a meeting of a varsity panel on August 27 that was attended by dean university instructions (DUI), dean student welfare (DSW) and other officials.If the situation allows, the campus will eventually be thrown open for other students in a phased manner. The final call is yet to be taken.The UT administration had allowed the reopening of educational institutes in the city from August with a rider that all teaching and non-teaching staff, besides students, should have received at least one dose of vaccination, minimum two weeks prior.“Number of students in exit classes is higher and the plan is to allow those with lab work and other project work on campus first,” said a university official, on the condition of anonymity.During the meeting, it was also discussed that PU cannot accommodate all the students in hostels given the Covid situation and data will be collected on the matter. Meanwhile, student bodies have been demanding the reopening of campus for the last 15 days; a few of them are on an indefinite strike outside the vice-chancellor’s office.UT colleges to reopen for more studentsMany colleges in UT are planning to allow more students to attend physical classes from September. DAV College in Sector 10 has decided that all postgraduate classes (second year) and BBA classes will commence in offline mode from September 1.The Post Graduate Government College For Girls, Sector 42, has also announced that the classes for fifth semester (UG courses) will be held offline from September 1.More colleges are in the process of deciding to reopen for more students from September. “There was a review meeting and the decision is likely to be taken in the coming days,” said an official at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-planning-to-reopen-campus-for-final-year-students-101630185877068.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Kaun si qatil, chitti roohan de||Paradoxes of existence, complexities of interaction, parallel value systems and a conflict of interests can bedevil spaces shared by humanity with wild creatures. Cremation grounds are appointed with towering trees which support avian life and attendant biodiversity even as resident wild creatures witness the repetition of grieving human rituals. Birds breed in cremation ground trees and new lives flower even as the logs below greedily hiss and crackle, flames devour spent flesh, and rage at those hard bones that stubbornly stage their last stand against the inevitability of ashes. We have glimpsed peacock and crows foraging in the remains of a pyre in late evening or at dawn when all is morosely quiet and lukewarm in the rows of ash beds.At the cremation ground of village Shankarpura in Punjab’s Batala tehsil, this accommodation of death and birth spanning many years suffered a breakdown. A looming Philkhan tree sporting a fast-growing, widening canopy and situated in the ground’s centre had been occupied by Paddy egrets and Little cormorants. Over time, the canopy grew crowded with bird apartments and cast a shadow on the pyre spots below. That had genuine implications for mourners. Ten days back, Shankarpura bore three deaths in a day leading to a surge of mourners. That became the catalyst for a breakdown of human-bird coexistence. “The birds’ poop and overpowering stink caused severe discomfort to mourners and their relatives who had come from far and near. It affected the village’s reputation as mourners had to stand under the tree with poop falling on them. The demand from villagers to prune the tree gathered pace after those three back-to-back cremations. So, the village’s gurdwara committee took the decision to prune and put an end to the birds’ occupation,” Sawinder Singh, husband of Shankarpura’s sarpanch, Davinder Kaur, told this writer.The effect on the other side, the birth givers, was catastrophic. “An estimated 100 egrets and eight cormorants lost their homes after the drastic pruning. Chicks and eggs were destroyed. A squirrel pup lay dead. Fortunately, the cremation ground is surrounded by paddy fields where some homeless chicks secured refuge from dogs. The villagers should have waited for the breeding season to end before hacking,” Amit Sharma, an environmentalist and banker posted at Shankarpura told this writer after having witnessed the pruning. Bird carcasses, egg shells, struggling chicks, logs and feathers drifting in the wind like ashes bore grim testimony to the apocalypse. The biodiversity scene was now more in harmony with simmering pyres. Tearless egrets perched on piles of logs looked down at their smothered dead chicks and wasted eggs. The tree’s amputated limbs had come to signify a short-lived transition from ‘womb to tomb’ for the avian progeny. The spectacle was reminiscent of shanties razed by bulldozers, with melancholic children retrieving toys and ragged text books from home’s rubble.Wise to prevalent social, religious and cultural values, Sharma reached out to the tree hackers in a creative manner. He chose not to hector them with ‘save our planet’ sermons. “I addressed them in their cultural idiom. I said, you people believe the departed human spirit is associated with shades of white --- the ‘chitti rooh’. These white egrets are actually the ‘rooh’ of your elders who have departed from this world and have taken the form of birds. They make homes on trees of the cremation ground as they do not want to leave your company. You can daily seek the blessings of your departed elders by tolerating these birds instead of driving them away. This had a positive effect and they expressed remorse at the destruction of nests, saying they were ignorant and had not realised pruning would have such consequences for breeding birds. I fervently hope they will not hack nesting trees again,” said Sharma.The writer can reached at vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-kaun-si-qatil-chitti-roohan-de-101630185638209.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | It’s a brave, new world for Generation C||With schools starting to reopen, partially and in a phased manner, first timers will experience the physical aspects of schooling in a different modus. This generation will be the first to have never known the joys of a mask-free childhood, sitting in classrooms and auditoriums crammed with hundreds of students, the fun of sharing a tiffin with unsanitised hands, and the appreciative smile on an unmasked teacher’s face. Those conceived or born during the pandemic have been given the name ‘coronials’, toddlers who are already taking classes on zoom are being called ‘baby-zoomers’ and then there are the ‘quaran-teens’, the teenagers resigned to spend their college life in a room next to their parent’s. Clearly, Generation C will be defined by the traits and behaviour changes brought about by the coronavirus pandemic. The early years of a child’s life are very important for his or her health and mental development and several studies are now suggesting that the coronavirus pandemic would have a huge role in defining our next generation. Children are growing up under the watchful eye of their parents and extended family and are mirroring their elders’ thoughts and personalities. They are constantly being piloted to safe and clean surrounding, told to their masks up, deprived of the joy of free touch and asked to avoid close proximity with people, even friends. At this vulnerable age, they are likely to become germophobes, overprotected individuals with obsessions and compulsions and may even imbibe a socially distant mindset. Some recent studies have found that the pandemic may have a positive impact as well.Generation C will know how to thrive in adversity, will develop techno-dexterous abilities, a heightened sense of self-awareness and give priority to wellbeing and sustainability. Jason Dorcey, president, Centre for Generational Kinetics, says , “The pandemic is likely to lead to structural changes and new norms that the next generation could ultimately benefit from including shifts in online learning, physical work spaces, contactless payments, a vaccine and other new technology.” Will they pay for these advantages with a lost childhood? The new generation will miss out on the joys of living without barriers and restraints, having soiled hands and clothes, making new friends in public parks, and raising their uncovered faces to wind and rain. The phrase ‘young wild and free’ is probably not as applicable in the post-Covid age as the young can no longer be wild and free anymore. ( The writer is an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana high court, Chandigarh. She can be reached at shazuks@gmail.com)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-it-s-a-brave-new-world-for-generation-c-101630185217049.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays | Those uneasy rendezvous after lockdown||The pandemic has shown us many faces, and many facets of life. People have discovered and rediscovered aspects of their persona that they hardly knew existed.The prolonged lockdown had till now obviated the possibility of meeting friends and socialising. But with the gradual lowering of guard, old friends and family members are getting together once more, often with quaint results.The most noticeable change in some personalities that the lockdown months have brought about is the newly acquired couldn’t-care-less attitude about their looks. Many friends have emerged greyer, and perhaps wiser, from the extended period of being home bound. They have actually stopped denting and painting their exteriors, so to say! Perhaps the philosophical nature of life in present times, where the true meaning of it has come closer home, has precluded the need to brush up one’s façade. Proprietors of beauty salons are probably not too happy about this trend, but they will anyway have a large number of takers, such being the variegated nature of society.Some others have actually found it difficult to meet real people, believe it or not, having spent 15 months or more ‘zooming’ before a screen. Special courses have actually been launched in the United States of America, for instance, on how people should begin to socialise again, and what social skills they would need to equip themselves with. In India, we seem to not need such courses, by and large, especially since we have been meeting the maids and Zomato/Swiggy chaps et al, almost throughout this phase.A viral whatsapp video actually had as its main character a man who would not accept people in real life beyond a point, and he would try to search for a non-existent mute button, to shut them up! That is a gross exaggeration of course, but millions who have found it difficult to re-adapt themselves to the real world. Children especially have needed weaning off from too much screen time. Carrying out real time conversations has never been their forte,and will never be, unless their virtual world fades a bit into the background.And we Indians have a love hate relationship with masks. We wear them because we’re supposed to but we drop them at the drop of a hat. When friends meet up after a long separation, they tend to keep their masks on for about 10 minutes. Then their tea or coffee or beer arrives. And that’s that. No masks are to be seen after that. Hugs and cuddles also become an integral part of the proceedings, once general levels of wariness go for a toss.Masked conversations are actually just not fulfilling enough. People often cannot hear muffled words with clarity. The smile or scowl are blatantly missing too. Non-verbal communication is said to be a major part of all forms of direct communication but masks hijack most of our facial expressions.Several spouses have become more liberal during this period, when it comes to “allowing” their better or worse halves to hob-nob with others. By being closeted together for over a year they have had enough of each other, several times over! Absence makes the heart grow fonder, of course, and being cooped up together in lockdown has bred anything but fondness, in most cases! Be that as it may, many couples have learned to respect each other’s space, quite literally.Human beings are, after all, social beings. Our mental health improves when we confabulate with others. Whenever the virus numbers go up again, and I truly hope that they do not, I am sure that prudence will prevail over daredevilry and most masks will be up again. But for now, old pals and gals are gathering for coffee after coffee, akin to pre-pandemic times.Working from home has led to the emergence of a new breed of artists, chefs, musicians, writers, photographers and the like. Not all of them are supremely talented, shall we say, and some of them may be quite insufferable, but at least the general levels of creativity have gone up.One never knows, the world might actually have become a better place, while we were locked down!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-those-uneasy-rendezvous-after-lockdown-101630184920355.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||NGOs raise doubts over Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project||Members of various NGOs under the banner of Public Action Committee for Sutlej and Mattewara staged a silent protest on Saturday at Jamalpur bridge near Central Jail on Tajpur Road, under their ongoing campaign to stop the pollution of the Buddha Nullah and Sutlej river. They also raised their doubts over the allegedly ill-planned Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project.Members of NGOs including Naroa Punjab Manch, Vigilant Citizens Forum, Punjabi Bhasha Pasar Bhaichara also highlighted the delay in setting up the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) to treat dyeing industry waste, which is resulting in release of effluents into the nullah. Colonel CM Lakhanpal (retired) and Jaskirat Singh said the existing 48 mld STP at Jamalpur has developed snag due to inflow of industrial waste and now again, the authorities have a contingency plan to treat it in the new 225 mld STP being established at Jamalpur. Colonel Lakhanpal said, “The problem of waste water in Ludhiana has reached horrendous proportions. The government has spent hundreds of crores in the name of cleaning the Buddha Nullah, but the problem has only increased over the years. Ministers and bureaucrats see it as nothing more than a cash cow and there is very little transparency. “Mohinder Singh Sekhon from Punjabi Bhasha Pasar Bhaichara said that there are many scattered industries in the city which are not connected to the clusters of these CETPs. He added that the government should formulate a strict policy to link them to the CETP clusters or shut them down. They should not be allowed to discharge their industrial effluent into the municipal sewer lines, he added.The protesters also slammed the administration for misleading the public by claiming that releasing fresh water into the nullah has reduced the pollution level by 80%. They protesters also demanded that the government rollback the decision to establish an industrial park on the banks of Sutlej river in Mattewara. Industrialist Ranjodh Singh said, “The government wants to shift the textile and dyeing industry of the city to the banks of the Sutlej near Mattewara forest, which will add to pollution in the already polluted river which is a source of drinking water for southern Punjab and many districts of Rajasthan. The proposal should be scrapped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngos-raise-doubts-over-buddha-nullah-rejuvenation-project-101630184919115.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | A whiff of Afghan Snow, the Kabuliwala’s call||A round glass jar embossed with a pretty woman’s face and topped with a pink lid occupied a precious corner in mother’s cupboard along with a tiny blue bottle of ‘Evening In Paris’ and containers of kumkum. The rotund jar contained a magical cream, cheekily named Afghan Snow. Suddenly, the forgotten cosmetic, hailed as India’s first cream when it made its way into the market in 1919, returned to memory with its gentle fragrance in times when fear looms large on the country that inspired its name. The Afghan Snow was a part of most Indian homes until the 70s. The brand had also sponsored early Miss India contests and leading yesteryear star Devika Rani lent her face for its promotion. As the story goes, the Afghan king Mohammed Zahir Shah had visited united India in 1919 and a young Indian entrepreneur presented him a hamper of cosmetics, the pearly white cream included. He asked the king if he could name it Afghan Snow and permission was generously granted. Indeed, snow in Afghanistan is a sight to behold. Actor Tisca Chopra, who spent a portion of her youth in Kabul, where her father was the principal of a school says one of her most vivid memories was waking up to four feet of snow on the hill that was home to them. She too expressed concern for the Afghan women and children with the US beating a hasty retreat leaving the country in ravage and fear.Strange that remembrance and fragrance should return at a time when both Afghan Snow and Afghanistan that inspired its name are struggling for survival.Growing up with KabuliwalaNot just phantom perfumes, the chant ‘Kabuliwala aaya pista badam laaya’ also rings in the ears. It was in 1961, at the city’s lone Kiran Cinema that one made a new on-screen friend, a ‘Kabuliwala’ named Rehmat. One has never seen the like of him in the fledgling city of Chandigarh. One longed to go to Kolkata in the hope that one would find him there in his colourful clothes walking the streets, singing and dancing with children and giving them pistachios, almonds and raisins. At six, one envied little Mini who could befriend such a large-hearted soul who carried a bag brimming with goodies and could summon fairies, elves and animal friends from the forests by just swinging his magical stick.Rabindranath Tagore’s classic Bangla story ‘Kabuliwala’, penned in 1892 when the subcontinent was a British colony explores human relationships. The prominent message, however, was that human relationships transcend differences in caste, creed, race, age and culture. In Bengal, every child grew up knowing this story as it was a prescribed text in schools. However, it was Bimal Roy’s film that brought the fascinating story to the children in north India and Pakistan. The story continues to thrall 129 years after it was written. The film was empathetically directed by Hemen Gupta, who was part of the Indian National Army led by Subhas Chandra Bose, and includes a memorable music score by Hemant Kumar. Two of Hemant’s songs that transcend the test of time are Ae mere pyare watan and Ganga aaye kahan se.Kumkum is doing fineThe sequel to Tagore’s Kabuliwala came from across the border by well-known Urdu writer Zahida Hina. She wrote the sequel, ‘Kumkum Theek-Thak Hai’ (Kumukum Is Doing Fine) after the 2001 US attack on Afghanistan, following 9/11. Now, who is Kumkum? Well, time has moved on and Mini of the Kabuliwala times is Kumkum’s grandmother. A doctor, she goes to Afghanistan as a volunteer and forms an empathetic bond with an injured Afghan militant. Penned as a letter to her grandmother in Kolkata, it is the revival of kindness and human warmth that had once been given to her grandmother by a Kabuliwala named Rehmat who saw in her shades of his daughter far away amid the Afghan snow. In this chain of literature, art and love, it is Kumkum who must have the last word as she writes to the Mini of yore: “You told me that Rehmat Baba had also a daughter your age who lived in Kabul. He didn’t have the money to get her photographed or perhaps in those days, there were no photographers in Kabul, so he had a print of her hand on a piece of paper, and used to keep it in his pocket, near his heart, just like papa used to keep my photo in his wallet. Your father, I mean my great-grandfather, had given some money to Rehmat Baba so that he could go back to Kabul and see his daughter, which made great-grandmother very angry. Nowadays, when I receive wounded, bleeding patients, shouting with pain or breathing their last, I sometimes ask myself, had you not eaten those almonds and pistachios from Rehmat Baba’s bag 70 years ago, had my great-grandfather not written his story, would I still be here in Kabul, in Kandahar, in Herat, in Helmund?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-a-whiff-of-afghan-snow-the-kabuliwala-s-call-101630184498469.html
29-08-2021||Other||Mohali: Three weeks on, no headway in Middukhera murder case||Even though the crime investigation agency (CIA) of Mohali have grilled three dreaded gangsters and around 55 others in connection with the broad daylight murder of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, aka Vicky Middukhera, 33, there is no headway in the case. Hours after Middukhera’s murder in Sector 71 of Mohali on August 7, the Davinder Bambiha gang had taken responsibility for the attack in a Facebook post. It claimed that Vicky was killed as he was allegedly acting as an “informer” for the Bishnoi gang.Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “We spotted the i-20 car, used in the crime, crossing the Haryana border. We have got some vital clues and will be able to crack the case soon.”Another senior police officer, who is also investigating the case, said, “We have obtained the closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage from many roadside dhabas on route to Ambala. In most of these, an i-20 car has been spotted speeding towards Uttar Pardesh. We have already sent teams to both Delhi and UP.”In the past three weeks, Mohali police have grilled three dreaded gangsters Sukhpreet Singh alias Buddha, Aman Jaittu and Bhupi Rana but nothing substantial came to fore and the police have ruled out their role in the crime. Police have also questioned 55 other criminals associated with the Devinder Banbiha gang and others directly or indirectly involved or associated with other gangsters but without any success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-three-weeks-on-no-headway-in-middukhera-murder-case-101630184080726.html
29-08-2021||Other||Elderly succumbs to Covid in UT, 12 new cases detected in tricity||A 76-year-old man from Sector 23 of Chandigarh succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday even as the tricity reported 12 new infections. Of the total, eight cases were detected in Mohali, three in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula. In Chandigarh, the fresh cases were reported from Sector 23, 46 and 38 (West). In Mohali, five cases surfaced from Dhakoli, two from Kharar and one from Mohali. The sole new case from Panchkula was found in Alipur.While the UT now has 38 active cases, Mohali is left with 54 after four patients recovered on Saturday. Panchkula has 12 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-succumbs-to-covid-in-ut-12-new-cases-detected-in-tricity-101630184079620.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali junction case: HC grants bail to two, including chairman of firm||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to two accused, including the firm’s chairman, in a case of cheating buyers of shops and office spaces at Mohali Junction, the bus terminal and commercial complex in Phase 6. The high court bench of justice GS Gill acted on the plea of Gurjeet Singh Johar and Charanbir Singh Sethi. They had approached high court in July 2021. The dream project of the previous Akali government, Mohali Junction was launched in 2009, with a deadline of December 2011. It was touted to be the first Busopolis project — a bus terminal with a commercial centre and hotel — in the region. However, nine years later, only the ISBT has become operational, leaving investors in the retail shops and office spaces disgruntled. In their complaint to the police, some of the investors alleged that they had been cheated of their money deposited with the company. The complainants had booked shops and offices in B and C towers of the project, and claimed to have paid 35% to 90% of the total cost of the retail space. As the developer failed to deliver the possession even after years, the complainants had sought refund of the money deposited with 18% interest. But, despite repeated assurances from the company, they had not received anything. In August 2018, the FIR was registered against six people, including firm chairman Gurjeet Singh Johar. The bench granted bail in view of the fact that challan has already been presented and they are senior citizens. But they have been directed to appear before trial court within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-junction-case-hc-grants-bail-to-two-including-chairman-of-firm-101630184078427.html
29-08-2021||Other||Nurse found injured in Panchkula: Two days on, no arrests made yet||Two days after a staff nurse was found injured on Morni road near Nada Sahib gurdwara, the Panchkula police are still clueless about the culprits and the woman is not in any condition to speak.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raj Kumar said the police are checking the footage from every CCTV camera installed near the crime spot and are questioning auto-drivers plying on the route.“Not only the police but separate teams of crime branch are on this case. The window period is short to comment on what might have happened. Also, when a patient is not able to speak, it gets more complex.”Kumar informed that so far doctors had not revealed any possibility of sexual assault. “The woman has severe head injury and has undergone neuro-surgery. She has gained consciousness, but cannot speak. Doctors are hopeful that in 2-3 days, she will be able to talk,” said the ACP.The FIR was registered on August 27 under Section 307 and 34 of the IPC against an unknown person on the complaint of the victim’s brother, a resident of Manpura village in Solan district.“She commutes daily from home to work, taking an autorickshaw till Majri Chowk and from there either bus or another auto till Pinjore. From there, we used to pick her up,” he said.The victim’s sister said, “On August 26, she finished her shift and left the hospital at around 8:25pm. She hired an auto-rickshaw till Majri Chowk. We were chatting till the time she reached Nada Sahib gurdwara, and just within 4-5 minutes the incident happened.”She added: “Most likely, it is a case of an attack as her gold chain is missing. She must have tried to run after the snatcher and met with an accident.” The victim’s sister further said that some people were spreading misinformation that her sister was kidnapped. She denied having given any such statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nurse-found-injured-in-panchkula-two-days-on-no-arrests-made-yet-101630184077347.html
29-08-2021||Other||Pet dog bylaws finally notified in Mohali||Punjab local bodies department has finally notified pet-dog bylaws for Mohali, making it mandatory for residents to get their furry friends registered and follow other norms regarding their upkeep.The draft for the bylaws was first prepared in December 2013 following which the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) had invited objections within 30 days, but ever since, it had been hanging fire.Why pet registration is necessaryAs per a rough estimate, there are around 20,000 pet dogs in the city but none of them are registered, and thus kept without rules and regulations. Pet registration not just helps ensure the safety and well-being of a domesticated animal but also regulates how it interacts with the society and vice-versa. In November 2019, the Mohali court had awarded six-month jail to a woman found guilty of negligence after her pet dog bit a neighbour in April 2018. The court also imposed a fine of ₹1,500 on the convict, Minakshi, who stays on rent in Phase 10. Every year, around 2,000 dog bite cases are reported at the civil hospital, Phase-6, Mohali.Medical officer health (MOH) of MC, Mohali, Dr Tamana said, “We will start registration of pet dogs from September 10 and give residents a month to complete the formalities, failing which they will be penalised as per the rules.Know the bylawsA resident is allowed to keep only two pets dogs at home.Pet dog owners will have to pay a one-time registration fee of ₹100 and further, ₹100 as the annual renewal fee. For those who fail to get their pet dogs registered within the stipulated time (by October 10), a penalty of ₹100 will be charged for a month’s delay, ₹200 for a delay of two months. For delay of more than two months, the penalty is ₹500.According to the bylaws, if a pet dog is found loitering on the streets, the animal may be detained and a fine of ₹5,000 will be imposed on the owner, besides ₹500 per day for feed. If the pet dog is repeatedly found loitering, a fine of ₹10,000 will be imposed.On registration, MC will provide the owner with a metal badge engraved with the name and address of the owner. The owner will have to make the pet dog wear the badge at all times.A penalty of ₹50 a day will be imposed, if the dog owner does not keep a dangerous dog under control.A penalty of ₹2,000 will be imposed, if the owner does not provide information regarding rabid animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pet-dog-bylaws-finally-notified-in-mohali-101630183896750.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||No clue about assailants in Rohtak triple murder||A day after a property dealer, his wife and his mother-in-law were shot dead in Rohtak’s Vijay Nagar, the police are yet to identify and nab the attackers. Victims Pradeep Malik alias Bablu and his wife Babli Devi were cremated in Rohtak, while the body of his mother-in-law Roshni was consigned to flames in Sampla. The condition of the couple’s 17-year-old daughter is said to be critical. Rohtak police spokesman Sunny Loura said efforts to nab the assailants were on while refusing to share details.On Friday, Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma had said they received a PCR call that three bodies are lying inside a house in Vijay Nagar area. “It seems the attackers barged into property dealer Bablu’s house and fired shots at his family in which three were killed and one sustained injuries. Prima facie it appears the miscreants planned this gruesome incident over financial or property dispute,” he said.“Bablu’s brother’s family also stays in the same colony and were the ones to discover the bodies after breaking open the door of the house,” the SP added.“We are checking footages of the CCTV cameras installed near the victims’ house and registered a case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959. We have launched an investigation and a forensics team visited the crime scene,” the SP had said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-clue-about-assailants-in-rohtak-triple-murder-101630183718592.html
29-08-2021||Other||Commuters hassled as agitated farmers block Chandimandir toll, highways for over 4 hours||Commuters had a harrowing time on Saturday as farmers blocked the Panchkula-Shimla highway and Chandimandir Toll Plaza for over four hours to protest police lathicharge on a group of farmers heading towards Karnal for an agitation. Those headed for the hills had their plans go haywire as they got stuck in a traffic jam, which extended to several kilometres, due to the blockade. The blockade here started around 2.30pm and was not lifted until about 7.15pm.A woman in her 30s, who had made a trip to Shimla to celebrate her birthday, was left disappointed, as she and her friends from Maharashtra got stuck in the jam. Similar was the status of others.ACP (traffic) Rakesh Guleria said, “Roads from Majri Chowk to Old Panchkula and then from Old Panchkula to Fun Republic remained packed. Apart from this, the highway was choked as tourists were not allowed to cross the Toll Plaza.”Heated arguments also broke out between farmers and travelers at some points.At 4:10pm, CP Panchkula tweeted a traffic advisory, “Surajpur toll plaza (Kalka-Zirakpur Highway) has been blocked by protesting farmers. This route has been diverted. All commuters are advised to avoid this route.”Panchkula police could be seen making announcements that those who wanted to go to Shimla could leave via Siswa road. “We are not sure for how long this jam will continue,” a policeman announced. Jams in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi tooMassive traffic jams were also witnessed in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi due the blockade. The entire traffic approaching the Patiala crossing was diverted to the road beneath the flyover, causing a bottleneck. This blockade also resulted in a jam on the Panchkula side.In anticipation of another group of farmers, the police also barricaded the Zirakpur-Lalru highway. In Ambala, farmers had blocked several spots, primarily the Shambhu toll (Ambala-Patiala border) and Milk Majra toll (Ambala-Yamunanagar border). The blockades were lifted following an appeal by farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni. Ambala DSP (HQ) Sultan Singh said the traffic was thrown open after farmers vacated their agitation sites and movement eased at around 7:30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/commuters-hassled-as-agitated-farmers-block-chandimandir-toll-highways-for-over-4-hours-101630183417810.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL moves to ‘scrap’ PPAs with Goindwal Sahib, Purulia power plants||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has set in motion the process to ‘cancel’ power purchase agreements (PPAs) with GVK Group’s private thermal plant at Goindwal Sahib in the state and the one run by Damodar Valley Corporation at Purulia district in West Bengal by serving them with “repudiation notices”. The corporation will also issue notices to other Punjab-based private power plants, but not for scrapping the PPAs, it is learnt.The government has decided to “repudiate” the PPA with the Goindwal Sahib thermal plant as its per unit rate is as high as ₹10 even as power is available at ₹3 to ₹3.5 per unit from the national grid. Similar reason was cited in case of the Damodar Valley Corporation’s Raghunathpur plant in West Bengal’s Purulia district that had entered a PPA with the PSPCL. However, the government decided to serve a default notice on the Talwandi Sabo plant which it said was functional for 12 months in the last three years, which is less than the minimum requirement of 65%. For the Rajpura thermal plant, the government has decided to serve a notice for revisiting the PPA, saying the availability of its units was not guaranteed during the paddy sowing season. According to the notice, the plant will be asked to amend the PPA to ensure its 95% availability during the paddy season besides reducing the electricity rates as bank interest rates and corporate taxes have come down in the recent past. “With serving of notices, the government has acknowledged that the PPAs were faulty and against the interests of the state and its people. Now, it should punish the erring officials who entered into these agreements. A white paper should be brought in the next Vidhan Sabha session as promised by the chief minister,” said a senior corporation engineer. Except the Damodar Valley and GVK notices, no other communication is serious, he added. The decision to serve notices on the private power plants was taken by chief minister Amarinder Singh whom the PSPCL has forwarded a proposal in this regard. The CM had asked the corporation to scrap or revise the PPAs that are adversely affecting the consumers. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said he has forwarded the file to the director (generation) to act as per the decision taken by the government. “I will comment once the process is completed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-moves-to-scrap-ppas-with-goindwal-sahib-purulia-power-plants-101630183296667.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Act against those found disturbing peace: Punjab DGP to district police chiefs||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Saturday directed all the police commissioners and senior superintendents of police (SSPs) to take strict action against those trying to disturb peace and communal harmony in the state. Addressing a state-level crime review meeting on the Punjab Armed Police (PAP), Jalandhar, campus, Gupta said, “Though a lot of good work is being done by most of police chiefs in the districts, intelligent and smart policing involving the use of technology needs to be implemented on the ground.” The DGP instructed to officers to not let anyone take law in their hands. “Anyone found indulging in any unlawful activities should be dealt with firmly and criminal cases should be registered against them,” he added. He said miscreants trying to disturb law and order situation will face issues while getting police clearance certificate or passport verification. With the festival season around the corner, Gupta directed the officials to maintain vigil at all the sensitive places. He also asked district police chiefs to hold meetings with civil society members to make them aware about bomb threats. He also asked the officials to continue the crackdown against drug smugglers.Special DGP (railways Sanjeev Kalra), ADGP (internal security) RN Dhoke and ADGP (intelligence) Varinder Kumar were among the senior officials who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/act-against-those-found-disturbing-peace-punjab-dgp-to-district-police-chiefs-101630183178235.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Did my bit for Amritsar, will work harder to make it world-class city: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said the entire walled city will be beautified on the pattern of the Heritage Street if the SAD-BSP alliance forms the next government in Punjab, besides announcing a multi-purpose international stadium in the holy city. He also condemned the brutal lathi charge on peaceful farmers in Haryana. He demanded that cases should be registered against officers who ordered using force against farmers. Addressing a function organised by newly-inducted leader Anil Joshi here, Sukhbjr said, “It is my life’s mission to make Amritsar an world-class city. We started on this mission during our previous tenure and achieved a lot but the development came to a stop during the Congress rule. We will work harder to make Amritsar a world-class city.” He promised to provide power @ ₹5 per unit to the industrial sector. “I have already in mind developing a 10,000MW solar plant that will provide power free of cost to the PSPCL. It will leave government with ₹10,000 crore for fulfilment of election promises.” He also announced to bring down property tax and regularising illegal colonies. Speaking on the occasion, Joshi said the next SAD-led government will take along all sections of society. “We are committed to guaranteeing peace and communal harmony,” he said.Senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia launched a frontal attack on PCC president Navjot Sidhu. “Sidhu has not done a single thing for the holy city even though he was the local bodies minister for two-and-half years,” he said. He also asked Congress ministers, including Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Charanjit Channi, who had sought Capt Amarinder’s removal as chief minister, to resign from their posts instead of indulging in mere chest beating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/did-my-bit-for-amritsar-will-work-harder-to-make-it-world-class-city-sukhbir-badal-101630183177042.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Angry over lathicharge on protesters in Karnal, farmers block highways in Haryana for nearly 5 hours, commuters suffer||Angry over lathicharge on protesters in Karnal, farmers on Saturday blocked major highways and link roads in Haryana for nearly five hours giving commuters a harrowing time. The blockade was lifted at 7.30 pm. The call to block highways was in response to a lathicharge by police on a group of farmers at Bastara toll plaza on NH 44 near Karnal. The police action drew sharp criticism with Opposition leaders slamming the state government.Members of different farm unions had assembled at the Bastara toll plaza as chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired a state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting at a private hotel ahead of the upcoming local polls, people aware of the matter said.The police said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which bans the assembly of five or more people, was imposed in the area, which made the farmers’ gathering “unlawful”. According to the police, they made repeated announcements to the farmers to disperse but they were adamant on moving towards the venue of the BJP meeting. All roads leading to the venue were heavily barricaded. The farmers said the police started beating the protesters without any provocation, injuring at least 10. “Many farmers were injured after police brutally lathicharged them without any provocation. Some even could be seen with blood all over their clothes,” Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said.The police, however, denied the charge. ADGP law and order Navdeep Virk released a video saying that the farmers had first attacked the police and hurled stones when the police tried to stop them at the toll plaza. “The police had to use mild force as four farmers and 10 police officials sustained injuries in the clash”, he added. Farmers agitating against the central farm laws have been staging protests near the public functions of the state’s ruling BJP- Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine in Haryana since last year. Later, Charuni said: “The police have released the farmers and we have decided to open the blockade but the next decision about the agitation will be taken during a meeting in Karnal on Monday.”Traffic on all major roads disrupted The movement of traffic remained affected on NH 44, Delhi-Chandigarh, Hisar-Ambala-Chandigarh, Kurukshetra-Pehowa-Patiala, Panipat-Rohtak, Kurukshetra-Kaithal, Karnal-Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra-Yamunanagar routes forcing the authorities to divert the vehicles on link roads. The Milk Majra toll plaza connecting Ambala with Yamunanagar and further with Uttar Pradesh was also blocked, while traffic movement was disrupted on Shambu border at Punjab-Haryana border too. Long queues of vehicles could be seen on all the highways and even on the link roads as people were seen struggling to reach their destinations. People also remained stranded in the traffic jams in villages as the police diverted the traffic on the link roads. “I remained stuck in the traffic for more than three hours and travelled 50km extra to return to my home”, said Praveen Kumar, a Karnal resident. BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said four farmers with serious injuries have been hospitalised at the civil hospital in Karnal and three of them are critical. Khattar said that nobody should create a hurdle in the programme of others. “They were allowed to raise their issue in a democratic way and peacefully. If they pelted police with stones and blocked roads the action was initiated by the police,” the CM said. Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda condemned the lathicharge and tweeted: “The action on farmers at Karnal is undemocratic and inhuman. Everyone has the right to protest in a democracy. Governments are not run with fear of the bullet but by winning hearts.” ‘Crack the heads’ of farmers: Haryana official in a viral videoChandigarh A video showing a top district official in Haryana asking policemen to “crack the heads” of the farmers who try to cross the barricades has surfaced on social media. In the video, Karnal’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha is purportedly seen standing in front of a group of policemen and instructing them to not allow the farmers to cross the barricades. “You don’t need anyone’s direction, just crack their heads and thrash them hard if they try to cross the barricade,” he can be heard as saying in the video. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/angry-over-lathicharge-on-protesters-in-karnal-farmers-block-highways-in-haryana-for-nearly-5-hours-commuters-suffer-101630183117147.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panel recommends separation of investigation and law & order wings in Chandigarh police||The one-member police reform commission, in a report submitted to UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore on Saturday, has recommended the separation of the investigation and law-and-order wings of Chandigarh police for better efficiency. The report stated that when the same personnel are assigned investigations and law- and-order duties, it has a cascading effect on the probe and leads to delays. People-friendly force and thanasThe panel, which was headed by KB Singh, a former IPS officer and former ADC to the Punjab governor, further recommended making the police force and thanas more people friendly. It stated that the number of police stations and subdivisions must be increased for better reach. Beat boxes must be made more effective and a major chunk of grievances must be resolved at the beat-box level so that people do not have to visit police stations. A new design and requisite infrastructure at the booth-level has also been proposed.The report says that in police stations, there should be a separate area where people can walk in and register their complaints. This should be under close-circuit television (CCTV) camera surveillance and there should be a dedicated receptionist to guide the visitors. “On walking into a police station, a person often feels lost. He doesn’t know where to file his complaint and who to go to. So, all police stations should get a reception area which has a dedicated receptionist to help the person,” said Singh adding that every complaint should first be registered here. This will also eliminate the chances of cops later saying that they did not get the complaint. On cop strengthThe report says the number of sanctioned strength of cops is adequate in Chandigarh and does not suggest any change in the current ratio of deployment of DANIPS cadre officials and local promoted officers. However, police need more ministerial staff. To increase promotional avenues to inspectors for the posts of DSPs, deputy commandant posts should be revived, it recommends. There are around 6,000 to 7,000 personnel in the Chandigarh police. Of this, 600-700 are in the traffic wing. There are other departments in the police, including law and order, operation cell, crime branch, economic offences wing, CID, PCR among other departments. Currently, the city is headed by a DGP and DIG along with two SSPs and two SPs, one ASP and 18 DSPs. One DSP works with the UT administration in the vigilance department. Traffic policeAs of traffic police, the report says CCTV coverage should be increased at lightpoints as even now, around 100 points are not covered. Booths for traffic cops should be developed as facilitation centres with facility of toilets etc. And these should be equipped with latest gadgets, it recommends. Women police stations, cyber crime and EOWThe commission has also recommended for five more police stations to be built in the city and a special thana for economic offences wing. Women police station should not have male cops posted, it says. The report lays special emphasis on dealing with cyber crime. A separate police station for the cyber cell, which is currently housed at the Sector 17 police station, should be in place. Domain experts should be hired as cyber crime is becoming challenging by the day, it says. Recruitment and trainingThe commission has asked for revising criterion for recruiting constables and assistant sub inspectors introducing curriculum during training to make them more compassionate and empathic. The report also lays emphasis on upgrading weaponry and adding more vehicles for transportation and patrolling. As of coordination with neighbouring police, it says there should be greater coordination from the SHO-level of bordering districts to SPs and then top-level officers at frequent intervals. The administrator, after receiving the report, expressed the confidence that implementation of the recommendations made by the commission will help make the Chandigarh Police a more responsive, robust and efficient force. The implementation of the report is to be done by the local administration in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-reforms-panel-recommends-separation-of-investigation-and-law-order-wings-in-chandigarh-101630182997837.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||5 firm directors booked for cheating over non-payment||Six people —five directors and an authorised signatory of Dynamic Universal Ltd. — have been booked for cheating and other offences over nonpayment of ₹9.65 crore to TDI Infratech Ltd. The case pertains to execution of a sale deed of 7 acres of land on March 18, 2020, registered in Sonepat’s Rai on June 3, 2020. The Kundli police have booked Dynamic Universal Ltd. directors Sachin Dewan, Achla Dewan, Nitin Dewan, Arvind Soni, Mohit Gupta and authorised signatory Bhanu Prakash under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467(forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint filed by Ramanand Sharma, the authorised signatory of the TDI Infratech Ltd. In his complaint, Sharma said Atlas Industries Ltd. was the vendor of the 7-acre plot, Dynamic Universal Ltd. was the vendee (buyer) and he was the confirming party on behalf of TDI Infratech Ltd. “The deal was finalised for ₹16.5 crore. On the day the sale deed was to be executed, Dynamic Universal Ltd. director Mohit Gupta provided cheques for ₹6.68 crore. Gupta told me that the cheques for the rest of the amount were on the way and there will be some delay. Our company director Ravinder Taneja on getting assurance from Gupta over the dues asked me to execute the sale deed,” Sharma said. Talking over phone, Taneja said they have been following up with the party over the dues. “They have been consciously evading us,” he said. Dynamic Universal director Sachin Dewan refused to comment on the issue. Sandeep Kumar, assistant sub-inspector, who is investigating the case, said the case was under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-firm-directors-booked-for-cheating-over-nonpayment-101630182996678.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||BJP to contest civic body polls on party symbol in Haryana||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will contest the coming civic body elections in the state on party symbol while the decision on elections to the Panchayati Raj Institutions will be taken later. The decision was taken at a state-level meeting in Karnal on Saturday, Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar said, adding the election committee of the party will take the decision on whether to contest the panchayat elections on party symbol or not.He said the party has decided to ensure the 50 per cent participation of women in these elections. The meeting was also attended by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who urged party workers to reach out to the people and tell them about the welfare schemes and initiatives taken by the government.The CM also counted schemes launched by the state government in the past seven years. Earlier, the chief minister also inaugurated and laid foundation stones of the developmental projects worth ₹19.82 crore for Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-to-contest-civic-body-polls-on-party-symbol-in-haryana-101630182758856.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal lathi charge: Opposition slams Khattar govt||The Congress and the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) condemned the BJP-JJP government in Haryana for police beating up protesting farmers in Karnal on Saturday. Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda in a statement said that farmers were canecharged by the police despite protesting at Bastara toll plaza which is a good 15 kilometers away from the spot where the BJP event was organised. “This shows the anti-farmer mindset of the state government,’’ Hooda said. INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala said the police action against farmers who were protesting peacefully was an act of cowardice. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said that the brutal lathi charge by the police showed that BJP-JJP government was an enemy of the farmers. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said the BJP-led ML Khattar government has once again used brute force in a desperate bid to end the farmers’ stir against the draconian farm laws. “Khattar government-sponsored attack on farmers is not only unacceptable but outright condemnable,” said Amarinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-lathi-charge-opposition-slams-khattar-govt-101630182158271.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Protesters running a parallel govt in Punjab: BJP state chief||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Punjab president Ashwani Sharma said on Saturday that the protesters were running a parallel government in Punjab and the Amarinder Singh-led dispensation was unable to act against them. Taking a dig at the farmer unions protesting against the Centre’s 3 agriculture laws, Sharma, who was in Ludhiana to attend a meeting of traders and industrialists, said though everyone has the right to protest no one can hurt or silence others. “They are taking law in their hands and are disturbing the law and order situation in Punjab. The protestors are attacking our party workers and trying to disrupt their functions at the behest of the Congress government,” he added. ‘Will provide cheaper, 24x7 power if voted to power’ Sharma said the BJP will provide electricity at cheaper rates round the clock to the industry, traders and households if voted to power in the state in the assembly elections. “The traders and industry suffered losses during the lockdown but the state government failed to provide any relaxation to them. We will waive fixed charges on electricity and property tax imposed by the Congress government. The professional tax imposed in the state is ‘Jajiya’ and it will be withdrawn by the BJP after coming to power,” he said addressing a press conference later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesters-running-a-parallel-govt-in-punjab-bjp-state-chief-101630182041790.html
29-08-2021||Other||Taking Priyanka cue, opposition demands probe into Agra hooch tragedy||Opposition parties are exerting pressure for a fair probe and strict action against the guilty, after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra expressed concern over 13 deaths in Agra district caused by spurious liquor. In a tweet, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra highlighted that 200 deaths have been caused in a year because of spurious liquor in Uttar Pradesh. “Those involved are openly trading in spurious liquor while attacking journalists and police but to no action. Why is the state government going soft against these liquor mafia,” she questioned in her tweet. A delegation of Congress leaders was in the affected villages of Deori, Garhi Jahan Singh, Kaulara Kalan Chitora on Friday. Former union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya and former state minister Satish Sharma and state secretary Amit Singh sought compensation of ₹20 lakh to each of the affected families and asked for a probe conducted by a high court judge. Rizwan Raisuddin Prince from Samajwadi Party said that the state leadership of party has asked a delegation of SP leaders in Agra to visit the affected villages on Sunday where lives were lost due to spurious liquor. “The properties of those found involved should be attached and sold. The sale proceeds should be used to compensate the affected families. Time and again such loss of lives surfaces and thus requires a long-lasting solution to save precious lives,” said Rahul Chaturvedi from Chanakya Sena, a social organisation in Agra. ‘Support India’, a voluntary organisation, has called for a protest to be held at the district headquarters on September 1. “We will raise the issue of spurious liquor because it is often the poor, mostly residing in villages, who are the losers. The network involved in the illegal sale of liquor in villages needs to be exposed,” said Suresh Chand Soni, convenor, Support India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taking-priyanka-cue-opposition-demands-probe-into-agra-hooch-tragedy-101630181676027.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||UCPMA elections: Allegations fly thick and fast as rival group train guns||A day after candidates for the upcoming United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) elections were announced, members of both rival groups trained guns at each other and counter allegations flew thick and fast during separate media interactions on Saturday.DS Chawla group attacked the Manjinder Sachdeva group (United Alliance Group) for promoting violence and politicising the association, while the latter stated that they will contest elections on the agenda of developing the cycle industry, which has taken a back seat during the incumbent DS Chawla’s tenure as president.During a meeting organised at the banquet hall in Dugri, Chawla also shared the video from the association’s annual general meeting (AGM), where members of the rival group allegedly thrashed him and tossed his turban. Chawla said he was attacked was as he tried to bring to the fore discrepancies of some current and past office bearers of the association.Chawla said, “Sachdeva group has put a blot on the image of the association and promoted violence during the AGM, which hasn’t happened in its 52-year history. Now, we have put forward a team of professionals, who will work for the betterment of the bicycle industry.”Meanwhile, the Sachdeva group refuted the allegations and stated that they will contest the elections on the agenda of development and upgrading the industry to promote manufacturing high-end cycles and parts.Chief election co-ordinator of the Sachdeva group, KK Seth, said, “We will not level allegations against the other group and the members will choose who is best for the industry. Our candidates are dedicated to the industry and many of them have been serving the association for a long time.”The current executive has been divided into two groups. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimarjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other consists of the other six executive members of the association, led by general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva.Former presidents of the association including Charanjit Vishwakarma, Inderjit Navyug and senior members of the association have formed the United Alliance group in support of Sachdeva group.The United Alliance Group of industrialists, which has been supporting the group led by current general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva, has announced Avtar Singh Bhogal as the candidate for the post of president. On the other hand, DS Chawla group has again put its faith in Chawla.Further, the United Alliance group has decided to field the six members, who are holding the charge in the current executive committee, for the same posts. These include Manjinder Sachdeva for the post of general secretary, Gurcharan Singh Gemco for senior vice-president, Satnam Singh Makkar for vice-president, Walaity Ram Durga for joint secretary; Rajinder Singh Sarhali for propaganda secretary and Achhru Ram Gupta for finance secretary. Rupak Sood has been announced as the candidate for post of secretary.Meanwhile, Chawla group has decided to field Prince Bansal for the post of senior vice-president, Narinder Mahajan for vice-president, Harsimarjit Singh (Lucky) for general secretary, Kulpreet Singh Malhotra (Lucky) for secretary, Sukhwinder Singh Luthra for joint secretary, Rajesh Bansal for propaganda secretary and Varun Kapoor for finance secretary.“The nominations for the elections have to be filed on August 30 and withdrawal of nomination can be held on August 31. The elections will be held at UCPMA office at Gill road from 9am to 5pm on September 3. Results will be announced on the same day”, said presiding officer for the elections, Parupkar Singh Ghumman.Chawla said that industrialist Gurmeet Singh Kular, a member of the election committee of the association, has been supporting the Sachdeva group and should be removed. He also raised questions over the police delaying taking action against those who had attacked him and tossed his turban.A case had been registered against Industrialist Gurmeet Singh Kular, current executive committee members Achhru Ram Gupta, Walaity Ram, Satnam Singh Makkar, Rajinder Singh Saholi and Vicky Kular among 25 others. An inquiry has been marked in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ucpma-elections-allegations-fly-thick-and-fast-as-rival-group-train-guns-101630181198219.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Murder bid on man for refusing to broker settlement in attempt to murder case||A man, who is facing murder charges, kidnapped his 45-year-old friend and tried to compel him to convince a complainant who had levelled attempt to murder charges against his aide to drop the matter on Friday. However, when the man refused to intervene, the murder accused pistol whipped him and threw him out of a moving vehicle.The accused are Jaswinder Singh Bindi of Sahibana village, and his aides Lucky Gujjar of Kakowal Road and Sahil of Ajit Nagar. Bindi was out on parole.The victim, Vishal Saini, 40 of Chandralok Colony, Rahon Road said that on August 25 Bindi asked him to meet him at Gol Market around 9.45pm. When he reached the spot, the accused forced him to sit in their vehicle.Bindi told Saini that Lucky had a fight with the owner of a dhaba near the railway station, who was known to Saini and asked him to intercede in the matter.When Saini refused to intervene in the attempt to murder case, Bindi started abusing him and threatened him with a gun.Saini said he was carrying his licensed .32 bore pistol. Jaswinder snatched his pistol and started threatening him. Meanwhile, Lucky, who was sitting on the back seat of the car, also flashed a gun and threatened to kill him. He then assaulted him with the handle of the pistol and, pushed him out of the moving vehicle and fled.Assistant sub-inspector Anil Kumar, who is investigating the case said that the police have lodged FIR against the accused under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily acausing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) , and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act. The police have seized the SUV used by the accused but the accused are on the run.Bindi and his friend Jagdeep Singh had allegedly gunned down a realtor Manjit Singh, 42, of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, following a verbal spat during a birthday party at a restaurant and bar in a mall near the Old Session Chowk on September 13, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-murder-bid-on-man-for-refusing-to-broker-settlement-in-attempt-to-murder-case-101630181138991.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Strive to be on the top, think big, compete global: Munjal to young industrialists||“When gold medalist Neeraj Chopra threw the javelin during the Olympics final at Tokyo, he outstripped his nearest competitor by merely 91cm. Does anyone remember who came second?” asked Pankaj Munjal, chairperson and managing director of Hero Cycles. Munjal was addressing industrialists, the majority whom were youngsters during a symposium on “strategies for growth” organised by the Chamber of Commercial and Industrial Undertaking (CICU). Expounding his point, Munjal said, “In this era of cut-throat competition where a minor laxity can cost one dear, it is the eye for detail and appearance of a finished product, which will determine long-term sustainability.” Munjal said risks and opportunity go hand-in-hand and it is the failures that have taught him the most important lessons in life. Heading a company that manufactures one of the most expensive bicycles in the world, (HNF Nicolai priced at 3000 Euros ( ₹2.6 lakh)), Munjal said he always believed in doing what he loved the most. Munjal said that with the bicycle sector growing globally, it was imperative for the company to shift globally and eye a bigger market. “When you are thinking of goals in business or life, think of bigger goals as they will grow you into a better individual. The world is changing very rapidly and we will have to change. Good practices need to be followed and adopted in order to sustain growth,” he said. “It is your passion that is bound to take you places. Discipline is the key; you have to keep looking forward and remain focussed. Think big, think global, compete global,” he said. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, CICU highlighted the importance of well-formed strategies as they enable business growth and provide an edge against competitors. Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU said the evolution of the electric vehicle will open new horizons for the industry. CICU YBLF member Nitin Dhand introduced Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME), a programme of the government of Punjab in collaboration with CICU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/strive-for-the-top-think-big-think-global-compete-global-pankaj-munjal-101630181136568.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 14 thefts, burglaries in a day keep cops on their toes||Despite police personnel stepping up night patrols and overall vigilance, the city witnessed a spate of thefts, break-ins and burglaries on Friday, with 14 cases lodged at different police stations. Among the crimes reported were theft of wool from a hosiery for which a staffer, Pritam Singh of New Subhash Nagar, was booked. Auto parts were also reportedly stolen from a factory in Phase 6 of Focal Point. Fencing uprooted The fencings installed by the forest and horticulture department to demarcate forest area also did not escape the thieves’ radar as around 50 angles were reported stolen in Kadiyan village and 160-feet of fencing, and four iron pillers were stolen from Alowal village and Majara village. In the first case, forest department officer Preeti Jangraj registered a case against unidentified accused at the Salem Tabri station; while in the second case, horticulture officer Savleen Kaur lodged a complaint against Shamsher Singh of Majara village and his accomplices at the Ladhowal police station. Break-ins abound A cloth shop was burglarised. Two mobile phones, one laptop, a digital video recorder, one LED screen, five cameras, ₹20,000 and 201 suits were stolen from the shop. The unidentified culprits drilled a hole in the wall to enter the shop. An FIR was registered against unidentified persons at the Division Number 4 police station. One Deepak Kumar of Mahinder Nagar was arrested for stealing an LED screen, juicer, iron, cycle, gold chain, locked, silver anklets, two silver bangles, gold nose pins and silver utensils from the house of Santosh Mishra of Star Road, Lohara. Mishra said that he had gone to see his in-laws on August 26. However, when he returned home on Friday, he found his house ransacked and items missing. A laptop and cheque books of different banks were stolen from a car parked outside Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). The miscreants had cracked the windowpane open. A case was lodged on the complaint of Amit Sharma of Sant Vihar.In another case, Amandeep Singh of Basant Nagat lodged an FIR against unidentified accused for stealing three mobile phones from his house.Of vehicles, other miscellaneous items A motorcycle was stolen outside the ESIC Hospital in Jawaddi Kalan. The complainant, Yadunath of Chhoti Jawaddi, Pakhowal Road, said he did not spend much time at the hospital, but his bike was gone when he emerged. The bike of Gaurav Popli of New Maya Nagar was also stolen from Leisure Valley. One Bhupinder Singh of Haibowal has been arrested for stealing a bicycle, tools and machines from a hosiery in the Shakti Vihar area, while the Division 8 police arrested Arun Kumar of Prem Nagar and Ashu of Dyal Nagar for stealing the pipes of air conditioners from different offices.The Koomkalan Police have booked two unidentified persons for stealing ₹5,000 from a shop in Dholanwal village. The accused came on the pretext of buying detergent and stole the cash when the shopkeeper went to fetch the item.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-14-thefts-burglaries-in-a-day-keep-cops-on-their-toes-101630181081845.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Burglars break into mobile shop, decamp with gadgets worth ₹2 lakh in Ludhiana||Gadgets and cash were stolen from a mobile shop on Daba-Lohara Road near Eastman Chowk, which was broken into on Friday night. CCTV cameras have captured three burglars, whom the police are trying to identify. The owner Chahat Mobile Shop, Deepak Kumar, said he learnt of the incident, when his neighbours told him that his shop had been broken into and ransacked. Kumar said around 20 mobile phones worth ₹2 lakh and ₹20,000 cash had been taken from the shop. A case has been lodged.Trader robbed of ₹80KThree bike-borne miscreants attacked a trader and robbed him of ₹80,000 in Sherpur on Friday night. The victim’s bother, Rajesh Goyal of Sherpur, said that he and his brother Rakesh Goyal own a shop near Aarti Steels, Sherpur. “On Friday night, Rakesh was returning home from the shop around 10pm when three bike-borne assailants intercepted him near a water tank. They assaulted Rakesh with a blunt weapon and took the cash and tablet he was carrying.” A case has been lodged at the Moti Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-burglars-break-into-mobile-shop-decamp-with-gadgets-worth-2-lakh-101630181080927.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Six more cases take dengue count to 31||At a time when the administration is worried about an impeding third wave of the Covid pandemic, increase in dengue cases is adding to their worries with 31 confirmed cases reported in the district so far, of which six were reported on Friday. Of the total cases, 28 cases have been reported from urban areas, while one case each has been reported from Jagraon, Sahnewal and Sidhwan Bet area. The majority of the cases were reported from Kailash Chowk, Bhamian Road, Chander Nagar, Janta Nagar, Model Town, Basti Jodhewal, Rani Jhansi Road, Ferozepur Road, Ashapuri, Civil Lines among other areas. The first suspected dengue death was reported in the district on August 25, when a 65-year-old resident of Balloke village died after testing positive for dengue at DMC Hospital. No fresh cases were reported on Saturday, but 24 more suspected cases have taken the total count to 540. Meanwhile, 21 residents from other districts have also tested positive for dengue and five patients from other states are also admitted in different hospitals. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said no confirmed dengue death has been reported in the district as of now. No fresh Covid case for second time this week No fresh Covid case was reported for the second time this week on Saturday, and the number of active cases has dropped to 26, an all-time low. Similarly, no fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. So far, the district has reported 87,461 cases, of which 2,097 people have succumbed and 85,338 people have recovered. Meanwhile, civil surgeon, Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said it is important to test residents at the entry points of the state, bus stands, gymnasiums, restaurants, schools, at factories, and labour colonies and the public should cooperate with authorities. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said that street and vegetable vendors, salon owners and others who come in touch with the public on a regular basis should get themselves tested and take all precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-six-more-cases-take-dengue-count-to-31-101630181079213.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: In-laws thrash woman, video goes viral||The Samrala police swung into action on Saturday, after a video clip in which a woman was seen being thrashed and pushed out of her marital home started doing the rounds on social media. A man, his parents and other relatives could be seen brutalising the woman in the video. The victim, Karamjit Kaur, 26, said she was beaten up for returning from her maternal house later than planned. She has been admitted to the civil hospital, while her husband Mintoo Singh, father-in-law Bikkar Singh, mother-in-law Gurdeep Kaur, and two relatives Baljinder Singh and Gurjit Kaur have been booked. Karamjit had married Mintoo Singh on November 17, 2018. She alleged that her husband and in-laws were harassing her for dowry and were asking that her parents “gift” them an SUV car. She had lodged a dowry harassment case against her husband and in-laws on July 18, 2020. However, the accused had apologised and promised to mend their ways. However, they started reiterating their demands after a few days. Karamjit had gone to her maternal home to celebrate Rakhi. However, when her father fell sick, she decided to stay there for a few days. When she finally returned home on Friday, her husband and in-laws thrashed her and dragged her out of the house, holding her by the hair. Bystanders captured the incident on camera and circulated the clip. Sub-inspector Joginder Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 498A (cruelty meted out to a married woman), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 354 (using criminal force on a woman), 354B (intent to disrobe woman) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused, whop are absconding. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-in-laws-thrash-woman-video-goes-viral-101630181078150.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Why has Centre, Maharashtra BJP taken different stands on fests, reopening of temples?’||The Congress has pointed at the contradictory stands taken by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the Centre and the party’s Maharashtra unit over celebration of the festivals and reopening of temples amid the threat of potential third wave of Covid-19. Despite the Narendra Modi government’s directives on restrictions on festivities, why are the Maharashtra BJP leaders demanding that celebrations be allowed and temples be reopened, the Congress has asked. BJP’s spiritual coordination cell has announced a ‘Shankhnaad’ protest on Monday to push the demand of reopening of the temples in the state. BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil has asked all party workers, office bearers and elected representatives to participate actively in the protest near their homes. Other BJP leaders have announced to violate the prohibitory orders of the state government and celebrate dahi handi. BJP leader Ram Kadam said that they will celebrate dahi handi even if the permission was not granted.“A few dahi handi mandals have been seeking state’s permission by imposing restrictions, but the government has been giving step-motherly treatment to Hindu festivals. They have been allowing celebrations of other religions. We will not tolerate this. If the state government, which has been issuing orders by sitting in air-conditioned offices, is not allowing us to celebrate, we will violate the orders,” Kadam said.Raising questions over the ‘contradictory views’ taken by BJP’s state leadership. Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “The Niti Aayog has projected that the Covid-19 case count in Maharashtra could go up to 6 million, while Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to Maharashtra government to restrict the dahi handi and Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations to contain the spread of the virus. Despite that, BJP leaders have been politicising the issue by demanding that temples be reopened and celebrations be allowed. It is surprising that while the Modi government is asking states to impose restrictions on festivals, Maharashtra BJP leaders are acting immorally,” he said.On Thursday, Bhushan wrote to state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, asking him to impose restrictions on dahi handi and Ganesh festival. “In the view of the mass events and public gatherings expected during the celebrations of upcoming festivals, including dahi handi and Ganpati utsav in Maharashtra, it is advised that the state may consider imposing and enforcing local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and mass gatherings,” the letter has stated.Sawant said the state government and police should take strict actions against them if they violate the prohibitory orders issued by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-has-centre-maharashtra-bjp-taken-different-stands-on-fests-reopening-of-temples-101630181016718.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Mysuru gang rape case: Yuva Sena write to Karnataka CM||The Yuva Sena, youth wing of the ruling Shiv Sena, has written to the Karnataka government to ensure best medical treatment and speedy justice for the student who was allegedly gang raped on Tuesday by a group of miscreants in Mysuru district of Karnataka. The Yuva Sena office bearers in their letter to chief minister Basavaraj Bommai expressed deep anguish about the unfortunate gang rape and assault of the young MBA student, who is from Mumbai. “It has been reported that the male friend accompanying the woman was also assaulted and despite him reporting the incident, more than 24 hours have passed and no arrest have been made yet,” said the letter. “Any delay in nabbing the accused will make it even more difficult to ensure justice to the survivor. The police must treat this incident with the utmost urgency and take all relevant steps to arrest the accused as soon as possible,” it added. The letter said that Yuva stands in solidarity with the victim and family, it urged Bommai. “We can surely say that you will have the gratitude of humankind everywhere if you ensure that the survivor gets the best medical treatment and psycho-social support and the accused is prosecuted in a time-bound manner,” it added. According to the Mysuru police, the incident took place around 7pm when the victim and her male friend was returning from Chamundi hills. A gang of six men, who were reportedly in an inebriated state, stopped the bike and asked for money. When the male friend said that they have no money on them, the miscreants reportedly attacked him and hit the girl. Then they reportedly took turns to rape the girl on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mysuru-gang-rape-case-yuva-sena-write-to-karnataka-cm-101630180596370.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Antilia case: NIA suspects role of more persons, seeks custody of ex- Mumbai cops||Claiming that some more persons are suspected to have played a key role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has moved the special court again, seeking the custody of dismissed Mumbai cops Sachin Vaze and Sunil Mane for two and five days, respectivelyThe federal agency on Saturday, through special prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves, informed special judge Prashant R Sitre that its investigation in the two cases is in the last phase. It has, however, sought the custody of the two accused ex-police officers claiming that after the arrest of former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and four others, the agency suspects that some more persons have played a key role in the two cases and it needs to question Vaze and Mane about it. The duo is in judicial custody in Taloja jail.“After the arrest of the last five accused (Sharma, Satish Mothkuri, Manish Soni, Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav), we have found some new things that we need to confront Vaze and Mane with,” Gonsalves said after the special court asked why the agency needed the custody of the two accused when it is about to file the charge sheet.The agency has said that they have already utilised Vaze’s 28-day custody and there are two more days of his custody left under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, while Mane will end after 16 days.“Vaze and Mane, both being (former) police officers, were well-aware of the tricks to evade interrogations by the investigating agency with wrong leads. However, the agency now has some incriminating material that needs to be confronted with them,” said the agency.The agency added that statements of several witnesses have been recorded under 161 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) on which they need to be confronted and the trail of the money seized also needs to be found.Meanwhile, Vaze’s counsel Raunak Naik has moved an application seeking home food for the 52-year-old and permission to get treated at a private hospital as he is having three major heart blockages. Naik informed the court that Vaze has been advised to urgently undergo open heart surgery when he was taken to Sir JJ Hospital for treatment after complaining of chest pain.“While you want to get him admitted, the agency wants his police custody,” judge Sitre observed.Vaze’s counsel pointed out that there is a health emergency, as his client was unwell and had to undergo the surgery at the earliest. The court has now posted the matter for Monday.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a note threatening to kill members of the industrialist’s family.On March 5, the body of Hiran – the SUV’s owner who is an auto parts dealer from Thane – was found dumped in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra.NIA took over investigations in both the cases and claimed that Vaze is the main accused in the case and carried out the crimes out of purported desperation to “restore his lost glory in police.” Later, NIA also arrested Sharma and four others who allegedly throttled Hiran and dumped his body in creek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-case-nia-suspects-role-of-more-persons-seeks-custody-of-ex-mumbai-cops-101630180356545.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda HIV+ blood transfusion: Migrant woman, husband, daughter test +ve after they return from UP||A 33-year-old woman, who was infused HIV infected blood by the blood bank staff of Shaheed Bhai Mani Civil Hospital at Bathinda last year, tested positive for the virus. Her husband and a three-year-old daughter were also found HIV positive, but a four-year-old son tested negative.After staying at their native place in Uttar Pradesh for over seven months, the family recently returned to live in a rented accommodation near the Police Lines in the city. The hospital management had earlier declared the woman patient untraced.After being traced last week in Bathinda, the family was tested for HIV on Friday. On May 5 last year, the woman was admitted to the hospital with acute anaemia and was administered two units of blood of an HIV + person. Like the donor, the woman was not alerted by the civil hospital about the infection.Doctors said the woman’s daughter may have caught the infection due to breastfeeding.“My husband is a labourer and our life has been shattered due to the callous attitude of the hospital staff. He is in a state of trauma and crying since the test reports were given to us. My daughter’s life has been ruined,” the woman said.Earlier, four thalassaemia patients, between 7 and 13 years, being treated at the Bathinda district hospital were found HIV positive. Two panels of the health department and Punjab State AIDS Control Society (PSACS) had confirmed large-scale irregularities in running the blood bank.Senior medical officer Dr Maninder Singh, in-charge of the civil hospital, declined to comment on the HIV+ reports to maintain the confidentiality of patients. He also refused to confirm the number of patients who contracted HIV due to the wrong blood transfusion.Sonu Maheshwari, president of Naujawan Welfare Society (NWS), a Bathinda NGO fighting for the wrong blood transfusion victims, demanded a speedy action against the accused and financial compensation to the victims. A serious breach of blood donation protocol came to light in October last year when a seven-year-old thalassaemia patient was infused HIV+ blood at the government hospital.A fact-finding panel found that an HIV-infected volunteer, a regular blood donor, had donated blood in May last year and the blood bank staff violated standard operation procedure (SOP).The blood bank officials were negligent on two accounts. First, they did not check the blood before issuing it and they did not alert the patient and the hospital administration about the goof-up.Role of at least six staffers then posted at the blood bank came under the scanner in the serious breach of strict guidelines of blood infusion. Main accused Baldev Singh Romana, a medical laboratory technician (MLT) was arrested under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-hiv-blood-transfusion-migrant-woman-husband-daughter-test-ve-after-they-return-from-up-101630179576485.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Old Kashi getting a new face||Old Kashi is on the cusp of change. Its quintessence is getting a modern face. And the Varanasi Smart City mission is propelling this move forward for the ancient city. Even so, snapshots of the two facets, the old and the new, co-exist side by side. At daybreak, one can still see sadhus standing in knee-deep water in the Ganga and taking a holy dip in the river in the city considered holy by Hindus. Not far from this vignette of Varanasi’s spiritual life, the city’s “busiest” Godowlia crossing now has a multi-storey smart parking facility built at a cost of ₹19 crore. Serpentine lanes in the Dashashwamedh Ghat and five other areas under the Varanasi Municipal Corporation or Varanasi Nagar Nigam have been repaired with square, plain cement concrete tiles and beautified as part of the Varanasi Smart City mission. Soothing paintings with religious themes adorn the walls of these lanes.The iconic ghats have smart heritage signage. Landscaping has been done near overhead tanks. A smart school has been built in the Machhodari area at an estimated cost of ₹19 crore. It is equipped with smart classrooms for children, playing area and skill development centre. Potable water supply pipelines are being renewed in six municipal ward areas. The Smart City mission has also given a facelift to parks.The change has come about in the last six years under the Varanasi Smart City project.Varanasi is one of the 100 cities being equipped with smart facilities under Smart Cities Mission (SCM) launched by the BJP government at the Centre in 2015. Varanasi Smart City Limited was formed to carry forward the mission in Kashi. It came up with 15 projects, including a project for the redevelopment of old Kashi, construction of the government composite school (primary and upper primary combined) in Machhodari, development of smart parking, beautification of parks and overhead tanks, preservation, repairing and beautification of lanes of Kashi, said Shakambhari Nandan Sonthalia, public relations officer, Varanasi Smart City. Sonthalia said a survey identified the areas in which developmental works was needed on priority. The survey revealed that sewer lines and water supply pipelines were very old in Varanasi’s old city areas, including Dashashwamedh Ghat, Kaal Bhairav ward, Rajmandir Ghat, Jangamwadi ward, Kameshwar Mahadev ward and Gharwasi Tola ward.Both the water supply line and sewage system were laid in 1932 as per the records. They were in a dilapidated state. The old water pipelines were replaced with new ones and the sewer system was being renewed. Over 60% work in these VMC area wards has been completed and the remaining is 40% likely to be completed by November. Equipping the iconic ghats of Varanasi with smart heritage signage involved an expenditure of about ₹5 crore.Made of COR-TEN (weathering) steel, signage with an introductory note has been set up at each ghat. Sculptures have also been installed at some ghats, including Assi Ghat. Giant LED screens have been installed at six locations, including Assi Ghat, Dashashwamedh Ghat, Rajendra Prasad Ghat, Raj Ghat, Godowlia and Varanasi Cantt station, said Sonthalia. He added that live streaming of Kashi Vishwanath temple and Ganga aarti was done daily on these screens for the devotees. The multi-level smart parking facility (ground and four floors) near the Godowlia intersection has come up at a cost of about ₹19 crore.This crossing is the busiest one in Varanasi and it connects Kashi Vishwanath Temple, Ganga ghats and other important landmarks. Equipped with hydraulics and queuing area, it has the capacity to accommodate 375 two- wheelers. Smart parking at the Town Hall will be ready in October, said Sonthalia. Besides, an underground parking facility with a capacity for 470 cars and 130 two- wheelers has come up at Benia Bagh Park.Varanasi Smart City, which built the parking facility, is beautifying the park and landscaping is underway there. It will also have a football ground, amusement area, open gym, yoga garden and other facilities. This entire project is worth about ₹90.42 crore. Likewise, the Khidkiya Ghat has been redeveloped and it is being equipped with a tourist facility centre, ticket booth, cafeteria, kids’ play zone, wall art and murals, selfie point, yoga and meditation space. This would be divyang friendly. A CNG filling station has already come up at the ghat. In addition, a concrete road is being built between Maidagin and Godowlia under the area based development road project worth ₹86 crore. So far, 200 boats have already been converted into CNG-operated ones and the remaining 1000 will also be converted into CNG operated vessels by November. The work is underway to install surveillance cameras at 720 locations and 25 of them will be advance facial recognition surveillance cameras. Camera installation work has also begun, and it is likely to be completed by end of this year, said Sonthalia.The advance cameras to be installed at Godowlia, BHU gate and several other important places will be connected to the Kashi Integrated Command and Control Centre. As soon as any person breaches the speed limit or is found not wearing helmet or a bike has three riders, the camera will capture the vehicle number and send an alert. Similarly, these cameras will record the footage of the crowded and important places. Once the cameras are installed, the entire security system will be smart, said Sontholia. D Vasudevan, general manager of Varanasi Smart City Ltd, said, “While trying to preserve the heritage, cultural and religious characteristics of the ancient city of Kashi, Varanasi smart city is adding to various facilities to the city by using information technology, modern trends like artificial intelligence to enhance the safety, security, quality of life and livability of the citizens.” But not everyone is satisfied. Shailendra Singh, a resident of the Cantt area, is one such local questioning the smart facilities.“Where are the smart facilities? I couldn’t find even one. In the city, roads like Chauka Ghat-Hukulganj, Pandeypur-Panchkoshi are damaged at various stretches. Several lanes in Assi area and some other localities are rough and uneven,” Singh said. Manoj Yadav Golu, a resident of Sikraul area, said, “Lanes are being beautified in six wards only. There are 90 wards in the Varanasi Nagar Nigam area. What about the 84 other wards?” Yadav said the sewage system of the city was so poor that streets were waterlogged during the first rain of the monsoon. On the other hand, Vijay Yadav, a resident of Pandeypur area, said he was satisfied with the development works in the city.“Overhead tanks, lanes, walls, and streets have been repaired and beautified. It will take time to make every facility smart,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/old-kashi-getting-a-new-face-101630179516597.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sufficient material to summon Badals, Cheema: HC on SAD constitution row||The high court said there was sufficient material on record before the Hoshairpur judicial magistrate to summon former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, his son and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and party vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema in an alleged forgery case involving their undertakings with regard to the constitution of the party.In a 51-page judgment, the high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia observed that it would not be appropriate for the HC to go into the merits of the case. “Sufficient material has come on record wherein two contrary stands have been taken regarding the constitution of the political party and whether it has adopted the principles of secularism or is still a religious party. It has also come on record that the SAD has been contesting the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee polls,” the bench observed in its detailed judgment released on Saturday.On Friday, the high court had dismissed a 2019 plea against the SAD leaders’ summoning in the alleged forgery case. On November 4, 2019, a Hoshiarpur court had summoned them in a 2009 case of alleged forgery and cheating filed by one Balwant Singh Khera. The SAD possessed two constitutions and gave a false undertaking to the Election Commission of India (ECI) that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism to fulfil the constitutional obligation to obtain recognition as a political party. But it continued its activities as a religious outfit as well to fight the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) polls, he had alleged, adding that even the resolution as claimed was not passed by the general house of the party.The high court further observed that on consideration of the materials supplied by the complaint, examination of same and his witnesses or report of inquiry, if a prima facie case is made out, process of summoning could be initiated against the accused. “The court is not required to evaluate the evidence and its merits, and whether there is sufficient material to record a conviction or not, is not to be gone into,” it said, adding that there are several stages yet to be passed by the complainant himself. Opportunity would come to the petitioners too to reply, cross-examine the witnesses and dig holes in the complainant’s case. The charge also is only liable to be framed, if the magistrate comes to the conclusion that accused has committed an offence after evaluating necessary evidence. As of Badal, in whose case it was argued that he was not named in the complaint but still summoned, the court observed that once the material has come on record, prima facie showing his involvement being the office-bearer of the party and in filing of the undertakings wherein contrary stands were taken and the fact that resolution incorporated the issue of secularism was not passed by the House but the impression given was to the contrary, there was sufficient material for the magistrate to summon him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sufficient-material-to-summon-badals-cheema-hc-on-sad-constitution-row-101630179456445.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala first district in state to implement policy for street vendors||Patiala Patiala has become the first district in the state to implement the street vending policy. The municipal corporation has initiated the process for the execution of street vendors’ plan on four main roads by rehabilitating 397 hawkers. The civic body is under a legal obligation to accommodate street vendors under the provisions of the Street Vendors’ Act.Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said the corporation has already identified 28 spots where the street vendors should be rehabilitated. “As many as 4,025 street vendors were identified by the private consultants hired by the corporation for systematic implementation of the policy,” the mayor said.Joint commissioner Abhishek Gupta said the street vendors will be provided with all facilities, such as toilets, water supply and streetlights at the vending zones.The street vending plan envisages a geographic information system (GIS) mapping and biometric identity of street vendors so as to formulate a fee and licence structure for regulating street vending, besides finalising the terms and conditions for hawking and corrective action against defaulters.The MC will provide place to the vendors to carry out their businesses and it will be ensured that they are shifted to the allotted place.A smart chip card, containing the biometric data, government-approved licences, and certificates containing all details, has to be issued to the vendors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-first-district-in-state-to-implement-policy-for-street-vendors-101630179276561.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena strategy: Single out Narayan Rane, target him||Even as it is engaged in a slugfest with Union for medium, small and micro enterprises (MSME) minister Narayan Rane, the Shiv Sena has adopted a strategy to single him out, while avoiding any attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This was clearly evident on Saturday as for the second day in a row, the party blamed Rane for the current friction between the former allies. None of the senior BJP leaders chose to support Rane in his personal attack on Sena leadership even though they defended him in his crossfire with the party. Significantly, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray had a one-on-one chat with opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday. The meeting between the two believably ended on an understanding that the tussle between the two parties should not stoop low. After the clashes and exchange of words between Shiv Sena and BJP following Rane’s arrest on Tuesday for objectionable remarks against the CM, both the parties have taken steps forward for some sort of reconciliation over the past two days. The leaders from both sides have said that they have not been separated ideologically. The attempt is also seen towards singling out Rane, as a section of BJP does not approve of his politics of hatred and personal attacks. BJP insiders believe that too much personal attack on the Sena leadership may be counter-productive and if Rane continues doing so, it will result in his isolation in the near future. “It is true that Rane has been attacking the Sena leadership on a personal level. We, too, have attacked the Sena and the Thackerays, but the emphasis was never on personal issues. The reactions by senior leaders of the state unit are indicative of disapproval of Rane’s style of working. We do not want to close the doors on the possibility of joining hands with Sena, as it is still the first choice to come to power in the state. Besides, a section of the party is apprehensive that the Rane episode may backfire on us if the Sena leadership gets the sympathy of its voter base,” said a senior BJP leader, on the condition of anonymity.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, had on Saturday, reiterated that the relations between the two parties have strained because of Rane. “BJP needs to do some introspection over the entire issue. Ever since Rane has joined BJP, the party has been deteriorating by 10 feet every day and will soon remain just half a foot. BJP will soon realise the mistake [of inducting Rane].” According to the leaders from Sena, CM has made it clear to BJP during his meeting with Fadnavis that Sena would not tolerate any more attack from Rane. “There was a meeting between CM and Fadnavis yesterday [Saturday]. All know what they discussed. Uddhavji must have told him whatever needed to be said,” said Raut.Sena leaders claim that Rane’s stand had softened after the meeting between Thackeray and Fadnavis. On Saturday, Rane had said in Sindhudurg that he will follow the party’s stand if BJP and Sena come together in the future.Raut also warned Rane that if the latter kept talking about digging out old cases and records, the Sena has an entire box of cases against him. “We have political differences with BJP, but if it wants to shoot us from Rane’s shoulders, we too can use such a shoulder to fire back,” he said.On Thursday Raut had said that the relations between the two parties were spoilt because of the “newcomers” inducted in BJP. He had also likened Rane to Bangladeshi infiltrators and said that the “newcomers” are dangerous like the infiltrators who engage in terrorism and narcotics activities. He had further stated that though the Sena and BJP have parted their ways because of political differences, there is a common thread of Hindutva between them. He also had hinted that anything was possible in politics.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had two days ago said that they share the relationship of brotherhood with Shiv Sena. It was seen as an attempt by the BJP leadership to keep a window open for political reconciliation, if required in the future.BJP, however, dismissed any speculations of political realignment. “There is no question or possibility of the two parties coming together in the near future. Whatever Raut has said about Sena’s bonding with BJP is due to the fear of existence. After the response to Rane’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the Sena is scared that it may lose its base in Konkan. As far as the brotherhood remarks by our state unit chief are concerned, it was not meant in that sense. We are in the Opposition against the Sena-led combine and will remain to be so. The party is whole heartedly standing by Ranesaheb in this entire episode,” Maharashtra BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said.Political analyst Prakash Akolkar said that not only BJP and Sena are extending an olive branch to each other but the three ruling parties also have been trying to keep each other under check. “There is no doubt that BJP has no other option left apart from Sena if it really wishes to come to the power without polls or even after polls. Similarly, the Sena wants to keep its option open, as it is not confident that the two other ruling parties [Nationalist Congress Party and Congress] will support it till the end [of the tenure]. By highlighting that the Sena and BJP are still attached to each other with the common thread of Hindutva, the Sena has tried to send a message to BJP. Sena would definitely want BJP to tame Rane,” he added.Meanwhile, Rane held his third phase of Yatra in Devgad, Malvan, on Saturday amid a huge response from party workers and his supporters on his home turf. He, however, avoided any attack on the Shiv Sena or its leadership on Friday. His yatra will culminate in Sindhudurg on Sunday. The organisers of the yatra are facing cases in parts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for violation of Covid-19 norms.Rane was arrested on Tuesday in Ratangiri for his “slap CM” remarks during a press conference on Monday. Referring to Thackeray’s August 15 speech at Mantralaya, Rane had said that he would have slapped the CM had he been present there. Thackeray had enquired about the year of Independence with an official standing behind him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-strategy-single-out-narayan-rane-target-him-101630179216940.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Jallianwala Bagh has inspired countless revolutionaries: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday dedicated the renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial to the nation virtually.During the event that showcased the multiple development initiatives taken by the government to upgrade the complex, the PM also inaugurated the museum galleries at the national memorial revamped in wake of 100th anniversary of the 1919 massacre.Earlier in the day, farmers and Left organisations held protests a few metres from the Jallianwala Bagh against the government.Speaking on the occasion, the PM said the dreams of the innocent boys and girls, of the sisters and brothers are still visible in the bullet marks on the walls of Jallianwala Bagh. “Today, we are remembering the love and lives of countless mothers and sisters, which were snatched away in that Shaheedi Well,” he said.Jallianwala Bagh is the place which inspired countless revolutionaries such as Sardar Udham Singh and Sardar Bhagat Singh to die for the freedom of India, he said, adding: “Those 10 minutes of April 13, 1919, became the immortal story of our freedom struggle, due to which we are able to celebrate the Amrit Mahotsav of freedom today. On such an occasion, dedication of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in the modern version in the 75th year of Independence, is an opportunity of great inspiration for all of us.”“It is the responsibility of every nation to preserve its history as it teaches us and gives us the direction to move forward. It is not right for any country to ignore such horrors of its past. Therefore, India has decided to observe 14th August every year as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day,” the PM said.For the all-round progress of Punjab and the country, a combined effort is needed, the PM said, adding “virasat (heritage) and vikaas (development) must coexist”. A wreath-laying ceremony was held and a two-minute silence was observed in the memory of martyrs of the Jallianwala massacre.Initiate steps to bring back Udham Singh’s diary, pistol from UK: CaptDescribing the renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial as a tribute to the great martyrs and a symbol of inspiration for the youth, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the monument must serve as a reminder for the future generations about the right of the people to peaceful democratic protest.Amarinder also requested the PM that the Government of India should use its good offices to bring back the personal belongings, such as pistol and personal diary of Shaheed Udham Singh, who avenged the injustice of this massacre, from the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jallianwala-bagh-has-inspired-countless-revolutionaries-pm-101630179158826.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 54 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths||Punjab on Saturday reported 54 fresh Covid cases taking the tally to 6,00,524. The state also saw two fatalities taking the death toll to 16,366, according to a medical bulletin. The state reported a positivity rate of 0.11%. The number of active cases in the state also came down to 405, it said. Among the fresh cases, Mohali registered nine, followed by eight in Patiala and six in Bathinda. The number of cured persons has reached 5,83,743, the bulletin said. 55-year-old man dies in Patiala village Patiala: A day after three students tested positive at government school in Mavisapan village of Patiala district, a 55-year-old man of the same village died of coronavirus on Saturday.The health authorities declared village as a micro-containment zone and initiated sampling for further testing. Nodal officer Dr Sumeet Singh said as many as 167 samples collected from the school have tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-54-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-101630178978240.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||GRP in Mumbai to rehabilitate gang-rape survivor||The Government Railway Police (GRP) at Vasai and Mumbai Central have come forward to counsel and rehabilitate a 17-year-old girl who was gang-raped, allegedly by three water tanker drivers, after she was abandoned by her stepmother at Dadar railway station in July. The survivor has been undergoing treatment in Sir JJ Hospital, where she is being periodically counselled by experts from Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) and Dongri shelter home, said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pradeep Chavan of GRP (Western Railway).“We will rehabilitate the survivor and after she is discharged from the hospital, we will admit her for some vocational courses so that she could get independent,” said Chavan, adding that the entire expenses for her rehabilitation will be borne by GRP.The survivor was found in a distressed state near Dadar railhead on August 7. “She was unable to speak to us owing to the trauma but a medical test confirmed that she was brutally sexually assaulted,” said Chavan.Psychiatrists from TISS then counselled her, following she managed to recollect the name of one of the accused as Ajay. She also she had been sexually assaulted between mid-July and August.The suspect scouted for 40 people named Ajay and finally zeroed in on the accused truck driver from Naigaon, who confessed to the crime said Chavan. “The accused, Ajay Jaiswal, was traced to Naigaon. Through him, we traced two water tanker drivers, Akram Chaudhary and Munna Yadav, and arrested them under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 376 (d) (gang-rape) of IPC (Indian Penal Code) and Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences), 2012. The railway court sent them to police custody. To make it a watertight case, we will plead for a special public prosecutor who will bring justice to the teen, said Chavan.The girl’s father had died last year, while her mother had died when she was younger. Her father had remarried, but her stepmother used to harass her. After her father died, she was abandoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/grp-in-mumbai-to-rehabilitate-gang-rape-survivor-101630178976828.html
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cong row: Rawat briefs Rahul on Punjab, to visit state next week||New DelhiAmid continued infighting in the Punjab Congress, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat on Saturday said he would visit the state soon as he briefed former party president Rahul Gandhi on the situation. Rawat apprised Rahul of the latest developments as factions supporting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu are engaged in a war of words. “I have briefed him on whatever the situation in Punjab is,” Rawat, also the in-charge of party affairs in the state, told reporters after meeting Rahul here.“In the next two-three days, I will visit Punjab and will meet party leaders. I will also meet Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu,” he said.The Punjab Congress finds itself as a divided lot a few months ahead of assembly elections, with Amarinder and Sidhu being at loggerheads. The infighting refuses to die down even after the former cricketer was appointed the PCC chief. Sidhu has also urged the party leadership to give him freedom in decision-making, telling them that he does not want to be a dummy party chief.He said this after one of his advisers -- Malvinder Singh Mali -- had to quit following pressure from the chief minister’s camp over his alleged controversial remarks on Kashmir.Some dissident ministers and MLAs had met Rawat at Dehradun and demanded Amarinder’s removal as the CM. However, Rawat made it clear that the next assembly elections would be fought under Amarinder’s leadership.The chief minister’s camp also sought action against Sidhu over Mali’s remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-row-rawat-briefs-rahul-on-punjab-to-visit-state-next-week-101630178857317.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||One dead after compound wall of Mhada building collapses in south Mumbai||A 37-year-old man was killed after a compound wall of a residential building in Banganga at south Mumbai’s Malabar Hill area collapsed on Saturday. The incident was reported at 4.13pm by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ward control room to the disaster management department. The building had been developed by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada).The victim, Hitesh Shivram Bhuvad, was extricated from the debris and was rushed to Elizabeth Hospital. As per information received from the hospital, at 5.20pm, he was declared brought dead. No injuries were reported in the incident.Prashant Gaikwad, assistant commissioner of D ward, which houses the area, said, “The compound wall of the structure had developed a crack and the residents from the building and nearby buildings were getting it repaired. During the repair work, the wall collapsed.” The victim was a resident of the same area and was helping with the wall repair work. Mumbai fire brigade, police, MHADA officials and an ambulance were mobilised for disaster response, according to information from the disaster management department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-dead-after-compound-wall-of-mhada-building-collapses-in-south-mumbai-101630178796415.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Fibrosis-like lung damage reverses in 80% of Covid patients’||Early this year, a 50-year-old IT engineer from Pune spent 10 days in a local hospital battling Covid-19. At the time of discharge, he underwent a second high-resolution CT (HRCT) scan of the chest that showed ground-glass opacity, reticulation shadow and traction bronchiectasis. In medical parlance, these were classic HRCT signs of pulmonary fibrosis — an irreversible condition that causes scarring and thickening of lung tissues, making it difficult to breathe. The IT engineer went back home with a diagnosis of “post-Covid fibrosis” and was advised pulmonary rehabilitation. Three months down the line, his chest scan improved. The hazy grey areas labelled as ground-glass opacities had reduced, his diffused lungs appeared to be expanding and the cough had reduced too. By July, six months since his hospitalisation, the scan was normal, with no sign of fibrosis. In many Covid-19 patients like this IT engineer, the lung fibrosis or fibrosis-like changes that appeared on the scan, reversed over a period of time. In some patients, the improvement is fast, while others may take anywhere between three months to a year. “When we said fibrosis, it meant that the condition is lifelong and irreversible,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director of Pune-based Pulmocare Research and Education Foundation, who treated the IT engineer. “But gradually, we started noticing the fibrosis-like changes that we saw in Covid patients resolved with time,” he said. These observations have prompted discussions among the medical fraternity if they should label such diagnosis as post-Covid fibrosis at all. “Most of us are now resisting the term post-Covid fibrosis,” said Salvi. “Now, we identify the Covid-induced lung changes as post-Covid interstitial lung disease — a broader term used for a larger group of diseases that cause lung scarring. The term fibrosis is used only in cases where the lungs don’t improve and worsen further” he said. A study from China published in the PLOS One journal in March found that patients who had a severe clinical classification of Covid-19 had more extensive and severe lung inflammation as well as severe residual pulmonary fibrosis. “In most of these patients, pulmonary fibrosis improved or even resolved within 90 days after discharge,” the study observed. Dr Rahul Pandit, a critical care specialist at Fortis Hospital in Mumbai and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said with experience, doctors now prefer to wait and watch instead of labelling the lung changes as pulmonary fibrosis. “Since what we saw as fibrosis reversed over a period of time, we realised that most Covid patients may not have the true form of irreversible fibrosis,” said Pandit. “After the preliminary Covid treatment, we refer such patients to pulmonary experts for longer follow-ups,” he said. Progressive fibrosis in 20% Covid patients In pulmonary fibrosis, the lung tissues are damaged with scarring and thickening, and the damage worsens over a period of time. As the tissues thicken and become hard, the lungs don’t expand fully, making it difficult for the patients to breathe. Pulmonary fibrosis is known as a terminal illness. Pulmonary rehabilitation including breathing exercises and some anti-fibrotic medication may slow down the progress in some cases. Doctors use a battery of tests and scans — complete pulmonary function tests, including the diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO); six-minute walk test, among other tests — to diagnose fibrosis.Another classical sign to detect the condition is listening for velcro-crackles from the lungs. Velcro crackles sound similar to what we hear when a joined strip of velcro is separated. According to Salvi, while 80% of Covid patients who may have shown “fibrosis-like” lung changes recover over a period of time, at least 20% suffer from the progressive form of fibrosis. Mumbai-based chest physician Dr P Prabhudesai agreed. “Progressive fibrosis is the most concerning outcome of Covid,” he said. “The 20% patients who develop a progressive form of fibrosis are generally those who have been on oxygen support for a longer period, have underlying lung diseases like Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), history of smoking, age and other related co-morbidities,” he said. But Prabhudesai refrains from attaching the term “irreversible” to the progressive fibrosis seen in Covid-19 patients. “We should wait at least for another six months before labelling these cases as irreversible,” he said, adding that it is not a simple black and white when it comes to following up on Covid-19 patients. “In some cases, we may stop anti-fibrotic medication within four to six weeks as they start showing improvement, while in some patients we may have to add the anti-fibrotic drugs,” he said. According to Prabhudesai, some amount of fibrosis was also seen during the H1N1 outbreak and many patients improved back then. “The severity and spread of Covid-19 is definitely much more compared to H1N1. But we had seen cases of fibrosis that resolved over a period of time in H1N1 pneumonia,” he said. The pandemic hit Maharashtra in March 2020. Doctors say that it is advisable to closely follow up with patients with lung damage for a longer period to understand the irreversibility factor. However, a small percentage of Covid-19 patients have suffered from irreversible lung damage, which led to lung transplants.In August 2020, doctors in Chennai performed a bilateral lung transplant on a 48-year-old patient who had suffered from severe lung damage due to Covid related fibrosis.Last December, a 34-year-old marketing professional from Haryana who suffered from post Covid lung fibrosis underwent a double lung transplant at a Hyderabad hospital. Lung transplants on Covid patients in the United State have also seen a rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fibrosislike-lung-damage-reverses-in-80-of-covid-patients-101630178556747.html
29-08-2021||Other||Farmers’ unrest: Two back-to-back mahapanchayats in West UP in September||Three days before the Muzaffarnagar show of strength of farmers, a similar mahapanchayat will be held in Sambhal on September 2 and farmer leaders claim that these two congregations would showcase not just farmers’ solidarity but also lay the roadmap for 2022 assembly elections. Farmer leaders said efforts were on to make the Sambhal mahapanchayat being organised by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s ( BKU-Asli) national president Harpal Singh Bilari as well as the one by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), in Muzaffarnagar on September 5, a grand success. “More than 50000 people will participate in the Sambhal mahapanchayat,” claimed Bilari. He said SKM leaders including Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Rajpal and Yogendra Yadav will attend the mahapanchayat. “The mahapanchayat will help in deciding how to scale up the farmers movement in Uttar Pradesh”, he said. Bilari claimed that the farmers’ movement had been successful in both Haryana and Punjab. “This is quite evident as cases against 36000 farmers have been registered in Haryana and against 12000 in Punjab. UP has no such record which indicates that more direct involvement of people is needed to build up the movement across UP,” he said. “A resolution would be passed in the Sambhal mahapanchayat to prepare the blueprint for ‘Mission UP’ as part of which we would reach out to people to apprise them about issues that farmers are protesting against for past 9 months,” said BKU (Asli) leader Surendra Singh. He accused “mainstream media” of not showing real issues of farmers. “We would reach out to people to expose dirty play of the government to exploit farmers,” he said. Preparations are also on for the Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat. BKU chief Naresh Tikait is meeting influential leaders like ‘khap heads and holding village level meetings to mobilise farmers and ensure maximum participation. “The mahapanchayat will strengthen the campaign against BJP in villages and it would also help clear how the three farm laws were against interest of farmers and why the legal status to MSP is essential for survival of farmers,” a farmer leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-unrest-two-back-to-back-mahapanchayats-in-west-up-in-september-101630177776502.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Housing society fined for failing to allot parking lots as per bylaws||The District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum (DCDRF) has fined a cooperative housing society in Bhandup for failing to frame a policy for allotment of parking lots and allot the lots in terms of its bylaws. The forum has asked the society to systematically allot parking spaces in their premises in accordance with relevant bylaws.Kamlakar Rai, a resident of Joy Homes Co-operative Housing Society, had approached the forum in September 2018 complaining that though the developer had handed over the property to the housing society, the society had failed to properly allocate available parking lots to its members in terms of the bylaws adopted by the society.Rai, in his complaint, alleged the society had allowed members to continue to hold the parking lots purchased by them from the developer as their individual property and had decided to allocate remaining parking spaces by charging certain amounts. He further alleged that while allocating parking space, the society was biased as they left out old members and gave spaces only to new members without adhering to society bylaws.The plea was contested by the society on several grounds. The society claimed that as per the bylaws, space allocation for parking was on first-come-first-serve basis. It added that it was decided that owners were not permitted to use any other space than the allocated space for parking their vehicles.As per the order, the society has a total of 297 flats and six shops and 181 parking spaces, which includes 41 stilt parking lots and 136 open spaces. As submitted by lawyers from both sides, the society has allocated parking spaces to 158 members and rest were asked to use remaining parking on rotation basis.In this backdrop, the forum held that it was necessary for the society to allocate parking spaces per flat as per their own bylaws — on first-come-first-serve basis. The forum observed that the society has not allocated parking spaces according to the bylaws, a deficiency in services and also unfair trade practice.The forum, hence, imposed cost of ₹10,000 on the housing society and held that the society has to allocate available parking spaces as per the bylaws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/housing-society-fined-for-failing-to-allot-parking-lots-as-per-bylaws-101630175916154.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees rise in fresh Covid-19 cases for 4 days||There has been an increase in fresh Covid-19 cases in Mumbai over the past four days, going against the dip in daily cases from middle of August. During this period, cases have shot up to over 300 per day, whereas Mumbai had hit as low as 195 and 196 infections on August 16 and 17 respectively. Post August 17, the city reported less than 300 cases per day until the recent surge. The hike in cases has worried civic officials amid concerns of a third wave ahead of the festival season. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 391 new cases as Mumbai conducted 37,335 tests. On Friday, Mumbai reported 362 cases as 35,870 tests were conducted; on Thursday, Mumbai reported 398 cases against 41,628 tests, and on Wednesday Mumbai reported 342 cases with 42,723 tests conducted.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now increased the number of tests conducted per day, which were around 30,000 during mid-August. During the four days when the surge in cases has been reported, Mumbai has also seen an increase in the positivity rate. On Saturday and Friday, Mumbai’s positivity rate went over 1%. On Saturday, it was at 1.04%, and on Friday it was at 1%. On Wednesday and Thursday, Mumbai’s positivity rate was under 1%. Last week, Mumbai had a positivity rate of less than 0.5% on some days.The surge has been attributed by authorities and experts to the increase in the number of tests per day and the opening up of the city from August 15. Civic authorities have also pointed that BMC has changed its testing policy for high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients, which can lead to an increase in cases.Earlier, the civic body would test high-risk contacts after the fourth or fifth day of detection of the original case, or after symptoms began to show. However, now BMC has started testing the high-risk contacts on day one, or the subsequent day. This will help in mitigating the further spread of the infection as positive cases among high-risk contacts will also be isolated immediately.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have increased our testing and contact-tracing measures. We have also changed the testing policy for high-risk contacts, and begun to test them on day one of tracing them after detection. As aspects of city life are opening up, we expect a higher number of cases in comparison to earlier. However, we are watching the positivity rate closely, and it has only marginally increased.”From August 15, hotels, restaurants, and shops have been allowed to stay open till 10pm. Following this, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed the civic administration to increase contact tracing from 1:15 to 1:20, that is, 20 high risk contacts per positive case, and also increase testing in the city.Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the Maharashtra government Covid-19 task force, said, “As the city has opened up more from August, people begin to go out, eat out more, initially more frequently. During this period, it is likely that we see a relatively higher number of cases. Moreover, the civic body has also increased testing, which is a necessity, and can contribute to increase in cases.”Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to citizens and organisers to ensure that all Covid-19 regulations are followed during the festive season. “We had already restricted the festivals but now even the Union Health Ministry and ICMR have endorsed our stance,” said Uddhav. Uddhav said that for him saving lives was a priority and hence all religious, social and political outfits should follow all rules while celebrating the festivals. Thackeray said that Covid-19 threat still exists and hence it was necessary to show the country that we are responsible citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-rise-in-fresh-covid-19-cases-for-4-days-101630175857119.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Chandni Chowk revamp to be inaugurated on Sept 12||The 1.3km Chandni Chowk stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid that has been revamped and made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles will be formally inaugurated on September 12, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) officials said on Saturday.The inauguration of the first phase of the redevelopment project was earlier fixed on April 17 but was cancelled in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, SRDC, which is the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, confirmed the inauguration will be held on September 12. Finishing touches are being given to signages ahead of the inauguration.Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that the announcement regarding the inauguration was made in a recent meeting. “The inauguration will take place on September 12 in the evening. Some work is pending and there are other issues pertaining to encroachment. We hope the issues are resolved before the inauguration,” said Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-chandni-chowk-revamp-to-be-inaugurated-on-sept-12-101630175678807.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet okays ₹139 crore budget for cloud-linked health management system||The Delhi cabinet has cleared a budget of over ₹139 crore for its health management system, which will store the complete medical records of every Delhi resident on a cloud, data that will be accessible to doctors of their choice. The plan will initially link Delhi government-run hospitals and later bring private hospitals on board. The cloud-based system will also enable facial recognition and biometric identification of patients, according to a government statement. “All the hospitals of Delhi are being connected to the Health Information Management System (HIMS). All the medical services will be brought under one platform, through the HIMS portal. It will inform us how many beds are vacant in a hospital, the status of medicine stocks and staffers, number of ventilators and any other information about medical infrastructure. One won’t need to stand in queues in hospitals anymore, you will be able to get appointments on the phone itself and go as per your convenience,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The system will be capable of scheduling doctors’ appointments, generate e-prescriptions, dispense medicines, connect patient with an ambulance, and issue disability certificates. For doctors, it will have a decision support system for diagnosis and treatment, record voice to text or digital pen notes for case reports, and have mandatory checklists in the operation theatre. The system will also integrate the back-end logistics such as availability of beds, medicines, and other consumables. The system will also provide support for community outreach programmes.A QR-code enabled health card will be issued to all Delhi residents (as per voter ID and population registry) under the scheme,and the collected data will be used for family mapping for government schemes and programmes, the statement said.“The Delhi government will conduct surveys across the entire state to make sure every citizen can get their e-Health card made. The cards will also be made at hospitals and other dedicated centres, and will be distributed through a door-to-door campaign,” said the state government’s press note. The project has been awarded to NEC Corporation India Private Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-okays-139-crore-budget-for-cloud-linked-health-management-system-101630175675489.html
29-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two arrested for sending nudes to 10-year-old||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Saturday arrested two men for allegedly sending nude photos and videos to a 10-year-old girl from Meghwadi in Andheri. The accused had allegedly asked her to share her nude photos by threatening to kill her parents. After the girl told her parents about it, they lodged a police complaint. Meghwadi police registered a case on Thursday evening following which crime branch officers arrested the two accused from Bhiwandi. The two are suspected to have sent nudes to other students as well.The accused are Sunny Bhajanlal Janiyani, 29, and Ajay Tukaram Mhatre, 30, both residents of Bhiwandi. According to the police, the minor’s parents had given her a smartphone to attend online classes. “The minor had then created profile on a social media platform, where Janiyani, 29, last week sent his nude pictures and videos to her. Janiyani later shared her account and phone number with his friend Mhatre, who too sent her nude pictures and videos,” said an officer. “The girl got scared and did not tell anyone that she was getting such photos and videos from unknown numbers. The two accused then subsequently started messaging her, instructing her to send nude photos and videos. When she refused to comply, the accused started threatening to kill her parents. The minor then narrated the ordeal to her parents who approached Meghwadi police station. Crime branch unit 10 also initiated parallel investigation and tracked the mobile location of Janiyani. He led cops Mhatre, who too was subsequently arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-arrested-for-sending-nudes-to-10yearold-101630175557507.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get 6,800 new ICU beds in 6 months: Kejriwal||The Delhi government will create over 6,800 new intensive care unit (ICU) beds at seven facilities over the next six months, according to a proposal approved by the Delhi cabinet on Saturday. Currently, there are 10,000 ICU beds across Delhi government hospitals. The 6,836 new beds will increase the capacity by 70%, said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.The beds will be added to existing as well as proposed new hospitals at a cost of ₹1,260 crore.There will be 1,430 beds in the Shalimar Bagh facility, 458 at the Kirari facility, 1,912 at the GTB Hospital, 1,565 beds in Raghubir Nagar, 610 beds at Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalay in Geeta Colony, and 525 beds at the Sultanpuri facility.“Delhi government hospitals at present have a capacity of 10,000 ICU beds; a 70% increase is being made to this number. This is no small task. These beds will be ready within 6 months. On one hand, it will help in dealing with the third Covid-19 wave, on the other if the wave does not come, they will act like additional beds for regular treatment,” said Kejriwal. The new facilities will consist of three main buildings – emergency, outpatient clinics, and ward blocks – and a services building including space for pressure-swing adsorption oxygen plants or oxygen tanks and multi-level car parking. Provisions for adding more floors in the future have also been created.The city administered over 185,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Saturday, the most in a day since June 29.The uptick in the Capital’s inoculation numbers came a day after the country hit the milestone of highest ever 10 million vaccinations in a day for the first time ever.Daily vaccinations in Delhi have so far crossed the 200,000 mark thrice — on June 26, 28 and 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-6-800-new-icu-beds-in-6-months-kejriwal-101630175501494.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Suspect in Jantar Mantar hate slogan case denied bail||A Delhi court has denied bail to a man accused of raising inflammatory slogans during an event at Jantar Mantar on August 8, saying that even though the right to assemble and freedom to air thoughts are cherished under the Constitution, these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions.Additional sessions judge Anil Antil, on August 27, denied relief to Preet Singh, and said the accused participated in the event in his individual capacity and as the main organiser of the event itself.The judge also said the accused is “clearly seen” actively participating in the incendiary speeches along with his other associates.A video of anti-Muslim sloganeering during a protest at Jantar Mantar was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by “Bharat Jodo Aandolan” at Jantar Mantar on August 8.On August 27, the judge noted that the event at Jantar Mantar was conducted despite the Delhi Police denying them permission for the same.“It is apposite to mention that the applicant not only voluntarily organised the event but also actively participated and provided support to the views and contents of inflammatory speeches, which were being made by the participants/accused persons at that time, by acknowledging and endorsing via gestures and clapping intermittently,” the court said.He said given the stature of the accused, it was expected that he ought to have exercised his authority, in these circumstances, and prevented participants from the airing such inflammatory opinions in the larger interest of the public and committee welfare.“In addition, on prima facie analysis of the inflammatory and incendiary content of the speeches or interviews of the participants members of the event, comments especially those pertaining in express pejorative references to a religious community, and keeping in view that the applicant was an active organiser of the event, he cannot later absolve himself of the responsibility of the content or consequences arising therefrom,” the court said.The court also held that being an active, main organiser of the event, the accused was an influential personality and there was a possibility of him interfering with the investigation and influencing the witnesses of the case, if released on bail.While opposing the application, the prosecution told the court that the accusations were severity in nature and the investigation was still at a nascent stage.It also said a number of accused people were absconding and evading the process of law and the entire incriminating material is yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhisuspect-in-jantar-mantar-hate-slogan-case-denied-bail-101630175436699.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal inaugurates Mayur Vihar Phase-1 flyover loops||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated two cloverleaf ramps, service roads and a cycle track on the Mayur Vihar-I flyover on the Delhi-Noida Link Road, which will help ease travel between east Delhi and Noida.Kejriwal said that the two loops -- both 300 metres longand connecting the Delhi-Noida Link Road with the Barapullah phase-III flyover -- will bring a lot of relief to commuters travelling from Mayur Vihar-I to Akshardham and from Noida to Mayur Vihar-I.The newly-opened loops will benefit over 10,000 vehicles as, officials said, till now, commuters coming from Mayur Vihar had to drive over a kilometer extra on the Delhi-Noida Link road to take a U-turn to join the lane heading towards Akshardham.Inaugurating the stretch along with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and PWD minister Satyendar Jain, Kejriwal said, “This will bring a huge relief to the people of this region as well as the entire east Delhi area from traffic jams... The way in which the PWD (Public Works Department) has been functioning is commendable. They finish projects before deadlines, complete them not only within the estimated costs but also save money, and craft more sustainable and cost effective designs. This has been made possible because an honest government is in power.”The project, which is part of the phase-III extension of the Barapullah elevated road corridor from Mayur Vihar to Sarai Kale Khan, cost over ₹40 crore. Officials said the idea behind the project was to allow vehicles to avoid the traffic signal on the Mayur Vihar Phase-l junction, which will in turn reduce the carbon dioxide emission and noise pollution.Commuters here have suffered from traffic jams since 2015, when work began on the construction of the flyover and the two loops.A PWD official had said, “There were several obstacles to building these loops, especially when the Mayur Vihar flyover was on the verge of completion and resulted in a surge in diverted traffic. The flyover and the loops were being built simultaneously, and one had to be stopped to ensure traffic was not adversely affected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-inaugurates-mayur-vihar-phase-1-flyover-loops-101630175436228.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: South MCD restores vertical garden below Africa Avenue flyover||The vertical garden undone by squatters in the vacant space below the Africa Avenue flyover near the Outer Ring Road, has now been restored by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) which has also put in place iron grills to enclose the garden and prevent any encroachment in the future.A total of 970 plants of eight different species -- ficus panda, kamal cactus, yuca, raphis palm, sansaevieria, Arica palm, desi palm and ficus benjamina -- have been planted in the space over this month.“The varieties planted are all shade-loving trees. This is because only minimal sunlight reaches the space below the flyover. Hence, we had to pick such species that grow well under the shade. We are also in the process of appointing an agency for the maintenance of the patch,” said an official from the SDMC’s horticulture department, adding that the agency will also be allotted a small space to advertise.Officials said the space below the flyover was initially given a makeover in 2017 -- on the intervention of the Lieutenant Governor -- as part of a scheme to improve the aesthetics of vacant spaces under 12 flyovers and reclaim them from encroachers. According to officials in the SDMC’s horticulture department, who took up the greening project, the squatters and the homeless persons were initially shifted to night shelters.“While most other beautified flyover spaces have remained fine since then, this small patch of about 100-150 square metres under the Africa Avenue flyover was encroached by anti-social elements. We had to take assistance from the Delhi Police on a regular basis to evict such elements from the area and redo the space once again. Regular police patrolling helped us reclaim the space,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisouth-mcd-restores-vertical-garden-below-africa-avenue-flyover-101630174835558.html
29-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi court terms northeast Delhi riots case probe ‘callous’, ‘inefficient’||A Delhi court termed a police probe into a northeast Delhi riots case “highly callous”, “inefficient” and “unproductive”, but said it cannot ignore the statements of the witness while framing charges in the case.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said that “prima facie there is enough material on record to frame charges against one Rohit for unlawful assembly, rioting, house trespass, theft, mischief with fire”.The FIR in the matter was registered on February 26, 2020, on complaints by three persons, claiming that a riotous mob consisting of about 400-500 persons, armed with dandas and iron rods, blocked the main Gokalpuri road and thereafter set on fire some shops and vehicles in the area of Ganga Vihar and A, B, C and D blocks of Gokalpuri, Delhi-94 on February 24, 2020.The court, in an order of August 23, said that there was also evidence in the form of supplementary statements of complainant Irshad as well as statements of independent public witnesses where they have given categorical account of the incident in question and the role played by Rohit.“Ocular evidence is considered the best evidence, unless there are strong reasons to doubt it,” the judge said, adding that the defence has not been able to give any reason worth to disbelieve or discard the evidence of witnesses by doubting their presence at the spot on the date and time of incident.The judge also said that the beat constables had also identified the accused and such statements cannot be brushed aside/discarded at this stage, merely because there has been some delay in recording their statements or since the complainants had not specifically named them in their initial written complaints.“Be that as it may, it is worth noting that investigation in the matter appears to be highly callous, inefficient and unproductive; however, as noted earlier this court at this stage, cannot ignore the statements of victims dehors the delay in recording of FIR in the matter,” the court said.“I am of the considered opinion that prima facie there is enough material on record to frame charges against the accused under requisite sections,” it added.Communal riots had broken out in north east Delhi last year, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-terms-northeast-delhi-riots-case-probe-callous-inefficient-101630174775487.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Ex-UP minister Ambika Chaudhary, Mukhtar’s brother Sibghatullah rejoin SP||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s elder brother Sibghatullah Ansari and former Samajwadi Party (SP) heavyweight and ex-Uttar Pradesh minister Ambika Chaudhary rejoined the SP on Saturday.Both have left the BSP, which they had joined ahead of the 2017 UP assembly polls.At the rejoining the party, Ambika Chaudhary broke down, reminding people of a similar homecoming to the SP by senior leader Mohammed Azam Khan in 2010. Then, SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav and Azam were both in tears.Responding to Ambika’s emotions, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said: “He is not able to say what he wants to. Today, I could realise what all he must have gone through (after being away from the party). It will be my effort now to bring back all those who are associated with Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav)...Don’t know why at times very strong political relationships break very easily. But now all are coming back on track. In politics, ups and downs are routine.”Ambika Chaudhary was a senior leader in the Samajwadi Party till he had an unceremonious exit during the internal feud in the party ahead of the 2017 UP assembly polls. Chaudhary then joined the BSP.Chaudhary, a strong eastern UP leader and former minister in both Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav governments, had also been chief whip of the party for a long time.Sibghatullah Ansari also rejoined the SP on Saturday.In fact, before the 2017 UP Assembly polls, the Ansari brothers (Afzaal and Sibghatullah ) had joined the Samajwadi Party with the intention of contesting the 2017 assembly polls on the SP ticket instead of their own party Quami Ekta Dal (QED). The Ansari brothers had taken this step at the initiative of SP cabinet minister Shivpal Yadav during the feud between Akhilesh and him. When Akhilesh had objected to Ansaris’ joining the SP, they made a retreat and joined the BSP instead. Sibghatullah had contested the Muhammadabad assembly seat in Ghazipur on the SP ticket in 2007 and had won. He retained the same seat in the 2012 assembly polls on the Quami Ekta Dal ticket, but lost when he contested on the BSP ticket in 2017. The SP is likely to give him a ticket to contest the seat again.Akhilesh also said: “These joinings will strengthen the Samajwadi Party and send the message across that the SP is going to make a full majority government in the next polls.”Reacting to Sibghatullah Ansari joining the SP, the BJP’s Uttar Pradesh unit said the Samajwadi Party in its desire to grab power in the state was ready to even shake hands with the family of Mukhtar Ansari , according to a PTI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/exup-minister-ambika-chaudhary-mukhtar-s-brother-sibgatullah-rejoin-sp-101630174536390.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Expansion of Yogi Adityanath cabinet likely after President’s Uttar Pradesh visit concludes||The much-talked about expansion of the Yogi Adityanath government is expected soon after President Ram Nath Kovind’s four-day Uttar Pradesh visit is over on Sunday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders indicated on Saturday. The Yogi government has 53 ministers, including 23 cabinet ministers, nine ministers of state (independent charge) and 21 ministers of state at present. It can accommodate seven more. “The template is going to be the same,” a BJP leader said, hinting that the focus on OBCs (Other Backward Classes) and Dalits would continue as was evident when the party accommodated seven faces from Uttar Pradesh in the Union council of ministers in July.Of the seven faces from UP, three each were OBCs and Dalits and there was a lone Brahmin. The expansion would also indicate how the BJP prefers to deal with its allies ahead of the UP assembly election due in early 2022, party leaders said, indicating that leaders from both Apna Dal (Sonelal) and the Nishad Party could be accommodated in the Yogi ministry. Leaders with a clean track record are expected to be given priority in the election year, party leaders said.All discussions on the subject have reportedly been held with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior UP leaders, including state BJP chief Swatantra Dev and general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. “The exercise got delayed due to the demise of Kalyan Singh and the President’s visit. Now, it’s all set,” a BJP leader said.Sanjay Nishad, the head of the Nishad party that has a hold on members of the riverine community like fishermen and boatmen, after several rounds of meetings with the top BJP leadership is camping in New Delhi ahead of the exercise. Nishad, whose son Praveen is a Lok Sabha MP from Sant Kabir Nagar on a BJP ticket, had a meeting scheduled with BJP chief JP Nadda on Saturday. The meeting, however, failed to materialise ostensibly owing to Nadda’s busy schedule. “The BJP is like a big brother,” Nishad said in Delhi while reiterating his view about his party’s perceived influence in 160 assembly constituencies of the state.He has made it clear that the Nishad party would contest the 2022 UP elections with the BJP. Nishad is expected to be one of the four names from the list of nominated MLCs to be declared ahead of the expansion, the party leaders said. Apna Dal (S) MLC Ashish Patel, husband of Union minister and Mirzapur MP Anupriya Patel, is also said to be among the leaders in the running for a ministerial berth in UP. “Technically, Anupriya Patel and BJP MP Pankaj Choudhary, who have been made Union ministers are all from UP and both represent the Kurmi subcaste of OBCs. So would they want to accommodate another Kurmi or settle for some other OBC subcaste remains to be seen, but Ashish is among the list of leaders in the running for a berth,” a BJP leader said. The BJP leaders indicated that while accommodating allies in the ministry, the party may also give a chance to groom its own home-grown leaders from the community.“To balance Anupriya, the BJP also appointed its own Kurmi MP Pankaj Choudhary in the Union ministry and I would not be surprised if a similar pattern is followed here. That’s because while promoting allies, the BJP is conscious of grooming its own OBC and Dalit leadership too,” the party leader said. Jitin Prasada, the Brahmin leader from the Congress who has switched sides to the BJP and only recently shared photos of his family meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is expected to be a top claimant for a cabinet berth in the Yogi government, party leaders said. Among Dalit faces, the party is expected to opt for either veteran Vidyasagar Sonkar or Ravi Sonkar, the party MLA from Mahadeva assembly constituency in Basti district, BJP leaders said. Sangeeta Balwant Bind, the party’s 41-year-old woman postgraduate MLA, is also said to be in the running.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/expansion-of-yogi-cabinet-likely-after-president-s-uttar-pradesh-visit-concludes-101630174176094.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC refuses to stay or transfer trial in Hathras gang rape case||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has refused to stay or transfer the criminal trial in the Hathras gang rape case at the special court (SC/ST) in Hathras. A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh on August 26 said: “We do not find any reason to stay the proceedings in session trial (no. 538 of 2020, case crime no. 0005 of 2020) pending before the Special Court (SC/ST Act), Hathras.”“Nor for that matter to transfer the same (case) elsewhere, which, though not specifically prayed in the application/affidavit, was requested orally during arguments on the earlier date on the grounds/allegations mentioned in the affidavit in support of the application for interim directions dated March 19, 2021 on behalf of the victim’s family members through advocate Sharad Bhatnagar,” the court added. On September 14, 2020, a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four persons in Hathras district of western Uttar Pradesh when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was partially paralysed in the attack. As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 and died there in the early hours of September 29. The incident led to nationwide outrage. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court took suo motu cognizance of the incident on October 1, 2020. “We, however, make it clear that our observations/directions as contained in our order (dated 19.03.2021) for providing requisite security as also with regard to non-disruption of the trial by any person and the consequences which will follow on such disruption etc., for facilitating a free and fair trial, stand as it is, and they shall be implemented and complied by the concerned strictly,” the court observed on August 26 this year. During the trial in the Hathras court on March 5 this year, a group of people, including lawyers, threatened the family members of the victim and their counsel in the court room. On March 19, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had ordered the Hathras district judge to submit a report on the incident.Following high court’s order (dated March 19, 2021) the district judge of Hathras conducted a detailed inquiry and submitted a report in a sealed cover.Inspector General, central sector, CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force), Lucknow, also submitted a report.The district judge’s report dated April 2, 2021, has the statements of 16 people, including Seema Kushwaha, the advocate of the victim’s family, the victim’s brother and mother, who were present at the time of the incident alleged in the affidavit of the victim’s brother, said the court. It also took into account the CCTV footage.The report of the district judge, Hathras, is also accompanied by the report of the presiding officer of the court where the trial is being concluded.The report submitted by the IG, CRPF, central sector, Lucknow, has the statements of Manmohan Singh (Commandant, 239 battalion), Chandra Shekhar Bhat (assistant sub-inspector), Bilas Rao Patil (hawaldar) and Idhate Sunil (constable). Earlier, the Central Bureau of Investigation, which probed the Hathras gang rape case, filed a charge sheet against four accused in the special court in Hathras on December 18 last year.The CBI charged the four men with gang rape and murder, basing its findings on the dying declaration of the woman and rejecting earlier statements by state government officials and the police that disputed rape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-transfer-trial-in-hathras-gang-rape-case-101630171655976.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Integrated system of medicine gaining ground fast: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said the Ayush system of medicine played a key role in boosting people’s immunity, especially during the Covid second wave and added that a health garden to boost Ayush medicine was being developed at Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy system of medicine are collectively referred to as Ayush. “In the fight against Covid-19, especially during the Covid second wave, Ayush medicines played a key role in boosting immunity,” the President said while laying the foundation stone of the Ayush University in Gorakhpur. The Ayush University has been named after Baba Gorakhnath, the founder of the Nath Hindu monastic movement to which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath belongs. The President, who is on four-day visit to Uttar Pradesh, later also inaugurated the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya (University) campus. He said the concept of an integrated system of medicine was fast gaining ground and spoke of how Rashtrapati Bhavan, too, was doing its bit to popularise this. “In Rashtrapati Bhavan, too, along with an Ayurvedic clinic, we also have got an Ayush treatment facility available. Only recently, we decided to develop a Arogya van (health garden) at Rashtrapati Bhavan and work on it has started,” the President said. Hailing the fact that there was unity in diversity in India, the President said that the existence of different therapies, too, was a testament to the same. “Various medicinal and treatment therapies have been popular in India. In 2014, the Ayush ministry was set up for an organised teaching and research of Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy. The UP government, too, set up a separate Ayush ministry in 2017 and now this Ayush university is coming up where I am told that a research institute, too, would be set up,” the President said.The state government plans to spend ₹815 crore on the construction of the Ayush University, for which it had acquired 52-acre land near Pipri and Tarkulhi villages in Gorakhpur. The Ayush University will be run according to the guidelines of the Central Council of Indian Medicine, regarding the establishment of Ayurveda, Unani, homeopathy, yoga, and naturopathy educational institutions in the university, a state government official said.“Gandhiji used to say that we must have knowledge about our villages and our forests which are a virtual treasure trove of various natural medicines and herbs that help in treating common ailments easily,” the President said on the occasion while recalling the contribution of Guru Gorakhnath. The President recalled, how social reformer and saint Kabir had lavished praise on Baba Gorakhnath, describing him as someone who was “Kalikal main amar” (one whose popularity transcends time) and for whom Goswami Tulsidas had said, “Gorakh jagayo jog (Gorakhnath made yoga popular).” As it started raining during the event, President Kovind said, “This is such a good omen. Hindus believe that if it starts raining during any auspicious event, then the event becomes even more auspicious.” The President whose address was punctuated by numerous Sanskrit couplets cited a verse of Baba Gorakhnath, “Yadi sukham, tad swargam, yadi dukham tad narkam (happiness is akin to being in heaven and sadness is like hell)” to emphasise the importance of a healthy body. He also invoked Goswami Tulsidas to substantiate the point further.“Goswami Tulsidas had said bade bhag manus tan pawa (one gets a human form after great blessings and good fortune). And I am happy that the Ayush university is a step in the right direction,” he said. Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Uttar Pradesh Ayush minister Dharam Singh Saini and Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/integrated-system-of-medicine-gaining-ground-fast-president-101630166920597.html
29-08-2021||Lucknow||Gorakhpur on way to becoming city of knowledge, says President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the Mahayogi Gorakhnath University in Gorakhpur on Saturday and said that the eastern UP town was on way to becoming a “city of knowledge.” “This is my second visit to Gorakhpur over the last three years. During my visit here on December 2018, I had expressed the desire to see the Gorakhpur develop as a city of knowledge. I am happy to note that the setting up of Mahayogi Gorakhnath University is a step in that direction,” the President said after inaugurating the university. Baba Gorakhnath University would be run by the Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad set up in 1932. “Along with regular courses and imparting various skills sets through employment-specific courses, the university would also run courses for women and farmers,” the President said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be the chancellor of the university. “Gorakhpur is named after the great Guru Gorakhnath as well as this entire region is associated with great names. They include Mahatma Buddha, Teerthanker Mahaveer and Sant Kabir. It is the land of Baba Gorakhnath, Guru Digvijayanath, Mahant Avaidyanath. It has also been associated with Baba Raghav Das, Hanuman Prasad Poddar, Ram Prasad Bismil, litterateur Prem Chand, Raghupati Sahai Firaq Gorakhpuri and Vidya Niwas Mishra,” the President said. “There is this belief that Mahayogi Baba Gorakhnath was an incarnation of Lord Shiva and his place of worship, the Gorakhnath Math, has for ages, played a role in the country’s religious and spiritual awakening. During freedom movement, this Math also played a role in the country’s political movement. Now, it has become an important centre of great importance not just in India, but abroad too,” he said. The President also praised the new education policy, saying it laid down the blueprint for overall, holistic development of the students and was tailored to develop patriotic and human and cultural values and equip the students with different skill sets. “The Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad which set up the Baba Gorakhnath University is running more than 50 academic institutions. I am happy to note that the institutes run by the Parishad focus on overall, holistic development of the individuals. Affinity towards Indian culture, love and willingness to sacrifice and surrender oneself for the motherland is also a key ingredient. I am confident that under the chancellorship of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel, this Mahayogi Gorakhnath University would fulfill its avowed objective,” he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said India’s traditional healthcare system had got global recognition due to the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said International Yoga Day celebrations on June 21 were a good example as the day was being observed globally.The chief minister was speaking in Gorakhpur where President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the Mahayogi Gorakhnath University and laid the foundation stone of Ayush University.“PM Narendra Modi had in 2019 laid the foundation stone of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University in Lucknow and all medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh will be affiliated to it. Similarly, all Indian traditional healthcare system institutes in the state will be affiliated to the Ayush university,” he said.Adityanath also said, “For the people of Gorakhpur as well as for whole of east UP, it’s a unique coincidence that while one university has been inaugurated, the foundation stone of another has been laid. This well and truly means that we are on course to realizing the President’s ambition of seeing Gorakhpur develop as a city of knowledge.”The chief minister, who is also the head priest of the Gorakhnath Mutt, is the chancellor of the Mahayogi Gorakhnath UniversityHe said: “We are thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the new education policy, which is set to provide newer opportunities to students. The new university would offer courses in nursing, Ayurveda and various para medical courses. The university has cleared its schedule for the next five years. We are confident that Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad and Gorakhnath University, Gorakhpur would realise all that the country’s top leadership and the Parishad’s illustrious founders and mentors had envisioned for them.” Governor Anandiben Patel praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath for working on President Ram Nath Kovind’s agenda of transforming Gorakhpur into a “city of knowledge”. The governor also praised Gorakhpur’s “rich and glorious past and its bright present”. She also lauded the Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad that was founded in 1932 and under which the Mahayogi Gorakhnath University has been set up. “The chief minister is fulfilling the President’s agenda to develop Gorakhpur as a city of knowledge. Once Ayush University whose foundation stone was laid today is ready, Gorakhpur would actually become an education hub,” the governor said. She also praised the new education policy saying it would ensure that students don’t run into language issues in their quest for greatness.“The new education policy would also help focus on skill-based education and training,” she said. ‘I am sure that the university would be successful in fulfilling the vision for which it has been established,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gorakhpur-on-way-to-becoming-city-of-knowledge-president-101630166855642.html
29-08-2021||Kolkata||ED summons Mamata’s nephew, his wife over money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife, Rujira, to appear before it for questioning in Delhi in connection with its money laundering probe into an illegal coal mining scam, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday.Abhishek, 33, TMC Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, has been asked to appear for questioning on September 6 and Rujira on September 1. The TMC leader faces both ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in the case. CBI questioned Rujira in February this year as well.Reacting sharply to the summons, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Saturday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government for “letting loose central agencies” on het party MP in the case, claiming that some BJP ministers were working hand in glove with coal mafia. She also accused the Centre of trying to “bulldoze the federal structure” of the country and snatching away rights of the states.“The BJP and the Union government can’t fight us politically. The party was defeated in the assembly polls and now they are using central agencies against our leaders like Abhishek Banerjee and others. But let me tell them, they can’t bulldoze or intimidate us by such threats. We will continue our fight against them,” Banerjee said, while proposing to call a meeting of all chief ministers to fight against “the Centre’s authoritarianism”.Some police officers from West Bengal have also been asked to appear before ED in September, people cited above said.The ED’s money laundering probe is based on a CBI First Information Report (FIR) registered in November 2020 over alleged mass coal pilferage in Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in Kunustoria and Kajora in West Bengal.A local contractor, Anup Majhi alias Lala, is said to be the prime suspect in the scam.ED told a Delhi court in April this year that Abhishek Banerjee was allegedly a beneficiary of funds obtained in the illegal mining. TMC rejected the charges as political. ED also informed the court, just ahead of the West Bengal elections, that illegal mining was flourishing in the state under the “patronage” of the political party in power.ED has cited the probe and alleged ₹1,352 crore was generated by Majhi through illegal coal mining in two years. It is alleged that the funds collected by Majhi and others in connivance with the police officers reached the political leaders in West Bengal and then were laundered in India and abroad.Former TMC Youth leader Vinay Mishra, who is wanted in the case, is absconding. His brother Vikas Mishra and a police inspector, Ashok Kumar Mishra, were arrested in March and April.“Investigation revealed a deep system of political patronage and well-oiled network by which the system was subverted to carry out these illegal activities in a brazen manner,” ED said in April.It said the alleged kingpin of this coal pilferage scam did “illegal coal mining business smoothly by managing senior functionaries of the political party of West Bengal though Inspector Mishra”.The agency claimed that documents it has seized show that Majhi “assisted in transferring substantial funds derived from the proceeds of crime to Abhishek Banerjee’s close relative (wife and sister-in-law) at London and Thailand.”“If you show us (threaten us with) ED, we will also send proof against BJP leaders to the agency. A section of BJP ministers and leaders are working hand in glove with the coal mafia. They even stayed at hotels run by them during elections,” the Bengal CM said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ed-summons-abhishek-banerjee-his-wife-in-illegal-mining-case-101630144535669.html
29-08-2021||World||Committed to safe passage of citizens, Afghan allies, say US and other nations||As many as 98 countries, including the United States, said on Sunday they would continue to issue travel documents to all those people who are trying to leave Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban.In a joint statement, they further said the countries had received assurances from the Islamic outfit that all foreign nationals and any Afghan citizen with travel authorisation would be allowed safe passage outside the country.“We are all committed to ensuring that our citizens, nationals and residents, employees, Afghans who have worked with us and those who are at risk can continue to travel freely to destinations outside Afghanistan,” read the joint statement released by the US Department of State.Also read | France, UK to propose safe zone for people leaving Afghanistan: Emmanuel Macron“We will continue issuing travel documentation to designated Afghans, and we have the clear expectation of and commitment from the Taliban that they can travel to our respective countries. We note the public statements of the Taliban confirming this understanding,” it further said.However, there was no mention of any action if the Taliban would go back on their assurance.The statement came in the wake of the hurried evacuation operation undertaken by many countries in Afghanistan is nearing a set deadline of August 31. Several nations have either halted their efforts or have completed the evacuations process, with the UK being the latest to completely pull out its troops, even as many eligible Afghans were left behind in Kabul.Also, the Taliban had previously assured that Afghans with legal travel documents would be allowed to leave the country. On Friday, senior German diplomat Markus Potzel tweeted “Director Stanekzai assured me that Afghans with legal documents will continue to have the opportunity to travel on commercial flights after 31 August.” Potzel is currently part of the negotiations with the Taliban in Doha.“We have received assurances from the Taliban that all foreign nationals and any Afghan citizen with travel authorization from our countries will be allowed to proceed in a safe and orderly manner to points of departure and travel outside the country,” the joint statement showed. “France, Germany and Turkey were among the key US allies that were among the 98 countries, while regional players like India, Pakistan, China and Russia were not there.US special representative Zalmay Khalilzad had also said the Taliban would allow free travel of Afghans out of their country. “We, our allies, and the international community will hold them to these commitments,” he tweeted on Saturday.Approximately 250 US citizens still remain in Afghanistan and are trying to leave the country, news agency PTI reported citing an US official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-safe-passage-of-citizens-afghan-allies-say-us-and-other-nations-101630256918219.html
29-08-2021||World||From music to women's education in Afghanistan: What Taliban said so far||Artistes and women feared the advent of the Taliban in Afghanistan the most when the group was defeating the Afghan army one province at a time. After the fall of Kabul on August 15, the country witnessed a humanitarian crisis with thousands of Afghans attempting to flee the country. As the foreign troops are now leaving the country and the Taliban are set to announce a new government, which might have representation from many ethnic groups of the country, the Taliban are spelling out some of the terms and conditions of the possible rule, which will be guided by Sharia law, Taliban spokespersons have already said.Women's rightsIn its latest announcement, the Taliban have said that women will be allowed to study at university but there will be no co-education, Abdul Baqi Haqqani, the Taliban's acting minister for higher education said at a meeting with elders, known as a loya jirga, on Sunday. In schools too, there will be no co-education. Some reports said men will not be allowed to teach women which effectively will deprive women of higher education.Early this week, the Taliban asked all women healthcare workers to return to work, days after a Taliban spokesperson said women should stay at home as Taliban fighters at present are not yet trained to respect women.Music ban: No female voice on television, radio?During the earlier rule of the Taliban, music was banned as the group claims that music is forbidden in Islam. A ban on music will be imposed this time too, as the group is looking to rule according to Sharia law, the Taliban said. Reports said the Taliban have banned female voices on television and radio channels only in Kandahar.What will happen to singers, filmmakers?The Taliban have said that singers and filmmakers will have to switch their profession if it's assessed against the Shariah.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-music-to-women-s-education-in-afghanistan-what-taliban-said-so-far-101630257015180.html
29-08-2021||World||Women allowed to attend university under Taliban rule: Report||Afghan women will be allowed to study at university but there would be a ban on mixed classes under their rule, the Taliban's acting higher education minister said on Sunday.The hardline Islamist group that stormed to power in mid-August after ousting the Western-back government have vowed to rule differently compared to their 1990s stint when girls and women were banned from education."The... people of Afghanistan will continue their higher education in the light of Sharia law in safety without being in a mixed male and female environment," Abdul Baqi Haqqani, the Taliban's acting minister for higher education said at a meeting with elders, known as a loya jirga, on Sunday.He said the Taliban want to "create a reasonable and Islamic curriculum that is in line with our Islamic, national and historical values and, on the other hand, be able to compete with other countries".Girls and boys will also be segregated at primary and secondary schools, which was already common throughout deeply conservative Afghanistan.The group have pledged to respect progress made in women's rights, but only according to their strict interpretation of Islamic law.Whether women can work, get education at all levels and be able to mix with men have been some of the most pressing questions.But the Taliban rebranding is being treated with scepticism, with many questioning whether the group will stick to its pledges.No women were present at the meeting in Kabul on Sunday, which included other senior Taliban officials."The Taliban's ministry of higher education consulted only male teachers and students on resuming the function of universities," said a lecturer, who worked at a city university during the last government.She said that showed "the systematic prevention of women's participation in decision making" and "a gap between the Taliban's commitments and actions".University admission rates have risen over the past 20 years, particularly among women who have studied side by side with men and attended seminars with male professors.But a spate of attacks on education centres in recent months, killing dozens, had caused panic.The Taliban denied being behind the attacks, some of which were claimed by the local chapter of the Islamic State group.During their previous brutal rule, the Taliban excluded women from public life, entertainment was banned and brutal punishments were imposed -- such as stoning to death for adultery.The Taliban have yet to announce their government, saying they would wait until after the departure of US and foreign forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-allowed-to-attend-university-under-taliban-rule-report-101630253307226.html
29-08-2021||World||A blast in Kabul; US drone attack: What happened in Afghanistan capital today||A massive explosion was heard in Kabul on Sunday evening which was followed by a thick cloud of smoke rising out of a residential area of the Capital. Soon after the United States said it carried out an airstrike on a specific target in Kabul. Contradictory reports regarding the casualty of what happened on Sunday emerged.Here is what happened in Kabul today1. Afghan police chief said a rocket struck a residential area near Kabul airport which killed a child.2. The area where the strike took place is a congested residential area. Videos show many houses surrounding the place from where the smoke is rising.3. The United States claimed it carried out an airstrike in Kabul as it had intel about IS suicide attackers moving in Kabul4. The Taliban too confirmed the US airstrike and said that the airstrike was targeted at suspected ISIS-K terrorists.Watch: USA's 2nd drone strike in 2 days in Afghanistan, now 'ISIS suicide bomber' killed5. The US said it has been successful in its strike as the target is believed to be eliminated. It is not clear whether there was only one target or many suicide bombers.6. The US also confirmed that there was no civilian among the casualty, according to primary reports.7. US officials said that many suicide attackers were moving towards Kabul airport on Sunday, probably to target US forces who are leaving the country.8. The US described the strike as a "self-defence unmanned over-the-horizon airstrike".9. The US airstrike resulted in multiple explosions which indicates that the vehicle they targeted contained a substantial amount of explosive material.10. Are the US airstrike and the explosion in Kabul the same incident? Information about both the incidents remained scarce and there has been no official confirmation in this regard from any side.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-blast-in-kabul-us-drone-attack-what-happened-in-afghanistan-capital-today-101630251723898.html
29-08-2021||World||‘No existence of Taliban here’, says Bangladesh home minister Khan||The Bangladesh government on Sunday said that there is no existence of the Taliban in the nation, dismissing speculations that the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will encourage terror activities in the country. Bangladesh home minister Asaduzzaman Khan said there are no threats from the smaller outfits present in Bangladesh as they will not be able to create chaos.His comments come after Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) commissioner Md Shafiqul Islam said the victory of the Taliban in Afghanistan would lead to a new wave of militancy in the sub-continent, including in Bangladesh, news agency PTI reporting citing media outlet Dhaka Tribune. “Bangladesh is a country of peace. Taliban have come to power in Afghanistan and Kabul is located far from Bangladesh. It has no effect in Bangladesh. There are many small notorious groups in the country. But they have no capacity to create chaos,” Kamal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He was speaking to media persons after the inauguration of a supermarket in Savar.“Some miscreants are appearing in different names to create anarchy in the country,” he added. The Bangladesh government has repeatedly denied the existence of any foreign terrorist groups in the country.Experts warn about terrorist groups in BangladeshSecurity experts expressed concern that groups like Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), which was founded by Afghan war veterans, could grow in strength following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Gautam Mukhopadhyay of the Centre for Policy Research (CPR) who is also the former Indian ambassador to Afghanistan told news agency PTI that the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will have a ripple effect in the region.“If the Taliban takes over Afghanistan, we will see its ripple effects all over… they believe in an Islamic Emirate which by its nature is international. We foresee a rise in extremism not only among radicals in Bangladesh but also among Rohingyas,” Mukhopadhyay was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-existence-of-taliban-here-says-bangladesh-home-minister-khan-101630252280652.html
29-08-2021||World||'Went into hiding, lost relatives': How Afghan soldier's life changed in 15 days||It has been 15 days since hardline Islamists of the Taliban captured war-torn Afghanistan, gripping the lives of Afghan people with fear, terror and uncertainty. Among those, is a 25-year-old Afghan National Army (ANA) officer trained in Dehradun-based Indian Military Academy (IMA) who witnessed tragic changes in his life in the fortnight.The officer, who was once a proud army officer serving his country, had to hide his uniform to save himself from the Taliban’s death threat on August 15 when it captured Kabul in an overrun of the country.Hiding in an undisclosed location a few kilometres away from Kabul, he was “already broken from inside due to the death of his army” when on Thursday he further sank into deep sorrow after getting to know that three of his relatives lost their lives in the bomb blast outside Kabul airport on Thursday evening in which at least 180 have died so far.“Its all pain and agony now”The officer shared his sorrow with HT over an instant messaging application from an undisclosed location saying, “It’s all pain and agony in the country now. There is no smile on anyone’s face. Common people are gripped in fear and uncertainty with many already surrendering their fate to God under Taliban rule.”The officer whose identity cannot be disclosed due to security reasons, added, “After being forced to hide my uniform after the collapse of our army, I was still under a shock trying to cope with it while in hiding. And then I got to know the unfortunate news about the death of one of my cousin brothers and his two sons in the powerful suicide blast near Kabul airport on Thursday evening.”Also read: How a US veteran managed to get his visa-less wife out of Afghanistan“It was as if the pain and agony were not enough, that Allah decided me to put through another test through this tragedy. I was feeling so helpless on the news shared to me by my family over the phone that I can’t describe it in words. What was their fault who were just trying to escape this tyranny of the Taliban for a better future? His two sons, aged 7 and 9 years, were too young to depart this world. Their faces still come before me when I close my eyes,” said the officer.“All in vain”Emotionally exhausted, the officer also shared his pain of seeing the “sacrifices of his colleagues in the army going in vain.”“For 20 years we fought the Taliban in an effort to give a future free of fear and terror to the new generation. I know many of my friends in the army who went to the battlefield against the Taliban five days after getting married. They never got to see the face of their brides as they returned draped in the national flag which is now removed from all over the country by the Taliban,” he said.The officer added, “In the months before the collapse on August 15, many of us fought with only one meal a day instead of three. Many of us were also not getting the salaries on time but we never complained because we were fighting for our country. But all these sacrifices went in vain because we were sold out by the politicians and top commanders.”“But... little joys”The ANA officer whose childhood was spent during the rule of the Taliban from 1996-2001, also shared some joyous moments.“Amongst all this sad news, my younger sister made me happy by informing me that she had passed the entrance examination at Kabul University. Though we don’t know what this result will mean now but for the moment we are happy as we are gradually learning to find little joys amid the air of fear, death and despair,” said the officer, adding “there’s always hope for us as we Afghans are the most resilient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/25yearold-afghan-army-soldier-describes-his-ordeal-ever-since-taliban-s-return-101630247681557.html
29-08-2021||World||France, UK to propose safe zone for people leaving Afghanistan, submit resolution at UN meeting: Emmanuel Macron||Ahead of an emergency meeting by the United Nations on Monday, French President Emmanuel Macron said that France and Britain would propose for a safe zone in Kabul to protect people trying to flee Afghanistan.“Our resolution proposal aims to define a safe zone in Kabul, under UN control, which would allow humanitarian operations to continue,” news agency Reuters quoted Macron as saying on Sunday. During his visit to Mosul in Iraq later in the day, Macron stressed the resolution would be passed by the two countries and expressed hope that it would be accepted by member nations favourably. “I cannot see who could oppose enabling the safety of humanitarian operations,” he further said.Also read | Blast outside Kabul airport; rocket targeted residential building: ReportsUN secretary-general Antonio Guterres is scheduled to meet the permanent representatives for the United Kingdom, the United States, France, China and Russia — the five permanent members of the UN Security Council — to discuss the worsening situation in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, earlier on Saturday, Macron had said that France had held preliminary discussions with the Taliban about the humanitarian situation. The talks also included possible evacuation of more people out of the country.“We have begun having discussions, which are very fragile and preliminary, with the Taliban on the issue of humanitarian operations and the ability to protect and repatriate Afghans who are at risk,” Reuters had reported on Saturday citing the French President.France ended its evacuation operations in Afghanistan on Friday, two weeks after the Taliban seized the capital city of Kabul. The US troops are scheduled to withdraw completely from the country by August 31, a deadline that has been agreed upon by the Taliban.Several other countries have also closed their evacuation operations as the last date nears. The UK pulled out the last of its troops from the war-torn nation early on Sunday despite a number of Afghans, eligible for repatriation, being left behind.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-uk-to-propose-safe-zone-for-people-leaving-afghanistan-submit-resolution-at-un-meeting-emmanuel-macron-101630245589789.html
29-08-2021||World||'Multiple suicide bombers were heading to airport': US on Kabul airstrike||The United States has carried out a military strike in Kabul, two US officials told Reuters after a massive blast was reported from a residential area in the vicinity of the Kabul airport on Sunday. Reports said a child was killed in the rocket attack. The US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the strike targeted suspected ISIS-K militants. These are just initial information and could change as more information pour in, the official told Reuters."The incident happened as police said a rocket struck a neighbourhood just northwest of Kabul's international airport Sunday as the US evacuation there winds down following the Taliban's lightning takeover of the country, killing a child. The two strikes initially appeared to be separate incidents, though information on both remained scarce," the Associated Press reported.Regarding Saturday's strike, while many reports claimed that a child was killed in the strike, US military officials confirmed that there was no civilian death. "Significant secondary explosions from the vehicle indicated the presence of a substantial amount of explosive material," a US military official said.A Taliban spokesperson said the US military airstrike targetted a suicide bomber who was in a vehicle, attempting to target the Kabul international airport amid the American evacuation.The airstrike comes a day after the Pentagon claimed to have killed two ISIS men in an airstrike in Jalajabad, in a retaliatory attack of the ISIS-K's suicide bomb attack near Kabul airport n August 26 that killed over 180 people.As the foreign forces are being withdrawn from Kabul, the city has emerged as the stage of military blitzkrieg. While the Pentagon hinted that it might carry out a similar strike in the future, without revealing any details, the US government sounded terror alert for the next 24-36 hours.The Taliban had condemned the United States' Jalalabad strike and said the US should have informed the Taliban before the attack as it was a strike on the soil of Afghanistan. The Pentagon on Saturday said it continues to have the capability to defend itself in Afghanistan as long as the process of the withdrawal of the troops continues.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-it-carried-out-strike-in-kabul-after-rocket-hits-residential-area-101630244652275.html
29-08-2021||World||Blast outside Kabul airport again amid security alert; rocket targeted residential building: Reports||A huge explosion was reported from a highly congested residential area near Kabul airport on Sunday, killing a child, reports said. The attack comes a day after the United States killed two ISIS-K men in an airstrike as a 'retaliation' of the deadly blast near Kabul airport of August 26 that killed over 180 and injuring several people, including US, UK and Afghan nationals. This comes hours after US President Joe Biden said that US military commanders have intelligence inputs of another terrorist attack at the Hamid Karzai International Airport within the next 24 to 36 hours. Reports said Sunday's blast was heard from the Gulai area of Khajeh Baghra in the 11th security district. Unconfirmed reports also claimed that the blast might have been caused by a rocket hitting a residential house in the area.Photos and videos of large plumes of smoke rising from a heavily congested residential area surfaced on social media soon after the blast took place. Initial reports indicate that Sunday's blast was characteristically different from Thursday's blast. Thursday's blast was carried out by a suicide attacker who targeted the crowd outside the Kabul airport, while Sunday's attack, reportedly an airstrike might not have the airport as its target -- the rocket hit a residential area near the airport.JUST IN - Explosion rocks #Kabul. The blast hit a residential building west of the airport. Cause unclear.pic.twitter.com/vzh7T651KMJust after the blast, the United States said it carried out an airstrike in Kabul, which the Taliban too confirmed and said that the target was one ISIS-K suicide bomber who was on a vehicle, attempting to strike an attack in the airport. "The incident (US airstrike) happened as police said a rocket struck a neighbourhood just northwest of Kabul's international airport Sunday as the US evacuation there winds down following the Taliban's lightning takeover of the country, killing a child. The two strikes initially appeared to be separate incidents, though information on both remained scarce," the Associated Press reported.The rocket attack comes just after the US airstrike in Jalalabad in which two ISIS-K men -- including a planner and a facilitator-- was killed. "Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours. I directed them to take every possible measure to prioritise force protection, and ensured that they have all the authorities, resources and plans to protect our men and women on the ground," Biden said in his statement.The US embassy too issued a security alert urging all US citizens in the vicinity of the Kabul airport should leave the area.Ground of attack-retaliatory attackBefore August 26's airport blasts, the Taliban had anticipated an ISIS attack in Afghanistan and they reportedly alerted foreign forces carrying out evacuation operations in the country. After the airport attack, the United States carried out a 'retaliatory' attack and dropped hints that more such operations can take place in Afghanistan as long as the country is in the process of withdrawing its troops. The Taliban condemned the US airstrike and said the US should have informed the Taliban about it as it is an attack on Afghanitan's territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-heard-outside-kabul-airport-amid-security-threat-101630241728392.html
29-08-2021||World||Amid anti-Taliban uprising, Taliban kill Afghan folk singer with whom they had tea before: Report||As anti-Taliban forces are putting up resistance in Afghanistan's Panjshir province, reports said a Taliban fighter shot an Afghan folk singer Fawad Andarabi dead in Baghlan province, where the anti-Taliban forces are strong and have reportedly taken some areas under their control.Fawad Andarabi's son Jawad Andarabi told the Associated Press that this was not the first time that the Taliban came to their house. The Taliban previously came out to Andarabi's home and searched it, even drinking tea with the musician, his son Jawad Andarabi told The Associated Press. The singer was shot in the head on the farm.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told the AP that the insurgents would investigate the incident, but had no other details on the killing.“There is mounting evidence that the Taliban of 2021 is the same as the intolerant, violent, repressive Taliban of 2001. 20 years later. Nothing has changed on that front," Agnes Callamard, the secretary-general of Amnesty International tweeted reacting to the report of the killing.The report of Fawad Andarabi's killing comes amid global apprehension that the Taliban rule in Afghanistan would provide a fillip to jihadist activities. After ISIS-K perpetrated a deadly blast near Kabul airport on August 26, the United States carried out an airstrike killing two ISIS-K men.Taliban and musicDuring the previous rule of the Taliban, music was banned in Afghanistan as the Taliban claim that music is forbidden in Islam. Fawad Andarabi was a folk singer who used to sing praises of Afghanistan and most of his songs were about Afghanistan and its people. As disclosed by Andarabi's son, the Taliban apparently did not have much 'ill-feeling' about Andarabi as some leaders of the group had visited the singer's house earlier(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-anti-taliban-uprising-taliban-kill-afghan-folk-singer-with-whom-they-had-tea-before-report-101630240122776.html
29-08-2021||World||Turkish Airlines staff help Afghan woman deliver girl child on evacuation flight||A baby girl was born at 30,000 feet on an evacuation flight from Afghanistan which landed in the UK on Saturday, news agency Associated Press reported quoting Turkish media. Turkish Airlines staff helped 26-year-old woman Soman Noori give birth to a girl child. She and her husband were evacuated from Kabul to Dubai and were on a flight to Birmingham.Soman’s labour pains began shortly after the flight took off on Friday night. The flight landed in Kuwait as a precautionary measure, and the mother and child were deemed healthy enough to fly to the UK. The baby girl was named Havva, which translates to Eve in English.On August 26, another Afghan girl was born on a US military plane to parents who were fleeing Afghanistan. The girl, who was named Reach, was born after her mother went into labour while being flown to an American military base in Germany.Several Afghans continue to find their way out of the nation, fearing a regressive regime under the Taliban. Parents were seen in viral videos hurling their children over the Hamid Karzai International Airport’s barbed wire fence last week in a bid to evacuate them from Afghanistan fearing the Taliban takeover.Taliban takes control of Kabul airport gatesAs nations struggle to evacuate citizens out of Kabul in the aftermath of the double bomb blasts near the airport, the Taliban said that it now controls three gates at Kabul’s airport which were earlier with the US forces, news agency Bloomberg reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkish-airlines-staff-help-afghan-woman-deliver-girl-child-on-evacuation-flight-101630234268640.html
29-08-2021||World||Want to continue our political, trade ties with India: Taliban leader Stanekzai||Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai has said the group wants to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India, the first time a member of the Taliban’s top hierarchy has spoken on the issue since the takeover of Kabul. In a nearly 46-minute video posted on the Taliban’s social media platforms on Saturday, Stanekzai spoke extensively in Pashto on the end of the war in Afghanistan and the Taliban’s plans for forming an Islamic administration based on Shariah. He also spoke about the Taliban’s views on relations with key countries in the region, including India, Pakistan, China and Russia. Since the Taliban assumed power in Kabul after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on August 15, the group’s spokesmen Suhail Shaheen and Zabiullah Mujahid have spoken to the Pakistani media about the group’s views on relations with India. However, Stanekzai is the first senior leader to make a statement on relations with other countries. “India is very important for this subcontinent. We want to continue our cultural, economic and trade ties with India like in the past,” Stanekzai said. “Trade with India through Pakistan is very important for us. With India, trade through air corridors will also remain open,” he said, outlining the Taliban’s plans for trade in the region. However, he didn’t say whether trade via India should be two-way. Pakistan has allowed Afghan traders to ship their goods to India through its territory but has never permitted Indian goods to be transported via Pakistani soil to Afghanistan. “We give due importance to our political, economic and trade ties with India and we want these ties to continue. We are looking forward to working with India in this regard,” Stanekzai added. While speaking about Afghanistan’s relations with Turkmenistan, Stanekzai mentioned the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas pipeline project and said the Taliban would work to address the problems holding up the venture once a government is formed. Stanekzai also referred to the Chabahar port developed by India while speaking about relations with Iran and highlighted its importance for trade. He also spoke about relations with China, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Pakistan and Russia. He thanked Pakistan for hosting millions of Afghan refugees and said Afghanistan wants to have brotherly relations with Pakistan. As reported by Hindustan Times, Stanekzai had informally reached out to the Indian side after the Taliban took over Afghanistan and made a surprise request for New Delhi to retain its diplomatic presence in Kabul. He had also referred to reports that fighters from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) were in Kabul and deployed at check posts on routes to the airport, and contended that all check posts, including those at the airport, were firmly in the hands of the Taliban. However, the Indian side concluded Stanekzai’s message couldn’t be taken at face value and went ahead with plans to pull out nearly 200 diplomats, officials and security personnel, including the ambassador, from Kabul. There was no response from Indian officials to Stanekzai’s remarks.Stanekzai, who is seen as the number two in the Taliban’s negotiating team and third overall among leaders based in Qatar, trained for several years at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun in the early 1980s. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that he appeared to be taking on a key role in foreign relations though he has not been part of the decision-making in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/want-to-continue-our-political-trade-ties-with-india-taliban-leader-stanekzai-101630233039985.html
29-08-2021||World||'Ashraf Ghani made a mistake': Taliban say former President must return Afghanistan's 'money'||Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen has blamed Ashraf Ghani for the chaos that the country witnessed after August 15 and said that he did a mistake by abandoning the government all of a sudden. In an exclusive interview to Doha News, the spokesperson said on August 15, when the Taliban were 'looking forward to' a peaceful transfer of power and the fighters were waiting outside the gate of Kabul, Ashraf Ghani suddenly fled. "He made a mistake of abandoning the government...This is what resulted in the sudden vacuum, plundering and shooting," the Taliban spokesperson said.🔴 EXCLUSIVE: Taliban’s political spokesperson in Qatar, @SuhailShaheen1 says Afghan President Ashraf Ghani must return “the money of the people of Afghanistan”#afghanistan #taliban #qatar #dohanewsWATCH ⬇️ pic.twitter.com/v7E2xdIIYDOn reports of Ashraf Ghani fleeing with a huge amount of cash, Suhail Shaheen said if he has taken anything that does not belong to him, he must return that to Afghanistan, but pursuing that is not the priority of the Taliban as the group is now focussing on setting up the new government.Didn't take money, couldn't even change shoes, says Ashraf Ghani; vows to return to AfghanistanAshraf Ghani, on the other hand, refuted reports of both fleeing the country and fleeing with money. From the UAE, he gave a message saying that he was forced to leave the country to avoid bloodshed. He did not even have the time to change his slippers, he said, adding that there was no question of taking 'tonnes of money'.On further relationship with the UAE which has welcomed Ashraf Ghani and his family, the Taliban spokesperson said that Ashraf Ghani had close ties with the UAE. But that does not mean that the UAE will not have ties with the Taliban. "We have our office in Qatar. We have ties with the UAE. Giving shelter to Ashraf Ghani reflects their policy. It does not mean they do not have a relation with us," the spokesperson said.In the interview, given before the Kabul blatsts, the spokesperson said, the Taliban were searching all Afghans and all cars in the country as they had reports that ISIS members were trying to carry out sabotage "inside the congestion of people" in the airport "under the cover of going abroad". Afghans who do not have proper travel documents have been stopped from travelling to the airport because of security reasons, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ashraf-ghani-made-a-mistake-taliban-say-former-president-must-return-afghanistan-s-money-101630232430501.html
29-08-2021||World||SpaceX launches ants, avocados, robot to space station||A SpaceX shipment of ants, avocados and a human-sized robotic arm rocketed toward the International Space Station on Sunday.The delivery — due to arrive Monday — is the company’s 23rd for NASA in just under a decade.A recycled Falcon rocket blasted into the predawn sky from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. After hoisting the Dragon capsule, the first-stage booster landed upright on SpaceX’s newest ocean platform, named “A Shortfall of Gravitas.” SpaceX founder Elon Musk continued his tradition of naming the booster-recovery vessels in tribute to the late science fiction writer Iain Banks and his Culture series.The Dragon is carrying more than 4,800 pounds (2,170 kilograms) of supplies and experiments, and fresh food including avocados, lemons and even ice cream for the space station’s seven astronauts.The Girl Scouts are sending up ants, brine shrimp and plants as test subjects, while University of Wisconsin-Madison scientists are flying up seeds from mouse-ear cress, a small flowering weed used in genetic research. Samples of concrete, solar cells and other materials also will be subjected to weightlessness.A Japanese start-up company’s experimental robotic arm, meanwhile, will attempt to screw items together in its orbital debut and perform other mundane chores normally done by astronauts. The first tests will be done inside the space station. Future models of Gitai Inc.'s robot will venture out into the vacuum of space to practice satellite and other repair jobs, said chief technology officer Toyotaka Kozuki.As early as 2025, a squad of these arms could help build lunar bases and mine the moon for precious resources, he added.SpaceX had to leave some experiments behind because of delays resulting from Covid-19.It was the second launch attempt; Saturday’s try was foiled by stormy weather.NASA turned to SpaceX and other U.S. companies to deliver cargo and crews to the space station, once the space shuttle program ended in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-launches-ants-avocados-robot-to-space-station-101630222896413.html
29-08-2021||World||'Surrender out of question': These Afghan strongmen are banding to negotiate with the Taliban||A band of veteran Afghan leaders, including two regional strongmen, are angling for talks with the Taliban and plan to meet within weeks to form a new front for holding negotiations on the country's next government, a member of a group said.Khalid Noor, son of Atta Mohammad Noor, the once-powerful governor of northern Afghanistan's Balkh province, said the group comprised of veteran ethnic Uzbek leader Abdul Rashid Dostum and others opposed to the Taliban's takeover."We prefer to negotiate collectively, because it is not that the problem of Afghanistan will be solved just by one of us," Noor, 27, told Reuters in an interview from an undisclosed location."So, it is important for the entire political community of the country to be involved, especially the traditional leaders, those with power, with public support," Noor said.Atta Noor and Dostum, veterans of four decades of conflict in Afghanistan, both fled the country when the northern city of Mazar-i Sharif fell to the Taliban, the hardline Islamist group, without a fight.The US-backed government and military folded elsewhere as the Taliban swept into Kabul on Aug. 15.However, the backroom discussions are a sign of the country's traditional strongmen coming back to life after the Taliban's stunning military campaign.It will be a challenge for any entity to rule Afghanistan for long without consensus between the country's patchwork of ethnicities, most analysts say.Unlike their previous period in power before 2001, the predominantly Pashtun Taliban did seek support from Tajiks, Uzbeks, and other minorities as they prepared their offensive last month."The Taliban at this point are very, very arrogant because they just won militarily. But what we assume (is) that they know the risk of ruling the way they did before," Noor said, referring to the previous Taliban regime's exclusion of minority ethnic groups.'SURRENDER OUT OF QUESTION'Despite a commitment to negotiations, Noor said there was a "huge risk" that the talks could fail, leading the group to already prepare for armed resistance against the Taliban."Surrender is out of the question for us," said Noor, the youngest member of the erstwhile Afghan government's team that held talks with the Taliban in Qatar.Ahmad Massoud, leader of Afghanistan's last major outpost of anti-Taliban resistance, last week also said he hoped talks with the Taliban would lead to an inclusive government, failing which his forces were ready to fight. It remains uncertain how much popular support is actually enjoyed by leaders like Atta Noor, widely accused of corruption https://www.reuters.com/article/afghanistan-governor-atta-noor-idINKBN1EW07L, and Dostum, accused of multiple acts of torture and brutality, and described in a U.S. State Department report as a "quintessential warlord". Both leaders deny the accusations.The Taliban, already a formidable military force, are now in possession of an estimated 2,000 armoured vehicles and up to 40 aircraft, among other arms left behind by fleeing Afghan forces, potentially bolstering their firepower.Still, Noor said the Taliban would not be able to hold out against popular resistance."History has shown that no one in Afghanistan can rule by force, it is impossible," the Western-educated politician said, "No matter how much support they have from the international community, it will fail."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surrender-out-of-question-these-afghan-strongmen-are-banding-to-negotiate-with-the-taliban-101630222381995.html
29-08-2021||World||Hurricane Ida rapidly intensifies into dangerous Category 4||Hurricane Ida was rapidly intensifying early Sunday, becoming a dangerous Category 4 hurricane on track for a potentially devastating landfall on the Louisiana coast while emergency officials in the region grappled with opening shelters for displaced evacuees despite the risks of spreading the coronavirus.The National Hurricane Center predicted Ida would become an extremely dangerous Category 4 hurricane with 130 mph (209 kph) winds — that happened early Sunday ahead of an expected afternoon landfall. The storm arrived on the exact date Hurricane Katrina ravaged Louisiana and Mississippi 16 years earlier.Ida was a Category 4 hurricane Sunday morning with maximum sustained winds of 130 mph. The storm was centered about 175 miles (280 kilometers) southeast of coastal Houma, Louisiana, and was traveling northwest at 15 mph (24 kph).The storm threatened a region already reeling from a resurgence of COVID-19 infections, thanks to low vaccination rates and the highly contagious delta variant.New Orleans hospitals planned to ride out the storm with their beds nearly full, as similarly stressed hospitals elsewhere had little room for evacuated patients. And shelters for those fleeing their homes carried an added risk of becoming flashpoints for new infections.Gov. John Bel Edwards vowed Saturday that Louisiana's “resilient and tough people” would weather the storm. He also noted shelters would operate with reduced capacities “to reflect the realities of COVID.”Edwards said Louisiana officials were already working to find hotel rooms for many evacuees so that fewer had to stay in mass shelters. He noted that during last year's hurricane season, Louisiana found rooms for 20,000 people.“So, we know how to do this,” Edwards said. “I hope and pray we don’t have to do it anywhere near that extent.”In coastal Gulfport, Mississippi, a Red Cross shelter posted signs displaying directions for evacuees along with warnings about COVID-19. With skies still sunny, only a handful of people had shown up Saturday evening.Shelter manager Barbara Casterlin said workers were required to wear face masks. Evacuees were encouraged to do the same. Anyone who refuses will be sent to an isolated area, she said, and so will people who are sick.“We’re not checking vaccinations,” Casterlin said, “but we are doing temperature checks two or three times a day.”President Joe Biden approved emergency declarations for Louisiana and Mississippi ahead of Ida's arrival.Comparisons to the Aug. 29, 2005, landfall of Katrina weighed heavily on residents bracing for Ida. A Category 3 storm, Katrina was blamed for 1,800 deaths as it demolished oceanfront homes in Mississippi and caused levee breaches and catastrophic flooding in New Orleans.In Saucier, Mississippi, Alex and Angela Bennett spent Saturday afternoon filling sand bags to place around their flood-prone home. Both survived Katrina, and didn't expect Ida to cause nearly as much destruction where they live, based on forecasts.“Katrina was terrible. This ain’t gonna be nothing,” Alex Bennett said. “I hate it for Louisiana, but I’m happy for us.”Long lines formed at gas pumps Saturday as people rushed to escape. Trucks pulling saltwater fishing boats and campers streamed away from the coast on Interstate 65 in Alabama, while traffic jams clogged Interstate 10 heading out of New Orleans.Ida intensified so swiftly that New Orleans officials said there was no time to organize a mandatory evacuation of its 390,000 residents. Mayor LaToya Cantrell urged residents to leave voluntarily. Those who stayed were warned to prepare for long power outages amid sweltering heat.Officials also stressed that the levee and drainage systems protecting the city had been much improved since Katrina. But they cautioned flooding was still possible with up to 20 inches (50 centimeters) of rain forecast in some areas.Edwards said 5,000 National Guard troops were being staged in 14 Louisiana parishes for search and rescue efforts. And 10,000 linemen were on standby to respond to electrical outages.Ida posed a threat far beyond New Orleans. A hurricane warning was issued for nearly 200 miles (320 kilometers) of Louisiana’s coastline, from Intracoastal City south of Lafayette to the Mississippi state line. A tropical storm warning was extended to the Alabama-Florida line.Meteorologist Jeff Masters, who flew hurricane missions for the government and founded Weather Underground, said Ida is forecast to move through “the just absolute worst place for a hurricane.”The Interstate 10 corridor between New Orleans and Baton Rouge is a critical hub of the nation’s petrochemical industry, lined with oil refineries, natural gas terminals and chemical manufacturing plants. Entergy, Louisiana’s major electricity provider, operates two nuclear power plants along the Mississippi River.A U.S. Energy Department map of oil and gas infrastructure shows scores of low-lying sites in the storm’s projected path that are listed as potentially vulnerable to flooding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-ida-rapidly-intensifies-into-dangerous-category-4-101630222361969.html
29-08-2021||World||One phone call: How a US veteran managed to get his visa-less wife out of Afghanistan||Whipped by the Taliban and shoved from behind by other desperate Afghans, marriage certificate in hand, Sharifa Afzali thrust her cell phone at the U.S. soldier barring the Kabul airport gate. On the other end was her husband, a U.S. Army veteran in Oklahoma."I told her, 'Hey, see if he'll talk to me on the phone.' I didn't think he would do it, but he did," said Hans Wright, who pleaded with the soldier to bend the rules for the visa-less woman he loves."And by the grace of God, he let my wife and my interpreter through," Wright recounted to Reuters.Afzali made it out of Afghanistan, counting herself among the lucky ones.Unknown numbers of U.S.-affiliated families fearing Taliban retribution have been split up in the chaotic scramble for flights before the U.S. evacuation operation ends by Tuesday, said people involved in ad hoc networks racing to help extricate at-risk Afghans.With U.S. President Joe Biden's administration prioritizing U.S. passport and green card holders, many streaming to the airport through Taliban checkpoints with Afghan families have faced an agonizing choice: leave relatives behind or risk their own lives by staying, these people said."We have dealt with multiple cases of families that either have been separated or told that only the family members holding a blue (U.S.) passport or a green card are allowed through the gates," said Stacia George, a former USAID official.Some have had to leave children with U.S. citizenship rights with relatives, she said. Others managed to get children into the airport with family members who are Americans or green card holders.Joe McReynolds, another advocate for evacuees, said he has cataloged a dozen cases of Afghan-born active-duty U.S. military personnel or American veterans in the United States struggling to extract relatives with Special Immigration Visas or in the SIV process. "If the U.S. soldier was there in Afghanistan, we probably could have gotten them through," he said, adding he knows of only one case succeeding. He declined to provide details, citing safety concerns.Afzali's escape was aided by her determination, luck, her husband, their marriage certificate, and her SIV application.Critical help also came from Ashley Sogge, a former U.S. Army special operations officer who believes an email she sent to White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki proved crucial for getting Afzali on a list at the airport."It is a good news story. But unfortunately, nothing that is replicable," Sogge told Reuters. "It was truly ad hoc."Asked for comment, Psaki said those responsible for saving tens of thousands of lives were the men and women of the military and the national security and State Department teams on the ground in Kabul.COACHING, CAJOLING FROM AFARWright, of Grove, Oklahoma, retired in 2009 as a first sergeant after 24 years of service, and began working as a contractor advising Afghan special forces, he said.He met Afzali, who was working for the contracting company, in 2017. When he switched jobs in 2019, she went to work as an interpreter, but in a different location."Our relationship grows by text, email, Facebook," he said.They flew in April to Dubai to wed, but a judge in Utah had to marry them in an online ceremony. The United Arab Emirates, Wright said, would not give them the paperwork "because I am a Christian and she is a Muslim."Their marriage certificate is signed by Utah's lieutenant governor, he said. "It was really cool."But their wedding did not clear away one bureaucratic roadblock: Afzali could not apply for a U.S. spousal visa because she already had an SIV application in process since 2018, he said.Wright left Afghanistan in May hoping Afzali's visa would be approved. But then came the Taliban's rapid takeover and the bedlam of tens of thousands of people clamoring for flights out of Kabul."Over these last two weeks, I couldn't go to sleep," Wright recalled of his first efforts to evacuate his wife. "A lot of my nights were spent talking back and forth to the (U.S.) military, to the Afghan military liaison."Sogge was connected last Monday to Wright by a U.S. service member who saw one of her Instagram posts offering to help extricate people.She worked the phones and ad hoc evacuation networks, emailed pictures of Afzali's documents and what she would be wearing to contacts inside the airport and tracked the situation outside through her networks in near-real time.She urged Wright to contact Congress members, and then last Tuesday told him to tell his wife to head for the airport. He and Sogge maintained contact with her by phone and text.Afzali and the interpreter set out around 8 p.m. It took them some 16 hours in sweltering heat to reach a gate, Afzali flogged by Taliban fighters' canes.U.S. soldiers told the pair to go to a different gate."She suffered some injuries from some of the beatings. There was pushing and shoving by the crowd. I told her not to give up," Wright said.She reached a second gate. But U.S. troops again refused to allow her through because Afzali's visa was not yet approved.Sogge urged Afzali by text to persist as she advised Wright how Afzali should address the soldiers."I basically coached him," she said. "What to tell her to say at the gate, and to emphasize that she was the lawful spouse of a service member and an American citizen and she had her marriage certificate. I was like, 'That probably needs to be up front,' and that she's a pending SIV case."She told Wright to tell his wife to "be polite, be persistent."That is when Wright urged Afzali to hand her phone to the American soldier.Once the pair was safely inside, Sogge arranged for Afzali and the interpreter to board a flight. At that point, Wright said, her destination was unknown."She called me this morning," he said on Friday. "She's in Germany."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-phone-call-how-a-us-veteran-managed-to-get-his-visa-less-wife-out-of-afghanistan-101630221209898.html
29-08-2021||World||UAE says to resume visas for tourists vaccinated against Covid-19||The United Arab Emirates announced it will resume issuing visas to all tourists fully vaccinated against Covid from Monday, a month before Dubai hosts the delayed Expo 2020 trade fair.The move comes amid a drop in coronavirus infections in the oil-rich Gulf country, after it reported less than 1,000 cases per day last week for the first time in months.The UAE's decision to reopen its doors to tourists from all countries was taken in order "to achieve sustainable recovery and economic growth", the official WAM news agency reported on Saturday.Those eligible would have to be fully inoculated with one of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization, which include AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer/BioNTech, Sinopharm and Sinovac."The decision applies to citizens of all countries, including those arriving from previously banned countries," WAM said."Passengers arriving on tourist visas must take a mandatory PCR test at the airport," it added.The UAE is made up of seven emirates including the capital Abu Dhabi and Dubai.While life in the country has largely returned to normal amid the Covid pandemic, it continues to enforce strict rules on wearing masks and social distancing.Dubai was last year counting on the six-month Dubai Expo 2020 -- delayed a year by the health crisis and now set to open in October -- to attract millions of visitors and boost the economy.Heavily reliant on tourism, the emirate was one of the first destinations to open its doors to travellers, accepting tourists in July last year, just a few months after the pandemic took hold.Abu Dhabi, meanwhile, has been more cautious, opening up to some visitors only in December.The UAE as so far recorded more than 715,000 cases of Covid-19 infection, including 2,036 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-says-to-resume-visas-for-tourists-vaccinated-against-covid19-101630220620243.html
29-08-2021||World||Canada polls: For the first time, Trudeau’s party trails in surveys||Two weeks into a national election campaign for the September 20 snap polls, Canada’s ruling Liberal Party is for the first time trailing its principal opposition Conservative Party, led by its PM candidate Erin O’Toole, in voter preference, according to a number of surveys.Incumbent Prime Minister Justin Trudeau precipitated snap elections on August 15 in an attempt to convert his minority government into a majority, but as things stand, the Liberals may actually capture fewer seats in the new parliament than they did in 2019.Poll trackers put the momentum with the Conservatives, showing a narrow advantage for them now, after trailing the Liberals for months. The outlet CBC News’ stated, “For the first time in nearly 18 months, the Conservatives have moved ahead in voting intentions. The Liberals are still favoured to win most seats, but have been trending down as the Conservatives rise.”At 32.5% support, the Conservatives have the slightest of leads over the Liberals, who are at 32.2%. That status is confirmed by the tracker from the election analysis outlet 338 Canada, which puts the Conservatives at 32.8%, again just 0.3% ahead of the Liberals. 338 Canada’s founder Philippe J Fournier tweeted on Friday that “this election is now officially a toss-up”.Other polls give the Conservatives a bigger margin. In tracking data released on Saturday, the agency Nanos Research, in a poll for the outlets CTV News and Globe and Mail stated that “ballot support for the Conservatives sits at 33.3%, while the Liberals are at 30.8% support”.“What was a tie early this week, it looks like the Conservatives are now gaining the upper hand and there is definitely negative pressure on the Liberals right now,” Nik Nanos, founder of the agency, told CTV News.Trudeau and his party have three weeks to regain ground, and fulfil his ambition of garnering the 170 seats necessary for a majority in the House of Commons. But, as of now, 338 Canada projects the ruling party may capture just 141, pipping the Conservatives by only five seats. This emerging reality was echoed by the CBC News tracker: “The Liberals are still favoured to win most seats but their chances of winning a majority government have fallen sharply since the beginning of the campaign and they are now poised to win fewer seats than in 2019.” The Liberals captured 157 seats in the last Federal elections.Several factors are playing into Trudeau’s dwindling popularity. One of them is the negative impression that his administration seems to have given in its much criticised handling of the evacuation efforts in Afghanistan.Apart from that, many voters are unhappy over the snap election call in the midst of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. As Darrell Bricker, CEO of the polling firm Ipsos Public Affairs, tweeted, “A pundit trope that needs to be put out to pasture is that voters quickly get over the reason an election is called and engage with the campaign. Ipsos polling shows that the percentage who think we shouldn’t be having an election now has increased over the last two weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-polls-for-the-first-time-trudeau-s-party-trails-in-surveys-101630213359256.html
29-08-2021||World||US warns of ‘specific’ threat, Biden says attack ‘highly likely’||The US state department has told Americans still in Afghanistan to immediately leave the area around the Kabul airport citing a “specific, credible threat” just after President Joe Biden said his military commanders had warned that an attack was “highly likely” to take place in the next 36 hours.These specific warnings and alerts came just days before the United States is scheduled to wrap up its evacuation process and the complete pullout of its troops.“Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport (Hamid Karzai International Airport), including the South (Airport Circle) gate, the new Ministry of the Interior, and the gate near the Panjshir Petrol station on the northwest side of the airport, should leave the airport area immediately,” the US embassy in Kabul, said in a security alert, on Saturday. The state department estimates there are at least 500 Americans still left in Afghanistan who want to be evacuated.The US embassy in Kabul has been working out of the airport and, The Washington Post has reported, President Biden is planning to withdraw the ambassador and the diplomatic staff by Tuesday despite a desire expressed by the Taliban for the US to retain its diplomatic mission. A final decision on the future presence of the US has not been taken yet though.Earlier on Saturday, President Biden had also warned of an imminent attack. “Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours,” he said in a statement. “I directed them to take every possible measure to prioritise force protection, and ensured that they have all the authorities, resources and plans to protect our men and women on the ground.”“The situation on the ground continues to be extremely dangerous, and the threat of terrorist attacks on the airport remains high,” Biden added.The US had issued similar warnings ahead of the Kabul airport bombing last Thursday that killed more than 170 Afghans and 13 American troops. Islamic State of Iraq and Syria-Khorasan (ISIS-K), an affiliate of the Islamic State, had claimed responsibility for the attack.On the orders of Biden, who has vowed to “hunt down” the perpetrators of the Kabul attack, the US military killed two ISIS-K “planners and facilitators” in a drone strike in Nangarhar, a province of Afghanistan bordering Pakistan. One operative was injured. They had not been identified.“I said we would go after the group responsible for the attack on our troops and innocent civilians in Kabul, and we have,” Biden said in the same statement as the likelihood of another attack in 36 hours. “This strike was not the last. We will continue to hunt down any person involved in that heinous attack and make them pay.”The American president also said he was determined to continue the evacuation process “despite the treacherous situation in Kabul”.The US flew out another 6,800 people on Friday, he said, including hundreds of Americans. “And today,” he added, “we discussed the ongoing preparations to help people continue to leave Afghanistan after our military departs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-warns-of-specific-threat-biden-says-attack-highly-likely-101630211798957.html
29-08-2021||World||US enters 'final phase' of Kabul evacuation, about 1,000 civilians await flight||US forces are in the final phase of their evacuation from Kabul and just over 1,000 civilians inside the airport remain to be flown out before troops are withdrawn, a Western security official in the Afghan capital said on Sunday.The official, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters a date and time for the end of the operation was yet to be decided. US President Joe Biden has said he will stick by his Tuesday deadline to withdraw all troops from Afghanistan."We want to ensure that every foreign civilian and those who are at risk are evacuated today. Forces will start flying out once this process is over," said the official, who is stationed at Kabul airport.The Western-backed government and Afghan army melted away as the hardline Islamist militants entered the capital two weeks ago, leaving an administrative vacuum that has bolstered fears of a financial collapse and widespread hunger.A US official told Reuters on Saturday there were fewer than 4,000 troops left at the airport, down from 5,800 at the peak of the evacuation mission. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby told reporters some troops had been withdrawn but declined to say how many service members remained.A Taliban official told Reuters on Sunday the Islamist group was prepared to take charge of the airport."We are waiting for the final nod from the Americans to secure full control over Kabul airport as both sides aim for a swift handover," the official said on condition of anonymity.The Taliban's engineers and technicians were ready to take control, the Taliban official added.The Western security official said crowds at the airport gates had diminished after a specific warning from the US government of another attack by militants after a suicide bombing outside the airport on Thursday.That explosion caused a bloodbath outside the gates of the airport, where thousands of Afghans had gathered to try to get a flight out since the Taliban returned to power on Aug. 15.The United States said on Friday it killed two militants belonging to the Islamic State - enemies of both the West and Afghanistan's new Taliban rulers - which had claimed responsibility for the attack.After Thursday's blast that killed scores of Afghans and 13 American troops, the most lethal incident for US service members in Afghanistan in a decade, Biden vowed to hunt down the perpetrators. He said Friday's strike was not the last.The Taliban condemned the late-night U.S. drone strike, which took place in Nangarhar province, an eastern area that borders Pakistan."The Americans should have informed us before conducting the airstrike. It was a clear attack on Afghan territory," a Taliban spokesman told Reuters, adding that two women and a child were wounded in the attack.The Taliban have said they have arrested some suspects involved in the airport blast.'Taking over'Spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Saturday the Taliban would take over the airport "very soon" after US forces withdraw and announce a full cabinet in the coming days.Mujahid told Reuters the group had appointed governors and police chiefs in all but one of Afghanistan's 34 provinces and would act to solve the country's economic problems.The US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 overthrew the then-ruling Taliban as punishment for harbouring the al Qaeda militants behind the Sept. 11 attacks that year.The Taliban, facing the loss of billions of dollars of aid for the country, appealed to the United States and other Western nations to maintain diplomatic relations after their withdrawal. Britain said that should happen only if the Taliban allow safe passage for those who want to leave and respect human rights.The White House said the next few days were likely to be the most dangerous of the evacuation operation. The United States and allies have taken about 113,500 people out of Afghanistan in the past two weeks, it said.U.S. military and allied countries' flights carried fewer people on Saturday as Washington prepared to end its mission.The last British flight evacuating civilians from Afghanistan left Kabul on Saturday. British troops would take small numbers of Afghan citizens with them as they leave this weekend, a defense ministry spokesperson said. Armed forces chief Nick Carter said hundreds of people who had worked with Britain would not make it through.While Kabul's airport has been in chaos, the rest of the city has been generally calm. The Taliban have told residents to hand over government equipment including weapons and vehicles within a week, the group's spokesman said.The airport attack added fuel to criticism Biden faced at home and abroad for the chaos after Afghanistan's government and military collapsed before a lightning Taliban advance. He has defended his decisions, saying the United States long ago achieved its rationale for invading in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-enters-final-phase-of-kabul-evacuation-about-1-000-civilians-await-flight-101630208912777.html
29-08-2021||World||US evacuates about 2,000 people from Kabul in the last 24 hours||The US has evacuated approximately 2,000 people from the Kabul airport in the last 24 hours, the White House has said, as the countdown for the end of America's longest military mission begins in Afghanistan.Since August 14, the US has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 113,500 people. Since the end of July, it has re-located approximately 119,000 people, it said.“From August 28 at 3:00 AM EDT to August 28 at 3:00 PM EDT, a total of approximately 2,000 people were evacuated from Kabul. This is the result of 11 U.S. military flights (11 C-17s), which carried approximately 1,400 evacuees, and 7 coalition flights, which carried 600 people,” the White House said on Saturday.“This is an incredible number of people who are now safer thanks to the heroism of the young men and women who are putting their lives on the line each day to evacuate American and vulnerable Afghans out of Kabul," Major General Hank Taylor Commander, Army Operational Test Command told reporters at the Pentagon.“We continue to evacuate American citizens and vulnerable Afghans out of Kabul. In fact, there are approximately 1,400 individuals at the Kabul airport who have been screened and manifested for flights today,” he said.On Friday, 32 U.S. military aircraft, 27 C-17s and five C-130s departed with approximately 4,000 personnel. Combined with 34 coalition aircraft and departures, an additional 2,800 personnel left Kabul for various intermediate staging bases. Sixty-six flights left out of Kabul on Friday in that 24-hour period with 6,800 evacuees.“Today, I can report an updated total evacuation that is more than 117,000. The vast majority of which are Afghans. Of this total number, approximately 5,400 are American citizens,” he said.As the military mission begins to end in Kabul, thousands of service members are working across the globe and within the United States to complete this incredibly important mission, Taylor said.Out of the EUCOM AOR, six flights will transport about 2,000 Afghans to the United States. Since August 20 the EUCOM AOR has received nearly 30,000 vulnerable Afghans and evacuees, he said.The US, according to a State Department spokesperson, have continued to provide assistance to any American in Afghanistan who would like to leave the country. That effort has included around-the-clock outreach consisting of tens of thousands of calls, emails, texts, and WhatsApp messages conducted multiple times a day to contact individuals who gave them their information.“We have received confirmation that at least 5,400 Americans and likely more have been safely evacuated from Afghanistan since August 14. This includes nearly 300 Americans in the last day,” the spokesperson said.At present, approximately 350 Americans have told the US that they are still seeking to leave the country.“These roughly 350 individuals are currently the only Americans we can confirm are in Afghanistan and seeking to leave. Our team on the ground has this information and continues to provide assistance around the clock. We believe that some of these people are nearly or already out of the country,” the spokesperson said.Additionally, the officials have actively communicated with roughly 280 additional individuals who self-identified as Americans in Afghanistan but who have not informed them of their plans to leave the country, or who have told that they do not intend to leave at all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-evacuates-about-2-000-people-from-kabul-in-the-last-24-hours-101630208092400.html
29-08-2021||World||Sydney breaks another record amid struggle to suppress Delta||Sydney had a record number of Covid-19 infections, accounting for the bulk of cases in New South Wales as Australia’s most populous state battles to contain the spread of the highly infectious delta variant. The state saw a record 1,218 daily infections in the 24 hours to 8 p.m. local time on Saturday, NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters Sunday in Sydney. Six more people died.Infections in the most populous state have risen -- topping 1,000 for the first time last week -- despite a ramped up vaccination drive and a lockdown in Sydney since the end of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sydney-breaks-another-record-amid-struggle-to-suppress-delta-101630201038372.html
29-08-2021||World||US warns of 'specific, credible threat' near Kabul airport||The United States warned Saturday of a "specific, credible threat" near Kabul airport and urged its citizens to leave the area, days after a deadly attack on crowds fleeing Taliban rule in Afghanistan.A series of urgent terror warnings have rattled evacuation efforts overseen by US forces, who have been forced into closer security cooperation with the Taliban to prevent a repeat of Thursday's carnage at one of the facility's main access gates."Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport... should leave the airport area immediately," the US Embassy in Kabul said in a security alert.In its alert, the embassy noted the threat to "the South (Airport Circle) gate, the new Ministry of the Interior, and the gate near the Panjshir Petrol station on the northwest side of the airport."Earlier Saturday US President Joe Biden warned that his military commanders believed a fresh attack could come "in the next 24-36 hours", calling the situation "extremely dangerous".Scores of Afghan civilians and 13 American troops were killed Thursday in the bombing claimed by the regional Islamic State-Khorasan group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-warns-of-specific-credible-threat-near-kabul-airport-101630200276328.html
29-08-2021||World||With foreign troops all but gone, here's what Taliban said about 'new cabinet' in Afghanistan||Most countries, except the United States, have said that they have completed their evacuation mission in Afghanistan by now, while the US, too, is expected to take the last of its troops out of the Kabul airport by Wednesday morning. The Taliban, in the absence of foreign troops in the war-torn country, has now said that they are preparing a new cabinet to govern the land that has been marred by conflict for decades. Although the exact timing of the formation of the new cabinet remains unclear, there have been conflicting reports on an announcement that the Taliban is looking to make in this regard, soon.Also Read | Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effortThe Reuters news agency originally quoted Zabuhullah Mujahid, the main spokesperson for the Taliban, as saying the announcement would be made in the coming week, but he later "clarified", in a voice message, that the group is looking to confirm the makeup of the new cabinet "in one or two weeks". On Saturday, Mujahid once again informed Reuters that the new cabinet was in the works and the relevant announcement would be made soon. The Taliban have, by now, appointed governors and police chiefs in all but one of Afghanistan's 34 provinces, he said.It is still unclear what this new iteration of the caliphate will look like, but experts are skeptical about the Taliban's commitment to avoid a repeat of their 1990s rule when Afghanistan declined into a pariah state, the economy was in shambles, and repression was at an all-time high as discontent spread across the nation. Even Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar has admitted that the group did not anticipate seizing control of the country so soon, and political watchers say that the militants are yet to decide upon the exact terms regarding who would rule, and how."...they have to announce a government when the Americans leave but it’s really taking a long time and has potential to spin out of control," a report by The Guardian quoted Ashley Johnson, the co-director of the centre for the study armed groups at the Overseas Development Institute in London, as saying.Also Read | Taliban return but war isn’t over. Know the groups vying to take control of AfghanistanThe Taliban have brushed past inquiries regarding whether any women would be included in the new cabinet. When Reuters posed this question to the group, its spokesperson Mujahid said that this would be a matter for the leadership to decide and he could not anticipate what their decision would be.Moreover, there is the question of getting the economy back on track as well. Shattered by four decades of war, the country's financial system now also faces the loss of billions of dollars in foreign aid. The currency is plummeting while food prices are on the rise, leading to extreme economic hardship and mounting frustration in Kabul. Banks and financial institutions in the Afghan capital are still reported to be shuttered, even more than two weeks since the city fell to the Taliban.On Saturday, a statement from the Taliban said that banks were ordered to reopen with a weekly limit on withdrawals of $200 or 20,000 afghanis. Mujahid also said officials had already been appointed to run key institutions including the ministries of public health and education and the central bank. "The fall of Afghani against foreign currency is temporary," he insisted, adding that it will return to normal once the new government system starts functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-foreign-troops-all-but-gone-here-s-what-taliban-said-about-new-cabinet-in-afghanistan-101630197867096.html
29-08-2021||World||Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effort||The last of the British troops in Afghanistan have now been evacuated out of the Kabul airport, ending the United Kingdom's two-decade-long military campaign in the war-torn country. Boris Johnson, the country's prime minister, praised the "heroic" evacuation efforts, even as his government acknowledged with regret that not everyone in need of repatriation could be brought back from Afghanistan.Also Read | Heavy losses to Taliban in Kapisa as Afghan resistance counterattacksJohnson, in a heartfelt letter to the British troops, paid a tribute to the "heroic efforts" of all those involved in the evacuation operations, nicknamed 'Operation Pitting' and thanked the armed forces for ensuring that the mission is successfully carried out. The UK prime minister told the troops that they "should feel immense pride" for what they have done to bring closure to Britain's 20-year Afghan campaign. However, he also said that this is the time to reflect on all the 'sacrifices' that were made in the process. "The departure of the last British soldiers from the country is a moment to reflect on everything we have sacrificed and everything we have achieved in the last two decades," Johnson said in an official statement as the final UK flight carrying troops and diplomatic personnel left the Kabul airport late on Saturday, hours after the final evacuation flight for civilians left.Most countries, except the United States, have said that they have completed their evacuation mission in Afghanistan. The British ministry of defence, according to a report by the Guardian, said that about 14,000 people were airlifted out of Kabul airport in less than two weeks. It was "time to close this phase of the operation now", said Britain's ambassador to Afghanistan Laurie Bristow shortly before departing, adding a note for the people who could not be rescued from the war-torn country where Taliban insurgents had seized control in a matter of months.“But we haven't forgotten the people who still need to leave,” Bristow said in a video posted on Twitter. “We'll continue to do everything we can to help them. Nor have we forgotten the brave, decent people of Afghanistan. They deserve to live in peace and security.”Also Read | 'Attack on Afghan territory': Taliban on US airstrike that killed 2 ISIS-K menJohnson, in his statement, also said that the United Kingdom's "goals for the country" have not changed, even if the nature of engagement in Afghanistan has. "We will now use all the diplomatic and humanitarian tools at our disposal to preserve the gains of the last 20 years and give the Afghan people the future they deserve," he added.According to the Associated Press, as many as 1,100 Afghans who were entitled to come to the UK were left behind in the war-torn country at the mercy of the Taliban. Some British lawmakers who have been trying to help stranded constituents and their families believe the true total is higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/last-uk-troops-leave-kabul-boris-johnson-hails-heroic-evacuation-effort-101630196076647.html
29-08-2021||World||US warns of 'specific, credible threat' as Biden says new attack likely at Kabul airport in 24-36 hours||United States president Joe Biden on Saturday (local time) warned that a new terror attack was likely at the Kabul airport in Afghanistan in less than two days, as he put the timeframe for the predicted attack to "the next 24 to 36 hours". The statement from Biden comes in the wake of a drone strike that the US conducted in the war-torn country earlier in the day, claiming to take out a 'planner' of the Islamic State in Khorasan (ISIS-K) terror group in retaliation of the suicide bombing attack at the Hamid Karzai International Airport days ago which killed at least 169 Afghan civilians and 13 US service members.Also Read | Heavy losses to Taliban in Kapisa as Afghan resistance counterattacksThe US embassy in Kabul also issued a new warning on Sunday about a "specific, credible threat" near the Kabul airport and asked Americans to "immediately" leave areas outside the airport gates."Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport (HKIA), including the South (Airport Circle) gate, the new Ministry of the Interior, and the gate near the Panjshir Petrol station on the northwest side of the airport should leave the airport area immediately," the embassy said in its security alert.Biden, issuing a press statement at the White House late on Saturday, said: "The situation on the ground continues to be extremely dangerous, and the threat of terrorist attacks on the airport remains high. Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours."Notably, multiple ISIS-K gunmen and a suicide bomber had laid deadly havoc on the Kabul airport earlier this week on Thursday. Among the fallen US service members were 10 members of the Marine Corps, many of who were barely in their 20s. On Saturday, less than 48 hours after the attack, the United States hit back at the Islamic State, which had claimed responsibility for the airport bombing. In a retaliatory airstrike, the drone strikes by the US military targeted a 'planner' of the IS outfit who, according to Pentagon's initial reports, was killed in the Nangahar province of Afghanistan without effecting any civilian casualties in the process.Also Read | 14 Keralites with ISKP, blast outside Turkmenistan mission in Kabul foiledJoe Biden, the president of the United States, said that he had met with his national security team in Washington and commanders in the field on Saturday and discussed the airstrike that the US forces conducted on Friday night (local time) against the terrorist group ISIS-K in Afghanistan. "I said we would go after the group responsible for the attack on our troops and innocent civilians in Kabul, and we have," Biden's statement read.Biden further warned that this was hardly the last strike that the United States was planning against the terror outfit and said that the retaliation will continue. "This strike is not the last," he said. "We will continue to hunt down any person involved in that heinous attack and make them pay. Whenever anyone seeks to harm the United States or attack our troops, we will respond. That will never be in doubt."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-another-attack-at-kabul-airport-highly-likely-in-next-24-to-36-hours-101630194293906.html
29-08-2021||World||US strikes IS planners after Kabul airport attack||Acting on President Joe Biden’s promise to retaliate for the deadly suicide bombing at Kabul airport, the United States conducted a drone strike against an Islamic State target in Afghanistan on Saturday, as the airlift of those desperate to flee moved into its fraught final stages with fresh terror attack warnings.US forces overseeing the evacuation have been forced into closer security cooperation with the Taliban to prevent any repeat of the suicide bombing that killed scores of civilians crowded around one of the airport’s main access gates and 13 American troops.The attack was claimed by a regional Islamic State chapter, called the Islamic State-Khorasan, and the Pentagon announced that two members of the jihadist group were killed in the drone strike in eastern Afghanistan.“It was a single mission to get these targets and as the assessments and information flowed over time, we were able to recognise that another was killed as well and one wounded,” Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said at a Defense Department briefing on Saturday.“They were ISIS-K planners and facilitators and that’s enough reason there alone. I won’t speak to the details of these individuals and what their specific roles might be,” Kirby said. He added: “We have the ability and the means to carry over the horizon counterterrorism capabilities and we’re going to defend ourselves.’’He declined to identify those killed but said the United States knew who they were. US Central Command said it believed its strike killed no civilians.The airstrike came after Biden declared on Thursday that perpetrators of the attack would not be able to hide. “We will hunt you down and make you pay.”The US President authorised the drone strike and it was ordered by defence secretary Lloyd Austin, an official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The airstrike was launched from beyond Afghanistan and the Central Command said it was conducted in Nangarhar province.The speed with which the US military retaliated reflected its close monitoring of IS and years of experience in targeting extremists in remote parts of the world. But it also shows the limits of US power to eliminate extremist threats, which some believe will have more freedom of movement in Afghanistan now that the Taliban is in power.Spokesmen for the Taliban, which took over Afghanistan as US forces withdrew, did not comment on the drone strike. The Taliban, hardline Islamist militants, are enemies of Islamic State and have said they have arrested some suspects involved in Thursday’s airport blast.Later on Saturday, Pentagon said US troops have begun their withdrawal from Kabul airport as the evacuation efforts from the Afghan capital entered their final stages.With the airlift window narrowing sharply ahead of an August 31 deadline, thousands remained inside Kabul airport awaiting evacuation on Saturday.Gone are the crowds of thousands around the airport’s perimeter, hoping to be let through and allowed onto a plane. Now, the Taliban have sealed off roads leading to the airport and are only letting sanctioned buses pass.“We have lists from the Americans... if your name is on the list, you can come through,” one Taliban official told AFP near the civilian passenger terminal.The carnage of Thursday’s suicide attack injected further stress and tension into a situation already fraught with panic and despair for those wanting to leave and high risk for the US forces tasked with securing the operation.Based on a preliminary assessment, US officials believe the suicide vest used in the attack, which killed at least 169 Afghans in addition to the 13 Americans, carried about 25 pounds of explosives and was loaded with shrapnel. A suicide bomb typically carries five to 10 pounds of explosives, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss preliminary assessments of the bombing.The bombing followed a chorus of warnings about an imminent threat and, as people gathered outside the airport on Saturday, the US issued a fresh alert for its citizens to leave areas around the main gates “immediately”.At the White House, President Joe Biden’s press secretary Jen Psaki said US national security experts consider another attack is “likely” and the next few days will be “the most dangerous period to date”.Taliban spokesperson Bilal Karimi tweeted that the group’s fighters had already moved into parts of the military side of Kabul airport, but the Pentagon stressed that US forces retained control over the gates and airlift operations.Racing to meet the Tuesday withdrawal deadline has required close cooperation with the Taliban on evacuee movements and the IS threat. The head of US forces at Hamid Karzai International, Rear Admiral Peter Vasely, is in constant contact with the Taliban official overseeing security around the airport.Biden still faces the problem over the longer term of containing an array of potential extremist threats based in Afghanistan, which will be harder with fewer US intelligence assets and no military presence in the nation.Emily Harding, a former CIA analyst and deputy staff director for the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she doubted Biden’s assurances that the US will be able to monitor and strike terror threats from beyond Afghanistan’s borders. The Pentagon also insists this so-called “over the horizon” capability, which includes surveillance and strike aircraft based in the Persian Gulf area, will be effective.Under enormous criticism at home and abroad for his handling of the Afghan crisis and the US military withdrawal, Biden has pledged to stick to the airlift deadline and punish those responsible for the suicide blast.About 109,000 people have been flown out of the country since August 14, the day before the Taliban swept to power, according to the US government on Saturday.Many Western allies have announced an end to their airlifts, with some admitting that at-risk Afghans eligible for evacuation had been left behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-strikes-is-planners-after-kabul-airport-attack-101630192550490.html
29-08-2021||World||China hindering Covid origins inquiry: Biden||President Joe Biden rebuked China for stonewalling a US investigation into the origins of the coronavirus, as his administration reported it was unable to reach firm conclusions because of Beijing’s unwillingness to cooperate. China denied that it had hindered the probe.“To this day, the PRC (the People’s Republic of China) continues to reject calls for transparency and withhold information, even as the toll of this pandemic continues to rise,” Biden said in a statement. “We must have a full and transparent accounting of this global tragedy. Nothing less is acceptable.”US intelligence has ruled out that the coronavirus was developed as a weapon, and most agencies assess with “low confidence” it was not genetically engineered.But the community remains divided on the pathogen’s origins, with four agencies and the national intelligence council judging in favour of natural exposure to an animal as the likely explanation, and one agency favouring the lab leak theory. Analysts at three agencies were unable to reach a conclusion.“All agencies assess that two hypotheses are plausible: natural exposure to an infected animal and a laboratory-associated incident,” the office of the director of national intelligence said in a short two-page summary of their findings.The intelligence community and global scientists lack clinical samples or epidemiological data from the earliest Covid-19 cases, it added.Biden said the US would continue to work with allies to press Beijing to share more information and cooperate with the World Health Organization.China’s embassy in Washington on Friday accused the US intelligence community of “political manipulation”.“The report by the US intelligence community shows that the US is bent on going down the wrong path of political manipulation,” the embassy said.Delta variant doubles risk of hospitalisationPeople who contract the Delta variant of Covid-19 are more than twice as likely to be hospitalised as those infected with the Alpha strain, according to a UK study, raising the prospect of a greater burden on health services this winter.The review of more than 43,000 Covid-19 cases in England, most of whom were unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, was published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal on Friday. It highlighted the protection shots provide against hospitalisation from both variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hindering-covid-origins-inquiry-biden-101630182312382.html
29-08-2021||World||Troops to leave as UK ends rescue mission||Britain’s defence ministry said on Saturday that the final flight for Afghan citizens had left Kabul and further flights over the weekend will bring home British troops and diplomats, though they may also carry a few remaining UK or Afghan civilians.Britain’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Laurie Bristow, said from Kabul airport that it was “time to close this phase of the operation now”.“But we haven’t forgotten the people who still need to leave,” Bristow said on Twitter. “We’ll continue to do everything we can to help them. Nor have we forgotten the brave, decent people of Afghanistan. They deserve to live in peace and security.”Britain says it has evacuated more than 14,500 people from Kabul in the past two weeks but that as many as 1,100 Afghans who were entitled to come to the UK have been left behind.Separately, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and German Chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the situation in Afghanistan on Saturday and agreed on the need for international aid and a common approach by the G7 to the future government of Afghanistan.“The Prime Minister stressed that any recognition and engagement with the Taliban must be conditional on them allowing safe passage for those who want to leave the country and respecting human rights,” the British statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/troops-to-leave-as-uk-ends-rescue-mission-101630181482884.html
29-08-2021||World||Afghanistan evacuations enter final phase||Taliban forces sealed off Kabul’s airport on Saturday to most Afghans hoping for evacuation and most Nato nations flew out their troops after two decades in Afghanistan, winding down a frantic airlift that Western leaders acknowledged was still leaving many of their citizens and local allies behind.The US troops have began their withdrawal from Kabul airport, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby confirmed on Saturday, and was also keeping up airlifts ahead of President Joe Biden’s Tuesday deadline for withdrawal.Taliban forces were holding some positions within the airport, ready to peacefully take control as American forces fly out, spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. The Pentagon stressed on Friday that the Taliban, who now run Afghanistan, were not in control of any operations at the airport.Outside the airport, Taliban leaders deployed extra forces Saturday to prevent large crowds from gathering after a devastating suicide attack two days earlier. New layers of checkpoints sprang up on roads leading to the airport, some manned by uniformed Taliban fighters with Humvees and night-vision goggles captured from Afghan security forces.Areas where large crowds had gathered over the past two weeks in the hopes of fleeing the country were largely empty.A suicide attack on Thursday by an Islamic State group affiliate killed 169 Afghans and 13 US service members, and there were concerns that the group could strike again.An Afghan who worked as a translator for the US military said he was with a group of people with permission to leave who tried to reach the airport late on Friday. After passing through three checkpoints they were stopped at a fourth. An argument ensued, and the Taliban said they had been told by the Americans to only let US passport-holders through.“I am so hopeless for my future,” the man told The Associated Press after returning to Kabul, speaking on condition of anonymity because of security concerns. “If the evacuation is over, what will happen to us?”The Pentagon said on Friday that Afghans with the proper documents still were being allowed in.On Saturday, the Taliban fired warning shots and deployed some kind of coloured smoke on a road leading to the airport, sending dozens of people scattering, according to a video circulating online that was consistent with AP reporting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-evacuations-enter-final-phase-101630181243578.html
29-08-2021||World||US believes new Kabul airport attack 'highly likely' soon: Biden||US military commanders believe that another terror attack like the deadly suicide bombing at Kabul airport is "highly likely in the next 24-36 hours," President Joe Biden warned Saturday.After a briefing from his national security team, Biden said in a statement that a US drone strike targeting the Islamic State-Khorasan group, which claimed responsibility for Thursday's carnage at the airport, was "not the last.""The situation on the ground continues to be extremely dangerous, and the threat of terrorist attacks on the airport remains high. Our commanders informed me that an attack is highly likely in the next 24-36 hours," Biden said.Scores of Afghan civilians were killed in the Kabul bombing Thursday, along with 13 US troops -- several of them born around the time US military operations in Afghanistan began 20 years ago.Also Read | Two high-profile ISIS-K targets killed in US strike, claims PentagonThe Pentagon said Saturday it had killed two "high profile" targets -- logistics experts for the jihadist group -- and wounded another in a drone strike in eastern Afghanistan in retaliation for the suicide bombing.No civilians were hurt in the attack, Major General Hank Taylor told a news conference in Washington."The fact that two of these individuals are no longer walking on the face of the Earth, that's a good thing," Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said.US troops have been scrambling in dangerous and chaotic conditions to complete a massive evacuation operation from the Kabul airport by an August 31 deadline.Biden has pledged to stick to the agreed cut-off and had vowed to punish those responsible for the suicide blast. He said Saturday that the drone attack would not be the last."We will continue to hunt down any person involved in that heinous attack and make them pay," he said. "Whenever anyone seeks to harm the United States or attack our troops, we will respond. That will never be in doubt."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-believes-new-kabul-airport-attack-highly-likely-soon-biden-101630180596647.html
29-08-2021||World||China protests passage of US warships||The Chinese defence ministry on Saturday protested against the passage of two US warships through the Taiwan Strait, saying it had closely monitored them and is maintaining a state of high alert.The passage comes amid a spike in military tensions in the past two years between Taiwan and China, and follows Chinese “assault drills” held near Taiwan last week for which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deployed battle ships and fighter jets.“The Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer USS Kidd (DDG 100) and legend-class US Coast Guard National Security Cutter Munro (WMSL 755) conducted routine Taiwan Strait transits August 27 (local time) through international waters in accordance with international law,” Lt Mark Langford, 7th Fleet spokesperson said late on Friday.“The ships’ lawful transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. The United States military flies, sails, and operates anywhere international law allows,” the statement added.The Chinese defence minister reacted angrily against the US move on Saturday morning.A statement posted on the ministry’s website on Saturday called the move provocative. It added that the passage of the ships showed that the United States is the biggest threat to peace and stability and creator of security risks in the 160km wide Taiwan Strait.Pentagon holds talks with Chinese militaryA senior Pentagon official held talks with the Chinese military for the first time since President Joe Biden took office in January, a US official told Reuters on Friday.Michael Chase, deputy assistant secretary of defence for China, spoke last week with Chinese Major Gen Huang Xueping, deputy director for the People’s Liberation Army Office for International Military Cooperation. “(They) utilised the US-PRC Defence Telephone Link to conduct a secure video conference,” the US official said.“Both sides agreed on the importance of maintaining open channels of communication between the two militaries,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tension-in-taiwan-strait-after-china-protests-passage-of-us-warships-101630148974828.html
29-08-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI meets affected families, files 7 more cases||Kolkata: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday recorded the complaints of several families in five districts of West Bengal while carrying out probe into post-poll violence and registered seven more cases, said officials aware of the development. With this, the agency has registered 28 cases so far.On Sunday, the CBI officers visited South 24 Parganas, East Burdwan, Howrah and Birbhum districts in south Bengal, and Cooch Behar in north Bengal. The Calcutta high court had on August 19 ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder and crime against women – rape and attempt to rape – that were reported after the assembly poll results were announced on May 2.In Cooch Behar, the probe agency recorded the statement of Trinamool Congress (TMC) worker Shahinur Rehman’s family. Rehman was kidnapped and murdered, allegedly by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters, on May 5 and his body was found in a corn field. In South 24 Parganas, a CBI team headed by joint director Anurag Singh visited the home of BJP worker Raju Samanta who was allegedly lynched at Ramnagar on May 29. The CBI team met the family of Nirmal Mondal who was killed on May 3. Mondal, a driver by profession, was lynched inside his home, said an officer who did not want to be named. Mondal was a TMC worker but joined the BJP before the March-April polls. His wife left the house after the killing. In Birbhum, the CBI spoke to the family of Manoj Jaiswal, a construction material trader who was killed in the Nalhati area on May 14. He joined the BJP a month before the polls. “Jaiswal was murdered by TMC workers,” said Dhruba Saha, the BJP’s Birbhum unit president.Neither the TMC nor the state government have so far made any statement on the CBI probe. In Howrah district, CBI officers recorded the statement of Debalina Ghosh,wife of BJP worker, Suvadip Ghosh, whose left eye was permanently damaged in an assault on May 2. “I told the CBI that TMC workers attacked me when they could not find my husband, Suvadip Ghosh, inside the house. I hope justice will be delivered,” said Ghosh .The CBI team also visited Rajiv Palli in Howrah’s Domjor , where several houses were ransacked. In East Burdwan, the officers spoke to Anil Khetrapal, the husband of CPI(M) worker Kakali Khetrapal who was hacked to death on May 3 at Jamalpur. “TMC workers attacked me and my wife because our son Ashish had joined the BJP,” said Khetrapal. The central agency which began the probe on Monday made its first arrest in connection with the post-poll violence on Saturday. Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a BJP worker Dharma Mondol on May 14, the officials confirmed.. The accused were produced in court on Sunday and remanded in police custody. Each of the four CBI teams - which comprise deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states – is being headed by a joint director. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is providing security to the visiting teams. On June 18, the Calcutta high court asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe the incidents of post-poll violence. After studying the NHRC’s final report filed on July 13, the high court last week ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence.The NHRC recommended a CBI probe and said the court cases should be heard outside Bengal. The state government told the court that the NHRC report was biased and prepared with a political motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-post-poll-violence-cbi-meets-affected-families-files-7-more-cases-101630261675633.html
29-08-2021||India||Rajasthan runs out of funds to pay for coal, four thermal power units shut down||Four thermal power units in Rajasthan are shut and the rest have 3-4 days of stock left of coal as the Rajasthan Vidhyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (power generation firm) has run out of money to pay for coal. Two thermal units of Kalisindh (Jhalawar) of 600x2 MW, 250MW of Giral (Barmer) and 1500MW of Suratgarh Thermal Power Station in Sriganganagar are shut for the last 10 days. One unit of Kalisindh was expected to start on Sunday. A department official on condition of anonymity said most of the power plants of the state have coal for 2-4 days. With dues of coal firms pending, the supply was stopped resulting in the shutting down of some thermal plants. Rajasthan has six thermal units in district Suratgarh with 2160 MW capacity, Kota (1240MW), Chhabra (1320MW), Kalisindh (1200MW), Giral 250MW (Barmer), 270.50MW plant in Jaisalmer. As of August 1, 2021, Rajasthan has to clear an outstanding of ₹409 crore to Parsa Kanta Collieries Limited (PKCL), ₹68 crore is to be cleared to Northern Coalfields Limited, ₹325 crore is released; and ₹444.6 crore is pending to South Eastern Coalfields, ₹530 crore is released, said the official. The state government needs to clear a pending amount of over ₹900 crore to coal companies. Facing a crisis, the CM has released ₹900 crore, and is sanctioning another ₹1000 crore to clear the dues. With the thermal units shutting down, the discoms are also buying power from the power exchange to meet the need. “Due to a weak monsoon, which resulted in high temperatures, the demand for electricity has increased from 20 crore units per day to 30 crore units per day,” he said. Energy Minister, BD Kalla said the coal shortage issue will be resolved in a week. “Under the agreement, Coal India was supposed to give four and a half rakes but instead sent three. We have urged them to meet the gap by sending nine racks (one rake contains 4000 tonne).” He added that efforts are made to provide coal through rail and road transport to meet the requirement in coming 7 days. Kalla said Union minister Prahlad Joshi had assured that the shortage will be met. The shortage is due to the coal mines flooding with water – the water is being pumped out and soon supply will start. Former CM Vasundhara Raje targeted the government over the power crisis saying that it is due to mismanagement. In a statement, Raje said due to the mismanagement of the government, there are unannounced power cuts in the state. Not only in the villages, people are also troubled in the cities too due to power cuts. The biggest Suratgarh Super Thermal Power Plant has come to a standstill. Apart from this, many power houses are shut and many are on the verge of closure. She said the state government was not paying for coal, hence the supply had been stopped, which has affected power generation. During her government, the payment was on time, and hence there was no shortage of coal, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-runs-out-of-funds-to-pay-for-coal-four-thermal-power-units-shut-down-101630261002614.html
29-08-2021||India||SC issues SOPs for resumption of physical hearing from Wednesday||The Supreme Court issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for resuming physical hearing only for the final hearing of cases beginning September 1 for three days in a week, 17 months after the courts shut down in March 2020 and took up cases through a videoconferencing due to Covid-19 pandemic. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed in this regard was made public on Sunday by the Supreme Court. The circular issued by Supreme Court Secretary-General on Friday said, “With a view to gradually facilitate resumption of physical hearing, the final hearing/regular matters listed on non-miscellaneous days may be heard in the physical mode (with hybrid option), as may be decided by the Hon’ble Bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the Court rooms. Further, any other matter may be heard in physical mode on such days, if Hon’ble Bench directs likewise.”The option of physical hearing is being provided only for final hearing or regular matters on non-miscellaneous days (Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday) while the matters listed on miscellaneous days (Mondays and Fridays) will strictly be through the videoconferencing app Vidyo.In keeping with the Covid-19 protocol, the lawyers who intend to appear for physical hearing have to intimate the Registry of the Supreme Court in advance. “Wearing of mask, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms are mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the Courtrooms,” the SOP said.Entry to lawyers/litigants will be through Special Entry passes issued by the Court after thermal check and other scanning devices to check infection status.The physical hearing, at present, has been restricted to 20 persons at a given time and in the event, there are more than 20 persons opting for physical hearing in a case, the same shall invariably be listed for hearing through videoconferencing mode. The discretion of taking up the matter through physical or offline mode has been left to the choice of the lawyer and discretion of the bench hearing the matter, the circular specified.The SOP stated, “Once hearing through physical mode is opted by the advocate-on-record/litigant appearing in person, hearing through video/tele-conferencing mode to the party concerned will not be facilitated.”With the vaccination of lawyers progressing at a steady pace and both Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA), the two main associations of lawyers practising at the Supreme Court coming forward with demands to resume physical hearing of cases, the Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana agreed to consider the issue and held discussions with the two bar associations this month.SCBA has not taken a formal decision yet on the SOP. An SCBA official confirmed that the association is yet to examine the SOP. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-sops-for-resumption-of-physical-hearing-from-wednesday-101630260942748.html
29-08-2021||India||Chautala promises action against officer for telling cops to ‘break’ farmers heads||Haryana Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday disapproved of the remarks of a duty magistrate who asked police to “break” farmers’ heads during their protest in Karnal and promised action against him.A 2018-batch IAS officer, deputed as duty magistrate during the farmers’ protest in Karnal, was caught on camera asking police to “break farmers’ heads”.Deputy CM-cum-JJP leader Chautala promised the action against the magistrate amid mounting opposition’s attack against the M L Khattar government over the Saturday lathicharge on farmers and their demand of strict action against the magistrate.“The 2018-batch IAS officer’s video has gone viral. Using such a language by an IAS officer is condemnable,” said Chautala.“I think during their training, officers are taught how to face such situations and how to maintain balance in their actions. But what he said clearly does not meet the ethical standards which are expected from such officers,” said Chautala, censuring the officer’s remark.“Definitely, whatever action is deemed fit, the government will take it,” he said.The deputy chief minister, however, also condemned the farmers’ violence, including stone-pelting at police, during their protest in Karnal. “Do you support the kind of action which was seen from the other side?”Referring to the Karnal incident, he said he was “saddened by the events” but questioned the ultimate motive of farmer leaders. “I am saddened by the events, but I want to ask through the media where are those 40 leaders. After all, what is their ultimate motive?” he asked.He also questioned why Haryana has been made the epicentre of protests.Chautala asserted that there was “no insecurity or fear among farmers” over the farm laws but “some farm leaders and middlemen are fuelling the agitation using their shoulder”.“They want to weaken Haryana’s agrarian economy, they want to break its system. They want to put Haryana under turmoil. Why this movement is not going to Punjab, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh, why are the people of Haryana being provoked?” he asked.“Their aim is to destabilise the Haryana economy,” Chautala said.He said “new mandis are being built in Haryana, crops are being procured at Minimum Support Price, what, after all, is the issue left here?”The JJP leader said the Centre is even open to amendments in farm laws, but despite that, the unions are not coming forward for talks. “Unless the talks are held, no solution can be found,” Chautala said.He also insinuated that the farmers’ agitation in Haryana will last till the Punjab polls.“It will become clear in five months if this prolonged agitation is not because of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chautala-promises-action-against-officer-for-telling-cops-to-break-farmers-heads-101630260881870.html
29-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya rolls out Gujarat facility’s first Covaxin batch||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday rolled out the first commercial batch of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, manufactured at a facility in Gujarat’s Ankleshwar, paving the way to augment the supply of the indigenously developed vaccine against Covid-19.The Chiron Behring Vaccines plant, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharat Biotech at Ankleshwar, has a production capacity of at least 10 million doses per month and its doses will be out for use from next month onwards. According to the Centre’s recent statement in Parliament, the production of Covaxin is projected to increase from the current 25 million doses per month to at least 58 million doses around the last quarter of this year.“Vaccination is crucial to strengthen India’s fight against Covid-19. Today, I released the first commercial batch of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech’s manufacturing plant situated in Ankleshwar, Gujarat,” Mandaviya said in a Twitter post in Hindi.On Sunday, Bharat Biotech said that it was looking at the annual production target of one billion doses in all its facilities put together.“A new filing facility constructed during 2020 is now being utilized for the production of Covaxin. The Covaxin production had begun in early June, before which the team had executed engineering batches to study the equipment functionality at the facility. Chiron Behring Vaccines is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharat Biotech,” said Bharat Biotech in a statement.Bharat Biotech has already deployed multiple production lines at its Hyderabad, Malur, Bengaluru, and Pune campuses, and the addition of Chiron Behring, Ankleshwar will further augment the production capacity of Covaxin.“We want to ensure that Bharat Biotech can ably meet the demand for Covaxin such that individuals across the country, and the globe, have access to the vaccine and can secure their health and safety. Our goal to develop a vaccine with global safety and efficacy standards has now been achieved, we are now marching towards the goal of the annualized capacity of ~ 1.0 billion doses,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech.According to Bharat Biotech, each batch of Covaxin undergoes over 200 quality control tests before being submitted to the Central Drugs Laboratory for final testing.The company is also exploring manufacturing partnerships in other countries, with its partners who have prior expertise with commercial-scale manufacturing of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment for further augmentation.Bharat Biotech co-developed Covaxin along with the Indian Council of Medical Research. It is one of the six vaccines being used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme, the others being Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Russian-made Sputnik V, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D, and the American vaccines— Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).Till Sunday night, India has administered nearly 850,298 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, with 341,139,477 people vaccinated with one dose and 144,889, 225 people having received both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-rolls-out-gujarat-facility-s-first-covaxin-batch-101630260711402.html
29-08-2021||India||Isro tests propulsion system of Gaganyaan||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Saturday successfully conducted the first hot test to check the propulsion system of Gaganyaan’s service module – the service module located below the crew module in which the astronauts will travel constitutes the spacecraft. The two modules remain connected till the re-entry into earth’s atmosphere. As per previous descriptions by Isro chairperson Dr K Sivan, the whole configuration – crew module and service module -- is turned in the opposite direction during re-entry and the thrust of the engine is used to reduce the velocity. The propulsion system demonstration model was fired for 450 seconds at the Isro Propulsion Complex in Mahendergiri, Tamil Nadu. The performance met the pre-test predictions. “A series of hot tests are planned to simulate various mission conditions as well as off-nominal conditions,” the space agency said in a statement. The service module propulsion system consists of five main 440 N engines and sixteen 100 N thrusters to create a reaction control system (engines capable of giving small amounts of thrust to adjust the direction of a spacecraft). The system demonstration model used for the test, however, had five 440 N engines and eight 100 N thrusters to qualify the propulsion system on ground. Isro in July conducted the final hot test of its L110 liquid engine to be used in the GSLV-MK III launch vehicle that will carry the Gaganyaan mission to space. This, experts said, was a pretty big milestone signalling that two of the three stages of the rocket was ready for launch, with testing of the upper cryogenic stage remaining. Ajay Lele, senior fellow working on space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said, “ISRO is currently testing various modules of the mission, however, we need two clean tests of the complete system before we send astronauts to space. And, that is going to take probably another two years.” He added, with the mission missing the deadline of the 75th Independence Day due to the pandemic, the mission has lost steam. “ISRO will also need to launch two satellites for communication before the final mission. Also, the recent failure of the GSLV is definitely a problem (although the launch vehicle is different from the GSLV Mk III to be used in Gaganyaan mission). There is a need to evaluate what went wrong and ensure it doesn’t happen in this mission,” said Lele.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-tests-propulsion-system-of-gaganyaan-101630260701660.html
29-08-2021||India||JD-U national council reiterates demand for caste census, says law not enough for population control||The national council meeting of the JD-U on Sunday endorsed all the decisions taken at the party’s national executive meeting held in New Delhi on July 31, when Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh was made the party president.JD-U general secretary KC Tyagi later said while talking to the media that Lalan Singh was now formally made the national president of the party. The council also passed a resolution that the party chief would head the party’s parliamentary board in keeping with the party’s Constitution.“It has also been decided that the party will contest the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Manipur. The party would like honourable seat-sharing in UP and other states. In 2017, the party did not contest despite a demand and that affected our expansion. The council also reiterated its demand for caste census, for which Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had led an all-party delegation to the PM earlier this month,” he added, emphasising that JD-U had remained the most reliable partner of the BJP.The council also passed a resolution demanding that the Rohini Commission recommendations be made public. In 2017, the Centre had set up Justice Rohini Commission, which favoured sub-categorisation of reservation for other backward castes (OBCs) in the government sector by splitting 27% quota into different categories of OBC for equitable distribution of benefits among different sub-castes. After several extensions, it could submit its report, dividing 2633 OBC sub-castes in the central list into four sub-categories with 2%, 6%, 9% and 10% quota to add up to 27%. However, its report has not yet come out.The council, while favouring the need for population control, reiterated Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s stand that the objective of could be best achieved by creating awareness and boosting education among girls, as Bihar had experienced over the last one and half decades. Kumar also presented facts as to how the total fertility rate (TFR) had come down from over four to three and it could reach two with the expansion of girls’ education and self-reliance due to a range of initiatives for them.“Merely making a law will not serve the purpose. It requires overall approach as it requires a change in mind-set, which can come only through education and empowerment,” he added.In his address, Kumar also batted for caste census and its importance to frame policies and programmes for those left out. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that he was also part of the delegation to the PM and there has been no opposition to the demand for caste census from any quarter, which speaks about its need.The council discussed a range of issues, including organisational strengthening, upcoming election in Uttar Pradesh and other states and party’s expansion plans in its quest for national status.The council also tried to dispel speculations about the internal rift in the party by presenting a united front. Lalan Singh was effusive in his praise of Union minister RCP Singh, from whom he took charge as party’s national chief, in the presence of Nitish Kumar and all the senior party leaders. RCP Singh said that Lalan Singh was an old associate and the party would grow further under his leadership.During discussion, Nitish Kumar’s potential for being a PM candidate also surfaced, though it was stated that he was not a candidate for the post, but had all the qualities.RCP Singh said that there was no substitute to Kumar and his work spoke for him not only as the reformist Bihar CM, but also as a capable union minister in important ministries like Railways and agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdu-national-council-reiterates-demand-for-caste-census-says-law-not-enough-for-population-control-101630259621161.html
29-08-2021||India||Supreme Court issues SOP for physical hearing of cases from Sept 1||The Supreme Court will be resuming physical hearing of cases on three days in a week beginning September 1; nearly 17 months after the Courts shut down in March 2020 and took up cases through a videoconferencing platform. This facility is optional and can be availed by lawyers/litigants in addition to the choice of online hearing already existing.The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed in this regard was released by the Supreme Court on Sunday. The circular released by Supreme Court Secretary-General said, “With a view to gradually facilitate resumption of physical hearing, the final hearing/regular matters listed on non-miscellaneous days may be heard in the physical mode (with hybrid option), as may be decided by the Hon’ble Bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the Court rooms. Further, any other matter may be heard in physical mode on such days, if Hon’ble Bench directs likewise.”The option of physical hearing is being provided only for final hearing or regular matters on non-miscellaneous days (Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday) while the matters listed on miscellaneous days (Mondays and Fridays) will strictly be through the videoconferencing app Vidyo.It was on March 6 this year; the top court issued a circular introducing hybrid hearing as a pilot scheme to introduce physical hearing of regular cases or old matters on an experimental basis. Later, the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) took objection to the SOP issued by the Court then and complained of lack of adequate consultation. The pilot scheme was even challenged by the SCBA before the top court where the judges tried ironing out the differences but failed. With the onset of the second wave of the pandemic, the circular was put to rest.Now with the vaccination of lawyers progressing at a steady pace and both SCBA and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA), the two main associations of lawyers practicing at the Supreme Court coming forward with demands to resume physical hearing of cases, the Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana agreed to consider the issue and held discussions with the two bar associations this month.The physical hearing, at present, has been restricted to 20 persons at a given time and in the event, in a case, there are more than 20 persons opting for physical hearing, the same shall invariably be listed for hearing through videoconferencing mode. The discretion of taking up the matter through physical or offline mode has been left to the choice of the lawyer and discretion of the bench hearing the matter, the circular specified.In keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, the lawyers who intend to appear for physical hearing have to intimate the Registry of the Supreme Court in advance and follow all safeguards of wearing masks, frequent use of hand sanitizers, and maintain physical distancing once they enter the high security zone of the Supreme Court. Entry to lawyers/litigants will be through Special Entry passes issued by the Court after thermal check and other scanning devices to check infection status.The SOP stated, “Once hearing through physical mode is opted by the advocate-on-record/litigant appearing in person, hearing through video/tele-conferencing mode to the party concerned will not be facilitated.”In August last year, a committee of seven senior most judges of the Supreme Court had deliberated on the issue of resuming physical courts and had recommended to start limited physical hearing of cases. The Committee held wide-ranging consultations with the lawyer bodies who consented for such an arrangement. Following this, the Supreme Court installed glass partitions for judges and placed multiple sets of chairs spaced at a distance to facilitate physical appearance of lawyers. However, when the Court approached lawyers for consent, only a handful agreed following which the plan was dropped. It was only revived in March this year with the issuance of the hybrid hearing notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-sop-for-physical-hearing-of-cases-from-sept-1-101630257041789.html
29-08-2021||India||Himachal administers first dose of Covid vaccine to 100% of its population||Himachal Pradesh became the first state in the country to administer the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus to cent per cent of its population, said health minister Rajiv Saizal on Sunday. The health department is looking at completing the second of dose of vaccine for all its residents by November end.“The state's performance in vaccinations has been very good. We will administer the second dose to 100 per cent population by November 30,” Saizal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appreciated the efforts of the Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh for Covid-19 management and also in the field of vaccination, the state has been doing well right from the beginning," he said.He said the state would organise a special virtual event where Prime Minister Narendra Modi would interact with beneficiaries and health care workers of the state government."According to the 2011 census, 47,00,681 people of the 18-plus age group have been vaccinated. According to the state’s projection, the same age group is 5,37,70,820, but 54,43,113 people have been vaccinated with the first dose," he added.The minister said those found to have been left out of the inoculation drive would be given the dose soon, adding 13 lakh people had been vaccinated in the state.The hill state reported 123 news cases of the virus and one related death on Sunday. At present, there are 1,750 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-administers-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-to-100-of-its-population-101630253831064.html
29-08-2021||India||Kerala Covid crisis: Over 190,000 cases in a week; expert meet on Sept 1||Kerala on Sunday reported 29,836 new Covid-19 cases and 75 related fatalities as the state’s total confirmed cases reached 4,007,408 while the death toll touched 20,541, a bulletin from the state government showed.The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded at 19.67 per cent. At present, the active caseload stood at 2,12,566, an increase of 7,670 cases from the 2,04,896 reported on Saturday. According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Kerala contributed to more than half of the national tally of active cases. Also, cumulative recoveries reached 37,73,754 after 22,088 people recovered in the last 24 hours.Also read | The southern factor in India’s Covid numbersOver 190,000 cases, 1,000 deaths in a weekIn the week ending Sunday, more than 190,000 cases and over 1,000 deaths were reported from the state. Also, the Covid-19 caseload crossed the four-million mark and the death toll went past 20,000.More than 30,000 daily infections were reported on four days in the week and it remained above 24,000 cases on six days. On Monday, 13,383 new cases were logged, which was the least single-day count this week.Worst-affected districtsKozhikode and Malappuram with 31,591 and 30,839 active cases, respectively, remained the worst hit districts by the pandemic, followed by Ernakulam (27,131 active cases) and Thrissur (16,335 active cases). The state capital of Thiruvananthapuram has 13,408 active cases at the moment.What went wrong?Experts have pointed at relaxations ahead of Onam celebrations for the latest surge in the state. The Pinarayi Vijayan-led government had relaxed the Sunday lockdown in the previous week.Health minister Veena George recently said the violation of home quarantine norms also contributed to the spike. She said 35 per cent people in the state were infected with the disease from home, citing a recent study by the health department.VaccinationOn the vaccination front, at least 71 per cent of the eligible population has been inoculated with at least one dose of the vaccine, the health minister said. In previous meetings between the state and the central governments, the Centre had assured of help with adequate vaccine supplies.Crucial assessment meetingWhile the government has imposed a night curfew and a weekend lockdown to contain a further spread of the disease, a meeting of experts has been convened on September 1 to formulate the strategy forward, Vijayan said.Further, the state will have a new Covid-19 testing strategy, George said on Sunday. “More people will be screened to know the exact extent of the spread of the disease in the community. The COVID spread will be assessed in all the districts based on sentinel and random samples. All the districts would take random samples to find out any new clusters of COVID outbreaks,” news agency ANI quoted her as saying.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-crisis-over-190-000-cases-in-a-week-expert-meet-on-sept-1-101630253004350.html
29-08-2021||India||PM Modi lauds Sukhet Model to check pollution in Madhubani villages||An initiative called ‘Sukhet Model” adopted by Dr Rajendra Prasad Agriculture University, Madhubani and local agricultural research centres to check pollution in villages was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Maan Ki Baat address on Sunday. The PM said the initiative was giving an impetus to the Swatch Bharat campaign and also providing benefits to farmers. In his address, Modi talked about the major highlights of the Sukhet Model stating how cow dung and waste from houses of villagers are collected and in return the villagers are given money for gas cylinders. He said the waste collected from the villages is used to manufacture Vermi compost, which is made available to farmers. The PM said the model had a four-fold benefit like pollution free environment in villages, disposal of waste in villages, monetary assistance to villagers for gas cylinders and availability of organic fertilisers to farmers. “Just think how such initiatives can increase the strength of our villages. This is the subject of Atma Nirbharta. I will urge all panchayats to think about doing something like this,” the PM said. The Sukhet Model was launched by the agricultural department as part of the climate resilient agricultural programme in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-sukhet-model-to-check-pollution-in-madhubani-villages-101630253680923.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid uproar over MP tribal man's brutal assault, Chouhan vows exemplary action||In the wake of an uproar over the killing of a tribal man in Neemuch by locals over suspicions of theft, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said investigation would be conducted in such a way that people would think several times before committing a similar act. The chief minister further said the perpetrators of the crime would be dealt with strictly.“We'll conduct such probes that people will think several times before repeating these acts,” Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.शर्मनाक धटना है। मैं शुरू से कहता रहा हूँ। हिंसा को बढ़ावा देने का यही परिणाम होता है। मध्यप्रदेश को भारत की अपराधों की राजधानी बना दिया है। https://t.co/lCvoebwilLVideos of the 40-year-old tribal man, Kanhaiyalal Bheel, being beaten up and dragged after being tied to a vehicle by a group of people led by a man, identified as Chhitar Mal Gurjar, on Neemuch-Singoli road, has created an uproar in the state and political circles. Bheel died a day later at the hospital while undergoing treatment, police said. In the clipping, Bheel could be seen begging for forgiveness while being assaulted and dragged by the vehicle.According to reports, Gurjar's motorcycle had knocked down Bheel and the former was angry that his milk stock had fallen on the road on impact.Police said homes of four accused were demolished during the day, besides arrest of five of the eight men charged with murder under provisions of the IPC and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Superintendent of Police Suraj Kumar Verma said the illegal homes of Chhitar Mal Gurjar, Mahendra Gurjar and two others have been demolished, and the dossiers of all the accused were being prepared to ensure they got the strictest punishment. He said efforts were on to nab the three accused at large, adding that the case would be tried in a fast-track court to ensure speedy justice.Sharing a tweet of the video, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said giving to violence resulted in such shameful acts, adding Madhya Pradesh was becoming the crime capital of the country.Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati said the victim was killed over a trivial issue and sought action against those involved in mob lynching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-uproar-over-mp-tribal-man-s-brutal-assault-chouhan-vows-exemplary-action-101630251695103.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnal SP denies farmer died due to lathicharge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnal SP denies reports of farmer's death due to lathicharge at protestKarnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said had the reports been true, the farmer’s family members would have met them. Read more here.Tokyo Paralympics: Nishad Kumar wins silver medal in T47 high jump event, creates Asian RecordNishad came up with the best attempt of 2.06m to win the medal and also created the Asian record with his best jump in the final. Read more here.Varun Sood reacts as fan says he can never be ‘gentleman like Raqesh Bapat’, explains why he deleted tweet slamming himVarun Sood found himself being slammed by fans of Raqesh Bapat after he tweeted about him but later deleted it. Read more here. Covid-19: Supreme Court to resume hybrid model physical hearing from Sept 1According to an SOP, issued by the secretary general on August 28, courts would keep hearing miscellaneous cases through virtual mode on Mondays and Fridays. Read more here. Recipe: Delicious and super-healthy Corn Chaat to satiate your evening hunger pangsYou don't need to feel guilty about your evening hunger pangs anymore. Celebrity fitness trainer Yasmin Karachiwala has the perfect snack recipe for you. Read more here. Sports minister jumps rope: Anurag Thakur shows off skipping skills||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnal-sp-denies-farmer-died-due-to-lathicharge-101630249952176.html
29-08-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Afghanistan turmoil worsens; India gets closer to kids’ inoculation||Will the entire world’s diplomatic might be able to save Afghan lives or the country’s slide into Taliban-enforced authoritarianism? Not an easy question to answer, but this week we will get a glimpse into what India and the rest of the world could possibly do to prevent a complete breakdown of a fragile society.Afghanistan remains the primary foreign policy issue for India, with the focus on pulling out Indian nationals still in Kabul before the August 31 (Tuesday) deadline for the drawdown of US troops. To be sure, India has taken a cautious approach on the issue of any recognition of the new set-up in Kabul, especially at a time when there are indications that Russia and China are willing to work with the Taliban. On the other hand, the Taliban have been indicating that they want good relations with India, but these feelers are being seen in the context of the group’s efforts to gain legitimacy with the international community.Back in India, the focus continues to be Covid and the world’s second largest vaccination drive. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is likely to meet this week to discuss whether to allow Covid vaccination in children or not; and whether to prioritise children with comorbidities. The meeting is being conducted because the national drugs regulator (Drugs Controller General of India or DCGI) recently granted emergency use approval to Zydus Cadila’s anti Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D that has been tested in participants who were as young as 12 years.GDP estimates will be released on Tuesday, providing a window to what the economy has been going through. India’s GDP contracted by an unprecedented 24.4% in the April-June 2020 quarter, thanks largely to the 68-day national lockdown. This year, though, the story will be different. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has projected a 21.4% GDP growth for this quarter.In two of India’s largest, most important metros, the question that continues to be on everyone’s mind is, “What do we do about school and college education?” In Mumbai, the clamour for the first year junior college (Class XI) admissions is not likely to end anytime soon, and another merit list is expected this week. In Delhi, public and private schools will start reopening for classes 9 to 12 from September 1 after the government’s green signal last Friday. This is the first time they will reopen since March this year. Central and state universities are also expected to take a call on the phased reopening of campuses based on Delhi Disaster Management Authority orders. Delhi University’s Executive Council will hold a meeting on August 31 and pass the National Education Policy provisions implementing the four-year undergraduate programme course structure from the next academic year, along with allowing students to enter-exit the course at any point and use academic credits to switch between universities to finish their degree. The move is significant as it will change the undergraduate course structure. Registrations for undergraduate admissions for this academic session in DU will also close on August 31.In other states, the political activity will continue to remain red hot. In poll-bound Uttarakhand, the state government will organise camps from September 1 to provide 1 lakh self-employment opportunities to the youth of the state by providing them loans. In response to BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the Congress will start Parivartan Yatra from chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s home turf -- Khatima, in Kumaon -- from September 3. Char Dham priests and people also associated with shrines have warned of intensifying their agitation and resigning from the membership of BJP from September 1 if a decision on dissolution of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board is not taken by then. In West Bengal, Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee had been summoned by Enforcement Directorate for questioning in a multi-crore coal smuggling case on September 1. Meanwhile, the CBI will continue with its probe in post poll violence case. Two persons have alrady been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-afghanistan-turmoil-worsens-india-gets-closer-to-kids-inoculation-101630250024166.html
29-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 30, 2010 — UK sting reveals Pak pacers bowled no-balls for cash||London –Cricket was mired in a betting scandal once again on Sunday after a British tabloid carried out a sting that allegedly showed two of Pakistan’s finest fast bowlers deliberately bowling no-balls against English batsmen in return for cash. Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif, who have tormented the English team with their torrid pace and swing bowling through the summer, delivered three no-balls on Thursday and Friday at the precise moment when an alleged middle man said they would, News of the World reported. The newspaper paid Mazhar Majeed, the alleged Pakistani- origin middleman who has now been arrested, a sum of £150,000 (R 1.05 crore) in used notes and filmed him counting the money before making his accurate pre-dictions. The 35-year-old Surrey property developer is reported to have named seven Pakistani players as being involved in the betting scandal, including captain Salman Butt as the ring- leader and wicketkeeper Kamran Akmal. “I’m going to give you three no-balls to prove to you firstly that this is what’s happening.They’ve all been organised, okay? “ he told reporters posing as front men for a Far Eastern gambling syndicate on Wednesday. Over the next two days, Asif and Amir delivered the no-balls exactly as predicted, the other- wise-flawless quickies over- stepping by such huge margins that commentators were surprised. “I have been doing it with them, the team, for about two and a half years. And we’ve made masses and masses of money, “Majeed said before taking the reporters out for dinner with Butt and teammates Umar Amin and Wahab Riaz. Among other revelations, Majeed declared he was in touch with a bookie in India. “I deal with an Indian party,“ he was quoted by the tabloid. “They pay me for information.“ On Saturday night, British police questioned several Pakistani players and the team manager at the hotel the team was staying in. The mobile phones of Asif, Amir and Butt were confiscated. Skipper Salman Butt, asked if he would resign, replied: “Why? We won a Test against England after 15 years.“ He later denied any wrong-doing. Former Indian wicketkeeper Farokh Engineer told HT he was “shocked, disgusted and disap- pointed“. “Young Amir had made such a terrific impression. Strict action has to be taken but, unfortunately, the ICC is a feeble and toothless body,“ he said. The ICC in a statement confirmed it had been informed by the London Metropolitan Police of the arrest of Majeed. “We are full assisting the enquiries,” it said. “No players or team officials have been arrested in relation to this incident.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-august-30-2010-uk-sting-reveals-pak-pacers-bowled-no-balls-for-cash-101630249600903.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid lockdown Kerala logs 29,836 new Covid-19 cases||As Kerala observed a complete lockdown on Sunday, the state reported another spike clocking 29,836 fresh Covid-19 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.67 per cent, the state health ministry said. The Covid-19 graph seems to be hitting another plateau with no sign of abating and the number of patients requiring ventilator support has risen from 883 to 915 and many hospitals have said there is a considerable hike in daily hospital admission. Total hospitalisation with moderate or severe Covid-19 symptoms crossed 31,000 on Sunday, on Saturday it was 29,523. The number of active cases also rose to 2,12, 566 on Sunday from 2,04,086. Kerala reported 75 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 20,541, statistics released by the health ministry show. At least four districts reported more than 3000 cases-- Thrissur 3965, Kozhikode 3548, Malappuram 3195 and Ernakulam 3178. With Covid-19 cases shooting up, the state government has arranged a meeting of experts on Wednesday and another meeting with local body heads next Friday. In the last five days the state has reported more 1.50 lakh new cases while in the last 24 hours the country reported 45,083 total cases with a TPR of 3%. The state’s daily contribution is more than 65 per cent to the total caseload of the country. Despite spiralling cases, CM Pinarayi Vijayan painted a rosy picture on Saturday citing a high vaccination rate (74 per cent got vaccinated) and low mortality rate, it is .5 against the national average of 1.34 per cent. The Centre had given a strong warning to Kerala to ramp up its containment measures and increase its tests. Despite wide criticism it is yet to increase its RT-PCR tests while neighbouring Tamil Nadu conducted 1,63,230 tests with Karnataka 1,49, 393 while Kerala’s share was 73,138 on Friday. Many health experts have asked the state to shed its soft corner for antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-kerala-logs-29-836-new-covid-19-cases-101630248100543.html
29-08-2021||India||Karnal SP denies reports of farmer's death due to lathicharge at protest||The Karnal Police on Sunday refuted reports that a farmer who participated in the protest on Saturday passed away due to injuries suffered during the agitation. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said had the reports been true, the farmer’s family members would have met them.“He did not visit any hospital. He went home in a stable condition and died in sleep. Some are saying he died due to a heart attack. Reports of him dying due to injuries received during force used by police (in Karnal) are false,” Punia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.If it were true, family members would have come to the police. We haven't received such information. These two incidents have no link: Ganga Ram Punia, SP, Karnal#Haryana“If it were true, family members would have come to the police. We have not received such information. These two incidents have no link,” the senior officer said.Also read | On Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha's video, Dushyant Chautala says use of such language by IAS officer 'condemnable'Earlier in the day, a functionary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said the farmer, named Sushil Kajal had been injured in baton charge by police on Saturday only to pass away hours later in a heart attack.Taking to Twitter, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni wrote, “Sushil Kajal, who owned one and a half acres of land, had been participating in the farmers’ agitation for the past nine months. He had suffered serious injuries in the police lathi charge at Karnal Toll Plaza yesterday and at night he succumbed to a heart attack… The farming community will always remember his sacrifice.”Also read | Karnal lathi charge: Opposition slams Khattar govtAbout 10 people were injured on Saturday after police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Besides Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other senior leaders of the party were present at the meeting.A major row has erupted over the issue with farmer groups, which have been leading the moths-long protest along the borders of Delhi and elsewhere against three central farm laws, and Opposition leaders hitting out at the administration over the handling of the situation. The state police drew severe criticism for the action and several roads and protests, by way of blocking highways, including toll plazas, continued on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-sp-denies-reports-of-farmer-s-death-due-to-lathicharge-at-protest-101630246865644.html
29-08-2021||India||Two alleged dacoits killed in police shootout in Assam’s Goalpara, 1 hurt||The police in Assam’s Goalpara district gunned down two alleged dacoits and injured another after a high-speed car chase on Saturday night, officials informed on Sunday. According to officials, the incident took place in Goalpara town around 10:30 pm during curfew hours imposed as part of Covid-19 restrictions. A search is on for two more persons who escaped. “Sometimes criminals think they can outgun, outrun and outsmart Assam Police. That happened at Goalpara yesterday. Goalpara police had to chase criminals across the area of four police stations, while being shot at. But, finally the police got the better of them,” Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta tweeted. “Two of the dacoits, Rafajuddin and Basit Ali, died in the shootout while one Rashidul Islam has been injured. All of them have prior cases of dacoity against them. One gun and the car they were travelling in have been recovered,” he added. Giving details of the incident, Additional Superintendent of Police Goalpara district Mrinal Deka said that the police got information that a few people involved in cases of highway robberies and dacoities were moving about in a car during curfew hours. “Our team managed to intercept them at Dudhnoi, but they fled. They took the route towards Goalpara town via Matia and Monoi. After the chase, our team stopped them at Goalpara,” he said. “They kept on shooting at our team and our personnel responded. While one dacoit died on the spot, the body of another was recovered on Sunday morning. The third person who sustained a bullet injury on his right hand is admitted at Goalpara civil hospital. Search is on for two others who fled,” Deka added. There has been a steady rise in police encounters in Assam since May this year after the BJP-led government started a zero-tolerance policy against drugs, cattle smuggling and other heinous crimes. With Saturday’s incident, the number of those killed in such encounters rose to 22. At least 34 others have been injured in other such incidents across the state. While opposition parties have accused the police of being ‘trigger-happy’, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who handles the home portfolio, has urged police not to shy away from firing back at criminals while remaining within the ambit of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-alleged-dacoits-killed-in-police-shootout-in-assam-s-goalpara-1-hurt-101630243180346.html
29-08-2021||India||Railways float tender for 58 new Vande Bharat trains, aims to deliver 102 trains by 2024||The Indian Railways has floated a tender for the production of 58 new Vande Bharat trains and aims to deliver 75 trains by August 23 next year, according to officials aware of the development.“With the tender for 44 Vande Bharat rakes earlier this year and the 58 new rakes we will have 102 Vande Bharat trains ready by 2024,” a ministry official said. HT has reviewed a copy of the tender.This comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day announcement of rolling out 75 new Vande Bharat Express trains that will be launched to connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”.These trains will be manufactured in Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, Modern Coach Factory, Rae Bareilly and Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. The closing date for the tender is on October 20, 2021. A pre-bid meeting will be held on September 21 with the cut-off date for submission of pre-bid queries on September 14, 2021.The tender floated on August 28, invited bids for the design, development, manufacture, integration and testing of traction propulsion electrics for the manufacture of 58 rakes of Vande Bharat trains.The Indian Railways in September last year floated a revised tender for procuring 44 semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains mandating 75% domestic components, making it a domestic tender.HT on August 20 reported that the next lot of Vande Bharat rakes with upgraded amenities as well as better seating, security, and surveillance systems along with features designed for emergencies is expected to be commercially available from June 2022 onwards.“The first prototype rake is tentatively planned to be dispatched in March 2022, which will be put to commercial service tentatively by June 2022,” a senior official said.Some of the new amenities/safety features planned to be added include four emergency windows for easy evacuation of passengers in case of an emergency; disaster lights in all coaches, to be used in the event of failure of all other lights in a disaster situation; more emergency push buttons (four per coach).The coaches will also have a centralized coach monitoring system for all electrical, climate control, and other vital functions of the train set. An important upgrade in the new coaches will be a “pushback arrangement” for better reclining of seats. In the first two rakes of the Vande Bharat trains, issues regarding the seating comfort level were raised.PM Modi flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-float-tender-for-58-new-vande-bharat-trains-aims-to-deliver-102-trains-by-2024-101630241740354.html
29-08-2021||India||Unitech promoter brothers shifted from Tihar to Mumbai jails||Former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra have been shifted from Delhi's Tihar Jail to Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail in Mumbai on Saturday, as per a Supreme Court order, Tihar Jail director-general Sandeep Goel said on Sunday."Sanjay and Ajay Chandra both were taken under police escort to Mumbai by train on Saturday morning. They reached Mumbai and were lodged in the jails there in the early hours of Sunday," Goel said, according to news agency PTI.This comes close on the heels of the Supreme Court taking cognisance of Enforcement Directorate (ED) report that former Unitech promoter brothers, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra, used the Tihar prison premises to run illegal activities, including influencing witnesses in an attempt to derail the investigation on money laundering charges against them.The ED had written to the Delhi Police commissioner earlier this month, seeking a probe into the alleged collusion of prison authorities with the Chandra brothers to use the jail premises to run illegal activities.The letter contains details of the manner in which the premises of Tihar Jail have been misused by the Chandras for engaging in illegal activities by flouting the jail manual, making transfers of assets and dissipating the proceeds of crime and influencing witnesses and attempting to derail the investigation.A bench of Supreme Court Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah last week ordered the Delhi Police commissioner to probe into the conduct of the Tihar prison authorities on the basis of the ED allegations, and submit a report within four weeks.The apex court asked the Chandra brothers to be separated and shifted to Arthur Road and Taloja Central jails in Mumbai.The former promoters were arrested in 2017 on charges of duping over 500 homebuyers in at least 74 Unitech projects.The former Unitech promoters have been found to be flouting the jail norms and using luxurious facilities and items prohibited inside prisons during multiple inspections.The ED had told the Supreme Court earlier this month that assets worth ₹600 crore belonging to the Unitech group have been attached so far during the probe into the ₹5,000 crore money laundering case. During an earlier probe the authorities found that the money realised from homebuyers were siphoned off.The report of a forensic audit conducted by Grant Thornton and submitted before Supreme Court in December 2019 show that Unitech collected ₹14,270 crore from 29,800 homebuyers, of which ₹13,364 crores was traced to the bank statements, according to Hindustan Times. The forensic report revealed that approximately ₹5,063.05 crore, or 40% of ₹13,364 crore, was not utilised by the promoters towards the construction and execution of the 74 projects homebuyers had paid for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unitech-brothers-supreme-court-tihar-arthur-road-taloja-central-jails-ed-report-101630236381345.html
29-08-2021||India||Former Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra’s wife returns to TMC after 7 years||Sikha Mitra, wife of former West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra on Sunday returned to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) after seven years. She used to be a TMC legislator while her husband was a Lok Sabha member of the party. The couple joined the TMC in 2009 and left in 2014. “I never really left the TMC. I had some differences with the leadership and stayed away from politics. I was touched when Mamata Banerjee called me up after my husband’s demise and wanted to meet me,” Mitra said at the TMC headquarters where senior women leaders of the party welcomed her. Somen Mitra died in July last year. Last month, his son, Rohan, resigned from the Pradesh Congress committee (PCC) holding state president Adhir Chowdhury responsible for the rout in the recent assembly polls in which the national party could not win a single seat. Rohan Mitra was a general secretary in the PCC but always had his differences with Chowdhury. “I never joined the Congress. Only Mamata Banerjee can work for the people. I will be happy to see her playing a leading role in national politics,” Sikha Mitra said on Sunday. Chowdhury, who was the PCC president before Somen Mitra held the post, became president for the second time after the latter died. “Your attitude towards me since the very beginning has been pathetic…” Rohan Mitra wrote to Chowdhury on July 14 and accused him of interfering in the state youth Congress elections in 2018 to stop Mitra from becoming the youth wing president. The young leader also accused Chowdhury of being surrounded by people who insulted him and his father. He also alleged that Chowdhury projected leaders who are partial towards the Bharatiya Janata Party. Reacting to Sikha Mitra’s return to the TMC, Chowdhury said, “She joined the ruling party in the past. This is her personal decision. What can I say? I have great regard for her husband.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-congress-president-somen-mitra-s-wife-returns-to-tmc-after-7-years-101630237420690.html
29-08-2021||India||Touching a child's cheeks with no sexual intent not assault, says Bombay HC||In a recent order, the Bombay high court has said that touching the cheeks of a child without any sexual intent can not be considered as 'sexual assault' under the Pocso Act. The court made this observation as it granted bail to a 46-year-old man, who was booked under various offences under Pocso. The accused runs a chicken centre and was accused of molesting a minor inside his meat shop. The incident took place in 2020 and the accused was arrested by Thane's Rabodi police. Since then, the accused was in jail.Reports said that a woman had seen the accused taking the girl to his shop and touched her cheek. He reportedly opened his shirt and was about to open his pant. The court order, however, says that the child's mother lodged the complaint and it was she who saw the shopkeeper touching the cheeks of her daughters. The court order does not mention anything else apart from touching the cheeks. Hearing the case, the bench of Justice Sandeep K Shinde said that primary evaluation of the material on record does not suggest that he allegedly touched the cheeks of the child with any sexual intent."Whoever with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus, or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus, or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault," section 7 of the Pocso Act reads, cited by the court in this case, reads. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/touching-a-child-s-cheeks-with-no-sexual-intent-not-assault-says-bombay-hc-101630236409694.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Supreme Court to resume hybrid model physical hearing from Sept 1||The Supreme Court will begin physically hearing some cases from September 1 and has issued a fresh standard operating procedure that would have to be followed besides strict observance of Covid appropriate norms. The apex court will employ a hybrid model of hearing cases physially from Tuesday to Thursday.The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since the coronavirus pandemic hit the country in March last year. Several bar associations and lawyers have been pleading with the court for resumption of physical hearing.“Wearing of mask, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms are mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the Courtrooms,” the SOP read.The procedures mandate that once litigants and the lawyers opt for hearing through physical mode, “hearing through video/tele-conferencing mode to the party concerned will not be facilitated”.The SOP has been issued on the directions of Chief Justice NV Ramana who took note of the recommendations of the Judges' Committee set up earlier to consider representations and requests from the bar bodies that hearing through the physical mode be started keeping in mind the financial and technical difficulties being faced by many lawyers.“With a view to gradually facilitate resumption of physical hearing, the final hearing/regular matters listed on non-miscellaneous days may be heard in the physical mode (with hybrid option), as may be decided by the Bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the Court rooms; further, any other matter may be heard in physical mode on such days, if Bench directs likewise.“All other matters, including those listed on miscellaneous days shall continue to be heard through video/teleconferencing mode,” it said.The bench, hearing cases through physical mode, may decide taking a break during the hearings for about 15 minutes, so that the courtroom may be sanitised, it said.If the number of advocates for parties are more than 20, the average working capacity of the courtrooms as per Covid-19 norms, the bench “at any given time” can resort to virtual mode of hearing, the SOP said.“In a matter listed for physical hearing..., one AOR (or his nominee), one arguing counsel and one junior counsel per party will be allowed entry; one registered Clerk per party, as may be chosen by the AOR, shall be allowed entry to carry paper books/journals etc...,” it said.Lawyers will have to register on the apex court's portal and submit their preferences for appearing before the bench within 24 hours of listing of the case for hearing, it said.“The entry of the counsels/parties into the HSZ (high security zone) to appear for physical hearing will be through daily 'Special hearing passes' which will be issued by the Registry, on the basis of authorization by the concerned Advocate-on-Record on the portal...,” it said.Multiple chair along with tables are being placed inside courtrooms and it shall be incumbent upon lawyers and litigants to maintain “minimum prescribed physical distancing norms”, it said, adding every entrant will have to undergo “thermal and such other scanning devices as may be installed for detecting body temperature, infection status, etc.”The entry of parties in a matter will be permitted not earlier than ten minutes prior to the start of hearing, it said.Earlier in March this year the apex court had commenced hybrid proceedings, a combination of virtual and physical hearing, amid demands by lawyers for resumption of complete physical hearings but the system could not take off due to the onset of the second wave of COVID pandemic.On August 18, the top court had indicated that physical hearing in the apex court, which is conducting proceedings virtually amid the COVID-19 pandemic since March last year, may resume soon.A bench headed by the CJI had then said that physical hearing in the apex court may start within 10 days.In July this year, the SCBA had written a letter to the CJI urging that physical hearing in the apex court be resumed saying the COVID-19 situation in the national capital has become “almost normal".(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-supreme-court-to-resume-hybrid-model-physical-hearing-from-sept-1-101630236125320.html
29-08-2021||India||President Kovind worships Ram Lalla in makeshift temple in Ayodhya||President Ram Nath Kovind who is currently on a tour of Ayodhya on Sunday said that the town is nothing without Lord Ram as he worshipped Ram Lalla in the makeshift temple. The President also inaugurated the Ramayan Conclave in Ayodhya where the temple is being constructed.“Without Ram, Ayodhya is not Ayodhya. Ayodhya exists where there is Ram. Lord Ram resides permanently in this city, and hence in the true sense, this place is Ayodhya,” the President said. President Kovind will visit the Ram Janmabhoomi construction site later in the day as well. Kovind said that Lord Ram acted as a unifying force and brought together Kols, Bheels, Vaanars and other tribes to form his ‘army’. He said that he forged friendships with tribals and during his time in exile he did not call the armies of Ayodhya and Mithila to fight the war.The President also released a postal cover of the Ramayana conclave. He said Ayodhya will remain relevant because it was believed to be an ‘unconquerable’ capital due to ‘courage and power of Raghuvanshi kings Raghu, Dileep, Aj, Dashrath and Ram’.President Ram Nath Kovind along with First Lady Savita Kovind and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Hanuman Garhi temple in Ayodhya as well.Deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, and Union minister of state for railways and textiles Darshana Vikram Jardosh also accompanied them.President Kovind’s tour of Uttar PradeshThe President embarked on his trip to Uttar Pradesh on August 26 with his visit to Lucknow where he addressed the passing out students during the convocation of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University. He unveiled a 20-foot-high statue of the former UP chief minister Dr Sampurnanand on August 27 in Lucknow’s Sainik School and also attended the concluding ceremony of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations of the Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey Uttar Pradesh Sainik School. On the same day, the President attended the convocation of the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI).He visited Gorakhpur on Saturday where he laid the foundation for the Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath AYUSH Vishwavidyalaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-reaches-ayodhya-worships-ram-lalla-in-makeshift-temple-101630235558582.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Decline in routine vaccination for children highest in India during Covid and all the latest news||Decline in routine vaccination for children during Covid times highest in IndiaWhile the world is focusing on expanding and scaling up Covid-19 vaccination, routine vaccination among children has seen a universal decline, according to a joint reporting mechanism developed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund or UNICEF. Read more‘He doesn’t have technique to succeed...’: Butt names India batter whose defensive mechanism ‘isn’t strong' for TestsIndia wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant isn’t having a great time in the ongoing tour of England.His struggle against the moving ball has been clearly visible in the last three games and former Pakistan captain Salman Butt believes that Pant needs to show some patience. Read moreIs Shraddha Kapoor tying the knot with Rohan Shrestha? Dad Shakti is worried about divorce rateActor Shakti Kapoor said, in no uncertain terms, that contrary to popular opinion, his daughter Shraddha Kapoor isn't about to tie the knot with photographer Rohan Shrestha. Or at the very least, the topic isn't being discussed. Read moreOn-demand mobile electric vehicle charging stations to be launched soonBattery storage and charger development company Ez4EV has announced that it will launch on-demand mobile electric vehicle charging stations called - ‘EzUrja’ - in the next three months. Read moreTrying to get pregnant? Know how to track your menstrual cycleIf you are planning a natural pregnancy then it is imperative to know about the right time to get intimate to maximize your chances of conceiving. Read moreBiden govt's convenient lie, calls Taliban & Haqqani Network 'separate' entitiesThe United States of America (USA) has claimed that the Haqqani network is a separate entity which operates independently from the Taliban. However, contrary to claims of the Biden administration, the Haqqanis and Taliban have always maintained that they are not separate from each other. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-decline-in-routine-vaccination-for-children-during-covid-19-highest-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101630235137395.html
29-08-2021||India||New office-bearers’ list triggers revolt in Kerala Congress||The faction-ridden Congress unit in Kerala plunged into a crisis on Sunday after the release of the list of district Congress committee (DCC) presidents. Two senior leaders were suspended from the party for airing their grievances in public, HT has learnt.Party state president K Sudhakaran MP suspended former MLA K Sivadasan Nair and PCC general secretary K P Anil Kumar for criticising the reshuffle in channel discussion. Both leaders alleged the action was taken against them without a show-cause notice or explanation. Former CM Oommen and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala also came out against the new list and questioned action against two leaders. But Sudhakaran and opposition leader VD Satheesan said all leaders were consulted before naming the DCC chiefs and group equations were not applied this time. He said the list was a mix of the youth and the experienced leaders.“Both Chandy and Chennithala were consulted and some of their recommendations were included. It is not fair for both to criticise the list now. The party is supreme not factions,” said Sudhakaran in Delhi. He even showed a diary in which he noted down names recommended by Chandy to buttress his claim. He said it was sad to hear such a claim from a senior leader like Chandy. “Our only intention is to reinvigorate the party in the state. It is an attempt towards this,” he said. Chandy, however, reiterated his claim. “Proper consultations were not held. And disciplinary action against two leaders was not in good taste,” he said. Party MP Benny Behnan and former minister KC Joseph also criticised the list and action against leaders. The simmering dissension in the party with the elevation of the new party president and opposition leader came out in the open with the release of the DCC list. The party was in the grip of two senior leaders - Chandy and Chennithala - for a long time and they decided everything. The latest move is an attempt to come out of group equations and an opportunity to instil fresh blood but some of the selected, including Wayanad president ND Appachan, are old, critics point out. Struggling with Punjab and Chattisgarh infighting, the party high command has expressed serious concern over the latest revolt in the state unit. In Pathanamthitta, black flags were hoisted at the DCC office against the elevation of new DCC president Satheesh Kochuparambhil. Strong protests surfaced in Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram also but the KPCC president said the ongoing protest was on small scale and will die down soon. But many political observers said the new list will trigger more fissures in the party. “Though it was stated a generational change, many veterans are back and the new list will create more fissures than solving any,” said political observer A Jayashankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-office-bearers-list-triggers-revolt-in-kerala-congress-101630235200430.html
29-08-2021||India||‘Challenge for us’, says defence minister Rajnath Singh on Taliban takeover in Afghanistan||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the situation in Afghanistan has emerged as a challenge for India, with the Taliban set to take charge after the complete drawdown of the US troops. Singh also said that the changes have led to the rethinking of strategy.“The changing equation in Afghanistan is a challenge for us. These situations have forced our country to rethink its strategy. We are changing our strategy and the formation of QUAD underlines this strategy,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying. The minister made the remarks while delivering his keynote address at the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington, Tamil Nadu. He also interacted with the officers of the armed forces there.Also read | Indian military to brain-storm over Taliban in AfghanistanFurther, Singh said that the ministry of defence is seriously considering the formation of Integrated Battle Groups. “These 'Integrated Battle Groups' will be new groups to fight against the enemies. Under this, extremely lethal, brigade-sized agile and self-reliant fighter formations will be made,” he said. “Quick decision-making is an important factor during wars. These groups will not only facilitate faster decision-making but also increase the number of integrated fighting units,” he added.Earlier on Saturday, Singh had made a similar comment, however, not in direct reference to the situation in Afghanistan. “Changes happening around the world often become a matter of concern for us,” he said, adding, “We, as a nation, must keep our guards high during these times of uncertainties and upheavals around the world,” without elaborating further.Meanwhile, the UK, one of the key allies of the US’ war in Afghanistan, has completed the evacuation of its troops from Afghanistan. Further, the US is also scheduled to completely withdraw its troops from the country by August 31 following its presence for over two decades. The Taliban had already taken control of some parts of the Kabul airports, according to news reports earlier on Saturday.Union minister of external affairs S Jaishankar on Saturday spoke with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken regarding the situation in Afghanistan. Also, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too had said that the country would stand by its citizens during times of crisis. So far, more than 550 people have been airlifted by India out of Kabul, according to the last update.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/challenge-for-us-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-on-taliban-takeover-in-afghanistan-101630232510978.html
29-08-2021||India||'Momentum' in sports must continue: Text of what Modi said on 80th Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on Sunday through the his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. During the 80th edition of the radio broadcast, Modi paid tribute to hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand on his birth anniversary and encouraged the the youth of the country to continue to momentum in sports. Modi also extended his greeting to the people of the country on the eve of Janmashtami festival on Monday. Modi also mentioned one US citizen Jadurani Dasoi and her knack for Bhakti Art, before sharing a conversation he had with her on spirituality and philosophy.The Prime Minister also lauded the youth for their propensity towards startups and the curiosity towards exploring the uncharted territories, and the praised the villages for their innovation that leads to be self-reliant.Here's the full text of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 80th Mann Ki Baat radio programme in Eng:My dear countrymen, Namaskar. All of us know that today is the birth anniversary of Major Dhyanchand ji. And our country celebrates it as National Sports Day, in commemoration. A thought struck me, that perhaps, wherever Major Dhyanchand ji’s soul must be at the moment, it must be feeling overjoyed…since it was Dhyanchand ji’s hockey that brought glory to Indian hockey in the whole world. And four decades later, almost after 41 years, the youth of India, her sons and daughters, once again infused vitality in our hockey. And irrespective of the number of medals won, no citizen of India enjoys victory until a medal is won in hockey. And this time, in the Olympics, the medal that was won for hockey came our way after four decades. You can imagine…wherever Major Dhyanchand ji might be…his heart, his soul must be overflowing with joy. And the entire life of Dhyanchand ji was dedicated to Sports…and that is why today, when the youth of the country, our sons and daughters are visibly drawn towards sports, with even parents experiencing happiness on children coming forward in sports; this eagerness that one can see all over…I feel that itself is a great tribute to Major Dhyanchand ji.Friends, whenever the subject of Sports and Games is touched upon, the entire young generation comes into view; naturally so. And when we cast a keen glance at the young generation, we notice a sweeping change there. The mind of the youth has undergone a transformation. And today’s young minds, shunning obsolete, age old methods and patterns, want to do something new altogether; something different. Today’s young mind does not want to tread readymade beaten paths; it wants to carve out newer paths. It wants to step on unknown territory. New destinations, new goals as well, new roads, new aspirations as well! And once a young person decides in the mind, no stone is left unturned in the pursuit…persevering day and night. We see how, some time ago, when India opened her Space Sector…within no time the young generation lapped up the opportunity. And to avail of its benefits, college students and young people working in Universities and the private sector enthusiastically came forward. And I firmly believe that in the coming days, a large number of satellites would be of those developed by our youth, our students, our colleges, our universities, students working in labs.Similarly, wherever you see…go to any family…however well to do, however educated the family might be…if you speak to a young person in the family, she or he, moving away from family traditions, express the wish to do a start up or join a start up…excitedly willing to take a risk. Today, the startup culture is expanding even to smaller cities and I am seeing it as an indication of a bright future. Just a few days ago, toys in our country were being discussed. Within no time, when this caught the attention of our youth, they too resolutely decided to work towards positioning Indian toys in the world with a distinct identity. And they are trying out ever new experiments. The world is a huge market for toys…a market of 6 to 7 lakh crores. Today India’s share is miniscule. But, how to craft toys, what diversity to be lent to toys, what technology to be used, how toys should be, compatible with child psychology…these are points where the youth of the country is applying minds to…wishing to contribute something. Friends, there’s one more thing that fills the heart with joy and further strengthens the belief. And what is that…have you ever marked? Generally, what had crept into our fabric was acceptance of mediocrity…”It happens”, “It’s okay – this will do”! But now I’m noticing my country’s young minds focusing themselves on excellence. They want to do the best, using the best methods. This too will emerge as a major force for the nation.Friends, this time, the Olympics have created a major impact. The events at the Olympics are over; the Paralympics are going on. Whatever our country earned in this world of Sports may be little in comparison with the world, but enough has happened to bolster our belief. Today, it is not that the youth is just watching sports…the youth is also looking at possibilities associated with Sports…observing the entire eco system minutely…comprehending its potential, wishing to connect with it in some way or the other. She or he now wants to surpass conventional ways and adopt new disciplines. And my dear countrymen, now that such a momentum has been built up…Sports has begun to be discussed in every family…do tell me…should this momentum be allowed to subside, to halt now? No…not at all. Even you must be thinking on the similar lines. In the country now, Sports and Games, sportsman spirit is not to stop. In family life, in social life, in the life of the Nation, this momentum has to be accorded permanence…infusing it with energy…replenishing it with relentless new energy. At home or elsewhere, in villages or cities, our playgrounds must be filled up. Let all play – let all bloom! And I’m sure you remember what I had said from Red Fort, “Sabka Prayas”…Yes…collective endeavour. It is only through collective endeavour of all that India will attain glorious heights in Sports that she rightfully deserves. On the course charted by people such as Major Dhyanchand ji we have to move forward…it’s our responsibility. After years has the country witnessed a period where, in families, in society, in States, in the Nation, all the people are single mindedly forging a bond with Sports.My dear young friends, taking advantage of this opportunity, we must garner expertise in a variety of sports. In villages as well, sports competitions should be held successively. It is only through competition that a sport evolves…progresses…giving rise to sportspersons as an outcome. Come, let all us countrymen strive to further this momentum as much as we can…contributing whatever we can…let us transform the mantra of ‘Sabka Prayas’ into reality.My dear countrymen, tomorrow also happens to be the grand festival of Janmashtmi. This festival of Janmashtami, that is the festival of birth of Bhagwan Shri Krishna. We are familiar with all the forms of Bhagwan, from naughty Kanhaiya to the one taking Colossal form Krishna, from the one well versed in scriptures to one skilled in weaponary. Be it art, beauty, charm, where all isn’t Krishna there! But I am saying all this because a few days before Jamashtami I had gone through an interesting experience. So I felt I should talk about this to you. You must be aware that on the 20th of this month the construction work related to Bhagwan Somnath temple has been dedicated to the people. 3-4 kilometers away from Somnath temple is the Bhalka Teerth, this Bhalka Teerth is the place where Bhagwan Shri Krishna spent his last moments on earth. In a way his Leelas, divine acts in this world culminated there. Many works for the development of that entire region are being done by the Somnath Trust. I was thinking of Bhalaka Teerth and the works going on there when I noticed a beautiful art-book. Someone had left this book for me outside my residence. In this there were many forms and many magnificent pictures of Bhagwan Shri Krishna. Pictures were very attractive and very meaningful. My curiosity grew all the more when I started turning the pages of the book. When I saw the book and all the pictures and the message for me written there, I felt l should meet the one who had left it for me. I should meet the one who has left the book outside my home. So my office contacted the person. Such was my curiosity on seeing the art-book, on seeing the different forms of Bhagwan Shri Krishna that I called the person to meet the very next day. With this curiosity I met Jaduarani Dasi ji. She is American, was born in America, brought up in America, Jadurani Dasi ji is connected to ISKCON, connected to Harey Krishna movement and one of her major specialities is that she is skilled in Bhakti Arts. You know that just after two days, on the 1st of September, we have the 125th birth anniversary of the founder of ISKCON Shri Prabhupaad Swami ji. Jadurani Dasi ji had come to India in this very connection. The question before me was that one who was born in America, who had been so far away from the Indian ethos; how could she make such attractive pictures of Bhagwan Shir Krishna! I had a long chat with her, but I want you to listen to some parts of it.PM sir : Jadurani Ji, Hare Krishna!I have read a little about Bhakti Art but tell our listeners more about it. Your passion and interest towards it is great.Jadurani Ji : So, bhakti art we have one article in the bhakti art illuminations which explains how this art is not coming from the mind or imagination but it is from the ancient Vedic scriptures like Bhram Sanhita. Ven Omkaraya Patitam skilatam Sikand (वें ओंकाराय पतितं स्क्लितं सिकंद), from The Goswami’s of Vrindavan, from the Lord Brahma himself. Eeshwarah paramah krishnah sachchidanand vigrahah ( ईश्वर: परम: कृष्ण: सच्चिदानन्द विग्रह: ) how He carries the flute, how all of his senses can act for any other sense and Srimad bhagwatam (TCR 9.09) (Barhapeend natwarvapuh karnayoh karnakaram ) बर्हापींड नटवरवपुः कर्णयो: कर्णिकारं everything, He wears a karnika flower on his ear, He makes the impression of His Lotus feet all over the land of Vrindavan, the cow herds voicing of his Glories, His flute attracts the hearts and minds of all fortunate beings. So everything is from ancient Vedic scriptures and the power of these scriptures which are coming from transcendental personalities and the pure devotees who are bringing it the art has their power and that’s why its transformational, it is not my power at all.PM Sir: Jadurani ji, I have different type of question for you. Since 1966 in a way and from 1976 physically you have been associated with India for long, will you please tell me what does India mean to you?Jadurani Ji: Prime minister ji, India means everything to me. I was mentioning I think to Hon’ble President a few days ago that India has come up so much in technical advancement and following the west very well with Twitter and Instagram and iPhones and Big buildings and so much facility but I know that, that’s not the real glory of India. What makes India glorious is the fact that Krishna himself the avatari appeared here and all the avatars appeared here, Lord Shiva appeared here, Lord Ram appeared here, all the holy rivers are here, all the holy places of Vaishnav culture are here and so India especially Vrindavan is the most important place in the universe, Vrindavan is the source of all the Vaikunth planets, the source of Dwarika, the source of the whole material creation, so I love India.PM Sir: Thank You Jadurani Ji. Hare Krishna!,Friends, when the people of the world pay heed to Indian spiritual systems and philosophy today, then we also have a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions. That which has perished has to be left behind, but that which is timeless has to be carried forward. Let us celebrate our festivals, understand its scientific meaning, and the connotation behind it. Not only this, there is an underlying message in every festival; there is a Sanskar as well. We not only have to know it, live it and pass it on as a legacy for generations to come. I once again wish all the countrymen a very Happy Janmashtami.My dear countrymen, during this Corona period, the myriad aspects of cleanliness that I should have touched upon; I feel, perhaps, that it saw a decrease. I also feel that we should not let the cleanliness campaign diminish even at the slightest. The examples of how efforts by everyone for nation building in turn lead to progress for all of us, also inspire us and infuse us with a new energy to do something, impart new confidence, give a meaning to our resolve. We know very well that whenever the topic Swachh Bharat Abhiyan comes up, the name of Indore also arises because Indore has created a special identity of its own in relation to cleanliness and the people of Indore are also entitled to felicitations. Our Indore has remained at number one in 'Swachh Bharat Ranking' for many years. Now the people of Indore do not want to sit satisfied with this ranking of Swachh Bharat, they want to move forward, want to do something new. And now they have decided to maintain a 'Water Plus City' and are striving for it with all their might.'Water Plus City' means a city where no sewage is dumped into any public water source without treatment. The citizens here themselves have come forward and connected their drains with the sewer line. A Cleanliness campaign has also been started and due to this the polluted water draining in the Saraswati and Kanh rivers has also reduced considerably and an improvement is visible. Today, when our country is celebrating the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence, we have to remember that we should never let the resolve of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan diminish. The greater the number of cities which are ‘Water Plus City' in our country, cleanliness will increase further, our rivers will also become clean and we will be fulfilling values associated with humane responsibility of conserving water.Friends, before me is an example that has come from Madhubani in Bihar. Dr. Rajendra Prasad Agricultural University in Madhubani and the local Krishi Vigyan Kendra have jointly made a worthy effort. Not only farmers are accruing benefit from this scheme but it has also imparted renewed vigour to the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The name of this initiative of the university is - "Sukhet Model" The purpose of the Sukhet model is to reduce pollution in the villages. Under this model, dung and other household waste is collected from the farmers of the village and in return the villagers are given money for cooking gas cylinders. The work of making vermicompost from the disposed garbage collected from the village is also ongoing. Therefore, there are four benefits of the Sukhet model that are directly visible. One, the village is freed from pollution; the second is that the village is freed from filth, the third is that the money for the LPG cylinder goes to the villagers and the fourth is that the farmers of the village get bio- fertilizer. You must give it a thought as to how such efforts can increase the power of our villages. This is the basis of self-reliance. I appeal that every panchayat of the country should also think of doing something like this in their respective villages. And friends, when we set out with a goal, it is certain that we achieve the results. Now look at our Kanjirangal Panchayat of Sivaganga district in Tamil Nadu. See what this small panchayat has done, here you will get to see another model of wealth from the Waste. Here the Gram Panchayat along with the local people has started an indigenous project to generate electricity from waste in their village.The garbage is collected from the entire village, electricity is generated from it and the residual products are also sold as pesticides. The capacity of this village power plant is to dispose of two tonnes of waste per day. The electricity generated from this power plant is utilized for streetlights and other needs of the village. The money saved by the Panchayat through this scheme is being used for other developmental works. Now tell me, a small panchayat in Sivaganga district of Tamil Nadu inspires all of us countrymen to do something or not? They have achieved wonders, haven't they?My dear countrymen,'Mann Ki Baat' is no longer confined to the borders of India. There is a discussion on 'Mann Ki Baat' in different corners of the world too. And there are people from our Indian community living abroad, who keep providing me with much new information. And I also like to sometimes share with you the unique programs that are going on abroad in 'Mann Ki Baat'. Even today I will introduce you to some such people, but before that I want to play an audio for you. Listen carefully.##[रेडियो युनिटी नाईन्टी एफ्.एम्.-2]नमोनमः सर्वेभ्यः | मम नाम गङ्गा | भवन्तः शृण्वन्तु रेडियो-युनिटी-नवति-एफ्.एम् –‘एकभारतं श्रेष्ठ-भारतम्’ | अहम् एकतामूर्तेः मार्गदर्शिका एवं रेडियो-युनिटी-माध्यमे आर्.जे. अस्मि | अद्य संस्कृतदिनम् अस्ति | सर्वेभ्यः बहव्यःशुभकामनाः सन्ति| सरदार-वल्लभभाई-पटेलमहोदयः ‘लौहपुरुषः’ इत्युच्यते | २०१३-तमे वर्षे लौहसंग्रहस्य अभियानम् प्रारब्धम् | १३४-टन-परिमितस्य लौहस्य गलनंकृतम् | झारखण्डस्य एकः कृषकः मुद्गरस्य दानं कृतवान् | भवन्तःशृण्वन्तु रेडियो-युनिटी-नवति-एफ्.एम् –‘एकभारतं श्रेष्ठ-भारतम्’ |[रेडियो युनिटी नाईन्टी एफ्.एम्.-2]##Friends, you must have understood the language. This was Sanskrit being spoken on the radio and the one speaking was RJ Ganga. RJ Ganga is a member of a group of Radio Jockeys in Gujarat. Her other companions are RJ Neelam, RJ Guru and RJ Hetal. All of them together in Gujarat, in Kevadiya are currently engaged in enhancing respect for the Sanskrit language. And you also know that this is the same Kevadiya where the world's tallest statue, the pride of our country, the Statue of Unity is located, that is the very Kevadiya I am talking about. And the radio jockeys are such that they wear multiple hats simultaneously. They also serve as guides, and also run the Community Radio Initiative, Radio Unity 90 FM. These RJs talk to their listeners in Sanskrit language, providing them with information in Sanskrit.Friends, in these parts, it is said about Sanskritअमृतम् संस्कृतम् मित्र, सरसम् सरलम् वचः |एकता मूलकम् राष्ट्रे, ज्ञान विज्ञान पोषकम् |That is, our Sanskrit language is sweet and also simple.Through its thoughts and medium of literary texts, Sanskrit helps nurture knowledge and also national unity, strengthens it. Sanskrit literature comprises the divine philosophy of humanity and knowledge which can captivate anyone’s attention. Recently, I got to know about many such people who are engaged in the inspirational work of teaching Sanskrit in foreign lands. One such person is Mr. Rutger Kortenhorst, a well-known Sanskrit scholar and teacher in Ireland who teaches Sanskrit to the children there. Sanskrit language also plays an important role in the strengthening of cultural relations between India and Ireland and between India and Thailand here in the east. Dr. Chirapat Prapandavidya and Dr. Kusuma Rakshamani, both of them are playing a very important role in the promotion of Sanskrit language in Thailand. They have also carried out comparative studies in literature of Thai and Sanskrit languages. Another such professor is Shriman Boris Zakharin, who teaches Sanskrit at Moscow State University in Russia. He has published many research papers and books. He has also translated many books from Sanskrit to Russian. Likewise,Sydney Sanskrit School is one of Australia's premier institutions, where Sanskrit language is taught to the students. For children, these schools also organize programs like Sanskrit Grammar Camp, Sanskrit Plays and Sanskrit Day.Friends, the efforts which have been made in recent times have brought a new awareness about Sanskrit.Now is the time to increase our efforts in this direction. It is our collective duty to cherish our heritage, preserve it, pass it on to the new generation…. and future generations also have a right to it. Now is the time to increase everyone's efforts for these works as well. Friends, if you know of any such person engaged in this kind of effort, if you have any such information, then please share the information related to them on social media with the hashtag Celebrating Sanskrit.My dear countrymen, in the next few days 'Vishwakarma Jayanti' will also be celebrated. Here, Bhagwan Vishwakarma is considered as a symbol of the creative power behind the genesis of the world. Whoever through their skill, builds an object..innovates... whether it is sewing-embroidery, software or satellite, all this is a manifestation of Bhagwan Vishwakarma. Even though skill is being recognized in a new way in the world today, our sages and seers have emphasized on skill and scale for thousands of years. They have interlinked skill, talent, ability with faith, thereby making it a part of the philosophy of our lives. Our Vedas have also dedicated many sookta to Bhagwan Vishwakarma. Whichever great creations are there, whatever new and big works have been done, our scriptures ascribe them to Bhagwan Vishwakarma. It is in a way a symbol of the thought that whatever development and innovation is happening in the worldhappens only through skills.This is the very sentiment behind the birth anniversary of Bhagwan Vishwakarma and his worship. And this has been quoted in our scriptures too :‘विश्वम कृत्-सन्म कर्म व्यापारो यस्य सः विश्वकर्मा’Meaning, the one who takes all efforts in the process of creating and building is a Vishwakarma. In the view of our scriptures, all the skilled, talented people around us engaged in the process of creation and building are the legacy of Bhagwan Vishwakarma. Our lives without such individuals would be unfathomable.Think about it, if there is some problem with electricity in your house and you cannot find an electrician, how will it be? You will have to face a big hurdle! Our life goes on because of many such skilled people. Look around yourself; be it an ironsmith, a potter, a carpenter, an electrician, a house painter, a sanitation worker, or someone who repairs mobile-laptops. All of them are known only because of their skill. In modern form, all of them are also Vishwakarma. But friends, there is another aspect to it and it also sometimes causes concern. The situation in our country where culture, tradition, thinking, skill, manpower have been interlinked with Bhagwan Vishwakarma and how it has changed…. once upon a time, Kaushalya, our innate skills had a huge impact on our family life, social life and life of the natio. But during the long period of slavery and subjugation, the feeling that gave such respect to skill gradually faded into oblivion. The thinking became such that skill based tasks were considered inferior. And now see, today, the whole world is emphasizing the most on skill. The worship of Bhagwan Vishwakarma is also not to be completed only with formalities. We have to respect the talent, we have to work hard to be skilled. We should be proud to be skilled. When we do something new, innovate something, create something that will benefit the society, make people's life easier, then our Vishwakarma Puja will be meaningful. There is no dearth of opportunities for skilled people in the world today. Skills are forging multiple paths of progress. Come, this time let us take a pledge to follow the message of Bhagwan Vishwakarma along with faith in his worship. The spirit of our worship should be such that we understand the importance of skill, and also give full respect to skilled people, no matter what work they do.This is the time of the 75th year of our Independence. This year we have to make new resolutions every day, think new, and bolster our spirit to do something new. When India completes one hundred years of Independence, then only these resolutions of ours will be seen in the foundation of its successes. So, we should not let this opportunity pass. We have to contribute our maximum in this. And in the midst of all these efforts, we have one more thing to remember. दवाई भी, कड़ाई भी...vaccinate and take precautions. More than 62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country, but still we have to be careful, be vigilant. And yes, as always, whenever you do something new, think new, then definitely include me in that. I will be waiting for your letter and messages. With this wish, once again many felicitations to all of you for the upcoming festivals.Namaskar!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/momentum-in-sports-must-continue-text-of-what-modi-said-on-80th-mann-ki-baat-101630227415561.html
29-08-2021||India||ISRO successfully tests propulsion system of Gaganyaan service module||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has successfully conducted the first hot test to check the propulsion system of Gaganyaan’s service module – located below the crew module in which the astronauts will travel constitutes the spacecraft. The two modules remain connected till the re-entry into earth’s atmosphere.As per previous descriptions by Isro chairperson Dr K Sivan, the whole configuration – crew module and service module -- is turned in the opposite direction during re-entry and the thrust of the engine is used to reduce the velocity.The propulsion system demonstration model was fired for 450 seconds at the Isro Propulsion Complex in Mahendergiri, Tamil Nadu. The performance met the pre-test predictions. “A series of hot tests are planned to simulate various mission conditions as well as off-nominal conditions,” the space agency said in a statement.The service module propulsion system consists of five main 440 N engines and sixteen 100 N thrusters to create a reaction control system. The system demonstration model used for the test, however, had five 440 N engines and eight 100 N thrusters to qualify the propulsion system on ground.Isro in July conducted the final hot test of its L110 liquid engine to be used in the GSLV-MK III launch vehicle that will carry the Gaganyaan mission to space. This, experts said, was a pretty big milestone.Ajay Lele, senior fellow working on space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said, “ISRO is currently testing various modules of the mission, however, we need two clean tests of the complete system before we send astronauts to space. And, that is going to take probably another two years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-successfully-tests-propulsion-system-of-gaganyaan-service-module-101630226774141.html
29-08-2021||India||Waste can do wonders: Modi praises rural initiatives towards self-reliance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to the nation on the 80th edition of Mann Ki Baat, the monthly radio programme, on Sunday mentioned an initiative adopted by Dr. Rajendra Prasad Agricultural University in Bihar’s Madhubani.He said the Centre for Advanced Studies on Climate Change of the university has launched an initiative called, Sukhet Model, which is not only helping the farmers but also keeping the nearby villages free of pollution.Under this model, crop extracts, cow dung and kitchen waste materials are collected from the rural households in exchange for monetary allowances for the villagers to buy LPG cylinders for cooking purposes, while the university converts the organic waste into vermicompost for plants and crops.“We can see four direct benefits of the Sukhet Model. It keeps the villages free of pollution, and also helps maintain cleanliness by ridding the households of the garbage while the villagers get monetary benefit to procure cooking gases and the farmers organic fertilisers for improved cultivation,” Modi said.The Prime Minister highlighted that such simple innovations help fuel the growth of rural India and lead them towards the path of self-reliance.“I urge the panchayats across the country to think on the Sukhet Model and implement them in their villages,” Modi said.ALSO READ | Don't forget Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19, says PM Modi in Mann Ki BaatThe Prime Minister also gave the example of another initiative adopted by the Kanjirangal panchayat of Sivaganga district in Tamil Nadu.The village panchayat there generates decentralised renewable electricity from the waste collected from households. Not only that but they also turn the residual waste into fertilisers and compost.“The village generates clean energy from two tonnes of waste every day, and use the electricity to power streetlights and other amenities of the village,” Mod said.He added that the money that the village saves in the process is used for developmental work.The Prime Minister praised the panchayat of the southern state for its inspiration and urged the people to think out of the box.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-narendra-modi-waste-reuse-organic-farming-clean-energy-atmanirbhar-101630225707511.html
29-08-2021||India||'Are we in rush?': Dr Naresh Trehan questions as schools reopen across country||Medanta chairman Dr Naresh Trehan questioned on Sunday if states are in a "rush" to reopen schools, pointing towards the fact that the vaccination drive for children against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is yet to be announced.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine drive to speed up further in September; 240 million to be inoculated"Is it that we should be patient for a few more months, then a vaccine arrives, and then kids can get vaccinated and go to schools? Or, is it that we are in a rush to open schools for what reason I don't know? Extreme caution should be taken while deciding under what circumstances we should reopen schools," the senior doctor said, according to ANI.He reminded that children in India are currently not being vaccinated. "If a large number of children fall sick, we don't have good facilities to take care of them. Given our population size, we should be cautious. The fact is that a vaccine is around the corner," Dr Trehan further said, referring apparently to Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila's three-dose ZyCoV-D vaccine.Is it that we should be patient for another few months, then a vaccine arrives&children get vaccinated&go to schools,or are we in a rush to open schools for what reason I don't know?Extreme caution should be used regarding in what circumstances we reopen schools: Dr Naresh Trehan pic.twitter.com/HKKPsRltUlAlso Read | 'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on schools reopeningZyCoV-D, which received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on August 20, will be administered on beneficiaries aged 12 and above. It is the first vaccine to have been approved for an age group below 18, and among six jabs to be cleared by the DCGI till now.Also Read | Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine for children over 12 approvedThe only other vaccine which was tested among kids is Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. It is likely to be approved for children in September. Incidentally, both Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are India's only two indigenously made anti-Covid shots thus far.With the devastating second wave of Covid-19 now receding, schools have already reopened in several states, at least for senior classes. Schools in most other states are scheduled to open from September 1.Recently, as many as 22 people, including 16 children and six adults from a Mumbai-based school tested positive for Covid-19, forcing the civic body to seal the school's premises. Among 16 children, four are below the age of 12, while the rest are aged between 12-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-we-in-rush-dr-naresh-trehan-questions-as-schools-reopen-across-country-101630223108999.html
29-08-2021||India||NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli, seizes small quantity of Cocaine from his home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Bollywood actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli early on Sunday following recovery of a small quantity of cocaine during a raid at his Juhu residence on Saturday. Kohli will be produced in a holiday court later in the day. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede led the raid at actor’s bungalow number 10, situated in Vikas Park society at Juhu house. The search started around 2pm and went on for six hours during which a small quantity of Cocaine was allegedly seized from his house. The raid was part of the agency’s ‘Rolling Thunder’ operation to bust the network of drug peddlers and suppliers in Mumbai, said Wankhede. NCB said on Sunday that in accordance with its zero tolerance policy against drug trafficking in Mumbai, one major drug peddler Ajay Raju Singh was intercepted near Haji Ali and 25 grams of MD (Mephedrone) was allegedly recovered from him Singh is a history sheeter and a huge quantity of Ephedrine was recovered from him in 2018, the NCB official said. The official said that the raid on Armaan Kohli was based on Raju’s statement. Kohli was questioned and arrested under several charges of The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Under Rolling Thunder, the agency has so far carried out 15 raids in the last two days and arrested eight people including TV actor Gaurav Dixit and two Nigerian nationals. Contrabands such as MD, Charas, MDMA (Methylenedioxymethamphetamine- a psychoactive drug) and Ecstasy tables were seized during these raids, the NCB officer quoted above said. Dixit was arrested after his name cropped up during Ajaz Khan’s interrogation. MD and Charas were allegedly seized from Dixit’s house during a raid by the agency in April this year and after that he was absconding. Dixit was produced in the court on Saturday and sent to NCB custody till August 30. Kohli was a contestant on Bigg Boss 7 and made headlines for his volatile temper as well as his relationship with co-contestant Tanishaa Mukerji. Kohli has starred in several films such as Dushman Zamana (1992), Anaam (1993), Qahar (1997) and Jaani Dushman: Ek Anokhi Kahani (2002). Last year, several celebrities including Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh were questioned by NCB in connection with an investigation into alleged drug abuse in Bollywood following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The investigation so far has also revealed international links and NCB Mumbai is probing the route and contacts used to bring cocaine to Mumbai and involvement of other traffickers, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-arrests-actor-armaan-kohli-seizes-small-quantity-of-cocaine-from-his-home-101630225120828.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi highlights importance of Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Don't forget Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19, says PM Modi in Mann Ki BaatPM Modi, while addressing the nation during the 80th edition of his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme, asked the people not to forget the Swachh Bharat initiative amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreOn Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauds Indore for becoming India's first 'Water Plus' cityPM Modi’s praise for the city came while he was talking about the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan on the 80th episode of his Mann Ki Baat radio address. Read moreVirat Kohli hints at possible changes in India's bowling line-up in 4th Test against England, gives reasonsCaptain Kohli stated that he would continue with five specialist bowlers, hinting at a change in the attack in order to maintain the workload of the team’s fast bowlers. Read moreNetflix is 'shocked' at how well this Priyanka Chopra-starrer is performing: 'Never seen any movie behave like that'Director Robert Rodriguez has said that Netflix is 'shocked' at how well his 2020 film We Can Be Heroes is doing on the platform. Read moreSuffering from bad posture? Take tips from Bhagyashree's Swiss Ball Knee Tuck workout videoBhagyashree took to Instagram recently to share a video of herself doing the Swiss ball knee tucks. Read moreTata Punch micro SUV: Key facts to knowDubbed as Tata Punch, the micro SUV will be positioned below the Nexon compact SUV in the OEM's portfolio. Read morePolitical opportunism? Betrayal? Why Sushmita Dev quit Congress to join TMCIn the latest edition of The Interview with Kumkum Chadha, Dev talks about how she sees her equation with the Gandhis panning out. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-highlights-importance-of-swachh-bharat-amid-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news-101630220703880.html
29-08-2021||India||PM Modi cites legend Major Dhyanchand’s example to inspire youth in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat, cited Hockey legend Major Dhyanchand’s example on his 116th anniversary on August 29, also celebrated as national sports day, to urge youth to strive for excellence and leaving own mark in all walks of life including sports, space or start ups.“Major Dhyanchand established India in the sport of Hockey,” Modi said on Sunday. “We may win many laurels, but the nation has always craved for a win in Hockey. Major Dhyanchand showed us the way, now we must continue to progress on it.”The PM also said that while India’s best-ever haul of seven medals including the one in Hockey in the Tokyo Olympics may not appear to be extraordinary compared to other nations, it has opened up the youth of the country to the possibilities in sports.“We must not lose this momentum. This sportspersonship must be fostered,” he saidHe added that sporting tournaments should be held regularly across all villages and cities to promote the culture. “Our fields should be full of people competing,” Modi said. “It is only through everyone’s contribution that India can attain great heights.”PM also lauded young Indian entrepreneurs’ entry in the field of space. “There are so many college and university students, and those in the private sector who are laying the foundation for the new developments in space that will take place in the future,” he said.Drawing attention to India’s growing startup ecosystem, Modi said that the youngsters of today aren’t and should not be afraid to take risks. “Just a little while ago, we were talking about India’s stake in the toy market, now so many young entrepreneurs are working to innovate in the field.”He also urged the country to continuously maintain its commitment to the Swacchh Bharat, or Clean India campaign and appreciated Indore and Sivaganga’s (Tamil Nadu) contribution to the same.He also said that Sanskrit was the language of unity due to its universal appeal. “Sanskrit is a language of unity...it is taught across the world from Ireland to Thailand, from Russia to Sydney.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-cites-legend-dhyanchand-s-example-to-inspire-youth-in-mann-ki-baat-101630220800680.html
29-08-2021||India||Don't forget Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19, says PM Modi in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the nation during the 80th edition of his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme, asked the people not to forget the Swachh Bharat initiative amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. "Over 62 crore people have been vaccinated in the country. We must continue to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols. My dear countrymen, during this Corona period, the myriad aspects of cleanliness that I should have touched upon; I feel, perhaps, that it saw a decrease. I also feel that we should not let the cleanliness campaign diminish even at the slightest," said PM Modi.The Prime Minister appreciated the initiatives towards creating a 'Swachh Bharat'. Reiterating the Centre’s commitment towards the Swachh Bharat initiative, the Prime Minister hailed Indore for retaining the top position in India’s ‘Swachhata’ ranking for the last few years. “Now, the people of Indore have resolved to make their city a ‘Water Plus City’. In our country, cleanliness will improve with the number of ‘Water Plus’ cities,” Modi added.In his 78th edition of ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio programme, PM Modi had urged the people to shun Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy and ensure jabs to them and their family members to protect themselves from the coronavirus. “Don’t believe in such rumours and make people aware of the benefit of the drive being run by the government to contain the spread of the deadly disease,” he had said.Extending greetings for Krishna Janmashtami, PM Modi urged the countrymen to carry forward the great traditions of the nation. He said "The festival of Janmashtami is the festival of birth of Bhagwan Shri Krishna. We are familiar with all the forms of Bhagwan, from naughty Kanhaiya to the one taking Colossal form Krishna, from the one well versed in scriptures to one skilled in weaponary. Be it art, beauty, charm, where all is not Krishna there! But I am saying all this because a few days before Janmashtami I had gone through an interesting experience. So I felt I should talk about this to you. You must be aware that on the 20th of this month the construction work related to Bhagwan Somnath temple has been dedicated to the people."The Prime Minister further mentioned Jadurani Dasi, a US citizen and shared her conversation with him. "Jadurani Dasi ji is American and is connected to ISKCON, connected to Hare Krishna movement and one of her major specialities is that she is skilled in Bhakti Arts. I had a long chat with her, but I want you to listen to some parts of it," he said.He said that when the people of the world pay heed to Indian spiritual systems and philosophy today, then the nation also has a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-forget-swachh-bharat-amid-covid-19-says-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-101630217533811.html
29-08-2021||India||Sanskrit plays key role in strengthening cultural ties: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the Sanskrit language plays an important role in strengthening cultural ties between India and other countries in the East. Notably, India observed the Sanskrit Week from August 19 to August 25 this year. Addressing the nation through the 80th edition of Mann Ki Baat, his monthly radio programme, on Sunday, the Prime Minister highlighted the "inspiring work" being done by people across the world in researching the Sanskrit language.Also Read | Mann ki Baat: PM Modi hails India's 'Yuva Shakti', pays tribute to Major Dhyan Chand"One such name is Mr Rutger Kortenhorst, a well-known Sanskrit scholar and teacher in Ireland," said Prime Minister Modi, adding a word about the pioneering research being done by the head of Sanskrit at the John Scottus Senior School in Ireland. The Prime Minister also highlighted the contribution of Professor Boris Zakharin of the Moscow State University, who teaches the ancient language at the varsity and has translated many works from Sanskrit into Russian, along with publishing other research papers and books.Similarly, the Sydney Sanskrit School is also one of the major institutions researching the language in Australia, said the Prime Minister.In #MannKiBaat today, PM @narendramodi highlighted the contribution of Professor Boris #Zakharin of the Moscow State University in teaching #Sanskrit and translating many works from Sanskrit into #Russian.#CelebratingSanskrit@PMOIndia @MEAIndia @mannkibaat @mfa_russia @RT_com pic.twitter.com/NRZRgXXRz7Referring to the cultural landscape of the Eastern world, the Prime Minister said that Sanskrit has played an important role here in strengthening cultural ties between India and Thailand. "Dr Chirapat Prapandavidya and Dr Kusuma Rakshamani, both of them are playing a very important role in the promotion of the Sanskrit language in Thailand," said Prime Minister Modi. "He also composed comparative literature in Thai and Sanskrit languages."PM @narendramodi in today's #MannKiBaat broadcast also spoke on the role of Prof. Dr. Kusuma Raksamani in promoting Sanskrit language in Thailand. India and Thailand share strong cultural and linguistic ties.#CelebratingSanskrit pic.twitter.com/bod7s7wRcVUrging his listeners to share similar stories, the Prime Minister said, "If you know someone who is doing similar work, you can also share your stories with #CelebratingSanskrit on social media."Also Read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauds Indore for becoming India's first 'Water Plus' cityEarlier, on August 22, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had extended his wishes on the occasion of World Sanskrit Day and shared his greetings with the people in Sanskrit.The 80th episode of the programme was live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP's) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It was being broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanskrit-plays-key-role-in-strengthening-cultural-ties-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-101630212289395.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Suspension of international flights extended till September 30||The Centre on Sunday extended the suspension on international scheduled commercial flights till September 30 owing to the coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) pandemic.The latest circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) continued to keep international cargo flights and those approved by the regulator to operate.The DGCA also said that scheduled international flights might be allowed on selected routes on a case to case basis.The Indian government banned international commercial flights since March 23, 2020, to check the spread of the Covid-19 infection. It eased the restrictions on flights in certain countries with which India has had an air bubble arrangement during the past year.The air bubble pact between the two countries allows the operation of special international flights by the national carrier between their territories. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 25 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates, the Maldives, Netherlands, France, Germany, Qatar and Bhutan.India was considering lifting the restrictions on international commercial flights on August 31. However, it extended the ban in the face of a looming threat of the third wave of infection and the rising cases of the Delta variant of the Covid-19 in several countries.Even as the restrictions on international air travel continued, India allowed operating special flights on specific routes, especially to repatriate stranded citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-suspension-of-international-flights-extended-till-september-30-101630217817847.html
29-08-2021||India||Post-Covid infection in children rising in Kerala, 4 dead in last 5 months||4 children have died and over 300 were infected by Multi-System Inflammatory Syndrome-in Children (MIS-C), a post-Covid complication, in Kerala in the last five months, as per the state health ministry. MIS-C has emerged as a new concern for a state where a high number of Covid infections has persisted for more than two months.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday asked parents to avail immediate medical help if MIS-C symptoms are seen in children. “It is a treatable disease, but if ignored, it will lead to complications,” he said.Experts said MIS-C was a post-Covid disease among children with symptoms of fever, stomach pain, red eye and nausea surfacing three-four weeks following their recovery from the coronavirus.According to the state health ministry data, 10 % of all state population infected by Covid-19 so far, comprises children under 18 years of age while most of the MIS-C infected cases are amongst children under 15. The first MIS-C case was reported in government-owned SAT hospital in Thiruvananthapuram in March this year; but public health experts such as Dr Padmanabha Shenoy said scattered cases were also reported last year but its visibility increased in the last couple of months.“It is a rare complication affecting children. In some cases, after recovery of parents from Covid, they [children] got infected but failed to show symptoms. In many cases, symptoms surface at a later stage, and usually patients will be [found to be] PCR-negative. If not treated properly, it will lead to serious complications,” said Dr Shenoy.Intravenous immunoglobulin and steroids were being used for its treatment and the state health ministry has prepared a treatment protocol for hospitals to follow.29 MIS-C cases were reported in neighbouring Karnataka and 14 in Tamil Nadu in the last six months, experts said, adding that while most of the infected were male children, they were yet to find out the reason for this.With increased awareness, multi-disciplinary support and improved understanding and early diagnosis, it can be treated well, said internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun. “Timely diagnosis and medical aid is important in such cases,” he said, asking parents to watch their children for at least two-three months after they recover from Covid.Meanwhile, Kerala continues to be the pandemic capital of the country with around 70% of total Covid cases. On Saturday, it reported 31,265 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 18.67 after testing 167,497 samples. The active caseload also crossed the two hundred thousand mark to reach 204,086 after three months. 153 Covid-related deaths were also registered on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 45,083 cases with a TPR of 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postcovid-infection-in-children-rising-in-kerala-4-dead-in-last-6-months-101630218579298.html
29-08-2021||India||Mann ki Baat: PM Modi hails India's 'Yuva Shakti', pays tribute to Major Dhyan Chand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed India's 'Yuva Shakti' on the 80th episode of his radio address-'Mann Ki Baat'. He began his address with a tribute to Indian field hockey player Major Dhyan Chand."All of us know that today is the birth anniversary of Major Dhyanchand ji. And our country celebrates it as National Sports Day, in commemoration. This year we won an Olympic medal in hockey after 40 years. You can imagine how happy Major Dhyan Chand must be today. We are seeing love for sports in the youth today. This passion for sports is the greatest tribute to Major Dhyan Chand," PM Modi said.Modi said every medal is special and India’s youth wants to do something new and at a large scale. "We must not let this momentum stop. Our sports grounds in villages, towns, cities must be full. Only through the participation of all, India can attain the height in sports it deserves," he added.Asserting that India's youth is giving emphasis to quality, PM Modi said, "Ask any youngster what he or she wants to do and a common answer will be - start up. The start-up sector is very vibrant in India."PM Modi noted that at a larger level, there is renewed momentum towards sports across the nation. "India is cheering for our #Paralympics contingent. Our fields must be full of players," he said.The Prime Minister said that this time, the Olympics have created a major impact. "The events at the Olympics are over; the Paralympics are going on. Whatever our country earns in this world of Sports may be little in comparison with the world, but enough has happened to bolster our belief," he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-hails-india-s-yuva-shakti-pays-tribute-to-major-dhyan-chand-101630213505156.html
29-08-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait meets injured farmers, 2-hr road blockade call given in Punjab||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait reached Haryana’s Karnal on Sunday and met farmers injured in police action on Saturday.Tikait met four injured farmers admitted at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) and said Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), who ordered the lathi-charge, should be booked along with other cops involved in it.“This incident has proved that they want to take control of the country with the help of force but we will not allow them to succeed”, Tikait added.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)-- a front of several farmer organisations jointly leading the ongoing protests against the three farm laws---has also demanded strict action against Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who was purportedly filmed while instructing cops to target protesting farmers’ heads if they attempted to cross the barricades at the protest site.“We demand strict action against the Karnal SDM and all the farmer unions in Punjab will block all roads for two hours from 12pm to 2pm in solidarity with Haryana farmers and demand action against the SDM”, SKM leader Darshan Pal said in a video message.Farmers claimed that at least 10 amongst them were injured in a police lathicharge while they were protesting near the Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 at Karnal, close to the hotel where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was holding a meeting of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit. Police said the protesting farmers invited action by not heeding warnings that their assembly was unlawful since Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which bans the assembly of five or more people, was imposed in the area. According to the police, the farmers were adamant on moving towards the venue of the BJP meeting.The farmers’ front is now demanding that the SDM is terminated from service.“The duty magistrate (SDM) should be terminated for the torture and terrible lathi-charge on farmers and action should be taken against [other] police officers and [the government should] get compensate injured farmers and also get them treated for free,” Pal added. The district authorities didn’t comment on the video purportedly featuring SDM Ayush Sinha’s controversial instruction to the force to carry out a brutal attack on farmers. Deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav did not respond to the several text messages and phone calls.The SDM had earlier said that the cops were briefed as per the law. “I didn’t watch the video yet but the briefing to the cops was given as per the CrPC,” he had said. After the police action, the protesting farmers blocked all highways and link roads in Haryana for over four hours.Farmers agitating against the Central farm laws have been staging protests near the public functions of the state’s ruling BJP- Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine in Haryana since last year. Several farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by farm businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-meets-injured-farmers-2-hr-road-blockade-call-given-in-punjab-101630215819118.html
29-08-2021||India||PM Modi addresses nation on 80th edition of Mann Ki Baat radio programme. Watch live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation through his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme. This is the 80th episode of the monthly broadcast, which is held on the last Sunday of every month. Urging citizens of the nation to tune in, the Prime Minister tweeted on Saturday, "Tune in at 11 AM tomorrow. #MannKiBaat."The 80th episode of the Mann Ki Baat programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.In the last edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme, the Prime Minister had asked Indians to salute the heroes of the Kargil War and read thrilling stories related to India's epic win at the battle. Noting that 75% of the citizens who send their feedback and suggestions to the Prime Minister about Mann Ki Baat are below the age of 35, he said that the programme reflects "the view of the youth of India".Watch the 80th edition of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-80th-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-radio-programme-watch-live-101630203397617.html
29-08-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat Highlights: Sanskrit strengthens cultural ties, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation through the latest episode of his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme. He paid tribute to Major Dhyan Chand on his birth anniversary, wished people on Janmashtami and lauded people of Indore for making it the first 'Water Plus' city in the country. Previously, PM Modi spoke through Mann Ki Baat on July 25, which was its 79th edition. "Tune in tomorrow at 11am," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted on Saturday.Listeners can tune into regional episodes of today’s address immediately after the Prime Minister’s address, and at 8pm as well on the concerned regional channels of All India Radio and Doordarshan.The first Mann Ki Baat episode was broadcast on October 3, 2014.Follow all the updates here:Sanskrit plays major role in strengthening cultural ties: PM ModiSanskrit plays an important role in strengthening cultural ties, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat.Mann Ki Baat has now become global, says PM ModiPM Modi says that Mann Ki Baat is no longer restricted only to India, people across the world are talking about it. "I receive messages from Indians based abroad," he says.'Whenever we speak of Swachh Bharat, Indore automatically comes up'"Whenever we speak of Swachh Bharat, Indore's name automatically comes up. It has been number 1 in Swachh Bharat rankings. But people of Indore are not satisfied with just that. They have made it the first Water Plus in the country," says PM Modi.PM Modi recalls meeting with Jadurani DasiAhead of Janmashtami on Monday, PM Modi recalls meeting with American national Jadurani Dasi, who works with ISKCON.Cannot let momentum in sports stop, says PM ModiIndia may have not won that many medals in Olympics, but today's youth is exploring opportunities related to sports. We cannot let this momentum stop. Let's made this momentum permanent in all walks of life: PM ModiToday's youth doesn't want to follow routine practices, says PM ModiToday's youth does not want to follow routine practices. He wants to go to unknown places and when he makes up mind, no one can stop him: PM ModiPM Modi pays tribute to Major Dhyan ChandPM Modi begins his address with tribute to Major Dhyan Chand, lauds Indian Hockey teams over their performance in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics.80th episode of Mann Ki Baat beginsPM Modi begins addressing the nation through Mann Ki Baat. This is the 80th episode of the monthly radio programme.PM Modi likely to speak on Covid-19, Tokyo ParalympicsDuring his speech, the Prime Minister will likely speak on the current Covid-19 situation in the country, as well as the ongoing Paralympic Games in Tokyo. Also, today is 116th birth anniversary of legendary Hockey player Major Dhyan Chand.PM Modi's 80th Mann Ki Baat at 11amPM Modi will address the nation through 80th episode of his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme at 11am. The previous two episodes were aired on June 27 and July 25 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-live-pm-modi-to-address-nation-shortly-101630210009668.html
29-08-2021||India||Scripted history: Modi speaks to Bhavina Patel, lauds her for clinching silver in Tokyo Paralympics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to Para table tennis player Bhavina Patel and congratulated her on winning a silver medal at Tokyo Paralympics.Prime Minister lauded her efforts and told Bhavina that she has scripted history. He wished her the very best for her future endeavours, sources said.Bhavina Patel hails from Sundhiya in Vadnagar, Mehsana. Prime Minister told her that he's been to Sundhiya often and asked her who all from her family are still there, to which Bhavina replied that her parents are there.President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and other leaders congratulated India's para table tennis player Bhavinaben Hasmukhbhai Patel who clinched a silver medal at the Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday.Congratulating Patel for 'scripting history', PM Modi said her life journey is motivating and will draw more youngsters towards sports.PM Modi tweeted, "The remarkable Bhavina Patel has scripted history! She brings home a historic Silver medal. Congratulations to her for it. Her life journey is motivating and will also draw more youngsters towards sports."India's para table tennis player Bhavinaben Hasmukhbhai Patel won silver as she lost the gold medal match to China's Zhou Ying 3-0 in the women's singles - Class 4 here at the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium -- Table 6 on Sunday. With this silver medal, Bhavina became the first medal winner for India in this edition of the Games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scripted-history-modi-speaks-to-bhavina-patel-lauds-her-for-clinching-silver-in-tokyo-paralympics-101630212714826.html
29-08-2021||India||NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in alleged drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested Bollywood actor Armaan Kohli in connection with an alleged drugs case. Kohli, a former contestant on the reality show Bigg Boss, was arrested in the early hours of the day after being detained by the agency on Saturday after some narcotics contraband were allegedly found during a raid at his residence in Mumbai's Juhu.Also Read| NCB raids ex Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli’s Mumbai house, drugs recovered"He has been arrested under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Officers will produce him in the court later in the day to seek his custody," an NCB official told Hindustan Times. "Small quantity of cocaine recovered from Kohli," the official further said.Headed by its zonal director Samir Wankhede, a team of the drug law enforcement agency, had raided the actor's residence at 2pm on Saturday. The action was taken as part of its ongoing "Operation Rolling Thunder" to crackdown on the alleged network of drug peddlers and suppliers in Mumbai. The search went on till 8pm, NCB officials said.The raid at Kohli's home took place on the basis of information revealed by an alleged drug peddler who, like the actor, was arrested on Saturday. He is suspected to have purchased drugs from the alleged peddler.Since last year, the NCB has questioned several major Bollywood names, including Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan in connection with an alleged Bollywood-drugs mafia nexus. The actors' questioning was linked to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead in his Mumbai flat on June 14 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-actor-armaan-kohli-in-alleged-drugs-case-101630211321889.html
29-08-2021||India||India logs 45,083 new Covid-19 cases, 35,840 recoveries in last 24 hours||India recorded 45,083 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 32,695,030, while the death toll climbed to 437,830 with 4 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. This is the fourth consecutive day that India is seeing more than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases.Active cases rose by 8,783 to stand at 368,558 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 1.10 per cent of total cases and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.6 per cent, the Union health ministry said.As many as 17,55,327 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 51,86,42,929. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 31,888,642 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.As the fear of third wave of Covid-19 pandemic looms over the country, Kerala’s rising cases are a cause of concern. Kerala reported 32,801 fresh cases of coronavirus on Saturday, accounting for 70.15 per cent of the total cases India reported.The Ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday said that 60,25,95,250 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far through the direct state procurement category. The ministry further said that 1,51,58,650 vaccine doses are in the pipeline. "More than 42 million (4,20,58,316) balance and unutilized Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," it said.Meanwhile, India on Friday administered more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in a single day across the nation for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16, according to data on the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard. “Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday night.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-45-083-new-covid-19-cases-35-840-recoveries-in-last-24-hours-101630209529505.html
29-08-2021||India||Indian military to brain-storm over Taliban in Afghanistan||The Indian military brass led by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat is expected to brain-storm on impact of a Taliban regime in Afghanistan and its security ramifications on India and the sub-continent this week.Given the ideological and operational affiliation of the Taliban, a UN designated global terrorist group, with Pakistan based terror groups like Tehreek-e-Taliban, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Haqqani Network, the military brass including all the three service chiefs will study and assess the security imperatives of rise of Taliban in Kabul. The topic is a matter of concern as for the first time there will be no US forces on ground in Afghanistan.Also Read | Haqqani network is the sword arm of Taliban with Pakistan the common parentThe Indian military has a few areas of security concerns. Firstly, with the US leaving behinds billions of dollars’ worth hardware in Afghanistan, there will be serious proliferation of conventional weapons among the jihadists in the Indian sub-continent with sophisticated M-4 and M-16 rifles replacing the ubiquitous AK-47. The biggest worry are the military grade night vision devices, which are normally subjected to US export control regimes, the tactical drones and loitering ammunition. These US made military hardware is expected to find its way to Punjabi Islamists group like Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Tayebba (LeT) targeting India in Kashmir. The security situation will become dire when the Taliban cadre are able to fly the abandoned squadrons of Blackhawk helicopters and operate the all-terrain military vehicles.The other worry is that the umbilical linkages between the Taliban and Pakistan based terrorist groups will also give deniability to Islamabad in case of any terror strike in India. As in Taliban 1.0, the terror groups are expected to shift training camps to Afghanistan under the protection of the Taliban 2.0 and the Haqqani Network, which has known links with Pakistani deep state. The jihadists from the west will be calibrated by China through Pakistan and by Islamabad to pressure India on the western front while the eastern and northern front is far from settled due to belligerent PLA.Watch | ISIS, Taliban, Al Qaeda: Terror rivals or sinister partners? While the Indian military is confident of handling the rise of jihadist pressure from the west, it is concerned about the terror attack on India’s huge coastline with Pakistan based groups providing the logistics on sea. It is in this context, the Indian Navy and the coast-guard will have to plan for such emergency.The Indian Air Force will have to sharpen its air defence radar network as the Pak based jihadists are not averse to using drones to not only cart weapons inside Indian territory but also use them to drop explosives on key installations. The drone attack on Jammu air base by LeT last June was just the beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-military-to-brain-storm-over-taliban-in-afghanistan-101630209294194.html
29-08-2021||India||Congratulations pour in for Bhavina Patel on winning silver in Tokyo Paralympics||The country on Sunday rejoiced paddler Bhavinaben Patel's win of silver medal in Table Tennis at the ongoing Tokyo Paralympics in Japan. Patel won the medal after losing to China's Zhou Ying in the final of the women's singles class 4 event. She had earlier reached the final by defeating world no. 3 China's Miao Zhang 7-11, 11-7, 11-4, 9-11, 11-8 on Saturday. "I was slightly nervous during the match today. I couldn't implement my game strategy well. Next time, I will surely give my best. I'm happy that India has created history by winning a Silver medal in table tennis at Paralympics. I dedicate this silver medal to my country. I want to thank my coach, family members and friends for their constant support," Patel said.Immediately after her win, congratulatory messages poured in from various politicians. President Ram Nath Kovind said, "Bhavina Patel inspires the Indian contingent and sportslovers winning silver at #Paralympics. Your extraordinary determination and skills have brought glory to India. My congratulations to you on this exceptional achievement."Extending his greetings, External affairs minister S Jaishankar said, "Congratulations @BhavinaPatel6 on winning the silver medal for #TeamIndia at the #Paralympics. A proud moment."Union finance minister also congratulated Patel and said her perseverance and success shall shall as motivation for many. "Congratulations #BhavinaPatel on winning the Silver medal in #ParaTableTennis. Your perseverance and success shall shall as motivation for many. #TokyoParalympics."Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "Congratulations to Bhavina Patel for winning the #Silver . India applauds your achievement. You’ve done the nation proud. #TokyoParalympics."Vice-President of India Venkaiah Naidu also congratulated Patel and said the entire country is proud of her achievement. "Heartiest Congratulations to Bhavina Patel for winning a silver medal in the Table Tennis Women's Singles Class 4 event at the #TokyoParalympics2020. The entire nation is proud of her remarkable accomplishment. My best wishes for her future endeavours. #Paralympics #Praise4Para."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congratulations-pour-in-for-bhavina-patel-on-winning-silver-in-tokyo-paralympics-101630206776674.html
29-08-2021||India||Indian Air Force to replace INSAS rifles with new AK-103 weapons, details here||The Indian Air Force has signed an agreement to buy 70,000 AK-103 assault rifles from Russia as part of an emergency procurement, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. The newly acquired weapons, which will be used to replace the existing arsenal of INSAS rifles currently in use, are likely to arrive as early as in the next few months, the agency reported, adding that the new weapons are expected to bring a marked upgrade in India's combat abilities to tackle terrorist attacks in a much better way."The contract worth around ₹300 crore was signed last week under emergency provisions to buy 70,000 AK-103 assault rifles from Russia," a government official familiar with the development informed the ANI news agency. "The weapons would be first provided to troops in field areas like Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar along with sensitive air bases.India has been looking to augment its defence capabilities in recent years, the need hastened by the recent skirmishes against Chinese troops at the eastern Ladakh front. Around 1.5 lakh US-made Sig Sauer rifles and 16,000 Negev Light Machine Guns (LMGs) have already been provided to Indian troops out on the front, while all the basic weapons currently in use by the armed forces are being modernised.AK-103 assault rifle: Upgraded version of the legendary AK-47The AK-103 assault rifle is an upgraded version of the legendary and deadly AK-47 rifles. Only the Marine Commandos of the Indian Navy currently use the AK-103 rifles, such as in operations at the Wular lake in Kashmir valley, where the elite unit is deployed. However, with the procurement of the new AK-103 riles, more troops within the armed forces will be able to use these rifles now, allowing them to fill the critical gaps in their preparedness in war-fighting.The AK-103 rifles would also be provided to the Garud special forces, who are deployed across the country at several different air bases.More advanced AK-203 assault rifles to be acquired soonAccording to the official cited by the agency, India and Russia are expected to sign another deal later to produce the even more advanced AK-203 assault rifles. The contract for the AK-203 assault rifles is being processed under the Indian Army, which requires around 6.5 lakh of these rifles to strengthen its troops' firepower, they said.Weapons requirementsThe Indian Air Force, on the other hand, has a requirement of over 1.5 lakh new assault rifles, a part of which will be met by the new AK-103 weapons arriving in a few months. Earlier, a portion of this requirement was when the IAF acquired 4,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles, as part of a broader contract procured under the Indian Army.The requirement for upgraded personal weapons has been felt by the IAF for a long time but the process gained speed post-Pathankot attack in 2016. The IAF now also lays a lot of stress on the personal combat capabilities of its troops along with using their technical abilities.The Indian armed forces have the freedom to choose the weapons they want to buy and these can be acquired under the emergency procurement route which allowed them to get deliveries within one year. These emergency procurements have allowed the troops to fill the requirement in their combat abilities as required to better meet security needs across the country and beyonf||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-to-replace-insas-rifles-with-new-ak-103-weapons-details-here-101630205359171.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Last UK troops have left Kabul, says British ministry of defence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effortThe British ministry of defence said that about 14,000 people were airlifted out of Kabul airport in less than two weeks, according to a report. Read moreCovid vaccine drive to speed up further in September; 240 mn to be inoculatedApproximately 200 million doses are likely to be of Covishield, which will be delivered by the Serum Institute of India (SII). Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Bhavinaben Patel wins historic silver medal in TTBhavinaben Patel created history on Sunday by winning India's first Paralympics medal in Table Tennis (TT). Read moreDino Morea says he did 'small jobs to stay relevant' when acting offers dried up: 'I don't want to talk about it'Actor Dino Morea has reflected on a period in his career when he did small jobs to stay relevant and financially secure when acting offers dried up. Read moreKatrina Kaif's ₹1 lakh one-shoulder bodycon dress is the party outfit you've always wantedKatrina Kaif serves the perfect party look in a stunning yellow one-shoulder bodycon dress for an ad shoot. Read more'Attack on Afghan soil': Taliban slam U.S drone strike against ISIS-K terroristsHours after a U.S drone strike targeted Islamic State Khorasan Province or ISIS-K militants in Afghanistan, Taliban have slammed America. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-last-uk-troops-have-left-kabul-says-british-ministry-of-defence-and-all-the-latest-news-101630205175439.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine drive to speed up further in September; 240 million to be inoculated||The nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is expected to gather further pace in September as more than 240 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines are likely to be administered next month, Hindustan Times’ sister website Live Hindustan has reported citing Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. This means that on average, 8 million shots will be administered each day in September, as against the corresponding figures for August which, at present, are between 5.3-5.4 million.Of these 240 million doses, approximately 200 million are likely to be of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca jab, which is being marketed locally as Covishield. These will be delivered by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer.Also Read | 20 crore Covishield doses to be supplied in September, SII informs CentreFurther, in first week of October, the supply of ZyCoV-D, the sixth and latest vaccine to receive Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), will commence, while the administration of shots will begin by the end of the month. The manufacturing of two other jabs approved by the drugs regulator -- those of Moderna and Johnson & Johnson respectively -- is projected to start from this month itself.As of now, the vaccination drive is completely dependent on Covishield and Covaxin, the first two vaccines which received EUA from the DCGI, in January. Sputnik V, the third shot to be approved, has been used only in a limited capacity. The nationwide inoculation drive began on 16th January and, thus far, 622,989,134 doses have been administered, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard. These include around 550 million and 76 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin respectively, as per official data.On August 27, India became the first country to vaccinate more than 10 million people in a single-day.Also Read | India administers record 10 million vaccine doses in a dayOf the half-a-dozen jabs approved by the DCGI thus far, two are indigenous while the rest are foreign developed. Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are both 'made in India,' while the rest have been developed abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-240-million-vaccine-doses-likely-to-be-administered-in-september-101630203314539.html
29-08-2021||India||IRCTC's 'Bharat Darshan' special train to start today: Check details here||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will operate a 'Bharat Darshan' special tourist train from Sunday, which will cover places like Hyderabad - Ahmedabad - Nishkalank Mahadev Sea Temple - Amritsar - Jaipur - and Statue of Unity. This tour package will end on September 10. The IRCTC had on July 30 shared the information on its Twitter handle. "The World's Tallest Statue, the holiest pilgrimage centre, the most spectacular palace, the 'Splendours of India' are plenty. #Book this 12D/11N train tour package here https://bit.ly/3iM6SPW & discover them all!," it said.The IRCTC in a statement said that the Bharat Darshan package is one of the most affordable, all-inclusive tour packages and all the important tourist places in the country will be covered by the special train.The booking of Bharat Darshan special tourist train is available online on the IRCTC website. Bookings can also be done through IRCTC tourist facilitation centre, zonal offices and regional offices.The boarding points for this special train are Madurai, Salem, Dindigul, Erode, Jolarpettai Karur, Katpadi, MGR Chennai Central, Nellore and Vijayawada and the de-boarding points are Vijayawada, Nellore, Perambur, Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode, Karur, Dindigul and Madurai.Key features of the Bharat Darshan special tourist train:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctcs-bharat-darshan-special-train-to-start-today-check-details-here-101630194189391.html
29-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: 18 children test positive for Covid in Mankhurd Children's Home in Mumbai||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Hurrican Ida makes landfall as Category 4 storm in Louisiana, reports AFP#BREAKING Hurricane Ida makes landfall as Category 4 storm in Louisiana: US forecasters pic.twitter.com/DWonn48sfhHurricane Ida makes landfall as Category 4 storm in Louisiana, reports AFP, citing US forecasters. ₹51,531 crore issued as refund to over 22.99 lakh taxpayers between April 1, August 23: IT DepartmentCBDT issues refunds of over Rs. 51,531 crore to more than 22.99 lakh taxpayers between 1st April,2021 to 23rd August,2021. Income tax refunds of Rs. 14,835 crore have been issued in 21,70,134 cases &corporate tax refunds of Rs. 36,696 crore have been issued in 1,28,870 cases(1/5)The IT Department said that ₹51,531 crore have been issued as refund to over 22.99 lakh taxpayers between April 1, 2021 and August 23, 2021.18 children test positive for Covid-19 in Mankhurd Children's Home, MumbaiAs many as 18 children from the Mankhurd Children's Home have tested positive for Covid-19 in the three days between August 25 and 27, the Mumbai civic body (BMC) said.US, China discuss Afghanistan, bilateral relations, reports ReutersAfghanistan, bilateral relations were discussed in a phone call today between US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, reports Reuters citing Chinese state media.Uttarakhand govt to collect report on damaged bridges in state within a weekUttarakhand govt issues instructions to conduct an investigation of various damaged and dilapidated bridges and submit a report within a week, as many bridges in various districts of the state remain in poor condition.The Uttarakhand government has sought a report of the investigation of damaged and dilapidated bridges in the states and issued a notification to the effect, reports ANI.Taliban bans co-education in universities, says women to be allowed to studyAfghan women will be allowed to study at university but there would be a ban on mixed classes under their rule, the Taliban's acting higher education minister said on Sundayhttps://t.co/thEfbuhf30Taliban said that while women would be allowed to continue their education at university, co-education classes would be banned, reports AFP.Delhi records no new Covid-19 related deaths for 4th straight dayNo fresh death due to COVID-19 in Delhi, 19th time since onset of second wave, 31 new cases; positivity rate 0.04 per cent: Health BulletinDelhi reported no new deaths due to Covid-19 for the fourth day running and the 19th time since the onset of second wave, reports PTI.Taliban spokesperson says US airstrike killed suicide bomber, reports APUS military airstrike has targeted a suicide bomber in a vehicle who wanted to target the Kabul international airport amid the American evacuation operation, reports AP quoting Taliban spokesperson.US officials say carried out military strikes in Kabul, reports ReutersThe US has carried out military strike in Kabul, reports Reuters citing two US officials.1 child dead in rocket attack in Kabul, reports APAn Afghan police chief says a rocket has struck a neighborhood northwest of Kabul's international airport amid the US evacuation there, killing a child.Rashid, the Kabul police chief who goes by one name, says the rocket struck Sunday afternoon.No group immediately claimed the attack, reports AP.US says 300 Americans yet to be evacuatedBlinken says 300 US citizens left to be evacuated from Afghanistan, reports AFPExplosion heard in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, reports ANIExplosion heard in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, reports local mediaAn explosion was heard in Afghanistan's capital city of Kabul, reports ANI citing local media sources.Maharashtra minister Anil Parab receives ED notice, Sena's Raut says will go for legal fightशाब्बास!जन आशीर्वाद जत्रेची सांगता होताच अपेक्षे प्रमाणे अनिल परब यांना ई.डी.ची नोटीस बजावण्यात आली . वरचे सरकार कामाला लागले. भुकंपाचा केंद्रबिंदू रत्नागिरीत होता. परब हे रत्नागिरीचे पालक मंत्री आहेत.chronology कृपया समज लिजीये. कायदेशीर लढाई कायदयानेच लढू..जय महाराष्ट्रShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab has received a notice from the Enforcement Directorate (ED)."As the Jan Arshirwad Yatra culminated, ED notice was served to Anil Parab. The government at the top has started working. The epicentre of the quake was Ratnagiri. Parab is the guardian minister of Ratnagiri. Please understand the chronology. We will fight it legally. Jai Maharashtra," Raut tweeted.Andhra Pradesh reports 1,557 new Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths in 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 1,557 COVID-19 cases, 18 fatalities. Infection tally rises to 20,12,123, death toll 13,825. Number of active cases of the disease in the state stands at 15,179.Andhra Pradesh reported 1,557 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths as the tally reached 2,012,123 and the death toll climbed to 13,825, reports PTI.In TN, Kodaikanal Boat and Rowing Club opens for tourists following new Covid-19 relaxationsTamil Nadu | Kodaikanal Boat and Rowing Club reopens for tourists in wake of new relaxations in COVID-19 guidelines."I wanted to visit the Club for a long time. It's pretty safe around here. Police are checking vaccination certificates, masks and sanitisers," says a tourist pic.twitter.com/HVUM1f3iS9The Kodaikanal Boat and Rowing Club reopened for tourists in wake of the Tamil Nadu government's new Covid-19 relaxations, reports ANI.Chandigarh police use water cannon as AAP women wing members tried to enter BJP office#WATCH | Chandigarh: Police use water cannon after protesting members of AAP Punjab Women Wing tried to enter the BJP Punjab office. Many women workers were later detained by the police. pic.twitter.com/ITr3ClgcKeChandigarh police used water cannons as members of the AAP party's women wing tried to enter the BJP Punjab office and many workers were also detained, reports ANI.France, Britain to submit proposal for safe zone in Kabul to people leaving Afghanistan: Emmanuel MacronFrench President Emmanuel Macron said that France and Britain would submit a proposal for a safe zone in Kabul to protect people trying to leave Afghanistan, during an emergency meeting by the UN, reports Reuters.Former Haryana CM Hooda demands high level inquiry on police baton charge on farmersAny problem can be resolved by talks only, not by suppressing people's voices. There must be a high-level inquiry into whatever happened yesterday. Culprits must be punished: Congress leader & former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on lathi-charge on protesting farmers in Karnal pic.twitter.com/DaiVWdpDMUFormer Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded a high level inquiry on the police baton charge on farmers in Karnal yesterday, reports ANI.President Kovind plants sapling at Ayodhya templePresident Ram Nath Kovind offers prayers, plants a sapling at Ram Temple in Ayodhya pic.twitter.com/5nLzziOM6mPresident Ram Nath Kovind offered prayers at the Ram temple in Ayodhya and planted a sapling, reports ANI.Delhi police asks people to celebrate Janmashtami at homes, warns of action against violation of guidelinesDevotees will not be permitted to visit temples on Janamashtami as DDMA guidelines prohibit religious gatherings. We will urge people to celebrate it at their homes & not to gather at temples. Action will be taken against those violating guidelines: RP Meena, DCP South-East,Delhi pic.twitter.com/j46GIJgw0XDelhi police asked people to celebrate Janmashtami at their homes and to avoid visiting temples as DDMA has not permitted religious gatherings. It also warned of action against people violating guidelines, reports ANI.Actor Armaan Kohli sent to NCB custody for a dayActor Armaan Kohli, who was arrested following the seizure of drugs from his residence in Mumbai, has been sent to NCB custody for a day(File photo) pic.twitter.com/lg4KWv9mvRActor Armaan Kohli has been sent to NCB custody for a day, reports ANI. He was arrested in Mumbai after seizure of drugs from his residence.Farmers block road near Bhandari Bridge, Amristar for 2 hours in protest against Karnal incidentPunjab: Farmers blocked the road at Bhandari Bridge in Amritsar for two hours in protest against the lathi charge on protesting farmers in Karnal, Haryana yesterday pic.twitter.com/oIlfxBLzurFarmers in Punjab protested against the police baton charge on farmers in Karnal, Haryana yesterday. The road at Bhandari bridge in Amritsar was blocked for two hours, reports ANI.New section of Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation inauguratedChief Minister of Karnataka Basavaraja Bommai on Sunday along with Union Minister Hardeep Singh puri, Revenue minister R Ashok, South Bengaluru MP Tejaswi Surya and Minister for Housing V Somanna inaugurated a new 7.5 kilometres long metro line in Bengaluru.At least 14 people injured in a cylinder blast in Dharavi14 people have been reported injured in the cylinder blast in Dharavi area of Mumbai: BMC; the injured rushed to Sion Hospital.Gujarat govt to give ₹3 crore to Paralympic silver medallist Bhavina PatelThe Gujarat government on Sunday announced a ₹3 crore reward for paddler Bhavina Patel for her historic silver medal win at the Tokyo Paralympic Games.Non-bailable warrant issued against accused of Mahakumbh Covid-19 testing scam in HaridwarA Special Investigation Team (SIT) has obtained a non-bailable warrant from the court against the accused of the Mahakumbh COVID-19 testing scam in Haridwar.SpaceX launches ants, avocados, robot to space stationA SpaceX shipment of ants, avocados and a human-sized robotic arm rocketed toward the International Space Station on Sunday.Ashok Gehlot has been discharged from hospital following angioplastyRajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot has been discharged following angioplasty at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur.A stent was placed in one of his arteries that had 90% blockage, according to the hospital.AAP to take out Tiranga Yatras in Ayodhya, Lucknow, NoidaAhead of assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the AAP will take out a Tiranga Yatras in Ayodhya, Lucknow and Noida to mark the 75th year of India's Independence, party leaders said.Hurricane Ida upgraded to Category 3 with sustained winds of 115 mphHurricane Ida upgraded to Category 3 with sustained winds of 115 mph: NHCMansukh Mandaviya releases first commercial batch of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin from new plant in GujaratUnion Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya releases first commercial batch of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin from new plant in Gujarat's Ankleshwar.Centre extends suspension on international passenger flights till September 30Suspension on regular international passenger flights extended till September 30.President Ram Nath Kovind arrives at Ayodhya onboard the special presidential trainPresident Ram Nath Kovind arrives at Ayodhya onboard the special presidential train. He was received by Governor Anandiben Patel and CM Yogi Adityanath on arrival.Three children die due to drowning in Yamuna riverThree children die due to drowning in Yamuna river near Wazirabad old bridge, investigation underway: Police.Economic Offences Wing, Delhi Police has arrested accused one Murari Kumar Srivastav of committing fraudEconomic Offences Wing, Delhi Police has arrested accused one Murari Kumar Srivastav of committing fraud and cheating in the name of an investment scheme. After collecting more than ₹3.5 crore from more than 500 investors, he shut down the company and ran away.Rain lashes various parts of ThiruvananthapuramIMD predicts cloudy skies with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers till 2nd September.NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in a drugs caseNCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in a drugs case, he will be presented before a city court today.India logs 45,083 fresh Covid-19 cases, 460 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 45,083 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 32,695,030, while the death toll climbed to 437,370 with 509 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday.US evacuates about 2,000 people from Kabul in the last 24 hoursThe US has evacuated approximately 2,000 people from the Kabul airport in the last 24 hours, the White House has said, as the countdown for the end of America's longest military mission begins in Afghanistan.Rahul Gandhi congratulates Bhavina PatelCongratulations to Bhavina Patel for winning the #Silver . India applauds your achievement. You’ve done the nation proud, tweets Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.New Zealand reports 83 local Covid-19 cases as Delta outbreak growsNew Zealand reported 83 locally acquired cases on Sunday of the highly infectious Delta coronavirus variant, with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern saying that some changes on how the outbreak is managed could be announced on Monday.Bhavina Patel brings home silver medal at Tokyo ParaolympicsIndian Para table tennis player Bhavina Patel brings home silver medal at Tokyo Paraolympics."She has made us proud, we will give her a grand welcome on her return," says her father Hasmukhbhai Patel in Mehsana, Gujarat.US embassy issues security alert"Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport, including South (Airport Circle), new Ministry of the Interior and gate near Panjshir Petrol station should leave the airport area immediately" the US Embassy in Kabul says in a security alert.Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effortThe last of the British troops in Afghanistan have now been evacuated out of the Kabul airport, ending the United Kingdom's two-decade-long military campaign in the war-torn country.Joe Biden says another attack at Kabul airport highly likely in next 24 to 36 hoursUnited States president Joe Biden on Saturday (local time) warned that a new terror attack was likely at the Kabul airport in Afghanistan in less than two days, as he put the timeframe for the predicted attack to "the next 24 to 36 hours".Airtel board to meet today to consider fundraising optionsThe board of Bharti Airtel will meet on Sunday to consider various fundraising plans, including equity and debt.IRCTC's 'Bharat Darshan' special train to start todayThe Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will operate a 'Bharat Darshan' special tourist train from Sunday.US administers 367.9 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines: CDCThe United States has administered 367,911,870 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the country as of Saturday morning and distributed 439,428,235 doses, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.Blinken, Jaishankar discuss US-India coordination on Afghanistan, in United NationsUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Saturday (local time) and External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar discussed bilateral ties between the United States and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-29-2021-101630193519238.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 surge in some states, govt warns against large gatherings||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in some states, the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday extended the guidelines in place to contain the pandemic till September 30, and warned against large gatherings during the upcoming festive season. In fresh Covid-19 guidelines, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla also said that the overall pandemic situation now appears to be “largely stable” at the national level, but expressed concern over localised spread observed in a few states and Union territories.“The state governments and UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take pro-active containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission. It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) advisories dated April 25 and June 28,” said the communique.India on Saturday reported 45,056 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking its total tally to 32,694,032.Pointing out at the upcoming festive season across several states in India, the home secretary told states and Union territories to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season and, if required, impose local restrictions to prevent such gatherings.Also Read | Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala casesA number of major festivals, including Diwali and Chhath, will be celebrated in the coming months. “States and UTs are requested to augment their enforcement efforts for effectively checking transmission of the disease,” he said, stressing on the five-fold strategy --- Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour --- for effective management of Covid-19Bhalla further pointed to the significant progress in the vaccination drive across the country and urged the governments to continue their efforts.Till Saturday night, India has administered nearly 630,067,629 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to nearly 340,715,073 people with the first dose and 144,676,278 people having received both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-in-some-states-govt-warns-against-large-gatherings-101630191887912.html
29-08-2021||India||Haryana cops lathicharge farmers, fresh row erupts||The Haryana Police on Saturday lathicharged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal, leading to fresh protests and a political war of words against the backdrop of an ongoing agitation against three contentious farm laws.Members of different farm unions assembled at the Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 near Karnal as chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired a state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting at a private hotel ahead of the upcoming local polls, people aware of the matter said.The police said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which bans the assembly of five or more people, was imposed in the area, which made the farmers’ gathering “unlawful”. According to the police, they made repeated announcements to the farmers to disperse but they were adamant on moving towards the venue of the BJP meeting. All roads leading to the venue were heavily barricaded.The farmers said the police started beating the protesters without any provocation, injuring at least 10. “Many farmers were injured after police brutally lathicharged them without any provocation. Some even could be seen with blood all over their clothes,” Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni said.The police, however, denied the charge. “We used mild force because they were blocking the highway. Some stones were also pelted towards the police. Mild force was used to disperse the protesters,” Karnal police IG Mamta Singh said.Farmers agitating against the central farm laws have been staging protests near the public functions of the state’s ruling BJP- Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine in Haryana since last year. Several farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by farm businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.On Saturday, the farmers blocked all highways and link roads in Haryana for over four hours after the police action. The blockade was lifted at around 7.30pm after the police released 11 detained farmers. “The police have released the farmers and we have decided to open the blockade but the decision about the agitation will be taken on Monday,” Chaduni said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the BJP government after the incident. “Once again the blood of farmers is shed, India’s head bows in shame,” he said in a tweet.Khattar, however, rejected the charge and said: “Obstructing official work is against democracy. If they [farmers] wanted to protest, they should’ve done it peacefully. If they jam highways and throw stones at police, then police will also take steps... We’ll look into it and take necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cops-lathicharge-farmers-fresh-row-erupts-101630191578549.html
29-08-2021||India||Odisha TV journalist keeps recording for talk show despite mother’s demise, earns applause||Moments before the camera was ready to roll for an interview-based talk show on popular Odia channel OTV on August 24 afternoon, Manoranjan Joshi reached out for his mobile phone to switch it to aeroplane mode. Then his mobile phone rang and Joshi froze after his friend told him that his 73-year-old widowed mother Saraju had died of cardiac failure in an ambulance while on her way to a hospital in Bhubaneswar.It took Joshi, 44, a Bolangir-based TV journalist, a few seconds to regain his composure to interview senior Congress leader Tara Prasad Bahinipati even as he was choking. Despite the Congress leader and his colleagues suggesting that the show be cancelled in view of his personal tragedy, Joshi went on interviewing and asking questions to the Congress leader for the talk show titled “Khola Katha”, which was aired on Friday evening.“He exemplified what professionalism is. He could have cancelled it, but he told everyone around that the show must go on as he knew it was planned and his mourning could wait. Normally people don’t appreciate how journalists work under deadlines and difficult circumstances. But what Manoranjan did has made us all proud,” said Radha Madhav Mishra, OTV’s news editor.On social media, those who know Joshi are hailing his professionalism and sense of commitment with many on Twitter saying his act was a “tribute to his late mother”. Bahinipati, who was interviewed by Joshi in the talk show, said the journalist has huge willpower. “His mother passed away and yet he continued with the show. He did not let his emotions take over. I pray to Lord Jagannath that her soul may rest in peace, and may the Lord give him and his family the courage to stay strong,” Bahinipati said.Joshi who has been with OTV for more than a decade and is now its western Odisha bureau chief, said the moment when he heard the news of his mother’s demise was the most tragic moment of his life. “For a moment I felt the earth slipping under my feet and my eyes welled up. But then I thought she would have wanted me to keep working no matter what. I thought doing the talk show would be the best tribute to her,” Joshi said.A day before she passed away, Joshi had arrived in Bhubaneswar for the recording of the talk show. However, on Tuesday, she complained of chest pain following which one of her sons, a doctor, admitted her to a hospital in Bolangir. Throughout the day, he kept making arrangements for his mother’s travel to a Bhubaneswar hospital in an ambulance till he got busy with the recording of the talk show.While the show was being recorded, Joshi said he tried his best to focus, but struggled a lot. “She had brought me and my 3 brothers up and gave us freedom to chase our dreams. She was our support system. I don’t know how I recorded the show,” Joshi said after cremating his mother.In a similar incident in 2017, a woman anchor of a TV channel of Chhattisgarh kept reading the news of a road accident in which her husband was killed without betraying any emotion. Supreet Kaur of channel IBC 24 kept on reading the breaking news of her husband’s death in a road accident leaving her colleagues speechless in her show of commitment and courage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tv-journalist-keeps-recording-for-talk-show-despite-mother-s-demise-earns-applause-101630177656250.html
29-08-2021||India||Govt issues draft rules to end retrospective tax||The Centre on Saturday released draft rules including preconditions for withdrawing retrospective tax demands on aggrieved investors such as Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc, provided they “irrevocably” withdraw all existing cases against the government and furnish an “undertaking” that they would not initiate any legal action to claim costs, damages or interest in future.The draft was put up for public suggestions and comments from all stakeholders by September 4. After the deadline, the rules will be finalised by incorporating relevant suggestions to operationalise the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021 that was enacted during the monsoon session of the Parliament earlier this month, a finance ministry official said requesting anonymity.The Act was passed to alter “a clarificatory amendment” that was brought in by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2012 and had become contentious because of its retrospective application. The retrospective amendment had resulted in 17 legal cases, including two of arbitration by Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy Plc in foreign tribunals. India lost both last year.“To implement the amendment made by 2021 Act, draft rules have been prepared to amend the Income-tax Rules, 1962 which specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act,” the finance ministry said in a statement.The Act was amended to “bring tax certainty and ensure that once specified conditions are fulfilled, the pending income-tax proceedings shall be withdrawn, and demands, if any, raised shall be nullified, and the amount, if any, collected shall be refunded to the taxpayer without any interest”, it said.Vodafone and Cairn did not respond to queries seeking their comments on this development.The controversial amendment was made about nine years ago. The amendment was made after the Supreme Court in 2012 ruled that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets were not taxable under the extant provisions of the Income-Tax Act.“The idea is, a sovereign government has the right to tax, but to apply it in retrospect has created a lot of discontentment,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Rajya Sabha on August 9 during a discussion on the Bill.The amendment bill was moved on August 5 in the Lok Sabha and passed the next day. The move is widely seen as investor friendly and also brings to an end messy litigation and arbitration, especially with Cairn, which has seen the company staking claim to India’s overseas assets.The legislation proposes to amend the I-T Act, 1961, and the Finance Act, 2012, amended during the tenure of then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to introduce the retrospective tax law, which has since come to stand for all that’s bad in India’s tax regime.Ritesh Kumar S, executive director of IndusLaw said: “The approach adopted by the government in drafting the undertaking under the rules seems to be drawn from the two arbitration awards that have been secured by Vodafone and Cairn (respectively). The release from attachment of assets to enforce the order particularly appears to be stemming from the Cairn experience.”In July this year, Cairn was successful in its application to the French court, Tribunal judiciaire de Paris, to freeze (through judicial mortgages) residential real estate owned by the government of India in central Paris.To date, London-listed Cairn is pursuing the Government of India in multiple jurisdictions, primarily focused on regions with high-value assets, such as the US, the UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius, and the Netherlands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-draft-rules-to-end-retrospective-tax-101630177176404.html
29-08-2021||India||IISc researchers identify marker to determine Covid severity||Researchers from Indian Institute of Science (IISc)-Bangalore have discovered a marker for determining severity of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as a probable therapeutic mechanism by studying genomic data from patients’ nasopharyngeal swab.With meta-analysis of the samples, the researchers have identified host factors that increased during the infection and could serve as a marker for severity of the disease. They zeroed in on genes from S100 family that can be picked up while doing an RT-PCR test for detecting infection and can tell how severe the disease is.The test can be done with all existing RT-PCR machines.“The test can be done at the same time as COVID-19 RT PCR test, using the same nasal swab samples. So along with Infection status, you can get disease severity status too. No upgrades required. Severity signature can be measured in all COVID-19 RT PCR testing labs using already available equipment and manpower. A severity testing kit will have to be formulated, which should be same cost wise, as COVID-RT PCR test,” said Dr Shashank Tripathi, corresponding author and scientist at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research at IISc.Currently, to determine the severity of Covid-19, doctors have to perform several blood tests or a chest CT scan.Going through the same data, the researchers also identified several processes in the human body that are involved in virus replication and disease progression. They found that a protein called Thioredoxin (TXN) was consistently high in Covid-19 patients. Based on the analysis, the researchers suggested that an FDA-approved arthritis drug, Auranofin, which targets thioredoxin and blocks its pathway, might be used as an antiviral agent against Covid-19.The researchers, thus, studied it in cell cultures and Syrian hamster model and found that it prevented the replication of Sars-CoV-2 that causes the disease.“Drug Auranofin inhibits inflammation by restricting IL6 production. It also targets viral replication directly; the mechanism of which is still being studied in our lab. It’s likely to be related to redox regulation,” said Dr Tripathi, adding that the lab is looking for industry partners to take the medicine into human trials.Several deaths in patients with Covid-19 do not happen due to the virus but due to an overactive immune response that ends up damaging the organs. To control the overactive immune response, doctors have been prescribing medicines such as Tocilizumab and Itolizumab to inhibit the IL-6 immune cells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iisc-researchers-identify-marker-to-determine-covid-severity-101630176636720.html
29-08-2021||India||FDI inflow jumps by 90% in Q1 this year, says Goyal||New Delhi: Union minister for Commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal, on Saturday said India has potential to become the “manufacturing hub” of the world as it attracted $22.53 billion foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first three months of current financial year, a 90% year-on-year jump because of several policy reforms to facilitate trade and investments.The surge in FDI is “an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination” amongst global investors, a statement from the ministry said. FDI inflow in the first quarter of previous financial year was $11.84 billion.Addressing businessmen at the Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO), Goyal said every growth parameter is showing extremely exciting future. “Whether it is FDI, forex reserves, foodgrain reserves, agriculture production, manufacturing, all sectors are on a growth path. We now need to sprint ahead,” another statement quoting the minister said. JITO is a global organisation of businessmen, industrialists, knowledge workers and professionals.According to the commerce and industry ministry, FDI equity inflow grew by 168% in April-June 2021 at $17.57 billion compared to $6.56 billion in the same period a year ago. Automobile industry emerged as the top sector during the first three months of FY 22 with 27% share of the total FDI equity inflow, followed by computer software and hardware (17%) and services sector (11%), it said. In the automobile category, majority of FDI equity inflow (about 88%) was reported in the state of Karnataka, it said. Karnataka is the top FDI recipient in Q1 of 2021-22 with 48% share of the total FDI equity inflows, followed by Maharashtra (23%) and Delhi (11%), the ministry added.Addressing JITO, Goyal said “traders and exporters are the twin pistons powering the economic growth engine” of India. He lauded the role of all wealth creators of the country. “You are the people who help the government take several social welfare initiatives to the poorest of the poor,” said the commerce ministry statement quoting Goyal.“Through a series of programmes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has transformed the lives of underprivileged, women and children of this country. The business community has helped realise the PM’s vision,” Goyal said. “Under the decisive leadership of PM Modi, India is transforming in every field. Be it ‘ease of doing business’ or ‘ease of living’… Today, a robust foundation laid in last seven years, inspires us to dream big and write our own destiny,” the minister added. Goyal said India is fast progressing on its discussions on free trade agreements (FTAs) with several countries such as the UK, UAE and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, Australia and European Union (EU).He said India and US have agreed to aspire for $500 billion trade in near future. “World is looking for a trusted partner and that partner is India’s business community,” he added. “It may be noted that recently, India emerged as the world’s second most desirable manufacturing destination overtaking US. This shows the potential & promise of India to become the ‘Manufacturing hub’ of world,” the ministry’s statement quoting Goyal said.“We should also become a ‘Trading hub’, i.e., the place where world comes to shop,” Goyal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fdi-inflow-jumps-by-90-in-q1-this-year-says-goyal-101630176336221.html
29-08-2021||India||US strikes IS planners after Kabul attack||Acting on President Joe Biden’s promise to retaliate for the deadly suicide bombing at Kabul airport, the United States conducted a drone strike against an Islamic State target in Afghanistan on Saturday, as the airlift of those desperate to flee moved into its fraught final stages with fresh terror attack warnings.US forces overseeing the evacuation have been forced into closer security cooperation with the Taliban to prevent any repeat of the suicide bombing that killed scores of civilians crowded around one of the airport’s main access gates and 13 American troops.The attack was claimed by a regional Islamic State chapter, called the Islamic State-Khorasan, and the Pentagon announced that two members of the jihadist group were killed in the drone strike in eastern Afghanistan.“It was a single mission to get these targets and as the assessments and information flowed over time, we were able to recognise that another was killed as well and one wounded,” Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said at a Defense Department briefing on Saturday.“They were ISIS-K planners and facilitators and that’s enough reason there alone. I won’t speak to the details of these individuals and what their specific roles might be,” Kirby said. He added: “We have the ability and the means to carry over the horizon counterterrorism capabilities and we’re going to defend ourselves.’’He declined to identify those killed but said the United States knew who they were. US Central Command said it believed its strike killed no civilians. The airstrike came after Biden declared on Thursday that perpetrators of the attack would not be able to hide. “We will hunt you down and make you pay,” he said. The US President authorised the drone strike and it was ordered by defence secretary Lloyd Austin, an official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The airstrike was launched from beyond Afghanistan and the Central Command said it was conducted in Nangarhar province. The speed with which the US military retaliated reflected its close monitoring of IS and years of experience in targeting extremists in remote parts of the world. But it also shows the limits of US power to eliminate extremist threats, which some believe will have more freedom of movement in Afghanistan now that the Taliban is in power.“We have options there right now,” said Major General Hank Taylor of the Pentagon’s Joint Staff.Spokesmen for the Taliban, which took over Afghanistan as US forces withdrew, did not comment on the drone strike. The Taliban, hardline Islamist militants, are enemies of Islamic State and have said they have arrested some suspects involved in Thursday’s airport blast. EVACUATIONS WIND DOWNLater on Saturday, Pentagon said US troops have begun their withdrawal from Kabul airport as the evacuation efforts from the Afghan capital entered their final stages. With the airlift window narrowing sharply ahead of an August 31 deadline, thousands remained inside Kabul airport awaiting evacuation on Saturday.Gone are the crowds of thousands around the airport’s perimeter, hoping to be let through and allowed onto a plane. Now, the Taliban have sealed off roads leading to the airport and are only letting sanctioned buses pass. “We have lists from the Americans... if your name is on the list, you can come through,” one Taliban official told AFP near the civilian passenger terminal.The carnage of Thursday’s suicide attack injected further stress and tension into a situation already fraught with panic and despair for those wanting to leave and high risk for the US forces tasked with securing the operation.Based on a preliminary assessment, US officials believe the suicide vest used in the attack, which killed at least 169 Afghans in addition to the 13 Americans, carried about 25 pounds of explosives and was loaded with shrapnel. A suicide bomb typically carries five to 10 pounds of explosives, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss preliminary assessments of the bombing.FUTURE ATTEMPTSThe bombing followed a chorus of warnings about an imminent threat and, as people gathered outside the airport on Saturday, the US issued a fresh alert for its citizens to leave areas around the main gates “immediately”.At the White House, President Joe Biden’s press secretary Jen Psaki said US national security experts consider another attack is “likely” and the next few days will be “the most dangerous period to date”.Taliban spokesperson Bilal Karimi tweeted that the group’s fighters had already moved into parts of the military side of Kabul airport, but the Pentagon stressed that US forces retained control over the gates and airlift operations.Racing to meet the Tuesday withdrawal deadline has required close cooperation with the Taliban on evacuee movements and the IS threat. The head of US forces at Hamid Karzai International, Rear Admiral Peter Vasely, is in constant contact with the Taliban official overseeing security around the airport.Biden still faces the problem over the longer term of containing an array of potential extremist threats based in Afghanistan, which will be harder with fewer US intelligence assets and no military presence in the nation.Emily Harding, a former CIA analyst and deputy staff director for the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she doubted Biden’s assurances that the US will be able to monitor and strike terror threats from beyond Afghanistan’s borders. The Pentagon also insists this so-called “over the horizon” capability, which includes surveillance and strike aircraft based in the Persian Gulf area, will be effective.RFUGEE EXODUSUnder enormous criticism at home and abroad for his handling of the Afghan crisis and the US military withdrawal, Biden has pledged to stick to the airlift deadline and punish those responsible for the suicide blast.About 109,000 people have been flown out of the country since August 14, the day before the Taliban swept to power, according to the US government on Saturday.Many Western allies have announced an end to their airlifts, with some admitting that at-risk Afghans eligible for evacuation had been left behind. The United Nations said it was bracing for a “worst-case scenario” of up to half a million more refugees from Afghanistan by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-strikes-is-planners-after-kabul-attack-101630175795631.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 surge, Kerala to impose night curfew from next week||With Kerala reporting another surge and adding 31,265 fresh Covid-19 cases and a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 18.67%, the state government on Saturday decided to impose night curfew from next week and announced a number of steps to ramp up containment measures. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan admitted that Covid-19 cases had risen phenomenally due to various reasons but said the situation was well under control. He said there was a concerted attempt from certain quarters to sully the image of the state but it would not succeed. He also called a meeting of medical experts on September 1 and another with local body heads on September 3. Night curfew will begin from 10 pm to 7 am and only emergency movement will be allowed. “Some people are deliberately trying to trigger panic. The state never witnessed floating bodies in rivers or unending queues before cremation grounds. Its mortality rate is still lowest in the country, .5 against national average of 1.34 per cent,” the CM said while trying to paint a rosy picture. For more than a week, Kerala has been contributing more than 60 per cent of the total cases of the country. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 46,759 new cases with a TPR of 3%. But the CM said saving maximum lives was paramount. He also denied a barrage of allegations raised by the opposition that bureaucrats hijacked containment strategies, experts were never consulted and the state was heavily depending on antigen tests. “The virus never differentiates between the ruling and opposition parties. Instead of raising such frivolous charges it is time to fight together,” he said adding the state was making all arrangements foreseeing a possible third wave. “Some relaxations due to the festive season, high density of population, large number of elderly population, high presence of lifestyle diseases and the highly contagious Delta variant triggered the surge. We have increased tests and vaccination. By September end we will vaccinate all eligible people,” he said listing out the high vaccination rate, low wastage of doses and other factors. As the state with less than 3 per cent of the population of the country continues to report more than 60 per cent of the total cases consistently, many experts fear it can be the epicentre of an impending third wave. Once lauded for decentralised containment strategy its model has gone for a toss in the last two months, statistics show. The mortality rate it is also going up, in July it was .3 per cent but now it has risen to .5 per cent. There has been an upward spiral in daily cases, deaths and active caseload in the last five days. Kerala reported 31,265 cases with a TPR of 18.67 on Saturday after testing 1,67,497 samples. It also reported 153 deaths and the active caseload also crossed two lakh (2,04,086) after three months. On Friday Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had sent a fresh letter to the government expressing serious concern over the high caseload and listed immediate measures to contain the surge. In the letter addressed to Kerala chief secretary VP Joy, Bhushan said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on priority basis and increase tests considerably to check high transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-kerala-to-impose-night-curfew-from-next-week-101630175678347.html
29-08-2021||India||Education min directs Mysore varsity to recall curbs on women||Karnataka higher education minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Saturday directed the University of Mysore (UoM) to withdraw its controversial circular, restricting the movement of girls alone on its Manasagangotri campus after 6.30 pm.“In the wake of the tragic incident in Mysore, I informed VCs to withdraw the order as soon as circular issued by the University of Mysore forbidding student movement at university campus after 6.30 pm. Accordingly, it was withdrawn,” Narayan told reporters on the sidelines of his visit to review preparations at the Sheshadripuram College’s CET centre in Bengaluru.Instructing the vice-chancellor of all universities to strengthen the safety measures by installing more CCTV cameras and improving the patrolling within the campuses, he said: “University campuses are normally big, but that does not mean we should curb the movement of girl students on the campuses. Instead, we should work towards creating a safe atmosphere inside the campuses.”On Friday, the University of Mysore decided to restrict the movement of students after dusk on the campus as well as in Kukkarahalli lake. The circular, which came in the aftermath of the gang rape of an MBA student at the Chamundi foothills, bars women students from venturing out within the campus, unaccompanied, after 6 pm.“Security officers should make arrangements to patrol the lake area from 6 pm to 9 pm,” the circular said. “Further, in the Mansa Gangothri premises, it is prohibited for females to sit alone after 6.30 pm. Security personnel will also be deployed for patrolling every day between 6 to 9 pm,” it added.While the notice triggered sharp criticism, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, G Hemantha Kumar, defended it saying: “The order has been issued after the police department raised concern over the safety of girl students in the campus which has lonely places. The guideline has been issued in the interests of the security of female students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-min-directs-mysore-varsity-to-scrap-controversial-circular-restricting-women-s-movement-101630175676789.html
29-08-2021||India||CBI arrests two over Bengal post-poll violence||Kolkata: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested two people, including a woman, in connection with the post-poll violence in West Bengal, officials of the central agency said. The two persons have been identified as Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, who were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker, Dharma Mondol, on May 14, CBI officials confirmed.The Central agency carried out searches in at least 15 locations on Saturday and registered 10 more first information reports in connection with post-poll violence, taking the total number of FIRs to 21. A CBI team also faced some resistance in Nadia during its search operations with some workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) blocking the vehicle and shouting anti-CBI and anti-BJP slogans, officials of the central agency said.The Calcutta high court on August 19 ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder and crime against women – rape and attempt to rape – that were reported after the assembly poll results were announced on May 2.A CBI team also went to meet the family of Shobha Rani Mondal, mother of a BJP booth president, who was also allegedly killed by TMC workers while trying to defend her son. She died on May 3.At least four special teams of the central agency, each headed by a joint director, are camping in the state and visiting the affected families to record their statements.While CBI has been ordered to probe into allegations of murder and crime against women, the court has set up a Special Investigation Team, comprising three senior IPS officers from the state, to probe into the other cases such as loot and arson.Earlier, a seven-member committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the orders of the high court submitted its final report on July 13, slamming the TMC government on post-poll violence while recommending a CBI probe.The NHRC committee in its report had claimed that at least 1,934 complaints were lodged with the stat police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson.The TMC had alleged that the enquiry committee was politically motivated as some of its members had connections with the BJP. The court, however, had rejected such allegations. “While five BJP workers were killed, 16 TMC workers were killed in violence says the NHRC report. I have no problem with a CBI probe because Bengal government has taken action in each and every case. But why would they visit the villages with BJP leaders and workers. They should work impartially,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said on Saturday while virtually addressing the foundation day of the TMC’s youth wing.However, saying that the probe was ordered by the high court, the BJP, said law was taking its own course and that the party had nothing to do with this.“The NHRC committee was set up on the orders of the court. The CBI is conducting its probe on the orders of the court. It would be monitored by the court. Where is the BJP coming from in this? We have nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-two-over-bengal-post-poll-violence-101630175558044.html
29-08-2021||India||27% reinfected during 4th wave in Delhi, says study||Around one in four people in Delhi diagnosed with Covid-19 previously may have been reinfected or had exposure to the virus during the April-May surge in cases, according to a study, which reinforces the likely effect of the more transmissible Delta variant that drove the deadly second wave of infections in India.Antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — were found in about 27% of the 91 participants at a time when the second wave was raging in the country, researchers at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, National Centre for Disease Control and the Cambridge University, said.The study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed , analysed the participants’ antibody levels at three intervals: July-end to mid-September 2020, early January to February-end 2021, and May-end to early July 2021.Also Read | 'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on Delhi schools reopeningAfter the first serological tests, the antibody levels went down the second time. However, for 25 of the 91 people, the antibodies shot up again by the third time the serological tests were conducted -- suggesting reinfections. Reinfections in 10 of these 25 cases were also confirmed either through the gold standard RT-PCR tests or through symptomatic indications, according to the research published ona pre-print server on August 20.“Our study shows nearly 27% reinfections. We have RT-PCR or symptomatic confirmation for reinfections in nearly 10% of the cases. We have previously said that the Delta variant evades immunity, now we have proof... Even if you take our lower estimate, it is 20% reinfection,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.The second wave of infections was devastating for the national capital, which at its worst saw over 28,000 daily cases and hundreds of deaths a day in the last week of April. Families scrambled to find hospital beds, life-saving drugs and medical oxygen that are critical for treatment of the viral illness, and crematoriums and burial grounds too ran out of space.Dr Agarwal said regular sero-surveillance — surveys that are used to diagnose how much of a population has antibodies — is likely to give a better picture to confirm reinfections as many patients may not have positive RT-PCR tests done earlier.“For every case we detect, we miss probably 14 to 29 cases (because of the lack of a previous RT-PCR test confirming infection). It is difficult for people to have a previous RT-PCR report. Also, many asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic people will never get tested,” said Agarwal.The findings of this study are six times higher than the estimated 4.5% reinfection rate established by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in a April study that used RT-PCR tests as a gauge.87% HAD ANTIBODIESIn the third round of serological tests in May-July this year, serological tests were carried out for 846 unvaccinated people. Out of these, 87% had antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, indicating the large spread of the second wave of infections in the city. So far, there is no government sero-survey to give a picture of the virus’ spread during the latest wave of the pandemic.However, this sampling of 846 people was limited to a cohort of employees of CSIR (Council Of Scientific And Industrial Research) laboratories and their family members in Delhi, and may not give the representative picture of the city’s population.“Temporarily Delhi is in a state that looks like herd immunity (a level of infection after which the virus does not find enough hosts to spread to). However the immunity declines over time and the virus mutates, so there can be another wave...The next wave, however, would be much less severe. There could be increase in transmission, but the hospitals and ICUs are unlikely to fill up. There will be fewer deaths; the virus has partially evaded immunity but hasn’t completely bypassed it. A severe wave is unlikely unless the virus changes completely in which case all bets are off anyway,” Dr Agarwal said.DELTA EFFECTThe research also confirms what is largely established about the Delta variant: it is the most transmissible variant detected since the pandemic began.The Delhi government has carried out three sero-surveys since last year. In the latest such survey in January 2021, 56.13% of Delhi’s residents had antibodies against the virus.“This was expected to confer some protection from future outbreaks... Despite high seropositivity (in January), Delhi was among the most affected cities during the second wave,” the study said, attributing this surge to the Delta variant.Only 5% of the city’s residents were inoculated with at least one dose when the second wave of infections began sometime in late March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-one-in-four-patients-in-delhi-were-reinfected-during-the-second-wave-says-preprint-study-101630175376759.html
29-08-2021||India||Baghel returns from Delhi, gets rousing welcome at airport||Thousands of Congress workers and office-bearers gathered at Raipur airport on Saturday to accord a rousing reception of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who returned from Delhi after a meeting with the Congress high command over a reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement with state health minister TS Singh Deo.Baghel, along with 53 MLAs including six ministers, six mayors and other senior leaders of the party, reached Raipur airport at 3.10 pm, with supporters gathering from 1 pm. Baghel, who emerged from a marathon meeting with Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday night, seeming to escape being replaced by TS Singhdeo for now, came out of the airport beaming, waving to the crowd.Responding to questions of reporters about the meeting in Delhi, Baghel said, “Spoke to Rahul ji ( Rahul Gandhi) in detail about Chhattisgarh. Apart from political discussions, we discussed government schemes and the people of the state and finally, I invited him to the state on which he has given his consent. Rahul Gandhi will be visiting the state next week.”Baghel said Gandhi will come for a two-day visit and will also visit Bastar.“He will stay for two days and will also visit central and north Chhattisgarh to see the ‘Chhattisgarh model’ of development and show it to the country. Gandhi will review the works done by the Chhattisgarh government for the welfare of farmers, tribal, women, youth and poor… Rahul ji will meet everyone,” Baghel said.Earlier, on Saturday morning, the Congress president of Raipur, Girish Dubey sent a message on social media appealing to party workers to reach the airport by 1.30 pm to welcome Baghel. Around 3,000 supporters from Raipur, Durg, Kabirdham, Balod and nearby districts were present in and outside the airport carrying party flags and placards.The workers holding placards of “Bhupesh Hai tau Bharosa Hai” ( in Bhupesh there is trust ) raised slogans such as “Dilli Se Ayee Avaaz, Bhupesh Baghel zindabad” and “Chhattisgarh Adha hai, Bhupesh Baghel ke Sang khada hai” in support of Baghel.Singh Deo on Thursday fuelled speculation about a change saying anyone who plays in a team “wants to be the captain”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-returns-from-delhi-gets-rousing-welcome-at-airport-101630175375535.html
29-08-2021||India||Oppn slams govt over absence of Nehru’s image on Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav posters||The absence of first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s photograph from a poster of “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations by the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) has sparked a row, with opposition parties saying the act is “petty and atrocious”.“Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations are being held to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence.The poster in which Nehru’s photo was not included showcased Mahatma Gandhi, BR Ambedkar, Sardar Patel, Netaji Subhas Bose, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Bhagat Singh, and Hindu Mahasabha founder Vinayak Damodar Savarkar as freedom fighters. ICHR, however, said it created five other posters intended to be used on its website, and Nehru’s photo was used, but the remaining posters were not visible on its web portal because of a technical issue.“It is not merely petty but absolutely ahistorical to celebrate Azadi by omitting the pre-eminent voice of Indian freedom, Jawaharlal Nehru. One more occasion for ICHR to disgrace itself. This is becoming a habit,” the Congress’s member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor said on Twitter.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said the government can “never look big” by “diminishing the role of others” in the creation of an Independent India.“Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav can only be celebrated when it acknowledges the role of all. By omitting India’s first PM, ICHR reflects its own pettiness & insecurity,” she said.ICHR director (research and administration) Om Jee Upadhayay denied the allegations and said Nehru’s contributions to the country’s freedom struggle “cannot be ignored”. “Our team has prepared six such posters for the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsava’. All those posters were supposed to scroll on the ICHR website. But due to some technical issue only one poster is visible on the website currently. Our technical team has been informed and it’s working on it. All other posters will soon be visible on the website. Nehru’s picture is very much there on one of these posters,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, said there was “nothing serious” in the omission of Nehru’s image. National BJP spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said that not just Nehru, but many other freedom fighters were missing from the poster.“BJP values his contribution. Even, from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Independence Day, the PM paid tributes to him. No one should take this omission seriously,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-slams-govt-over-absence-of-nehru-s-image-on-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-posters-101630175317949.html
29-08-2021||India||Speak truth to power, SC judge tells citizens||Supreme Court judge Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud on Saturday underlined that citizens should get basic education to realise the value of their votes and exercise their right of speaking “truth to power”.According to justice Chandrachud, democracy needs truth to survive and it is not only the right of every citizen to speak truth to power but equally a duty cast upon him or her.“Since democracies are spaces of reasons, truth is important, as reasons cannot be based on falsehoods. Truth is also important to instil public faith in democracy... As citizens of a democracy, we need to commit ourselves to the search for truth as a key aspiration of our society,” emphasised the senior top court judge.Justice Chandrachud was speaking at an online lecture organised in memory of justice MC Chagla, a former chief justice of the Bombay high court who also served as a cabinet minister from 1963 to 1967.Delivering his address on the topic “Speaking Truth to Power: Citizens and the Law”, justice Chandrachud was categorical that while democracy was the form of government to avoid tyranny of the law and of the few who get elected, it is imperative for the citizens to strengthen public institutions to hold the governments accountable.“As citizens, we must strive to ensure that we have a press which is free from influence of any kind, be it political or economic, which can provide information in an unbiased manner. Similarly, schools and universities need to be supported to ensure that they create an atmosphere where students can learn to differentiate truth from falsehood and develop a temperament to question power,” said the judge.Citizens, justice Chandrachud underscored, must not only acknowledge the plurality of opinions in a country as diverse as India but celebrate this plurality since it would allow open space for more opinions.“We also need to protect the integrity of our elections, seeing elections not only as a right but also as a duty. To do this, we need to ensure all citizens are given basic education to realize the value of their vote,” highlighted the judge, adding that as citizens of a democracy, people should commit themselves to the search for truth as a key aspiration of our society.The judge added that by “citizens”, he does not mean just the elite and the privileged class alone, especially in the context of women, Dalits and others belonging to marginalised communities which did not traditionally enjoy power and their opinions were not conferred with the status of truth.“Since they did not enjoy the freedom to express their opinion, their thoughts were confined, crippled and caged. After abolition of the British Raj, the truth became the belief and opinion of upper caste men,” said justice Chandrachud.“With progress in society and annihilation of notions of patriarchy and caste supremacy, their opinions are slowly and gradually starting to be regarded as truth in India. The sooner we do it, the better as a society,” stressed the judge.Justice Chandrachud further said that citizens cannot bank only on the State to find the truth, particularly when totalitarian governments are associated with a constant reliance on falsehoods in order to establish dominance.“It can’t be said that the State will not indulge in falsehood for political reasons even in democracies. The role of the US in the Vietnam War did not see the light of day until the Pentagon papers were published. In the context of COVID, we see that there is an increasing trend of countries across the world trying to manipulate data. Hence, one cannot only rely on the state to determine the truth”, said the judge.Senior advocate Iqbal Chagla, Bombay HC judge Riyaz Chagla, Dr Rajesh Varhadi (head, department of law, University of Mumbai) and Dr Rashmi M Oza (chair professor, Justice Chagla Chair) also attended the online 6th MC Chagla memorial lecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speak-truth-to-power-sc-judge-tells-citizens-101630175263004.html
29-08-2021||India||Rains likely to revive this week in Delhi: IMD||Following a ‘partial break’ in monsoon rains over northwest, central and west India for 3-4 days there is likely to be gradual revival of rains mainly over central India, India Meteorological Department said on Saturday. Its revival over west and northwest India may take a few more days, scientists said.Monsoon entered a ‘break’ or a ‘partial break’ phase thrice this season, mainly between June 29 to July 11. It was very weak in the first two weeks of August, leading to a significant deficit in rains across the country. While it revived over northwest India on August 19, it weakened again from August 24 onwards.Even though the weather body has said that the partial breaks cannot be compared to complete “break” monsoon conditions that have occurred in the past, the monsoon rain distribution appeared to be extremely skewed this year and is likely to impact agriculture in several parts of the country.“There have been one or two breaks in monsoon during many years in the past. But this time these are not complete breaks in monsoon over the plains. These partial breaks are a result of weakening of monsoon. The first reason behind this is that very few low-pressure systems have formed over the Bay of Bengal during the monsoon season which could bring abundant rain in its track. The second reason is that the Madden-Julian Oscillation, or MJO location, is unfavourable and is inhibiting convective activity. The cross-equatorial flow had also weakened, so we saw a partial break in monsoon rain over northwest India, central India and the west coast. These cannot be compared with break monsoon phases and hence, we cannot say if this has happened for the first time,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.The MJO location and amplitude strongly modulates the intensity of tropical convection and features like low pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean. MJO is an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds and pressure that traverses the planet in the tropics and returns to its initial starting point in 30 to 60 days on an average.Overall, there has been a 10% deficiency in monsoon rain over the country since June 1, 12% deficiency over northwest India, 10% over east and northeast India, 13% deficiency over central India and 3% excess over peninsular India. The weak monsoon phases this time has also led to significantly dry conditions over certain parts of the country.The standard precipitation index (SPI) for many parts of Gujarat and West Rajasthan is in “severely dry” to “moderately dry” categories. Some districts in Odisha, Kerala, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh are also “extremely dry” to “severely dry” in August. The SPI is a record used for monitoring drought; it is negative for drought and positive for wet conditions.A low pressure area over northwest adjoining Bay of Bengal with an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level persists. “It is likely to move over west and northwest region across central and west India during next 4-5 days,” the Met’s forecast on Saturday said.The western end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift further southwards during next 48 hours and run to south of its normal position. “Entire monsoon trough is likely to run to the south of its normal position from August 30 for subsequent two days and shift northwards thereafter,” it said.The eastern end is running near its normal position and passing through Bahraich, Patna, Giridih, Digha and thence southeastwards to North Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to remain near normal/south of its normal position during the next five days.An off-shore trough at mean sea level is running from Karnataka coast to Kerala coast.Due to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is likely over Odisha and Andhra Pradesh till Monday, and in Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat region till Tuesday. Light to moderate scattered rainfall activity is likely over the rest of northwest India till Tuesday.“There is a cyclonic circulation over northwest Bay of Bengal and a low-pressure area is likely to develop over south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts which is likely to travel in the west-northwest ward direction. An offshore trough is already bringing widespread rains to Kerala and Karnataka. The impact of the low-pressure system will be felt over northwest India after August 29,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre.“The low-pressure system which is likely to form may even bring rains to Gujarat and Rajasthan after a very long time. These regions are very parched and the crop in these regions is already destroyed. There may be scattered rain over Delhi, Punjab and Haryana around August 31,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.During the past 50 years, scientists have been noticing a weakening of the South Asian monsoon. While this year’s high frequency of weak monsoon phases cannot be directly attributed to long-term weakening of monsoon over India because of lack of scientific analysis and attribution, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s latest report on the physical science of the climate crisis released earlier in the month said it is very likely that anthropogenic aerosols weakened the regional monsoon circulations over South Asia, East Asia and West Africa during the second half of the 20th century, thereby offsetting the expected strengthening of monsoon rains in response to global warming.Anthropogenic aerosols are nothing but air pollution particles which scatter solar radiation. They decrease evaporation and have a cooling effect on surface temperatures. The aerosols are masking the effect of global warming on the rise in monsoon rain and surface temperatures.“In general, it is understood that increasing greenhouse gas emissions will lead to rise in warming and increase in water vapour, and consequently increase in rainfall. But that hasn’t happened over South Asia. We have seen in the past 50 years that monsoon mean rainfall over central India has reduced by about 6% to 7%. But due to global warming, incidents of heavy and extremely heavy rain episodes have increased. Many studies indicate that aerosol cover has countered the effect of global warming on monsoon,” explained R Krishnan, director, Centre for Climate Change Research at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and IPCC author.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-likely-to-revive-this-week-in-delhi-imd-101630175261896.html
29-08-2021||India||Delhi: Charges filed in 9-year-old Dalit girl’s murder||The Delhi Police on Saturday charged a priest and his three accomplices with the rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl, whose body was found at a crematorium in the cantonment area, sparking protests by activists and politicians in the national capital.In the charge sheet, the police used sections of rape, wrongful confinement, murder, destruction of evidence, and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act against Radhey Shyam (priest) and his accomplices Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan.The 400-page charge sheet was filed on Saturday afternoon. The court is yet to take cognizance, and will hear the case on August 31.The girl, from a Dalit family in a village near Delhi cantonment, was found dead by her parents in a local crematorium earlier this month. The accused — a 55-year-old priest and his three associates — say the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler but the family alleges that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her. The four accused are in jail.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal confirmed that the charge sheet was filed before metropolitan magistrate Manu Shree of the Patiala House Court. A charge sheet is a record of documents submitted by police to a court, listing the details of a case and the evidence collected against an accused person. It is on the basis of the charge sheet that a court starts trial in a case.Officials aware of the details of the police investigation said that the Delhi Police have maintained in the investigation that the minor girl did not die of electrocution as was claimed by those arrested; and that two of them raped her inside the crematorium before murdering her.Though no senior police officer authorised to issue press statements commented on the details of the charge sheet, HT has learnt that the police based their findings on three aspects – confessions of the four arrested men made to the investigating officer; circumstantial evidence; and revelations by people connected to the case.To be sure, the confession of any person made before a police officer is not admissible as evidence before a court unless it is backed by other evidence. Only a confession before a judge is admissible as evidence against an accused.Because the body was charred, a medical board that conducted the post-mortem examination was unable to confirm rape. The police have also taken the help and comments from “experts in odontology” for their investigations.“We have sent her teeth and bones to the experts. Prime facie, the experts concurred that the child did not die of electrocution. Besides forensic experts also confirmed that the water cooler did not have live current so the child could not have died of electrocution, which was claimed by the arrested person. The reports of the teeth and bones sent to the forensic laboratory will confirm electrocution. The result is awaited,” an officer aware of the details of the charge sheet said, asking not to be named.Another officer said that of the four arrested men, two – Salim Ahmed and Laxmi Narayan – confessed that priest Radhe Shyam and Kuldeep Singh sexually assaulted the girl and they, too, helped Shyam and Singh in the murder and destroying the evidence.The court is likely to take cognisance of the charge sheet on Monday.According to the contents of the FIR filed by the girl’s mother, on the evening of August 1, the child went to fetch cold water from the water cooler installed at the crematorium. At around 6pm, the priest and the three employees of the crematorium called the child’s mother and informed her that her daughter had died of electrocution. The family told the police that the four men also showed the burn marks on her body. The four men allegedly told the child’s parents that it was better to hurriedly cremate the body because if they informed the police, the body would be sent for autopsy.The family also alleged that the four men said the child’s organs would be removed and sold by doctors. The four then cremated the body. But in the middle of the cremation, the girl’s mother suspected foul play and informed neighbours after which locals reached the crematorium, stopped the cremation and managed to retrieve charred remains of the girl’s body. The girl’s family then filed a complaint of rape, suspecting that the child may have been sexually assaulted and murdered.The rape and murder of the minor girl triggered protests in the Delhi Cantonment area. Many senior political leaders such as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the family and assured their support in ensuring justice.Biswal said that while the police have filed a charge sheet within 30 days, a fast-track court will now conduct the trial in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhicharges-framed-in-9-year-old-dalit-girl-s-murder-101630174235479.html
29-08-2021||India||5 arrested for Mysuru gang rape, assault||Five people have been arrested from Tamil Nadu’s Tirupur district for allegedly raping a 22-year-old woman near Mysuru and assaulting her friend, Karnataka police chief Praveen Sood said on Saturday.The accused are blue-collar workers and often travelled to Mysuru for work, he said, adding that: “We have arrested five people from Tirupur. One suspect is absconding.”The 22-year-old college student was travelling with her friend near Chamundi Hills on the outskirts of Mysuru on Tuesday when the accused accosted them. The accused first demanded money, but when the two resisted, they attacked the woman’s friend and raped her, police said. The survivor and her friend have been discharged from the hospital, said police.While Sood did not reveal the identities of the accused citing the preliminary stage of the investigation, he said that one of the accused has claimed he is 17.“This came out during the initial interrogation,” he said, adding that they were yet to verify this claim. He cited changes to the juvenile justice law and said anyone involved in such a case can be tried as an adult, if aged over 16.According to the FIR, the accused have been booked under sections 376D (gang rape) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.The Karnataka police chief said the investigating team relied on technical and scientific evidence for the probe. He, however, did not give details on how the police zeroed in on the accused.“We still have not brought them to Bengaluru, since the operation (to track the suspects)... went on throughout the night. We still have to interrogate them properly,” said Sood.Officials said the woman was not in a position to give a statement to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-gang-rape-5-people-arrested-from-tamil-nadu-101630146995825.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala cases||India on Sunday recorded 45,083 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a day after the daily tally was clocked at 46,759, the highest single-day increase in nearly two months. These numbers indicated a trend that has been visible over the past week to anyone studying these numbers—a nationwide surge in cases driven primarily by a recent spike in Covid-19 cases in Kerala. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the southern state now accounts for more than half of all the active Covid-19 cases in the country, followed closely by Maharashtra.Also Read | Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of IndiaHere's a look at this week's Covid-19 numbers, with data sourced from the Union health ministry:At the beginning of the week on Monday, 25,072 people were detected as Covid-19 positive, the lowest single-day count in 160 days, as per the health ministry. Tuesday, too, saw around new 25,000 cases, while the daily positivity remained below the 3 per cent mark. However, the low number of infections on Monday could also be attributed to the fewer number of tests carried out over the weekend. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1,295,160 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday across the country. On Tuesday and Wednesday, authorities tested 1,647,526 and 1,792,755 samples.On Wednesday, the health ministry's Covid-19 dashboard showed that India's daily tally of new coronavirus disease cases went up by nearly 12,000, the first major spike this week. On that day, the country recorded 37,593 new cases of Covid-19 over the 24 hours prior, while the daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease also saw a major rise. The health ministry’s update showed that 648 deaths were recorded on Wednesday, 294 more than that of Tuesday’s new fatalities when 354 patients had died. On Monday, 389 patients had died of the disease.Also Read | Schools scramble to put Covid-19 protocols in placeThen again on Thursday, the country's daily infection spike went up by over 20,000 as the health ministry's dashboard showed 46,164 new cases over the span of the past 24 hours. A recent surge in Kerala, it seemed, was behind the hike in nationwide numbers. According to official ministry data, Kerala alone accounted for over 68 per cent of India's total caseload on Thursday. Ernakulam and Thrissur were said to be the worst-affected district.The state government said that the reason for the spike is the festival of Onam, which was celebrated last week. “We expected a hike after Onam," Kerala health minister Veena George said. "A special drive is on to increase testing and vaccination. Since seroprevalence is very low in Kerala we have to find the infected and quarantine them at the earliest.”Another state which has been a cause of concern for the Centre is Maharashtra. The daily Covid-19 cases breached the 5,000 mark in Maharashtra - already the worst affected state - after a gap of five days on Wednesday. The Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, has asked Kerala and Maharashtra to consider night curfews in areas with high infection numbers.The situation showed a sporadic increase in the daily Covid-19 tally as the week progressed further. On Friday, the active caseload increased by 11,174 to reach 344,899, while the number increased by 14,876 to stand at 359,775 near the end of the week on Saturday, according to data released by the health ministry.Finally, the daily spike in new cases came down to 45,083 on Sunday, taking the cumulative infection tally to 32,695,030. Presently, active cases constitute 1.13 per cent of total cases, an increase from the 1.06% yesterday; but with this update, India has now recorded more than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases for four days straight.Meanwhile, in a new record this week, India also administered on Friday more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in a single day across the nation for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16. Lauding those who got vaccinated as well as those who made the vaccine drive successful, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday night that crossing one crore in vaccination numbers was a "momentous feat" for the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-this-week-surge-in-daily-tally-of-cases-driven-by-kerala-cases-101630127773032.html
29-08-2021||India||Holders of Jan Dhan a/cs to get insurance||After seven successful years of the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the financial inclusiveness scheme, the government is considering providing life insurance and accident covers to over 430 million account holders, the finance ministry said on Saturday.The government plans to ensure coverage of PMJDY account holders under micro insurance schemes — Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), the ministry said in a statement. The Jan Dhan scheme was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address on August 15, 2014.“Banks have already been communicated about the same,” the statement issued on Saturday said. According to the department of financial services (DFS) website, PMJJBY provides a life cover of ₹2 lakh for a premium of less than Re 1 per day. PMSBY covers accidental risks.The scheme provides ₹2 lakh for accidental death and full disability, and ₹1 lakh for partial disability for a premium of ₹12 per annum.The government is also making endeavours to promote digital payments among Jan Dhan account holders through the creation of acceptance infrastructure across the country and improving their access to micro-credit and micro-investment such as flexi-recurring deposits, the ministry said.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said: “The journey of PMJDY led interventions undertaken over a short span of seven years has in effect, produced both transformational as well as directional change thereby making the emerging FI [financial inclusion] ecosystem capable of delivering financial services to the last person of the society-the poorest of the poor.”“The underlying pillars of PMJDY, namely, Banking the Unbanked, Securing the Unsecured and Funding the Unfunded has made it possible to adopt multi-stakeholders’ collaborative approach while leveraging technology for serving the unserved and underserved areas as well,” she said in the statement.According to the finance ministry, the number of Jan Dhan accounts have jumped to 43.04 crore (430.4 million) in August 2021 from 17.9 crore (179 million) in August 2015.Out of the current account holders, 55.47% (238.7 million) are women and 66.69% (287 million) are located in rural and semi-urban areas.Minister of state for finance Bhagwat Karad said PMJDY has been one of the most far-reaching initiatives towards financial inclusion not only in India but in the world.“Financial Inclusion is among top-most priorities of the Government as it is an enabler for inclusive growth. It provides an avenue to the poor for bringing their savings into the formal financial system, an avenue to remit money to their families besides taking them out of the clutches of the usurious money lenders,” he said in the statement.While launching the programme on August 28, 2014, Prime Minister Modi described the occasion as a festival to celebrate the liberation of the poor from a vicious cycle.PMJDY has been the foundation stone for people-centric economic initiatives. “One in two accounts opened between March 2014 and March 2020 was a PMJDY account. Within 10 days of nationwide lockdown more than about 20 crore women PMJDY accounts were credited with ex-gratia,” the statement said.“In today’s COVID-19 times, we have witnessed the remarkable swiftness and seamlessness with which Direct Benefit Transfer (DBTs) have empowered and provided financial security to the vulnerable sections of society. An important aspect is that DBTs via PM Jan Dhan accounts have ensured every rupee reaches its intended beneficiary and preventing systemic leakage,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mulls-insurance-cover-for-430-million-jan-dhan-account-holders-finance-ministry-101630131874785.html
29-08-2021||Today's||The India story is back. But it needs courage and perseverance||Not long ago, India was termed the “darling of Davos,” a country destined to achieve greatness. In the first decade of this century, there was hardly an investor in the West who was not enamoured of the “India story”.Then came a series of miscalculations and poor legislative and executive moves, such as the retrospective tax law and the demonetisation of 2016 which changed the narrative. The good news is that the Indian government has begun to rewrite that story.Parliament recently passed a bill rolling back a controversial nine-year-old law that allowed the central government to collect retrospective taxes on overseas deals made by businesses. The legislation, which permitted the government to tax businesses going back six decades, had dealt a serious blow to India’s image as an investment-friendly destination. Perhaps no single law has done as much damage to the country’s investment prospects since the days of Prime Minister (PM) Indira Gandhi’s nationalisation of banks and other key sectors of the economy, more than half-a-century ago.The rollback of the tax legislation was one of the most positive signals New Delhi has sent to investors in a long while. According to news reports, the government will resolve at least 17 tax disputes by refunding at least $6.7 billion collected in retrospective taxes, provided the companies are willing to drop their claims. Also, recently, a bill that allows private investment in the insurance sector was also signed into law by President Ram Nath Kovind. Divestment of the four government-owned insurance companies has been one of the long-standing demands of international investors.This could not have come at a better time. Even before the onset of Covid-19, which decimated economies all over the world, the Indian economy had lost steam. It hit rock bottom last year, when it contracted more than 7% because of the pandemic.Despite current economic conditions, the India story can still be revived. Even after all the setbacks, the country’s economic fundamentals are still quite strong. Foreign exchange reserves are at an all-time high, at $621 billion — the fourth highest in the world. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman can easily right the ship, provided they continue on the reform path. They have already demonstrated their resolve to do so, but a number of additional measures are needed.The Washington-based Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS), keeps a scorecard of economic reforms in India. It credits the government for reducing the corporate tax rate, and allowing majority foreign ownership in the defence and insurance sectors. CSIS notes, however, that the country “still has a range of regulations that limit business growth and job creation, in addition to limiting foreign investment”. Areas in which more needs to be done include foreign direct investment (FDI) caps, corporate taxes and bankruptcy and labour regulations.However, many in the United States (US) remain optimistic about India. One such ardent believer in the India story is Richard Verma, former US ambassador to India.Speaking to students at an Indian university, Verma, who is Indian- American, said, “I look out at the year 2030, for example, and I see an India that may lead the world in almost every category… (The) most populous nation, the most college graduates, the largest middle-class, the most cell phone and Internet users, along with the third largest military and third largest economy, all coexisting in the world’s largest democracy…”Like ambassador Verma, I am an Indian-American who is very optimistic about the leadership potential of India in the world. My optimism, though, is tempered by realism.2030 is less than a decade away. It may take a bit longer than that to achieve true leadership in the world. That leadership requires proper planning, patience and perseverance, when there are setbacks, to reach India’s full potential. The India story is, fortunately, being revived now and the journey to global leadership has begun.Frank F Islam is an entrepreneur, civic leader, and thought leader based in Washington DCThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-india-story-is-back-but-it-needs-courage-and-perseverance-101630247687988.html
29-08-2021||Today's||On the Taliban and terror, stop irresponsible rhetoric||When intellectuals and public figures espouse dangerous ideas, the effects can be catastrophic on society. I have always been a fan of renowned poet Munawwar Rana, but his statement that the Taliban cannot be considered terrorists but can, at best, be called aggressive, is shocking. Allama Iqbal, the famous poet and composer of the evocative “Sare jahan se achcha Hindostan hamara”, promoted the vision for Pakistan. We are still suffering its consequences.That is why, when a Muslim Member of Parliament (MP) allegedly compares the Taliban to India’s freedom fighters, or when a member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board praises the Taliban, we must stop to think about the repercussions that such statements have, now and in the future. These can open old fissures and give communal elements from all sections a chance to exploit the situation.The Taliban has created problems for the world. When it came to power in Afghanistan in 1996, terrorists from many nations made their way into Kashmir. In December 1999, an Indian Airlines flight from Kathmandu to Delhi was hijacked and taken to Kandahar in Afghanistan. The plane was parked on an airstrip in Kandahar for over 100 hours. Suddenly, anonymous Taliban spokespersons appeared, giving “phone-ins” to emerging private television channels in India demanding that New Delhi release three terrorists — among them Masood Azhar.Who were those spokespersons? Undoubtedly, this was part of a greater game played by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). It was then that former external affairs minister Jaswant Singh left for Kandahar on December 31, 1999, with the terrorists who were released there.The United States (US) and the rest of the West did not seem to understand the dangerous implications of these developments. It was only after the 9/11 attack that they woke up to reality. The US invaded Afghanistan to get rid of the terrorists in power. Today, the US has withdrawn, leaving the field clear for the Taliban and other terror outfits. The explosion near Kabul airport last Thursday suggests that the Taliban is not the only player in Afghanistan today. The country could well become the epicentre of global terror again, a potentially alarming turn of events for India.Now, India and other countries will have to wait and watch to decide who they must engage with in the conflict-torn nation. And there is a likelihood of more bloody terror incidents.The time has come for the powerful countries of the West to abandon their hands-off approach and tackle the growing turmoil caused by terrorism across the world — particularly in Asia and Africa. The Taliban is not alone in its expansion; al-Qaeda and other terror groups have also expanded their activities in many African and Asian nations. In collaboration with local jihadi groups, al-Qaeda has been wreaking havoc in remote nations in Africa. On August 19, 15 soldiers were killed in Mali. France has been conducting Operation Barkhane in Mali, Chad, Burkina Faso, Mauritania and Niger since August 1, 2014, but to little effect. It is now drawing it down in its current form. These countries may well go the way of Afghanistan if the new proposed international coalition with significant French leadership in the Sahel does not work.In the name of jihad, these terror groups have killed far more Muslims than so-called infidels. This is why when people like Munawwar Rana make remarks like “we” once ruled Afghanistan, one can only look on in disbelief.Because of such remarks, egalitarian societies and systems of governance all over the world are being forced to adopt more narrow policies. Let us look at the world before 9/11 and the world we see today. The rules of air travel, for example, have changed so much after that attack. In the name of security checks, people can be detained at the drop of a hat when they travel. As terrorism grows, so does the violation of personal freedoms. All this goes against the concept of the global village.Why has the world become so helpless? Why is an organisation like the United Nations (UN) not able to do anything meaningful? The UN must make a much greater effort to counter not only the Taliban, al-Qaeda and Boko Haram, but illegal acts such as Russia’s bombing of Syria and Israel’s bombing of Lebanon. Whether it is a terrorist incident or a counter-terrorist act, the losers are always innocent citizens. This “chain reaction” must be stopped.The world’s powerful countries must set aside their differences and unite to deal with terrorist forces. Struggling with a crippling pandemic, the world is no longer in a position to face another brutal attack like 9/11.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-the-taliban-and-terror-stop-irresponsible-rhetoric-101630247686822.html
29-08-2021||Today's||The real crisis in PSUs: Leadership||The public-versus-private sector debate has dominated the national discourse. One school of thought believes that the public sector never had any business to exist, and sees it as the breeding ground for inefficiency, corruption and nepotism. An opposite school believes that, in the absence of the public sector, avowedly based on egalitarian concepts, the less privileged would not have access to the fruits of development.It is necessary to lay down a fundamental principle — efficiency is ownership-neutral. But the idea here is not to undertake comparisons, and come to judgments on the preferred form of ownership of productive enterprise. Instead, the focus here is on the missing element in the public sector — leadership.In any corporate structure, while shareholders and other stakeholders are at the apex of the organisational pyramid, the highest level of decision-making, and indeed of direction-setting, for all enterprises, is the board of directors. An inadequate board, in both numbers and quality, cannot hope to discharge the responsibilities cast on it by statute, regulation and convention.Even a cursory look at the boards of public sector undertakings (PSUs), including public sector banks (PSBs), tells a sad story. An analysis of vacant Board positions as on March 31, shows that in 24 Maharatnas and Navratnas, there are a total number of 149 board-level vacancies, comprising 11 positions of executive directors (EDs), 135 positions of independent directors (IDs), and three positions of nominee directors. Not one of these entities had the requisite number of IDs in position. In many entities, EDs are fewer than what the law, regulation or the Articles of Association contemplate.Additionally, there is the troubling phenomenon of the positions of chief executives falling vacant, and not being filled in time, even though many of these vacancies arose because of events such as superannuation, which should have been anticipated. The leadership position in the boardroom also presents a sorry picture, with non-executive chairpersons not being in position in a number of entities.If this was not bad enough, turn to PSBs. The composition of the boards of PSBs has been provided for in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 and 1980. Many of the positions, which had been carefully thought through, while the legislation was drafted, have been vacant for years.Three categories merit special mention. One, the board of every nationalised bank was to have one representative of workmen, and one representative of non-workmen (officers). The expectation was that the views and suggestions of the workforce should receive appropriate attention. These positions have remained vacant for years. It is often heard, in private conversation, that these representatives can obstruct the bank’s smooth functioning, and are, therefore, better kept outside the boardroom. In an inclusive society, this is perverse.Two, there is a specific position reserved for a chartered accountant on the board of each PSB. This position has also remained vacant in many banks. It is not clear whether the loss caused in terms of relevant expertise at the board-level has been compensated by preventing some members of the profession from seeking to convert board directorship into a profession.And three, a well-thought-out move in the context of nationalised banks going public, and raising a part of the money from the market, was to have shareholder directors, elected by the shareholders, other than the majority shareholder. Only some of these positions have been filled. Further, there are provisions for ensuring the representation of different sectors of the economy on each such board. This representative nature of the board, and the consequent ability to draw on the experience of persons with firsthand ground-level experience, has also been lost sight of. In sum, at last count, 60 positions of all categories of directors on PSB boards were found to remain vacant for at least a few months, if not several years.In 2015, the positions of chair and managing director on the boards of PSBs were split, and, over time, persons of proven eminence were brought in to head the board of directors in these banks. At present, with many of them having left, on the expiry of their terms, there is only one part-time non-executive chairperson in a total of 11 PSBs.Some companies, in their compliance reports, as well as in responses to shareholders, have stated that they have repeatedly written to the government to fill these positions. With no progress in this matter, some of them seem to have sacrificed the truth in filing their compliance reports. Is it fair to push these companies into a corner, where they have to shoulder the blame for what is clearly not within their powers?Given the vacancies at the level of vice-chancellors in universities, or members of tribunals, or other senior positions, one might be tempted to ask — why fret about vacancies in PSUs and PSBs? The simple answer is that both banks and other PSUs are intended to be entities that contribute directly to economic production and progress. To bind them hand and foot, and then accuse them of not being competitive when compared to private sector entities, which suffer from none of these infirmities, is as unfair as any comparison can get.In recent years, a number of tough decisions have been taken, reflecting the ability, courage and willingness to take decisions. Would it be fair to expect that some of these easier decisions will also get taken, sooner rather than later, and boards will become stronger and better equipped to provide leadership to the public sector?M Damodaran is chairperson, Excellence Enablers and former chairman, SEBI, UTI and IDBIThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-real-crisis-in-psus-leadership-101630247685494.html
29-08-2021||Editorials||A leap in India’s vaccine drive||Marked by three key events in the past week, India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive is showing remarkable progress. First, on Thursday, India covered half of its adult population with at least one shot of the vaccine. Second, a day later, more than 10 million doses were administered in a single day across the country for the first time. And third, also on Friday, the seven-day average of daily vaccine shot administration soared to a record high of 6.9 million doses a day. Of these, it is the third achievement (average dose administration) that is the most significant. By Sunday, this average had surpassed seven million for the first time ever – a huge improvement for a drive that had consistently remained at the sub-two million level through most of May and only crossed six million once at the end of June.What is needed now, however, is building on this energy to enhance second-dose coverage. According to Our World in Data, India’s overall coverage of population, with at least one dose, is 34% — placing it marginally above the global average of 33%. But India’s share of fully vaccinated population lags heavily — only 10% have received both doses, compared to a global average of 26%. Even countries such as Russia and Indonesia, both behind India in total coverage (30% and 22% respectively), are ahead in their share of fully vaccinated, with 24% and 12% of their population covered.To grasp the importance of the second dose, one must understand how multiple-dose vaccines work. Simply put, the first dose of the vaccine is a primer for the body. It teaches the immune system what to look for. Once the immune system is primed, it is challenged again with a second dose which puts this knowledge into practice, creating a larger immune response. This is why countries such as the United States and United Kingdom are already considering a third booster shot (which will create an even better immune response, according to studies). While India’s lag in number of fully vaccinated can be partly explained by the decision to delay the second dose of Covishield (a vaccine responsible for nine out of 10 shots in India), it is critical that the country starts covering this gap. Of every 10 people who have received shots in the country, only three have been fully vaccinated, too small a share for the country to return to normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-leap-in-india-s-vaccine-drive-101630247683970.html
29-08-2021||Editorials||India must pick the world’s best spinner, each time||The Indian men’s cricket team is fortunate to have a man who is, arguably, one of the world’s best batsmen and another who is, definitely, the world’s best spinner. The first is out of form in conditions where he has struggled in the past, and the second has sat out the first three games because the conditions, we have been told, are unfavourable. If the logic applied to the non-selection of the second is applied across the team, some others, including the first, would be unlikely to be selected. Yet, cricket has always treated bowlers and batters differently.There is a simple rule in any team sport. If there’s someone who is best in the world, pick them. Apologists for the Indian cricket establishment have sought to paper over the cracks in selection by pointing to successes. The team’s performance in Australia, where they won a series, is one such — never mind that the world’s best spinner had a role to play in it, the captain did not play much, and some of the wins were a result of old-fashioned scrapping, not dominance. There is nothing wrong with scrapping — it shows character — but it doesn’t always work.India must pick R Ashwin — as long as he is fit. He has been repeatedly told he is not good enough to make the team. This to a man who has more wickets than three of the five Indian bowlers who played the third test taken together. India is lucky to have him. Just as it is to have Virat Kohli. There is a bunch of batsmen that, on current form, is the world’s best (Kohli is missing from the grouping, hopefully temporarily); there’s simply no other spinner in the world currently as good as Ashwin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-must-pick-the-world-s-best-spinner-each-time-101630247682851.html
