31-08-2021||Delhi||Two snatchers behind ‘over 30 cases’ across Delhi arrested, say police||New Delhi: The city police on Tuesday arrested men who were allegedly behind over 30 cases of snatching, including at gunpoint, across the city.Police said the suspects, Pinku Bawaria (34) and Shyam Sunder (30), who were arrested from Burari, were allegedly part of the Bawaria gang which was active across the country. Investigators said Pinku is involved in 38 cases registered in Delhi and Hyderabad while Shyam was named in eight cases registered in Haryana. Police are also checking with other states to check if they are involved in more cases.Police said a team was constituted to nab the suspects after a snatching case was reported at Burarion August 28. On Tuesday, based on a tip-off, the team intercepted the gang members in Burari when they returning to their hideout in Mandoli after allegedly committing four thefts.Police said they recovered gold chains from their possession and registered a case under IPC sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several people in furtherence of common intention) at the Burari police station.During questioning, police said, the two allegedly confessed to numerous snatching cases all over Delhi. They had taken a rented accommodation in the area of Mandoli Extension and had even managed to get a fake Aadhaar card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-snatchers-behind-over-30-cases-across-delhi-arrested-say-police-101630434474649.html
31-08-2021||Lucknow||BSP will extend support to protesting farmers in Haryana, MP: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday instructed her party workers to extend support to the farmers' protests in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh against the new agriculture laws.Addressing a meeting of the party's office bearers, the BSP chief said that due to the rigid stand of the Centre, the governments in BJP-ruled states are in a way considering the farmers their opponent.The attitude of the Haryana government in particular has been extremely anti-farmer, she said.Owing to these anti-farmer and anti-people policies of the BJP, the condition of the public in Uttar Pradesh and in the rest of the country is bad, Mayawati added.The BSP will always stand with the genuine demands of the protesting farmers, and the party has been raising its voice for them both inside and outside Parliament, she said.BSP workers will extend their support to the farmers with strict discipline, Mayawati added.Agitated farmers have declared that they would intensify their stir in UP, and hence the BJP government in the state is requested to not behave in a barbaric manner, the BSP supremo said.She said the Centre must withdraw the farm laws, adopting a sympathetic view in honour of farmers and in the interest of the country.Mayawati reviewed the working of the party's polling booth committees, and issued instructions to finish the rest of the work on war footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-will-extend-support-to-protesting-farmers-in-haryana-mp-mayawati-101630433924499.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||OBC reservation row in Maharashtra: Defer local body polls, says NCP||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) wants the elections to the local bodies to be deferred until the issue of Other Backward Classes (OBC) reservation is resolved. The issue was discussed in a meeting of party ministers led by NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday. Pawar also asked the ministers to be careful and legally deal with the action by the central investigation agencies. The NCP is part of a three-party coalition, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, along with the Shiv Sena and Congress. The elections are due early next year. “The NCP chief advised the party ministers to see how elections to the local bodies can be deferred until the OBC reservation issue is resolved,” said a senior minister. “The NCP is of the view that the elections should not be held until the OBC reservation is sorted. It was also discussed in today’s meeting,” said Nawab Malik, national spokesperson, NCP. On March 4, the Supreme Court ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not exceed the 50% quota cap mandated by it. It has directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission to collect empirical data, based on which the reservation for the community can be fixed. It also allowed the state election commission to hold local body polls without reservation for OBCs. The state cabinet, in its discussion last week, decided that the state election commission will be requested to defer the upcoming local body elections for a few months considering the threat of a third Covid wave. The state is also mulling amendments to laws related to the local bodies for OBC reservation. “A few ministers also raised the issue of action against MVA ministers by the central agencies. Pawar saheb advised us to be careful and legally deal with any action as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wants to defame and create trouble for the MVA government,” said a senior minister. Many leaders and ministers from the MVA government are facing action by the central investigation agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED). After former home Anil Deshmukh and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, the ED has issued summons to the state transport minister Anil Parab. The BJP has also sought a CBI probe against deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar into the allegations made by controversial police officer Sachin Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obcreservation-row-in-maharashtra-defer-local-body-polls-says-ncp-101630434112893.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi University executive council gives final seal of approval for return of FYUP||New Delhi: Delhi University’s executive council (EC), the varsity’s highest decision-making body, on Tuesday passed a slew of academic reforms ratified by the academic council last week, including reintroducing the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP), which was scrapped in 2014 amid protests by teachers and students, and move to implement the 2020 National Education Policy (NEP) in the varsity from next year. Further, the university will also scrap MPhil from next year -- as per the NEP 2020 provisions -- and offer one- and two-year PG programmes from next year. “The one-year PG programme will be for students who have opted for four-year UG course. Students with three-year UG programme can opt for a two-year postgraduate programme from next academic session,” said EC member VS Negi.Three of the 20-member EC disagreed with the proposals on implementing NEP-based reforms. “NEP is blueprint for privatisation and commercialisation of education, its implementation in DU will lead to destruction of leading public funded universities of India… It willl adversely affect the workload of teachers leading to further contractualisation and retrenchment of teaching faculties,” said the dissent note issued by the three members.One of the EC members who submitted his dissent, advocate Ashok Agarwal, said it was “unfortunate” that a major restructuring was passed without responding to important issues raised by the members. “The merits of FYUP are not clear. Why should students pay for an additional year if the in-depth study of a discipline in a four-year UG course remains what it is today in a three-year undergraduate honours course,” he said.Two EC members also dissented on the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between DU, Ministry of Education and University Grants Commission which was renewed this year. “Under this MoU, the university administration is committing to revise the fees of students, which will lead to fee hike in the situation of declining budgetary support in real terms. This will have far-reaching consequences in the public-funded universities like DU,” the note read.However, Negi, who is a member of the right-wing teachers’ group National Teachers’ Democratic Front, said pointed out that the NEP was “passed by the AC and accepted by the EC”. “It is an avenue for expansion of higher education, aiming at an increase in gross enrolment ratio by introducing flexibility in the curriculum. The University has enough time for preparation and implementation of the NEP-based provisions. Workload, funding and expansion issues are there and the university should be vigilant in implementing the NEP in such a way that the number of teaching positions and funding is safeguarded,” he said.In 2013, the university had introduced FYUP amid much fanfare as a pet project of the then vice-chancellor (V-C) Dinesh Singh. Following stiff opposition and protest from students and teachers, the programme was eventually rolled back in 2014.On August 24, the university’s academic council passed -- amid dissent from 16 elected representatives -- the agenda to start FYUP along with multiple entry-exit scheme (MEES) and academic bank of credits (ABC) from the next academic session.Under the FYUP programme, interested applicants will be allowed to choose from three UG options next year: a three-year honours programme, a four-year honours in a discipline or a four-year honours in a discipline with research.The MEES-ABC combination will allow students to exit the course at the end of any academic year with credits in their “academic bank account” and later redeem those credits to pursue the course at any other university which comes under the ambit of the ABC system.According to the policy document placed in the statutory bodies in DU, an entrance test will be conducted for lateral entry of students from other universities registered under the ABC system, whereas re-entry will be allowed for students of DU and its own colleges. The entry will be subject to the availability of infrastructural capacity in the institute.Calling for a wider consultation process with stakeholders, DUTA president Rajib Ray also said, “The FYUP structure with MEES will increase expenditure towards the undergraduate programme. Students leaving the system without finishing the programme will always be treated as dropouts by the job markets. MEES will only increase attrition rate giving a false sense of a degree.”During the Zero hour on Tuesday, the EC members held discussion on various matters including the delay in the release of grants in 12 Delhi government-funded colleges and the subsequent problems in disbursal of salaries, absorption of ad-hoc and temporary teachers, and demand for health card for all the teachers.EC members also discussed about providing financial assistance to students who lost their parents to Covid-19 and allowing appointments for foreign adjunct faculty to increase international collaborations in the university.Meanwhile, DU teachers’ association (DUTA) held an online demonstration to protest against the e-learning promoted through these reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-executive-council-gives-final-seal-of-approval-for-return-of-fyup-101630433813445.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ED notice to CM Uddhav Thackeray’s aide; Shiv Sena unperturbed||After a brief lull, the tussle between former allies Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has re-commenced, with the central agencies “targeting” a minister of the Uddhav Thackeray-led government. This time, the situation is trickier as the minister in question is Anil Parab, who is in Thackeray’s inner circle and among his few close confidants within the Sena. However, Sena leadership is unperturbed by the development, party insiders claimed. Since last year, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent notices to Sena leaders, including legislator Pratap Sarnaik, MP Sanjay Raut’s wife and MP Bhawana Gawali. Also, the BJP leaders have been targeting people close to Thackeray, including Milind Narvekar. Parab, who was served a notice by the ED on Sunday, did not appear before the officials on Tuesday citing prior engagements. Party insiders said the minister has responded to the ED notice through his lawyers and sought more time as the notice was served less than 48 hours before the time he was asked to remain present. A Sena leader said the action against him was expected after the Maharashtra government took action against union minister Narayan Rane last week. He said the new session of ED notices started after Rane’s arrest. When asked if Sena leaders are on the radar of investigation agencies, Raut said, “Let it be so. We know that defence ministry has radars to spot enemies. If the ED or BJP think that we are enemies of this country, they can continue to keep us as targets.” Parab is privy to financial and legal issues of the party and so has been targeted to get to Thackeray, Sena insiders said. Before the ED notice, Parab faced allegations from dismissed police inspector Sachin Vaze, who alleged the minister had instructed him to collect ₹50 crore from a trust facing an inquiry to close the probe. Allegations were also levelled against the transport minister by BJP leader Kirit Somaiya over a land deal for a resort in Ratnagiri district. Parab has already refuted the allegations. “Over the years, Parab has become one of the key persons in the party whom Uddhav ji has entrusted him with many responsibilities, including the by-poll where Sena candidate trounced Narayan Rane and 2017 BMC elections. Being a lawyer, he also looks at the key legal issues for the party and was also involved in the election affidavits for Aaditya and Uddhav ji,” a senior Sena leader said requesting anonymity. Narvekar also faced allegations of environmental violations to construct a sea-side bungalow in Ratnagiri’s Murud area. He demolished the sea-side bungalow on August 22. The charge against Narvekar was levelled by BJP’s Kirit Somaiya, who filed RTI queries related to it. Raut on Tuesday said, “This has a political colour and there is political pressure [behind such actions]. BJP leaders have put out a list of 10 leaders from Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress who will be summoned by the ED next. So, it this summons from BJP or ED?” He was referring to Somaiya’s tweet on August 30, where he listed the “Great 11 of Thackeray government”, including Sarnaik, Narvekar, Parab, Gawali, Kishori Pednekar, Ravindra Waikar, Yashwant Jadhav, Yamini Jadhav. Somaiya has also listed Anil Deshmukh, Chhagan Bhujbal and Jitendra Awhad on his tweet. With around five months to go for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections, the Sena is expecting such moves by the Centre. “Over the last year, there is a definite pattern to defame Shiv Sena and its leaders,” the Sena functionary added. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said, “The BJP wants to break Thackeray’s strength. It is a harsh reality that BJP grew because of Sena and with these three parties together, power could remain elusive for BJP.” Raut added that allegations by BJP or notices by central agencies will not have any adverse impact on the party’s chance in the local body polls. Though the Sena leadership is unperturbed by the recent action by the Central agency, it does not have a definite plan to counter the BJP. In the past, Sena has handled the Antilia-Sachin Vaze issue and allegations against former minister Sanjay Rathod poorly. Another party functionary said, “At times, the wait-and-watch approach does not always help in the day and age of social media.” Raut has reiterated that they too have list of BJP leaders involved in alleged wrongdoings, but have not acted or put out any documents in the public domain so far. State BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “The BJP has been taking up issues that directly affect people. We are not interested in targeting political leaders personally. Besides, the central agencies function independently. If they are not involved in any wrongdoings, then they should not be afraid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ed-notice-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-s-aide-shiv-sena-unperturbed-101630433753076.html
31-08-2021||Other||NISHTHA courses must for all class 9-12 teachers of CBSE schools||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has asked all the principals of its affiliated schools (around 25,902) to ensure completion of National Initiatives for School Heads’ and Teachers’ Holistic Advancement (NISHTHA) courses by secondary level (Class 9-12) teachers as per the timetable shared by National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), according to CBSE officials. NISHTHA, a holistic programme under Samagra Shiksha and a flagship programme of the Union Ministry of Education, was launched in 2020. Courses rolled out under NISHTHA programme are centered around learning outcomes and learner-centered pedagogy and have been customised in online mode. NCERT is conducting these courses for secondary stage (Class 9 to 12) across the country through DIKSHA portal, they added. “A recent missive addressed to principals by director (Training and Skill Education) Biswajit Saha has been received in this regard. The letter also provides links and lists the steps for the teachers to register and access the courses available in English and Hindi mediums on DIKSHA, a platform launched to act as national digital infrastructure for teachers,” informed Jaya Singh, principal of DP Public School, a CBSE affiliated intermediate-level school in Katra. She said that class 9 to 12 teachers had been asked to complete the course as desired and a review would be undertaken within the next few days to assess the progress in this regard. Lauding the move, principal of CBSE-affiliated MPVM Ganga Gurukulam, Phaphamau Alpona Dey, said that teachers had been urged to enroll for the courses and complete it as needed. “Separate links as per language preference for different category of affiliated schools like one for CBSE independent private schools and another one for Central Tibetan School Administration (CTSA), Atomic Energy Education Society (AEES), Eklavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS), Sainik Schools and government-aided CBSE schools have been provided, besides a link for downloading the DIKSHA App,” she shared. The missive also explains that course links for the teachers of Navodaya Vidyalayas (NVs) and Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) will be shared by their respective organisations. The letter states that the certificate will be generated within 7-10 working days, if the course is 100% completed and a minimum of 70% score is attained by the teachers in the course assessment. A maximum of three attempts will be allowed to score 70% in the course end assessment, and the participants need to achieve a minimum 70% to earn the certificate. Objectives of NISHTHA courses: Teachers are trained to use art as pedagogy leading to increased creativity and innovation among students Develop and strengthen personal-social qualities of students for their holistic development Creation of a healthy and safe school environment Integration of ICT in teaching, learning and assessment Developing stress free school-based assessment focused on development of learning competencies Teachers adopt activity-based learning and move away from rote learning to competency based learning Teachers and school heads be sensitized on new initiatives in school education Improvement in learning outcomes of the students Creation of an enabling and enriching inclusive classroom environment Teachers become alert and responsive to the social, emotional and psychological needs of students as first level counsellors||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nishtha-courses-must-for-all-class-9-12-teachers-of-cbse-schools-101630433692884.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks details from Karnataka on plan to raise height of Almatti dam||After the announcement of raising the height of Almatti dam on Krishna river by the Karnataka government, the Maharashtra government has communicated with Karnataka for more details. The state government has apprehension that the rise in the water level in the dam could cause damage to the few villages in Sangli and Kolhapur that get affected by the backwater. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai recently said that he was committed to raising the height of the dam by 5 ft and the notification will soon be issued. He said that he will soon visit Delhi for necessary legal formalities and he has held talks with leaders in the stakeholder states. This triggered the reaction in other stakeholder states including Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The swelling in the water stock in Almatti may cause a rise in the backwater in Krishna, Panchganga river in Sangli and Kolhapur causing losses to lives and properties.“We have got in touch with the additional chief secretary, water resources department of Karnataka, seeking details of the plan. No concrete decision has been taken by them and it’s just an announcement. Before any intervention related to inter-state rivers by any of the stakeholders the permission from the technical approval committee, Central Water Commission is mandatory,” said Vijay Kumar Gautam, officer on special duty, water resources department, Maharashtra.“The Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal award in 2013 has decided on the share of water between four states, now our worry is over the rise in water level in Krishna and potential threat to areas in a few districts here,” he added.“There is no need to react in a haste. After all, it is important to see, how much water is discharged from Almatti. We got very good cooperation this year during monsoon. We will decide our stand after due discussion with Karnataka,” said water resources minister Jayant Patil.According to the officers in the WRD, there is no concrete conclusion if the rise in height will cause damage in Maharashtra. “The Karnataka government has been very cooperative with us during flooding in Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur in 2019 and this year. The water was discharged from Almatti despite the level being below the parameter fixed under Reservoir Operation System. It helped us in reducing the water level in Krishan and Panchganga. Secondly, it has not been concluded scientifically if the raising of the height of Almatti could cause damages in Sangli, Kolhapur. As a stakeholder, we will anyway have the right to move court being a stakeholder, if the damage is expected to cause,” said another official on condition of anonymity.Built in 2005, the Almatti dam has a current height of 519 ft, which is proposed to be increased to 524 ft. This would help Karnataka increase its capacity to 160 TM from the current 135 TMC of water, resulting in bringing 6.22 lakh hectares under irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-details-from-karnataka-on-plan-to-raise-height-of-almatti-dam-101630433574668.html
31-08-2021||Other||Bring UP-like population control bill: Akhara Parishad urges Centre||Mahant Narendra Giri, president, Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP)— the apex decision-making body of 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country— has urged the Centre to also bring a population control bill on the lines of the UP government’s step in this regard for maintaining the balance of religious and social structure in the country. “The bill should be binding on every state and there should not be any option for a state government to opt out. The Akhara Parishad appeals to PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah that the country should have such a law which helps in maintaining the crucial balance between communities,” said Giri in a recorded video communiqué issued on Tuesday. On the issue of some Muslim leaders supporting Taliban, Giri once again reiterated that government should take action against such Muslim religious leaders who are supporting Taliban. “The city of Kandahar in Afghanistan was once ruled by a Hindu king as is mentioned in our epic Mahabharata. However, today people of Hindu and Sikh communities have left Afghanistan which is a blatant example of what can happen in India too if the population balance of communities is not maintained,” he added. Giri also appealed to Muslim religious leaders to take action against those people, of their own community, who supported Taliban. “Those who support the terrorist organisation like Taliban should be treated as traitors and arrested. How can one speak in favour of an organisation which gets an open support of our enemy Pakistan?” questioned Giri. Welcoming CM Yogi Adityanath’s statement regarding implementing a ban on sale of liquor and meat in Mathura, ABAP president termed this a landmark move. While speaking at Krishnotsava-2021 programme at Mathura on Monday, CM Yogi Adityanath had announced a complete ban on the sale of liquor and meat in Mathura. He also suggested that those engaged in liquor and meat trade may take up selling milk in order to revive the glory of Mathura that was once known for producing huge quantity of milk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bring-up-like-population-control-bill-akhara-parishad-urges-centre-101630433092950.html
31-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar reports 13 cases of malaria in August, CMO orders surveillance of fever||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 23 cases of malaria since June, with August alone accounting for 13, according to data from the district health department.Last year, the district had a total of five cases between January and August. Officials said this was due fewer tests conducted during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the data, 34,460 samples were tested this year.Officials said that transmission period of vector borne diseases like dengue, malaria and chikungunya, which spread through mosquito bites, is between July and November.“The monsoon provides an ideal atmosphere -- an average temperature of 25°C and humidity above 60% -- for mosquitoes to breed. The malaria cases reported so far this year are not confined to any one area of the district,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, GB Nagar.Meanwhile, the GB Nagar administration has issued an alert about viral fever after several people died due to a fever, the cause of which is yet unknown, reported in a few western Uttar Pradesh districts like Mathura and Firozabad .Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer, Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, ordered that a control room and a rapid response team (RRT) be set up at each health centre in the district, including community health centres and primary health centres.“This has been done to quickly treat any patient who reports fever or similar symptoms. Each health centre has to maintain a register where report of any such case and action taken in relation to it will be written,” said Dr Sharma.The officials said that although there are no cases of such fatal fevers in the district yet, these were precautionary measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-reports-13-cases-of-malaria-in-august-cmo-orders-surveillance-of-fever-cases-101630433032292.html
31-08-2021||Indore||Entire adult population in Indore vaccinated with first dose of Covid jab: MP CM||The entire targeted population of Indore in Madhya Pradesh has been inoculated with the first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan informed on Tuesday. “I want to congratulate the people of Indore as 100% of the adult population has been vaccinated with the first dose of Covid vaccine,” he told news agency ANI.I want to congratulate the people of Indore as 100% of the adult population has been vaccinated with the first dose of #COVID vaccine: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan pic.twitter.com/dEIEsHlx33Indore collector Manish Singh said that the district administration had set the goal of administering as many as 28,07,559 beneficiaries against the coronavirus disease, and till now, a total of 28,08,212 citizens have received the first jab – surpassing the target. “Indore is the only district in the country, among the regions with a population above 10 lakh, to vaccinate 100 per cent of its eligible population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.Moreover, of the 28,08,212 eligible persons of the city who received the coronavirus vaccines, roughly 10 lakh had been administered with both doses of the vaccine, Singh further told PTI.According to a statement by the directorate of health services, MP, which was shared on its profile in Hindi, Chouhan, during his stay in Indore on August 26, had asked for the milestone to be achieved in this month itself.गत 26 अगस्त को मुख्यमंत्री श्री शिवराज सिंह चौहान द्वारा इन्दौर प्रवास के दौरान दिए गए निर्देशों का सौ फ़ीसदी पालन हो गया है। उल्लेखनीय है कि मुख्यमंत्री श्री चौहान ने इंदौर प्रवास के दौरान आयोजित कार्यक्रम में अगस्त माह में ही शत-प्रतिशत टीकाकरण पूरा करने का आग्रह किया था।Singh gave credit to “all citizens, public representatives, media personnel and government servants engaged in vaccination work of Indore district.”The news comes on the day India crossed its previous milestone of inoculating 1 crore vaccine doses in a single-day after 1.09 crore people were given the jabs on Tuesday, according to data available on the CoWIN portal.Meanwhile, last week it was reported that the samples of two Covid-19 recovered patients were found infected with the highly virulent Delta Plus strain – the subtype of the Delta variant. A 35-year-old woman and a 42-year-old man were found to have contracted the strain, Indore’s nodal officer for the prevention of Covid-19, Dr Amit Malakar, told PTI.Their samples were collected and sent to the National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi in July. Malakar further stated that both the patients have been vaccinated and have recovered from the infection as well. This marked the first cases of the Delta Plus strain in Indore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/entire-adult-population-in-indore-vaccinated-with-first-dose-of-covid-jab-mp-cm-101630432368237.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: First batch of 25 electric buses to start operation in Sept||The first batch of 25 air conditioned, low-floor electric buses will begin operations in Ghaziabad in the last week of September and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will likely inaugurate it, said officials aware of the development.Four routes have been finalised that will cover a total distance of 88 kilometres, plying over some of the major roads in the city.In August 2019, the department of heavy industries approved 5,595 e-buses to 64 cities, state governments and state transport undertakings for intra- and inter-city operations in a bid to reduce carbon emission. Uttar Pradesh got 600 of these of which 50 was for Ghaziabad.“We are proposing to operationalise the routes by September 26 under phase 1 for which 25 buses will be pressed into service. The remaining 25 will arrive in the next phase. The project is likely to be inaugurated by the UP chief minister and it Prime Minister Narendra Modi may also inaugurate it,” said AK Singh, regional manager of the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said on Tuesday.The e-bus project is the first government-run intracity bus service in Ghaziabad city and will provide safe, comfortable and reliable mode of public transport to passengers, he said.The first route spanning 33km will connect Anand Vihar and Muradnagar, while another of 20km will connect Anand Vihar and ALT Centre in Raj Nagar. Another 20-km route will connect Dilshad Garden and Govindpuram, while the last route will connect Tila Morh and New Bus Stand over 15km.“A private agency will operate it and hire drivers and staff, while the UPSRTC will supervise it. The fare is proposed to be between ₹10 and ₹50,” said Singh.The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has allotted 25,000 square metres at Akbarpur-Behrampur near Vijay Nagar for a maintenance depot for the buses.“That work is complete. We have also come up with a special purpose vehicle (SPV) Ghaziabad City Transport Services Limited to run the buses headed by the Meerut divisional commissioner with the district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, municipal commissioner, regional manager of UPSRTC, among others, as members of its board,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-first-batch-of-25-electric-buses-to-start-operation-in-sept-101630432912283.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Covid vaccination: GB Nagar achieves over 98% first dose coverage||More than 98% of those eligible to get the Covid-19 vaccine in Gautam Budh Nagar have gotten at least one dose of the vaccine so far, according to the data released by the district health department.Officials said while all eligible people in the district would get at least one dose by September, they would receive both doses by the end of November. Currently, Covid-19 vaccinations are open to everyone aged 18 years or more.The district administered 12,125 doses on Tuesday, taking the tally of those who have received at least one dose vaccine to 1,558,532, the data showed. A total of 1,589,615 people are eligible for vaccination in the district, the officials said.Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sunil Sharma said now only about 31,000 eligible people are left to get their first shot, after which the district will achieve 100% first dose coverage. “If the vaccination drive continues at the same pace (about 12,000 doses a day), everyone in the district will get at least one dose vaccine by the end of September. But as we are regularly holding mega vaccination drives – usually once a week – this target is likely to be achieved much before that,” he said.The CMO also said now the district health department is focusing on administering second doses. “So far, we’ve administered as many as 495,785 second doses to beneficiaries, which is about 31% of those eligible. But we aim to administer both doses to 100% eligible population by November,” he said.Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, said the age group of 18-45 years is leading in terms of number of jabs. “Of the 2.05 million doses administered in the district so far, nearly 1.4 million have been administered to this age group. While 444,912 doses have been administered to the 45-60 age group, the remaining 248,302 doses have been administered to those aged 60 years or more,” he said.“The percentage of adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI) cases reported in the district so far is 0.002%, which is less than the state’s average of 0.003%,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-vaccination-gb-nagar-achieves-over-98-first-dose-coverage-101630432792291.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Section 144 extended till Sept 30 in Noida||Noida The Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate on Tuesday extended the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 till September 30 in the wake of upcoming festivals amid the pandemic.“In the view of upcoming festivals such as Vishwakarma puja, Guru Dronacharya festival, among others, during September, there are chances that anti-social elements would create issues and social disturbance,” said Shraddha Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, law and order, in a police notice. The order bans the assembly of five or more persons.According to the order, no activities in public places will be allowed without masks and social distancing while night curfew will continue to remain in place from 10pm to 6am. All activities, apart from medical and essential services, will be prohibited in containment zone.”No communal, political, or sports activities will be allowed without permission from the concerned departments. While gyms, movie theatres, malls, restaurants, sweet shops, etc., will continue to operate with 50% occupancy, only a maximum of 50 guests will be allowed to attend wedding ceremonies while swimming pools will continue to remain shut. Religious places will also not have more than 50 worshippers at a time. And there will be a complete ban on celebratory firing. Public transport will be allowed with 50% occupancy, and auto-rickshaws with three passengers and four-wheelers with four persons at a time,” read the order.According to the Covid-19 guidelines, a ban on protests, hunger strikes, and processions will remain in place. Strict action will be taken against those consuming liquor or narcotics in public places, and sparking uproar on social media by sharing objectionable or sensitive content, the order added. Unfair means during any competitive examinations will not be used under any circumstances while gathering fo more than five people or playing oud sounds within 200 yards of any exam centre will not be allowed, said police officials.The Covid-19 guidelines, as part of imposition of fresh prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144, will remain in place till September 30, and violators will be booked under relevant Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections, Pandey said on Saturday.The Covid-19 outbreak was declared a pandemic in March 2020, and the safety guidelines are being revised constantly, according to a statement issued by the Noida police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/section-144-extended-till-sept-30-in-noida-101630432674725.html
31-08-2021||Other||24 hurt in stampede at vaccination camp in north Bengal||At least 24 people, including several women, were injured when a huge rush at a Covid-19 vaccination centre in West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district led to a stampede on Tuesday, police said. Eight people were admitted to Jalpaiguri district hospital and Birpara state general hospital. The rest were released after treatment. Nobody suffered any critical injury, said police officers who visited the spot. The local administration announced two days ago that vaccines would be administered at Duramari Chandrakant High School in the Banarhat community block. A few hundred people gathered outside the school on Tuesday but the gates were not opened till around 10 am. “More than 300 people were waiting outside the school. When police and local panchayat members opened the gate these people rushed in. It led to a stampede,” said Bhabani Roy, an eyewitness. Deborshi Dutta, Jalpaiguri superintendent of police, said “The school authorities did not know about the camp. Possibly there was a communication gap. Police took the injured people to the hospital.” Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate, said “The block development officer of Banarhat has been asked to probe the incident and submit a report by Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24-hurt-in-stampede-at-vaccination-camp-in-north-bengal-101630432674233.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad likely to get 7,000 more vaccine doses daily from September||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh health department has increased the daily average vaccine stock allotment to Ghaziabad from 16,000 doses to 23,000 doses from September 2021, said officials on Tuesday.“Our request for allotment of an average 23,000 vaccine doses daily has been accepted. It is likely that we will start receiving the stock from September itself. This was done as more beneficiaries are coming to our Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) every day. Once an increased stock arrives, we will provide more stock to our CVCs,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO).“We are starting the mega vaccination drive on September 6, 2021, again, with a target of administering 70,000 or more vaccine doses a day. With the enhanced stock availability, we will be able to improve our vaccination coverage in coming weeks and it is likely that we will surpass the vaccination coverage in Gautam Budh Nagar,” he added.According to Co-WIN portal figures at 8pm on Tuesday, Ghaziabad ranks third with a total 20,11,618 doses of vaccines being administered, after Lucknow (26,98,352) and Gautam Budh Nagar (20,54,615). The district on Tuesday also completed administration of 21440 doses with the help of 74 government CVCs.Officials familiar with the development said that they have almost doubled the number of vaccination camps in Ghaziabad ahead of a possible third wave of Covid-19.“We are taking help from eminent people, NGOs, and associations to hold more camps in rural and urban areas. We have increased the vaccination coverage with ‘near to home’ CVCs, and once we get the increased vaccine stock, more such camps will be set up,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for the Covid vaccination in the district.Out of the total 20,11,618 vaccine doses being administered so far, Ghaziabad has administered 4,24,707 second doses of vaccines (21.11%) of the overall vaccination. The rate of second dose of vaccines is higher than the state’s second dose coverage (16.01%), with 1,16,93,273 second doses of vaccines out of total 7,29,94,302 doses of vaccines being administered till 8pm on Tuesday, according to the Co-WIN portal figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-likely-to-get-7-000-more-vaccine-doses-daily-from-september-101630432552251.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Rain lashes Noida, but spares commuters hassle of jams||A spell of rain on Tuesday caused waterlogging in some areas of Noida, but only a few traffic snarls were reported in the city, according to officials. They added that even the waterlogging in some areas did not last long due to the low volume of rain. Among the affected areas were sectors 44 and 45, and Mahamaya Flyover, the officials said.“There were no traffic jams amid the light rainfall that hit the city after 10am, as the morning traffic was already cleared by that time. However, the city saw traffic snarls at some places, including the DND cut,” said an official of the traffic police department.The city received 16mm of rainfall on Tuesday, as against 84.1mm in neighbouring Delhi, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, the rain brought down the maximum temperature of Noida by 6°C.According to IMD, the city may continue to receive light to moderate rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday.On Tuesday, IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida at 27.1°C and 25.1°C, against 33.5°C and 25.9°C a day earlier. At Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 28.9°C and 25.4°C -- five degrees and one degree below the season’s average, respectively. The humidity levels oscillated between 100% and 77%, the IMD said.“The NCR may see light to moderate rainfall for the next two days. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 29°C,” said an IMD official, requesting anonymity.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet, said, “The low-pressure monsoon line of trough entered the region through southeast of Delhi on Tuesday. The moisture levels in the region are still high, and the rainfall is likely to continue for the next two days. The region will see dry weather and a rise in the temperatures from September 3 and receive rainfall again from September 6.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rain-lashes-noida-but-spares-commuters-hassle-of-jams-101630432494709.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||88% Covid beds in Mumbai are vacant, says BMC||With the dip in the number of cases in mid-August, 13,453 (87.9%) of the 15,290 Covid beds across hospitals in the city are vacant as of Tuesday morning. The 15,290 beds comprise normal beds, oxygen beds, ICU beds, paediatric ICU beds, neonatal ICU beds, and ventilator beds for Covid patients. A total of 6,838 (90%) of the 7,595 oxygen beds are vacant; 1,639 (73%) of the 2,243 ICU beds are vacant; 883 (68%) of the 1,289 ventilator beds are vacant. Of the 39 paediatric ICU beds, 37 are vacant; of the 28 neonatal ICU beds, 22 are vacant. Of the 127 Covid-19 beds for patients who also have cancer and/or required dialysis, 66 beds (51%) are vacant. Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s public health department, said, “We have noticed bed vacancy has been steadily increasing over the past two-three weeks. The dip in cases witnessed during August is mainly responsible for this.” However, within the past week, the number of cases reported daily has increased. Mumbai has reported over 300 cases per day since last week. This has increased the number of active cases to 3,469. In mid-August, active cases dropped to below 3,000 on some days. On August 18, the total active cases in the city were 2,904. Of the total 15,290 beds, 10,450 beds are in public hospitals and 4,840 in private hospitals. A total of 89% of the beds in public hospitals are vacant, and 85.1% of the beds in private hospitals are vacant. Of the total 2,243 ICU beds, 1,179 are in public hospitals (71% are vacant); 1,064 are in private hospitals (74% are vacant). Of the total 7,595 oxygen beds, 4,358 are in public hospitals (91% are vacant); 3,237 are in private hospitals (87% are vacant). Similarly, of the 1,289 ventilator beds, 787 are in public hospitals (68% vacant), and 502 are in private hospitals (68% are vacant).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/88-covid-beds-in-mumbai-are-vacant-says-bmc-101630432494185.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Six of family injured in accident on Yamuna Expressway||Six members of a family, including a three-year-old girl, were injured on Monday night when the car they were travelling in was hit by a speeding truck on the Yamuna Expressway in Dankaur. The accident took place near Chapargadh village when the family was returning after visiting a temple in Vrindavan, police said. Arvind Pathak, Dankaur police station house officer, said that the six persons – Sunil Kumar, 30, his wife Kavita, 28, their daughter Jiya, 3, sister Preeti, 22, sister-in-law Anita, 24, and her husband Ramesh, 26 – were travelling in a Maruti Swift Dzire. All the victims are residents of Dadha village in Greater Noida, police said.“The family members had visited Banke Bihari temple. On Monday, they were returning home in Greater Noida. When they reached Dankaur area, a speeding truck coming in the same direction hit their car,” the SHO said.Some passersby informed police and a police team reached the spot, Pathak said, adding that the car was badly damaged in the incident. The victims were admitted to a private hospital for medical treatment. Police said that Kavita, Jiya and Ramesh have received serious injuries while other three persons escaped with minor injuries. Sunil’s cousin Gautam filed a complaint against an unidentified truck driver at Dankaur police station. Pathak said a case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC has been registered. “The truck driver had abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot after the accident. We are trying to identify him using the vehicle’s registration number. He will be arrested soon,” he said. The truck involved in the accident has been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-of-family-injured-in-accident-on-yamuna-expressway-101630432492862.html
31-08-2021||Noida||3 booked for snatching cab in G Noida||Greater Noida: Three persons were booked for allegedly snatching a cab from a driver in Greater Noida on Sunday evening.The victim, Buddu Khan, a native of Bulandshahr, is a resident of Krishna Nagar housing complex in Greater Noida West. He used to drive the car with an app-based cab aggregator in the National Capital Region (NCR). At 5pm on Monday, he got a booking from Tigri roundabout to Greater Noida’s Tilapta. “I was in Greater Noida West at that time. When I arrived at the pickup point in my Maruti Suzuki Ertiga two people boarded my car and asked me to drive to Tilapta. The suspects asked me to stop on the way and picked up an accomplice. When we reached the destination -- Tilapta -- the three persons again asked me to drive to Dadri’s Rupwas village. On reaching Rupwas village, the suspects suddenly tried to choke me with a rope around my neck. I raised an alarm... I managed to open the car’s door and come out,” Khan said. One of the suspects immediately took to the driving seat and fled with the car, he added. The victim also lost his two mobile phones and R7,900 which were kept in the car. With the help of a passerby, Khan informed police about the incident. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO), Dadri police station, said a case has been registered against the unidentified suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 392 (robbery). “We have launched a search to arrest the suspects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3-booked-for-snatching-cab-in-g-noida-101630432492228.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai set to complete giving 10 million doses||Nine months after Covid vaccination kicked off in the city on January 16, Mumbai will have administered 10 million doses next week. At the current pace, the target population in the 18-45 age group in Mumbai may get fully vaccinated by December or January. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said there cannot be any set date, as it depends on the supply. The vaccination started with health care workers, followed by frontline workers and senior citizens. Those above the age of 45 were vaccinated from March, while the drive for everyone above the age of 18 was rolled out in May. Mumbai witnessed a lot of ups and downs, with the vaccination drive getting suspended at public centres for over two dozen times due to unavailability of stock. According to the data, the BMC received 5,837,330 vaccine doses of both Covishield and Covaxin since January. A total of 9,305,662 vaccine doses – 8,535,275 doses of Covishield, 740,621 of Covaxin and 29,766 of Russia’s Sputnik – have been administered. A total of 2,489,854 citizens are fully vaccinated as of August 30. Of the total 9,305,662 doses, 4,082,682 have been administered at private hospitals, 496,793 state centres and the remaining 4,726,187 at civic-run vaccination centres. The BMC got the highest (996,860) vaccine doses in August, 983,390 doses in July and 739,190 in June. In May, the BMC got 523,440 vaccine doses, 947,500 in April, 810,950 in March, 571,000 in February and 265,000 in January 2021. In its budget for the ongoing fiscal, the BMC had said that eventually it will ultimately vaccinate 10 million citizens. This would mean that the BMC will have to administer 20 million doses to fully vaccinate 10 million citizens. As per Census 2021, the city’s population is 12.1 million. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “There is no fixed date as to when our vaccination drive will be completed. It all depends on the supply. However, currently over nine million vaccine doses are administered. Of this, we are assuming that around 20% are outsiders and the remaining 80% reside in Mumbai. The 20% also matter because if a person working in Mumbai but staying in nearby cities gets vaccinated in Mumbai, that makes the environment of our city safe. So, it is also important that the floating population of the city has access to the vaccine.” Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Be it Mumbai, Maharashtra or India, we are one of the fastest and rapidly vaccinating countries. I feel in the next two months, the situation will change and it will be better in terms of vaccination.” September is expected to have the highest supply, considering the maximum number of citizens in the 18-45 age group, who took the first dose in June, will now be eligible for their second dose. Of the total, first dose has been given to 4,027,701 in the 18-45 age group, 2,701,471 in the 45-59 age group, 1,799,061 aged 60 years and above and 735,463 health care and front-line workers. In the past one month, 3,146 bedridden citizens also have been administered vaccine doses. The BMC has also created separate categories for lactating mothers, physically and mentally challenged, pregnant women and those going abroad for work or study for vaccination. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-set-to-complete-giving-10-million-doses-101630432132782.html
31-08-2021||Other||Flood condition deteriorates in Assam; over half a million people affected in 22 districts||The flood situation in Assam deteriorated further on Tuesday with over half a million people (573,938) in 22 districts of the state affected, officials said. According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), a total of 1278 villages and localities in 61 revenue circles of the state are hit by flooding. Nalbari (110,000), Darrang (109,000) and Lakhimpur (108,000) are the worst affected of all districts. One child died due to drowning in Morigaon during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of those deceased this season to three. A total of 4009 persons displaced by floods are taking shelter in relief camps in seven affected districts. Nearly 40,000 hectares of crop area have also been affected due to inundation in the affected districts. Portions of 50 roads in seven districts remained submerged or got damaged due to flooding and over 350,000 domestic animals and poultry have also been affected, the ASDMA report mentioned. Nearly 70% area of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) spread over 430 sq km continued to remain inundated on Tuesday. According to details released by KNPTR authorities, 9 animals of the park (7 hog deers and 2 swamp deers) have died till now due to flood-related incidents. A total of 153 of the 223 anti-poaching camps located inside the park remained inundated. One camp has been vacated due to excessive flooding. On Tuesday, KNPTR personnel rescued a 10-day old male rhino calf from the central range of the park. The weak and debilitated calf, which got separated from its mother, has been sent to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) for treatment and rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flood-condition-deteriorates-in-assam-over-half-a-million-people-affected-in-22-districts-101630431954465.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Hingoli gets lowest doses; district’s vax coverage below state average||Hingoli in Marathawada region stands at the bottom of Maharashtra’s vaccination supply with merely 0.79% of the 47 million vaccine doses given to the district. The low supply of doses reflects in the district’s low vaccination coverage in the vulnerable 45 plus population- its coverage is around 32.73%, much lower than the state’s average of 51.26%. The district’s vaccination coverage in the 18-44 age category is 17.23% while the state’s average is 29.8%. According to the state estimates, Hingoli’s adult population is around 10.28 lakh. As of Tuesday, the district had received only 3.74 lakh doses. With limited supply, the district has managed to fully vaccinate only 54978 people in the 45 plus population and 9684 people in the 18-44 category. “The vaccination coverage is definitely at the lower end, but we have been receiving limited supply since the very beginning,” said Dr Shivaji Pawar, the district health officer of Hingoli. “We have been requesting the state authorities to increase our allotment for the past several months. Our supply had ranged between 3,000 to 4,000 doses every four days. Only on two days over the past week, we have received 32,000 and 30,000 doses at once,” he said. According to Pawar, the highest daily vaccination in Hingoli has been 13,000 doses. “We have a capacity of nearly 15,000 doses per day in the 113 vaccination centres. We need a weekly quota of at least 60,000 doses,” he said. The district has recorded over 18,400 Covid-19 cases and over 500 deaths to date. Over the past fortnight, Hingoli has been recording new cases in single digit including zero cases on a few days. “Since the number of cases is so low, we can use this time to increase the pace of vaccination and protect those who have not been infected,” said Pawar adding that he is hopeful that the vaccine supply to the district will increase in the coming days. A state health official said districts have been allotted vaccine doses in proportion to the population. “Occasionally, some districts have been allotted higher doses when they were seeing a surge in cases,” the official said. But health activists said that vaccine disparity is a major issue not just across states in India but also within the districts in the states. “The vaccine distribution is not always guided by epidemiological reasoning,” said Dr Abhijit More of Jan Arogya Abhiyan. “Often, socio-political factors play a major role,” he said. According to More, while big cities like Mumbai are rightly allotted a higher number of doses because of the population as well as the spread of the infection, the state must thrive to have a fair distribution model across districts. “Nearly 20% to 30% of the vaccine doses are being supplied through the private sector. The state must also work out distribution strategies and CSR models to route some vaccines to the districts with low coverage,” said More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrahingoli-gets-lowest-doses-district-s-vax-coverage-below-state-average-101630431893770.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: One injured in landslide, 350 shifted from Malad due to rockfall||Two separate incidents of landslide and rockfall were reported in the city owing to heavy rainfall on Tuesday. In the first incident, a landslide was reported at Saki Naka area, in which one person was injured. The second incident of rockfall was reported in the Kurar area of Malad where 350 citizens were shifted to temporary accommodation.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management cell, at around 10.43pm on Monday night, a landslide was reported at the Saki Naka area, in Kurla. Due to this, some rocks along with soil fell on a public toilet resulting in injury to one person. The injured was identified as 47-year-old Jivasacha Shah (male) who was rushed to civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, where he was treated and discharged, according to BMC’s disaster management cell. Further, at around 10.20am, an incident of rockfall was reported in the Kurar area of Malad East. According to BMC officials, the incident of rockfall was reported around 10am. Around 350 residents from the nearby houses on the hill area were shifted to Kurar Municipal School in Parekh Nagar for a temporary period at 12.30pm. No injuries were reported due to the incident.In July, two incidents of landslides were reported in Vikhroli and Chembur areas in which over 30 people were killed. In the city, there are over 250 landslide-prone spots, of which, around 200 are in eastern suburbs alone. The state had in July announced that it is going to form a policy to shift all residents who are residing in landslide-prone spots of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-one-injured-in-landslide-350-shifted-from-malad-due-to-rockfall-101630431652779.html
31-08-2021||Gurugram||Rainfall of 25.6mm pushes down mercury levels||The city received 25.6mm of rainfall on Tuesday, which pushed the maximum temperature five degrees lower than usual, as per a bulletin issued by the India Metrological Department (IMD) of Chandigarh. The IMD also forecasted more rain till Saturday.The maximum temperature recorded in the city was 28.8°C, while the minimum temperature was 24°C, one degree lower than the usual. Barring a 45-minute spell of moderate rain between 10.45am and 11.30am, the city received spells of light rains from 10am to 1pm.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast, the city will have a “generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” till Saturday. On Sunday and Monday, the city is predicted to have a “generally cloudy sky with possibility of rain or thunderstorm.”Most master and internal roads did not report major waterlogging and there was no major disruption to traffic due to the rainfall. Localised waterlogging was reported from a few stretches, such as Narsinghpur-Khandsa road and Old-Delhi Gurgaon road, but the water accumulation was below shin level.“Our officials were deputed at all waterlogging vulnerable points across the city. The rains on Tuesday were largely of low intensity and the existing drainage systems, hence, were able to manage the volume of rainwater and channel it towards the Badshahpur drain. Barring a few localised stretches, the usage of motor pumps was limited,” a senior official of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s engineering wing, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rainfall-of-25-6mm-pushes-down-mercury-levels-101630431358355.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: 9-year-old dies of electrocution in Turbhe||A nine-year-old boy from Ambedkar Nagar in Turbhe died of electrocution after he came in contact with a live wire on Monday.Police said that Naved Javed Khan had come out of his house for some work when he accidentally touched the live wire attached to an electric pole. He lost his consciousness on the spot and was taken to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him dead. Rajendra Awhad, senior inspector of Turbhe police station, said, “For now, we have registered an accidental death case. We are investigating the case and if we find anyone’s negligence, we will register FIR against him.”Khan’s body was handed over to his family after post-mortem was conducted at NMMC Hospital, Vashi.Navi Mumbai received a total of 70mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Tuesday.According to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s disaster management cell, Belapur received the highest rainfall with 88.80mm. It was followed by Nerul (88mm), Vashi (67mm), Koparkhairane (57.20mm) and Airoli (49mm).A tree fell down in Airoli due to incessant rains in the early hours of Tuesday. No one was injured in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-9-year-old-dies-of-electrocution-in-turbhe-101630431357137.html
31-08-2021||Gurugram||Robbers snatch car from cabbie after booking trip from Jaipur to Gurugram||Three unidentified persons who had booked a cab through a mobile aggregator app from Jaipur to Gurugram on Sunday were booked for robbing the vehicle from the cab driver at Panchgaon in the early hours, the police said.The cab driver, who owned an Etios car, told police that they had booked a trip from Jaipur to the Gurugram Bus Stand but when they reached Panchgaon, hit him with a heavy object and forced him out of the vehicle, following which they made off in the vehicle using a service road. A case was registered against the three unidentified accused under sections 379B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code at the Manesar police station. “The CCTV footage is being examined and the accused would be soon arrested,” said Subash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police.Dilesh Singh Renkwal, a resident of Bharatpur, in his complaint to the police, said that on Sunday, he started from Jaipur with two of the men sitting on the rear seats, while one sat alongside him on the front seat. “When I reached Panchgaon around 2am, they asked me to stop on the pretext of buying a water bottle. When I returned and was about to start the vehicle, one of them pushed me from behind and hit me with a heavy object and they threatened to kill me if I raised the alarm,” he said. He said that the trio also took his Aadhaar card, three ATM cards, driving licence, cash and two mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/robbers-snatch-car-from-cabbie-after-booking-trip-from-jaipur-to-gurugram-101630431355766.html
31-08-2021||Gurugram||Bandhwari landfill: Citizens voice opposition to WTE plant at hearing||Citizens, including environmentalists, doctors and residents of villages near Bandhwari, on Tuesday, voiced their opposition to a proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Bandhwari landfill during a public hearing held by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).The hearing took place under a makeshift canopy at the foothills of the landfill, amid rain and heavy police presence. At least 150 citizens attended the meeting to interact with officials of the district administration, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), HSPCB and Ecogreen Energy, the MCG’s concessionaire for waste management.Among the key points raised by environmentalists and villagers was that the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) from the Bandhwari waste plant can be transported to the recently opened WTE in Sonepat for processing. Doctors opposed the project, citing health hazards, while residents also cited the example of three WTEs in Delhi being fined ₹5 lakh each for violating air pollution norms earlier this month.In addition, environmentalists also wanted a change in MCG’s localised composting strategy, from focussing on RWAs to setting up large-scale units in each ward. Around 1,800 tonnes of waste is transported from Gurugram and Faridabad to the Bandhwari landfill daily.“The main contention for building the WTE is for clearing legacy waste. The MCG should, instead, focus on strengthening its localised composting and recycling units. If both of these work at their optimum capacity, only 7-8% of the city’s waste would need to be dumped at the Bandhwari landfill,” said Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist.Rana further brought up the point that the MCG should transport RDF to Sonepat, where a WTE project has been commissioned, and that the Haryana government should focus on increasing its capacity to process additional waste from Gurugram and Faridabad.“In terms of logistics, Sonepat is less than 100 kilometres away. The MCG and the Haryana government can transfer Bandhwari’s RDF to the existing Sonepat plant, which can be upgraded to process further waste instead of spending money on building a new one,” said Rana.The public hearing on Tuesday was the second one held regarding the project, after the first hearing was held in March 2018. Public hearings are a prerequisite for getting environmental clearance from the ministry of environment, forest, and climate change (MoEF&CC) for setting up a WTE project.With regard to the Bandhwari landfill, environmental clearance for setting up a 15 megawatt (MW) capacity WTE was granted in November 2019. The public hearing on Tuesday was held to discuss the proposed expansion of its capacity to 25 MW, besides general issues concerning a WTE plant.Ruchika Sethi, an environmentalist and representative of Citizens for Clean Air, a Gurugram-based citizens’ group to fight air pollution, said that the MCG needs to change its strategy of recycling, segregation, and processing of waste on a localised level.“Currently, all compost plants in the city are managed by RWAs within their townships, societies, and condominiums. The problem with such a strategy is that it does not take into account the waste generated by villages and small pockets of independent houses. Only 30% of the city’s total waste is generated in the RWA area. The MCG, instead, needs to set up large-scale composting and recycling units on a ward-wise basis,” said Sethi.Members of the Aravalli Bachao Group called for the public hearing to be declared “null and void” and instead, asked authorities to hold meetings with active citizens of Gurugram and Faridabad, along with solid waste management experts.“Cities such as Indore, Ambikapur in Chattisgarh, and towns in Kerala are managing their waste without creating toxic WTE plants. We want the authorities to call for a roundtable of active citizens of Gurugram and Faridabad and solid waste management experts from around the country to discuss sustainable models for the two cities,” said Neelam Ahluwalia, a member of the Aravalli Bachao Group.Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of Gurugram (North), HSPCB, who was one of the officials chairing the public hearing, said, “All opinions, suggestions, and concerns raised in today’s public hearing will be documented and sent to HSPCB headquarters in Panchkula for perusal. Subsequently, the application process for environmental clearance for the WTE project would be sent to MoEF along with the points raised in the public hearing. The entire process will take its due course of time.”A senior MCG official who attended the meeting, on the condition of anonymity, said, “There is around 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill. The WTE is needed for expediting its clearance. Suggestions, questions, claims, and objections received in today’s public hearing will be uploaded on the website of MCG and HSPCB. We have also agreed to organise a roundtable meeting with waste management experts, environmentalists in the near future for further discussion on the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bandhwari-landfill-citizens-voice-opposition-to-wte-plant-at-hearing-101630431354448.html
31-08-2021||Gurugram||Forgery: Five booked for selling senior citizen’s plot using fake signature||Five persons were booked for allegedly duping a senior citizen of her 500-square yard plot in Sector 52 by forging documents to sell and transfer the property. The prime suspect was produced in court on Tuesday and taken on five-day remand, the police said.The complainant, an 86-year-old woman, said that the main suspect was an acquaintance. The police said a case under sections 120 (B), 420, 467, 468, 471 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the prime suspect, Atul Goyal, and four others at Sadar police station on July 28. In her complaint to the police, 86-year-old Sushila Devi alleged that the suspect, a resident of Sector 92, conspired with four others to dupe her and forged her signature, to sell the plot and also manage the transfer of this property with the authorities. “I am a senior citizen and I can’t visit the plot often. He abused my confidence and prepared fake documents to sell my plot in Sector 52 without my knowledge,” the woman said in her complaint. She went to inspect her property four months ago and was shocked to find that a large house was being constructed on the plot. Upon making enquiries, she came to know that the plot had been purchased by two persons. When she approached the authorities over the sale, she found that her signature had been forged to sell the plot. “I have not sold this plot nor signed any documents to transfer the property and false signatures have been used,” she stated in her complaint. A senior police official said that a case was registered against the five suspects at Sadar police station last month and after a probe, the suspect was arrested. “Atul Goyal was arrested in this matter and produced in court on Tuesday. The police will question him during the remand period of five days,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/forgery-five-booked-for-selling-senior-citizen-s-plot-using-fake-signature-101630431352766.html
31-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: 20% of slots to be reserved for Co-WIN bookings||To increase the Covid-19 vaccination coverage, the district health department has decided to reopen online vaccination slots on the Co-WIN platform for the first and second dosages from Wednesday. Nearly 20% of the vaccine doses at government health centres will be reserved for those taking an online appointment, health department officials said.The online booking of slots for the first dose is resuming after four months, while it was opened twice last week for the second dose inoculation. According to the chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, online slots will now be opened every day to facilitate vaccinations for people who cannot wait in the direct walk-in lines at vaccination centres.“Considering the regular supply of vaccine stock from the state, we have planned to open online slots for both the doses. It will help people who often complain about waiting time and unavailability of tokens at the vaccination centres. Those who book slots online can get vaccinated between 10am and 2pm, while walk-in beneficiaries will be vaccinated till 4pm. It will help increase the coverage and further, streamline the vaccination process at government health centres,” said Dr Yadav. Starting Wednesday, at least 1,170 slots for the first dose and 1,320 slots for the second dose will be made available on Co-WIN. For direct walk-in, about 4,680 doses will be given as the first shot and 5,930 as the second shot at 52 vaccination centres.The Covishield vaccine will be administered at 47 vaccination centres, while 130 doses of Covaxin will be administered at five urban health centres. Currently, the focus is on increasing the second dose coverage in the district. The health department reserves almost 60% of the total dose for the second shot and 40% for the first shot.On Tuesday, 15,375 vaccine doses were administered in the district, taking the overall vaccination coverage to 2,392,848. Data on the Co-WIN dashboard shows that nearly 1.7 million people in the district have taken their first dose and roughly about 700,000 have taken both doses. Also, vaccination has increased in August compared to July, from about 340,000 doses to around 500,000 doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-20-of-slots-to-be-reserved-for-co-win-bookings-101630431293284.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||HC raps Maharashtra govt for not setting up civil defence centres in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday rapped the state government for not setting up civil defence centres that will act as a quick response unit during natural disasters in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. The state has been asked to respond within 10 days. The court was further informed that while centres for coastal districts like Mumbai, Palghar, Thane and Raigad had already been set up, the ones in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg had not been initiated, hence the PIL sought directions to the government to do so immediately. The two districts have been ravaged by calamities in recent times. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL by Sharad Raul, a retired revenue department official from Ratnagiri was informed by advocate Rakesh Bhatkar that the civil defence centres were intended to provide assistance and protection in the event of hostile attacks or natural disasters such as cyclones, earthquake, flooding, landslides among others. Bhatkar submitted that while the six districts had been declared multi hazardous areas in 2011 and directions were issued to set up civil defence centres, the state had set up the centres in four districts only. The bench was informed that a representation seeking urgent setting up of the centres in the remaining two districts in 2018 was not responded to by the authorities hence the petitioner was constrained to approach HC. The petition states that though the two districts were most vulnerable, by not setting up the centres which are provided for under the Civil Defence Act, 1968 the residents of the two districts were exposed to loss of property and life during natural calamities. After hearing the submissions and perusing the petition, the court observed that had the centres been in place, the two districts Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg which witnessed several natural calamities could have provided better and timely rescue services thus saving losses. The court then directed the state home secretary to file an affidavit in reply within ten days and posted hearing of the PIL after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-raps-maharashtra-govt-for-not-setting-up-civil-defence-centres-in-ratnagiri-sindhudurg-101630431112653.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records fourth-driest August in a decade||The city saw its heaviest rains in a month on Tuesday, recording 78.44mm of rain in the nine hours ending 5.30pm, as per data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) observatory in Santacruz. The total amount of rainfall received this month — until 8.30am on August 31 — now stands at 338.8mm of rain (against the monthly normal of 531.3mm), making it the fourth-driest August in a decade as per IMD records. This follows last year’s above normal reading when August recorded a whopping 1,247.7mm of rain.Current forecasts suggest that rainfall prospects for Mumbai-MMR over the next two weeks are going to be better than in the previous month, and also the second fortnight of September, although a continuous wet spell appears unlikely. Tuesday’s showers, too, are likely to become subdued by Wednesday, with only light to moderate rain continuing over the next week, according to officials with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.“It was a near miss for Mumbai today. Circulation over the north Konkan and south Gujarat area helped to ensure that most of the rain on Tuesday was felt in Thane and Palghar districts. The next few days will bring some relief and then there is another spate of heavy showers expected in a week. The last two weeks of September again the monsoon activity will become subdued,” said a meteorologist with the IMD in Mumbai.Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts have been placed under yellow alert for Wednesday, indicating very likely chances of heavy rain at the isolated places. Palghar district (where over 200mm of rain was recorded in Dahanu on Tuesday morning) has been placed under an orange alert, indicating very likely chances of heavy to very heavy rain very likely on Wednesday.Mumbai has so far received a total rainfall of 2,421.8mm since July 1, which is 9% over the seasonal normal amount of 2205mm. In August, however, the city saw a deficit of 36%, as did most districts in Maharashtra. Only four districts — Beed, Ahmednagar, Dhule and Aurangabad — saw above-normal rains, while 24 of the state’s 36 districts saw deficits ranging between 20 to 59%. Pune, Satara and Sangli districts saw large deficits of above 60%.The rains caused a perceptible dip in mercury, with temperatures in both Colaba and Santacruz dipping to 26 degrees Celsius (down from 29.9 degrees Celsius the day prior). The daytime maximum temperature over the next week, however, will rise to about 32 degrees Celsius by September 6, suggests the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai.BOX:Largest August deficits in 10 years:August 2013: 256mmAugust 2015: 153.9mmAugust 2018: 235.2mmAugust 2021: 338.8mm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-fourth-driest-august-in-a-decade-101630430992651.html
31-08-2021||Other||J&K admn urges people to follow Covid-apt behaviour||The divisional administration of Jammu province on Tuesday appealed to people to strictly follow the Covid guidelines and social distancing norms, wear masks, and take vaccine to stay safe amid the threat of a third wave of the pandemic.All target groups were advised to take vaccine as per schedule notified by the district administrations concerned.Jammu divisional commissioner Dr Raghav Langer said reasonable restrictions for Covid containment are still in force and top priority is to break the chain of transmission.He said as per the latest orders of the SEC, maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering continues to be restricted to 25.The district magistrates and senior superintendents of police have been instructed to strictly enforce compliance of Covid-related SOPs.He added that night curfew and timings of closure of commercial establishments have to be strictly imposed and defaulters will be firmly dealt with under the Disaster Management Act and the IPC.166 new cases in J&KMeanwhile, on Tuesday, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 166 fresh Covid cases and Kashmir reported one death related to the virus.Total 148 cases were reported from Kashmir and 18 from Jammu. Srinagar saw the highest count of 74 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 99 with the active cases reaching 1,330.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 528 followed by Baramulla district with 138 active cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,19,681 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.23%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,25,419 and the death-toll stands at 4,408.Officials said 46,488 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-admn-urges-people-to-follow-covid-apt-behaviour-101630430874416.html
31-08-2021||Other||LS Speaker inaugurates outreach programme for PRI empowerment in J&K||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla inaugurated a parliamentary outreach programme for the empowerment of Panchayati Raj Institutions in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir at Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre, Srinagar and said arrangements will be made by Lok Sabha secretariat for capacity-building programmes for representatives of PRIs in the UT.The programme was also attended by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and Union ministers.Birla said: “Empowered panchayats will make our democracy stronger and increase confidence of people.” He said a democracy connects diversities. He said the collective force can help overcome adversities that impede progress.He said J&K is on the path of peace, progress and development. The Speaker said, “Coordinated efforts by democratic institutions at the grassroots level will take development to the last man standing.”He said J&K has the potential and skill in the fields of tourism, handicrafts and agri-products and democratic institutions should work on providing a marketing platform to them at the national and international levels.Birla said he will suggest parliamentary standing committees to undertake regular study visits to far-flung areas in J&K and Ladakh to understand the ground realities and possible solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ls-speaker-inaugurates-outreach-programme-for-pri-empowerment-in-jk-101630430813782.html
31-08-2021||Other||4 militants arrested for grenade blast at Baramulla village sarpanch’s house||The J&K Police on Tuesday busted a terror module with the arrest of four persons who had hurled a grenade on the house of Shakrwara village (in Baramulla) sarpanch last week.The attack had caused panic among the panchayat members of the area. On August 22, unidentified persons had hurled the grenade at the sarpanch’s house causing damage to a vehicle. “Preliminary investigation had revealed that the grenade was lobbed towards the police guard which caused some minor damages to house’s window panes and a Maruti-800,” a police spokesman said.During investigation, from the CCTV footages, police learnt of the involvement of Mohd Saleem Khan, of New Colony in Shrakwara, and Sajad Ahmed Mir, of Mir Mohalla Saloosa, in commission of the crime. Subsequently, both were arrested.“Both confessed that they are working as terrorist associates for proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) on behest of their Pakistan-based handler Ali Bhai. It was revealed that both are drug addicts and were also in contact with active LeT terrorists Hilal Sheikh and Usman. It was on their directions that the two had obtained grenades from Batamaloo Srinagar,” police said.The police spokesman said two more terrorist associates Bilal Ahmad Sheikh and Naseer Ahmad Dar, who had assisted the duo in commission of the crime, were also arrested.“Two hand grenades and 100gm drugs were recovered from the accused’s possession. Further investigation is on and the militants’ links in other cases are being investigated,” police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-militants-arrested-for-grenade-blast-at-baramulla-village-sarpanch-s-house-101630430754102.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rainfall claims 7 lives in north, central Maharashtra, 250 shifted to safer locations||Heavy rainfall in parts of central and north Maharashtra claimed seven lives in the past two days. Around 250 people in Chalisgaon in Jalgaon district have been shifted to safer places, while hundreds of cattle are feared washed away in the floodwater, said, state officials. Landslide in Kannad-Chalisgaon ghat has resulted in closure of the Dhule-Aurangabad highway.A few tehsils in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra and districts including Nanded, Beed, Jalna in central Maharashtra were lashed by the heavy rainfall in the past two days. River Girna’s water level rose significantly affecting five villages in Chalisgaon in Jalgaon. Several houses were submerged, forcing the district administration to shift 250 people from more than 50 families to a safer place. A team of State Disaster Response Force has been deployed for rescue and relief operations.Three landslides in Kannad-Chalisgaon ghat (pass in hilly area) has resulted in the closure of the vehicular traffic on Dhule-Aurangabad highway during wee hours on Tuesday. Many vehicles have been damaged in the landslide that occurred at midnight.“Chalisgaon tehsil received 126mm rainfall in 24 hours till 11am. One person and 506 milch animals, 155 small ruminants (sheep/goat) have died in the district. The vehicular traffic Kannad-Chalisagon ghat is expected to resume for the light vehicles tomorrow afternoon, said Rahul Patil, deputy resident collector, Jalgaon.Many tehsils in Aurangabad, Beed, Parabhani have received more than 300mm rainfall in the past two days. The water level in the reservoirs of the drought-prone central Maharashtra districts has increased significantly in the past two days. Of the six people who died in Central Maharashtra, three are from Nanded and one each from Jalna, Beed and Latur.A few tehsils of Ahmednagar districts are too affected by heavy rainfall. 150 people from Shevgaon and 235 from Pathardi have been shifted to safer places. One team of National Disaster Response Force has been deployed in rescue and relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rainfall-claims-7-lives-in-north-central-maharashtra-250-shifted-to-safer-locations-101630430752907.html
31-08-2021||Other||17-year-old Afghan national detained at Lakhanpur||A 17-year-old Afghan national on way to Kashmir was detained by Jammu and Kashmir Police at Lakhanpur check post on Tuesday. The youth has been identified as Abdul Rehman of Kabul.Kathua SSP Ramesh Chander Kotwal said, “Preliminary investigations revealed that he had come to India for his brother’s medical treatment at RR Hospital in Delhi. His brother, he says, works for Afghan Army.”“We are verifying what he is saying and why he reached Lakhanpur. However, nothing incriminating was recovered from him,” Kotwal said.Police said Abdul has a valid passport and visa. “He had come to India on valid travel documents in July this year as an attendant to his brother,” they added.“Abdul said he was heading to Kashmir with the intention to cross over to Pakistan and then reach Afghanistan because he was feeling homesick,” police sources said. Police are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17yearold-afghan-national-detained-at-lakhanpur-101630430692839.html
31-08-2021||Other||NC will emerge as largest party in elections: Farooq||National Conference president and Srinagar member of Parliament Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said that his party will emerge as the single largest party if elections are held in J&K, while regretting the decision to not take part in the 2018 panchayat polls.“I am telling you with certainty that if transparent elections are held, the NC will emerge as the largest party,” he said. He was addressing reporters on the sidelines of a function at Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC).Farooq also said that government officials will be made accountable once there is a people’s government in the erstwhile state and asked J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha to make them answerable to the people. Farooq lambasted the government officials, saying they don’t take phone calls of the people and political leaders.“They (bureaucrats) will be made accountable for what they have done. Today they consider themselves kings which they are not. They are meant to work for the people of the J&K and are servants of the people,” he said.Earlier speaking at a function on the parliamentary outreach programme for strengthening Parliamentary Raj Institutions (PRIs) that was also attended by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, Farooq said NC shouldn’t have boycotted the panchayat polls in 2018. “Our party should have taken part in the panchayat and block development council elections. We regret that,” he said.Soon after the governor rule was imposed in J&K in 2018, National Conference and the PDP boycotted panchayat polls. After the abrogation of Article 370, they again stayed away from the block development council polls. However, last year, the NC as well the PDP participated in district development council elections as part of the PAGD in which the candidates of PAGD won more than 100 seats.Farooq said militancy hasn’t gone away from Kashmir and demanded adequate security for the panchayat members. “Militancy still exists in Kashmir. Many BJP workers were killed, Apni Party leader was also killed recently. The panchayat members, BDC members can only work in the field if they are given proper security,” he said.He said the political leaders who stand for the country are being targeted by the militants and it’s the responsibility of Union government to protect them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nc-will-emerge-as-largest-party-in-elections-farooq-101630430513203.html
31-08-2021||Other||3 more Covid-related deaths reported in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 207 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday taking the state’s tally to 2,13,548 while the death toll mounted to 3,582 after three patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 52 were reported in Mandi, 46 in Kangra, 31 in Chamba, 30 each in Hamirpur and Shimla, 11 each in Bilaspur and Una, seven in Kullu, three each in Lahaul-Spiti and Solan and one in Kinnaur.There are 1,642 active cases in the state while recoveries reached 2,08,305 after 205 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 47,635 followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,806 and 26,599 cases, respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,573 cases, Sirmaur 15,434, Hamirpur 15,285, Una 13,562, Chamba 13,458, Bilaspur 13,413, Kullu 9,489, Kinnaur 3,399 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,895.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-more-covid-related-deaths-reported-in-himachal-101630430456960.html
31-08-2021||Other||Govt trying to resolve apple cultivators’ issues: Bhardwaj||A day after farm unions announced state-wide agitation to protest huge losses incurred by farmers due to steep drop in wholesale market of apples, state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday held a meeting with the stakeholders in Rohru, even as HP horticulture minister Mahender Singh is reluctant to redress the issue faced by fruit-growers.The prices of apples in wholesale market began to drop three weeks ago and further slid after corporate-run agri stores announced fresh prices.Adani Agrifresh has three controlled atmosphere stores is Shimla and is purchasing premium quality apples at ₹72, while last year the same quality fetched ₹88. Farmers in state have threatened to boycott Adani Agrifresh and are constantly blaming cartelisation between the Group and arhtiyas.Bhardwaj on Tuesday inspected Mehandli mandi in Rohru and organised a meeting with departmental officers to ensure proper arrangements during the apple season.He said during the tenure of the previous government, only Re 1 was increased under MIS in five years, whereas under the present state government ₹2.5 has been increased under the MIS.“During the apple season, the Opposition parties need to leave politics and focus on statistics,” he said.He said the state is trying to resolve the problems faced during the apple season. If anyone is found involved in wrong activities during this period, strict action will be taken against them, he added.He said Himachal, which provides an economy of ₹5,000 crore, is known as the apple state where the horticulturists benefit from this economy, while traders and transporters from outside states and loading and unloading labourers also get the benefits.He said construction of processing plant at Parala Mandi at a cost of ₹100 crore will be completed by March 2022. “27 MT apples will be consumed there. Construction of the CA store by APMC there is also being done,” he said.APMC president Naresh Sharma, Rohru sub-divisional officer Surendra Kumar, party officials and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-trying-to-resolve-apple-cultivators-issues-bhardwaj-101630430396017.html
31-08-2021||Other||Himachal to get ₹650 cr to strengthen education infrastructure: Govind Thakur||The National Education Policy, 2020 is aimed at making India a hub of knowledge and holistic development of learners, said Himachal education minister Govind Singh Thakur on Tuesday.He was speaking at a district-level workshop on implementation of NEP 2020 organised by the Himachal Pradesh Samgra Siksha Abhiyan.He also launched consultation meetings to be held with stakeholders on NEP and the strengthening teaching-learning and results for states (STARS) project.He said the World Bank-aided STARS project is being implemented in six states – Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Odisha, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. He said the project has been aligned with an aim of achieving quality-based learning outcomes of NEP which focuses on strengthening the government-managed school education system that primarily caters to the educational needs of students from marginalised groups.He said the state will get to ₹650 crore to strengthen its education infrastructure under the project.Thakur said: “The NEP has reconfigured the curriculum and pedagogy of school education with an aim to make them responsive and relevant to the developmental needs and interests of learners at different stages of their development.”The policy aims at producing engaged, productive, and contributing citizens for building an equitable, inclusive, and plural society, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-to-get-rs-650-cr-to-strengthen-education-infrastructure-govind-thakur-101630430332443.html
31-08-2021||Other||SEC announces PRI election schedule in tribal areas of Lahul-Spiti, Pangi||The State Election Commission of Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday announced the two-phase schedule for Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) elections in the tribal areas of Himachal with voting to be held on September 29 and October 1.The elections will be held in all three tiers of the PRIs in Udaipur and Keylong development blocks, zila parishad election in Kaza block of Lahaul-Spiti district, and all gram panchayats and panchayat smitis of Pangi block in Chamba district.The model code of conduct has come into force in Lahaul-Spiti district and Pangi block of Chamba with immediate effect. As per the schedule, the nomination papers will be filed on September 13, 14 and 15 between 11am to 3pm.Scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on September 16 while candidates may withdraw their papers on September 18 till 3pm.The list of candidates and the symbols allotted to them will be published on the same day immediately after the time of withdrawal is over.Voting will be held on September 29 and October 1 between 7am to 3pm. Quarantined electors will be allowed to cast votes after the last elector in queue has exercised their franchise during the timing fixed. Voting will end after such electors cast their vote.Counting for ward members, up-pradhans and pradhans of the gram panchayats will be done after closure of polls. Counting of members of panchayat smiti and zila parishad will be held on October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sec-announces-pri-election-schedule-in-tribal-areas-of-lahul-spiti-pangi-101630430092823.html
31-08-2021||Other||City doctors help paraplegic war victim walk again||PUNE: A boy, 19, suffering from paraplegia due to a bomb blast injury in the ongoing civil war in Yemen, has fully recovered and is even able to walk again after doctors at a city hospital came to his rescue.Anwar Ali (name changed) was brought to Pune for further surgery after primary stabilisation in Yemen. With bomb injuries presenting complex diagnostic and management challenges, the doctors performed multiple flap surgeries on him, providing the war victim with much-needed relief. His spinal cord injury was treated and with the help of a physiotherapist, he is now able to walk again.Dr Abhishek Ghosh, microvascular reconstructive surgeon at Noble hospital who operated on the boy, said, “Gradually, the patient also developed bed sores on all pressure points including the back, thighs, knees and ankles. His wounds were getting infected resulting in Septicaemia. But we successfully treated his infected wounds. Multiple flap surgeries were performed on him to cover all defects.”Multiple flap surgery entails using healthy tissue to cover up defects in the body where there is loss of skin, fat or muscle movement. During the operation, shrapnels embedded in the patient’s palm were removed. The patient’s wounds have healed now and he is undergoing physiotherapy.Dr Ghosh said, “The bomb blast cut his spinal cord at the L3 L4 level. With the help of physiotherapy, he has started walking now. This bomb blast injury was not just any regular thermal injury; the boy had many pellets inside his body. Some of the pellets I removed were stuck deep inside his body.”The surgery was performed on August 12 and the patient has now been declared fully recovered. Bone-, bullet-, burn- and mine blast- injuries comprise a majority of injuries when it comes to treating war zone patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-doctors-help-paraplegic-war-victim-walk-again-101630430093302.html
31-08-2021||Other||Modi to address Himachal on Sept 6 as the state achieves 100% vaccination target||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the people of Himachal Pradesh on September 6 as the state achieved 100% target of the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination. “He will interact with the frontline workers who made the feat possible by putting in sincere efforts,” said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday.Himachal has become the first state to achieve 100% target of inoculating people in the 18 years and above age group with the first dose of Covid vaccine, said Thakur, while presiding over a virtual meeting with deputy commissioners, superintendents of police, chief medical officers, principals of medical colleges, medical superintendents, sub-divisional magistrates and block development officers of Himachal from Shimla.The CM said 90 LED screens will be installed across state so that people can participate in the mega-event.Thakur said all DCs should launch special mop up rounds to vaccinate any left out population. He said special focus should be laid on identifying difficult pockets such as Bara Bhangal in Kangra, Malana in Kullu, and Dodra Kwar in Shimla so that any left out persons can be vaccinated accordingly.He directed the officers to identify doctors, paramedical staff, ASHA workers and other frontline workers who have done exceptional work to make the drive a success.Jai Ram said adequate sitting arrangements should be made for the public at the venues where the event will be screened. He said it should be ensured that people strictly adhere to the Covid-prevention guidelines such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in these gatherings.He said involvement of local MLAs, vaccinated people and public representatives will also be ensured. Thakur said vaccine doses will be airlifted to Bara Bhangal in Kangra district to inoculate the population in the remote village.Chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, while welcoming the CM, directed the officers to ensure that all left-out people, if any, should be vaccinated by September 4 by launching special campaigns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-to-address-himachal-on-sept-6-as-the-state-achieves-100-vaccination-target-101630429916558.html
31-08-2021||Other||Class 11 admissions: Round 2 schedule declared||PUNE: The director of education (secondary and higher secondary) on Tuesday declared the detailed schedule of the second round for online centralised admissions to Class 11 for the Pune region. Immediately after completion of the first round of the admission process, colleges will display the vacancy list online from 10pm on Tuesday till 8pm on September 2, including quota seats surrendered by them. At 10am on September 4, junior college allotment lists for the second round of admissions to Class 11 will be displayed online. Accordingly, a cut-off list for the second round of admissions will be displayed, and students will be informed via SMS.“Thereafter from 10am on September 4 to 6pm on September 6, students will have to confirm their admission in the allotted colleges. Confirmation, rejection or cancellation of admission has to be done by student login. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, junior colleges should collect their admission fees only through digital payment modes such as payment gateway, bank transfer (NEFT/RTGS/IMPS/UPI) or e-wallets approved by the government of India or Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to contain the spread of coronavirus,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of the secondary and higher secondary education department.“New student registration and new part 1 filing will continue through the next round. For students who have confirmed their admission in any junior college through the centralised admission round or quota admission, the admission process will be completed by itself. Junior colleges will be permitted to surrender vacant minority and in-house quota seats after round 3. The schedule for further admission rounds will be declared thereafter,” Jagtap said.On September 6, junior colleges will upload the status of admitted students on the website and display quota-wise vacancies.Dates to remember for studentsAugust 31 – display of vacancySeptember 4 - junior college allocation list will be displayed for round 2 admissionsSeptember 4 to 6 – admissions based on the round 2 regularised list September 6 – junior colleges will upload the status of admitted students on their website||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-11-admissions-round-2-schedule-declared-101630429371911.html
31-08-2021||Patna||Tokyo Paralympics: Bihar’s Sharad Kumar creates history||Muzaffarpur’s Sharad Kumar on Tuesday created history by becoming Bihar’s first-ever Paralympic medallist after he won a bronze medal in the F42 category of men’s high jump in the Tokyo Para Games.Two para-athletes from Bihar have participated in the Tokyo Paralympics this time, including Sharad Kumar from Motipur, Muzaffarpur and Pramod Bhagat from Vaishali. “Sharad has created history for the state,” Shivaji Kumar, the former disabilities commissioner in the social welfare department who is heading the Indian delegation at Tokyo Paralympics, said. In the Rio Paralympics also Sharad Kumar had participated in the high jump but had secured the sixth position. This time he became one of the medalists, he said. “Government must offer a high-level job to the winners so that other physically challenged people also get motivated to create a new chapter in Paralympics,” he said. Meanwhile, there was a mood of celebrations and enjoyment at Sharad Kumar’s home. Surendra Kumar, Sharad’s father, said it’s been the much-awaited moment for the family. “We have been waiting for this moment. During his journey of practice and hard work, my son was losing patience and was a bit disappointed. However, it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who motivated and encouraged him. And finally, he has done it and made the country proud. Credit goes to the Prime Minister,” he said. Sharad’s mother, Kumkum Devi, said that she knew her son would do something extraordinary. “Though the competition must have been very tough, he has proved me right,” she said. Sharad’s father, who is a businessman, said that Sharad’s journey of success has been long from Muzaffarpur to Tokyo..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tokyo-paralympics-bihar-s-sharad-kumar-creates-history-101630428412626.html
31-08-2021||Other||Mangalwar peth: Cluster development plan for on table for 17 slums||PUNE The Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) will consider a “cluster development” plan for 17 slums in the Mangalwar peth area. SRA officials said that instead of various developers raising stand-alone buildings, the redevelopment project in the heart of the city would be taken on as a “cluster”. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar is likely to hold a meeting regarding the redevelopment of these 17 slums with stakeholders in Pune on Friday. “In Mangalwar peth there are many slums. That is a cluster sort of situation. The cluster development approach is suitable there. We are thinking of planned development which will include all of these slums,” said Rajendra Nimbalkar, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA). These 17 slums, housing approximately 2,500 families, include the following postal addresses: 251 Mangalwar peth, Indiranagar; 230 Mangalwar peth, Kore plot, Gosavi Vasti and Kachi Mala. “If this project picks up, then a huge area of the main city would be developed. Once this project goes ahead, it can be replicated in other areas as well,” said Nimbalkar. Sadanand Shetty a developer of SRA schemes said collective efforts are needed to rehabilitate the slums in Mangalwar peth. “These slums are as old as 50-60 years. Slums have been located near the main road towards the Shivajinagar court. If the redevelopment plan is undertaken, then Mangalwar peth can be freed from slums. It is the main area in the city. Approximately 2,778 families are living in these areas. The deputy chief minister has promised a meeting regarding this. Hopefully, the development plan will start from here,” said Shetty. In 2008-2016, SRA received 179 proposals for development. Post 2017, this number has drastically reduced. Rajendra Nimbalkar also insisted on the need of expediting SRA projects. “There are multiple technical issues because of which the SRA projects get delayed. It requires serious attention from stakeholders such as the government, developers, and citizens of the city. Considering all these points, we have submitted a new SRA policy for approval to the state government, which will help to resolve these issues,” Nimbalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mangalwar-peth-cluster-development-plan-for-on-table-for-17-slums-101630428232894.html
31-08-2021||Other||Bihar: Rail movement between Darbhanga-Samastipur suspended due to floods||In a precautionary measure, train movement on Darbhanga-Samastipur section was suspended on Tuesday due to floods after gushing stream of Bagmati river touched the girder of a railway bridge between Thalwara and Hayaghat railway stations of Samastipur rail division under East Central Railway, officials said.According to sources, this is the second time within two months that rail traffic between the aforementioned section was suspended due to floods.“Train operation on Darbhanga-Samastipur section was stopped from 1.30pm Tuesday, as flood waters rose to the girder of railway bridge number 16. Rail traffic has been stopped till further orders in view of passengers’ safety,” said Saraswati Chandra, senior divisional commercial manager cum media in-charge. Under the move, operation of as many as 14 trains has been cancelled, while six trains have been short terminated and four trains have been short originated. Besides, routes of as many as 16 major trains have been diverted via Muzaffarpur- Sitamarhi stations.Earlier on July 10, rail traffic between the section was suspended due to flood water flowing above danger level at bridge number one between Muktapur-Samastipur, a railway official said.Meanwhile, incessant rains along catchment areas have increased the threat of flood in the four districts of Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj and Purnia.In several areas of Seemanchal, Mahananda, Kankai, Parman, Das and Bakra rivers were flowing above danger level at various places, creating panic in several areas. Katihar’s Kadwa block, Amour and Baisa in Purnia, Teragachh in Kishanganj and Araria’s block were the worst-affected by floods, caused by rise in water level of Mahananda, Parman and Kankai rivers.Kadwa block development officer (BDO), Zulfikar Adil, who visited the flood-affected areas on Tuesday, said “Water level of Mahananda has risen suddenly and several areas have been inundated. Relief and rescue operations are being carried out in flood-affected panchayats.” Amdabad, Manihari and Kursela blocks of Katihar were already ravaged by floods caused by Ganga and Kosi rivers. However, after Ganga and Kosi rivers started showing a receding trend, flood situation has gradually improved in the areas, said Manoj Kumar Mandal, a local panchayat leader of Kursela.However, the district administrations were faced by another challenge to prevent erosion after flood waters have started receding. “We have urged several officials and leaders to take appropriate measures to prevent erosion, but to no avail,” said Purnia resident Md Imtiyaz Alam.Chief engineer, Katihar unit of flood control and drainage at water resources department (WRD), Rajendra Kumar Mehta, said there was no need to panic, even as Mahananda, Kankai, and Parman rivers were rising slowly. “Rising trend in rivers is due to continuous rainfall and is likely to fall once it stops raining,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-rail-movement-between-darbhanga-samastipur-suspended-due-to-floods-101630428232449.html
31-08-2021||Other||‘Nagaland tops Covid-19 surveillance reporting in India’: Study||Nagaland has come out as the state with the best quality of Covid-19 surveillance data reporting in the country as per the findings of a study on Covid-19 data reporting conducted by research students from Stanford University, US and few other health specialists from India.The paper which is stated to be currently under review, evaluates and quantifies the reporting quality of surveillance, vaccination, and vacant bed availability data across more than 100 government platforms (websites and apps) in India during May and June 2021, focusing on granular data.It is authored by Varun Vasudevan, Abeynaya Gnanasekaran and Professor James Zou from Stanford University, Bhavik Bansal from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi, public policy and health systems specialist Chandrakant Lahariya and Giridara Gopal Parameswaran from the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, New Delhi.“Our recent findings show that the quality of surveillance data reporting from Nagaland is the best in the country. Nagaland scored highest in our metric because of high-quality granular data reporting through weekly bulletins,” said co-authors of the study Varun and Abeynaya in a letter to the Nagaland health department on Tuesday, a copy of which was obtained by HT.Appreciating the effort of the state government in bringing out the “high-quality bulletins”, the letter stated that Nagaland government is empowering people to be proactive about their health by releasing the data and its interpretations, along with public health recommendations.“It’s a joint effort by team Nagaland, driven by the belief that all data should be made available to the public transparently,” principal secretary of Nagaland Health and Family Welfare Department, Amardeep S Bhatia, told HT.With India among the top three countries in the world both in Covid-19 cases and death counts, and the pandemic being far from over, the study was stated to have been conducted in view that timely, transparent, and accessible reporting of Covid-19 data continues to be critical for India’s pandemic efforts.The paper states that Nagaland reports cumulative cases and deaths disaggregated by age and gender and cumulative deaths disaggregated by comorbidities, while in contrast, the low scoring sub-nationals report little or no granular data.While Nagaland topped the surveillance reporting score, Kerala, Ladakh, Odisha, Punjab and Tamil Nadu followed close. Bihar, Lakshadweep, Uttar Pradesh, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu scored the lowest.As per the study, Chandigarh and Haryana were found to be violating privacy by including individuallyidentifiable information in their reporting. Chandigarh continues to release a document containing the name and address of people who have completed or are under quarantine, while Haryana is releasing a document containing the name, age, gender, and address of cases from its Jhajjar district.On vaccination reporting, the paper states that the CoWIN application does not report total vaccination stratified by eligibility category for each dose. The number of severe and serious events disaggregated by vaccine type is missing and only 14 out 36 sub-nationals report on their digital platforms the total vaccination stratified by eligibility category for each dose. Karnataka is the only sub-national that is reporting the number of severe and serious (adverse event following immunization) AEFI cases.As for vacant bed availability reporting, 20 out of 36 sub-nationals report by hospitals and frequently update them while others are either not publishing any data on vacant bed availability or are reporting the total/vacant number of beds without classifying them....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-tops-covid-19-surveillance-reporting-in-india-study-101630427993293.html
31-08-2021||Other||NCP member wants Kondhwa Haj House to be get same treatment as Dhankawadi Ram statue||PUNE Abdul Pathan a member of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Pune, has demanded that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) use the same yardstick it is going by for the erection of a statue of Ram, when it comes to a “Haj House”, proposed in Kondhwa.Recently, the PMC approved funds for a statue of Lord Ram at Dhankawadi, Ambegaon Pathar, to come up on a playground. BJP corporator Varsha Tapkir first proposed the statue..The PMC has also scrapped a proposal to erect the “Haj House” on an amenity plot in Kondhwa reserved for multipurpose, public use. The NCP’s Abdul Gafoor Pathan has offered to finance the project.Pathan said, “I am not opposed to erecting the Ram sculpture. My point is only that PMC cannot apply two rules for such proposals. For the Haj House, PMC said that it would require the state government’s permission, but now they are approving the Ram sculpture. It must also require the state government’s clearance. “A Haj House operates like a “transit location” for pilgrims on their way to perform the Haj in Saudi Arabia. A Haj House normally offers boarding and lodging to pilgrims.The Standing Committee has already cleared the Ram statue, and it will now come up before the general body (GB) meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncp-member-wants-kondhwa-haj-house-to-be-get-same-treatment-as-dhankawadi-ram-statue-101630427211736.html
31-08-2021||Other||SC orders status quo on Patna HC order to raze Bihar Waqf Board building||New Delhi:The Supreme Court Tuesday ordered status quo on a Patna High Court order directing demolition of Waqf building adjacent to HC “Centenary Building”.A bench of Justices UU Lalit, Ajay Rastogi and Vikram Nath issued notices to the Bihar government, chief secretary, registrar general of the Patna High Court and others on an appeal filed by Bihar State Sunni Waqf Board.The matter has been listed for next hearing on October 18.The board, in its plea, had submitted that the HC not only travelled beyond the issues framed by it but also proceeded to direct demolition of the entire structure of the proposed Waqf Bhawan Building, solely due to the reason that the building’s height was in excess of 10 metres in violation of Bye Law No. 21 of the Bihar Building Bye-Laws, 2014.The plea said the demolition order was given for the entire building even though the petitioner Waqf Board as well as all the state authorities had themselves agreed to demolish the offending portion of the building (i.e. to bring the building within the height of 10 metres).The plea, filed through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, stated that the entire project was undertaken with due sanction of the map/plan by a government architect and that the HC erred in proceeding on the basis that the building was being constructed without any valid sanction.The petition submitted that the construction plans were approved by Bihar’s minority welfare department and the map and plan of construction was approved by the senior architect of the Bihar State Building Construction Corporation, which is a government company, and therefore no separate sanction was required from the Patna Municipal Corporation.On March 1, 2021, the HC took suo motu cognisance of the matter and formulated four questions for consideration. On August 3, in a in its 4:1 judgment, it ordered the demolition of the Waqf building within a month.The high court had also directed the Bihar government to constitute an inquiry commission to fix responsibility on government officials who permitted the construction of the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-orders-status-quo-on-patna-hc-order-to-raze-bihar-waqf-board-building-101630426613166.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records fourth-driest August in decade||The city saw its heaviest rains in a month on Tuesday, recording 78.44mm of rain in the nine hours ending 5:30 pm, as per data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) observatory in Santacruz. The total amount of rainfall received this month until 8:30 am on August 31 now stands at 338.8mm (against the monthly normal of 531.3mm), making it the fourth-driest August in a decade as per IMD records. This follows last year’s above normal reading, when August recorded a whopping 1,247.7mm of rain.Current forecasts suggest that rainfall prospects for Mumbai-MMR over the next two weeks are going to be better than previous month, and also the second fortnight of September, although a continuous wet spell appears unlikely. Tuesday’s showers, too, are likely to become subdued by Wednesday, with only light to moderate rain continuing over the next week, according to officials with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.“It was a near miss for Mumbai today. A circulation over north Konkan and south Gujarat area helped ensure most of the rain on Tuesday was felt in Thane and Palghar districts. The next few days will bring some relief and then there is another spate of heavy showers expected in a week. The last two weeks of September again the monsoon activity will become subdued,” said a meteorologist with the IMD, Mumbai.Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagir districts have been placed under a yellow alert for Wednesday, indicating very likely chances of heavy rain at the isolated places. Palghar district (where over 200mm of rain was recorded in Dahanu on Tuesday morning) has been placed under an orange alert, indicating very likely chances of heavy to very heavy rain very likely on Wednesday.Mumbai has so far received a total rainfall of 2421.8mm since July 1, which is 9% above the seasonal normal amount of 2205mm. In August, however, the city saw a deficit of 36%, as did most districts in Maharashtra. Only four districts - Beed, Ahmednagar, Dhule and Aurangabad - saw above-normal rains, while 24 of the state’s 36 districts saw deficits ranging between 20 to 59%. Pune, Satara and Sangli districts saw large deficits of above 60%.The rains caused a perceptible dip in mercury, with temperatures in both Colaba and Santacruz dipping to 26 degrees Celsius (down from 29.9 degrees Celsius the day prior). The daytime maximum temperature over the next week, however, will rise to about 32 degrees Celsius by September 6, the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-fourth-driest-august-in-decade-101630425174551.html
31-08-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,019 new Covid cases, 25 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 1,019 new Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday. This took the progressive count to 1.118 million of which 1.085 million have recovered, 19,559 deaths and 13,515 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 579 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 345,420 and with 15 more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,650. Pune city reported 277 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 511,394 and with one more death reported the toll went up to 9,090. PCMC reported 163 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 262,180 and the death toll stood at 3,471 as five more deaths were reported. On Tuesday, the state reported that 4,688 patients were discharged and so totally 6,272,800 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 97.03%. Also 4,196 new cases and 104 Covid deaths have been reported in the state on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12 %. Of 53,976,886 laboratory samples 6,464,876 have been tested positive (11.98%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 291,701 people are in home quarantine and 2,121 people in institutional quarantine, as per the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-019-new-covid-cases-25-deaths-101630425171495.html
31-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees best month in Covid-19 vaccination, over 11.7 million doses administered in August||Karnataka has administered more than 11.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in August, the highest vaccination in any month since the inoculation drive began in January, state health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. He said that the state government is confident of achieving 100% immunisation in the state by the end of this year with the support from the Centre.In a tweet, the minister confirmed the news. “Karnataka administers record 1.17 CRORE doses in August! This is the highest monthly tally since the vaccination drive began in Jan 2021! We are well on our way to achieve 100% vaccination in the State by December 2021 with Centre's support,” he said.Karnataka administers record 1.17 CRORE doses in August! This is the highest monthly tally since vaccination drive began in Jan 2021! We are well on our way to achieve 100% vaccination in the State by December 2021 with Centre's support! @CMofKarnataka @mansukhmandviyaThe announcement came as India on Tuesday reached a record single-day vaccinations of more than 10.9 million doses.As of 3.30pm on the day, 406,865 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state, a bulletin from the health department showed. Further, the cumulative vaccine coverage stands at 42,200,293 doses, the data also showed.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 10 million doses administered on TuesdayMeanwhile, 1,217 people tested Covid positive in Karnataka in the last 24 hours with a daily positivity rate of 0.94% and 25 people succumbed to their illness. So far, 2,949,445 cases have been reported from the state and the death toll climbed to 37,318 on the day. As many as 18,386 active cases of the disease are present in the state.Earlier on Monday, Sudhakar said that the Bengaluru Urban (excluding Bengaluru city) became the first district in the state 100% first dose coverage was achieved. “Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) becomes the first district in Karnataka to achieve 100% 1st dose vaccination! Congrats to all those who made this possible,” he had tweeted. Also, more than 10 million people have been fully vaccinated in the state, the minister had said previously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-best-month-in-covid-19-vaccination-over-11-7-million-doses-administered-in-august-101630421698571.html
31-08-2021||Other||Lone Hindu AIUDF MLA quits party, set to join ruling BJP||Assam’s opposition, the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), received a jolt on Tuesday with one of its legislators quitting from primary membership of the party. Phanidhar Talukdar, the lone Hindu among AIUDF’s 16 MLAs, was elected from Bhabanipur constituency in Bajali district. He is slated to resign as a legislator on Wednesday and join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “I am herewith resigning from the post of secretary, AIUDF legislature party with effect from today. In addition, I am also withdrawing my primary membership of AIUDF party in the larger interest of the people of my constituency and the people of Assam,” Talukdar wrote in his letter to AIUDF president Maulana Badruddin Ajmal. Tuesday’s development comes a day after Congress decided to sever ties with the AIUDF. Both parties were part of a ‘grand alliance’ of 10 parties opposed to the ruling BJP in the assembly polls. Formed in 2006, the AIUDF primarily has a base among Bengali-speaking Muslims. Apart from Talukdar, all other MLAs who got elected in this year’s assembly polls are Muslims. Talukdar is the third newly elected MLA who had resigned from the parties after the assembly polls. Earlier, two Congress MLAs, Rupjyoti Kurmi of Mariani and Sushanta Borgohain of Thowra, resigned from the party and also quit as members of the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lone-hindu-aiudf-mla-quits-party-set-to-join-ruling-bjp-101630422952746.html
31-08-2021||Other||21-year old attempts to die by suicide in Pimpri after admitting to molesting minor||PUNE A 21-year-old college student, booked for allegedly molesting a minor, attempted to die by suicide, after apologising to families involved in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Monday.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 15-year-old girl who lives in the same housing society as the 21-year-old man. While the girl is a class 10 student, the accused is pursuing his first year of graduation, according to police.The girl told her family on Sunday about a time when the accused called her to the terrace of the residential building and groped her. The accused allegedly told her that he had seen her roaming with other boys and if she did not do as he said, he would tell her family members about it. He threatened her and then proceeded to molest her, according to the victim’s complaint. “She recently told her parents about what had happened. This incident had happened on October 28, 2020, at around 8pm. When she revealed it to her parents her parents contacted the man’s parents and he was confronted by all. He apologised to everyone for what he had done. We are not able to record his statement at this time as he is currently in ICU at a local hospital undergoing treatment for grievous injuries caused during his attempt to die by suicide,” said police sub-inspector Kavita Rupnar of Sangvi police station, who is investigating the case.A case under sections 354 (molestation), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with sections eight and 12 of the Protection of children from sexual offences Act (POCSO), 2012, has been registered at Sanghvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/21year-old-attempts-to-die-by-suicide-in-pimpri-after-admitting-to-molesting-minor-101630421331178.html
31-08-2021||Patna||Patna policemen allegedly throw boiling milk on minor boy for refusing them free tea||At least five to six policemen deputed at Patna’s SK Puri police station allegedly poured boiling milk on a minor boy, who runs a tea stall near Pant Bhawan, for refusing to serve them tea free of cost. The policemen also allegedly assaulted his uncle Ramesh Rai, officials said.“At least five-six policemen of SK Puri police station came to my tea stall around 10.30 pm on Monday. They ordered tea and pan gutkha. When I asked for money, they became furious and threw boiling milk at me. When my uncle Ramesh Rai came to my rescue, they assaulted him too. The policemen have visited my stall in the past also,” the minor boy said.The boy sustained burn injuries on his legs. The policemen also damaged the tea stall before escaping from the spot. Seeing people gathering, all the policemen escaped from the spot. The angry mob rushed to the police station and demanded action against the guilty policemen.A police officer said that the DSP (Sachiwalaya) visited the station after the incident to identify the guilty policemen. The police will also look at the CCTV footage of the incident.“I have ordered the DSP (sachiwalaya) to investigate the matter and submit a report as soon as possible,” said senior superintendent of police (SP) Upendra Sharma.Meanwhile, SK Singh, the station house officer (SHO) of SK Puri police station, denied the involvement of the accused policemen in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-policemen-allegedly-throw-boiling-milk-on-minor-boy-for-refusing-them-free-tea-101630420313212.html
31-08-2021||Pune||Pune teacher duped of ₹3.2 lakh through credit-based mobile app||PUNE: A 32-year-old man was duped of ₹3,19,806 in an online fraud through a credit-based borrowing application. The complainant, who works as a teacher in Pune, lodged a complaint and an FIR was registered at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. The incident happened on July 23 around 8 am when the complainant was at his home in Ambegaon. The police have booked the accused who identified himself as Munaf Ali Sheik along with bank account holders from Surat in Gujarat, West Bengal, and Loya in Andhra Pradesh. The complainant made a payment through his savings bank account using the credit-based application. However, he did not receive an SMS confirming the transaction worth ₹89,949. In order to contact the customer care service of the application, the complainant searched for a contact on Google and called a mobile number from the search options. Either the Google search is manipulated or there are serious security discrepancies in the mobile application format, according to the police. The accused asked the complainant to enter information like card number, expiry date, and security code onto the “address menu” section of the credit application, according to the complaint. “Once the information was uploaded, his phone stopped working. So, he used the SIM card of his friend’s mobile phone and found that money from his savings account has been debited. He lodged a police complaint. The accused may have accessed the complainant’s bank account and hacked into his Gmail account,” said inspector (crime) Vijay Puranik of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station who is investigating the case. A case was registered under Sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66 (C) and 66 (D) of Information Technology Act at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-teacher-duped-of-rs-3-2-lakh-through-credit-based-mobile-app-101630419891037.html
31-08-2021||Other||Guest Column | Settlement of agricultural debt in Punjab: Rhetoric versus reality||The burgeoning farm debt in Punjab is a concern not only for economists and sociologists but also for the central and state governments. Political parties tend to make considerable noise about this issue, especially in the build-up to the Vidhan Sabha elections. The fragmented farmer and agricultural labour organisations have been sporadically protesting but the subject has paled into insignificance after the farmers’ ongoing agitation against the three central farm laws. The latest official figure from Nabard is ₹71,305 crore of farm debt from the organised sector alone is in the hands of about 15 lakh families. This does not include the debt from the unorganised sector, more particularly the arhtiyas (commission agents-cum-moneylenders), the amount of which is estimated to be around ₹30,000 crore. Sensing the public pulse in an election year, the Akali-BJP government had enacted the Punjab Settlement of Agricultural Indebtedness Act, 2016. The widespread expectation was that this law would effectively extinguish the usurious debt on the head of the Punjabi farmers, piled by the greedy moneylenders. On the other hand, the Congress, which was seeking to wrest power in the state after being in political wilderness for a decade, promised an absolute and unconditional waiver of all farm debt. This March, the Punjab finance minister announced that the state had cumulatively waived loans amounting to ₹5,810 crore, covering 6.96 lakh small and marginal farmers. Recently, Punjab waived loans worth ₹590 crore outstanding in the accounts of landless famers and agricultural labour, including ₹520 crore in the hands of 2,85,325 members of various co-operative societies. Thus, not more than 9% of the outstanding loan from the public-sector institutions has actually been waived. 2016 Act more of instrument in lender’s hands The Punjab Settlement of Agricultural Indebtedness Act, 2016, has turned out to be a disappointment for the poor and marginalised Punjabi farmers and agricultural labourers though it might have provided significant relief to the then beleaguered arhtiya community. A plain reading of this enactment would reveal that no straight-forward extinguishing of any usurious loan is mandated therein (section 3). It merely contains enabling provisions to set up district-level forums for an arithmetical evaluation of the outstanding amount, subject to the provisions of the instant 2016 law. In 2018, the district forums were converted into divisional-level forums, through an amendment, making the access for the poor debtor even more difficult. The Act itself did not stipulate a specific, maximum rate of interest, which was to be subsequently notified under Section 4 by the state government. It was accordingly notified on September 6, 2016, as the sum of the extant base lending rate of SBI plus the lending rate of Nabard to the co-operative societies. On the date of the notification, it was 9.3%+2.5%= 11.8%, and would currently be around 10.4%, the interest being simple interest. The Act of 2016 is more of an instrument in the hands of the lender/creditor – both private and public sector – to effect summary recovery of the loan rather than a protective legal device to provide any relief to the debt-ridden farmer. There are no figures in the public domain regarding the number of cases settled by such forums – our estimate is that these would be only in double digits. A lender (arhtiya) rarely allows the loan to go bad, because he invariably deducts the principal and the interest, while disbursing the payment received from agencies in respect of the farmers’ agricultural produce. Friction between farmers and arhtiyas persists The united front put up by the farmers and arhtiyas in the ongoing agitation protest against the farm laws may create an impression that they are working as harmonious units in the rural, agricultural socio-economic society. However, the subterranean stresses continue to persist. The relatively large number of deaths related farmer suicides in Punjab bears a testimony to the potentially horrible dimension of this disaster looming large on the state. It is easy for any political party to make promises, but with the state debt already hovering in excess of ₹3.2 lakh crore, the state exchequer will just not have the resources to waive this debt in totality. The answer would necessarily lie in diversification, remunerative MSP mechanism for other agricultural produce, promoting agro-based and agro-processing industries, scientific storage facilities and cold chains and perhaps the resurrection and refurbishment of the Punjab Relief of Indebtedness Act, 1934, the Punjab Debtor’s Protection Act of 1936, popularly called the Sir Chhotu Ram laws. Ironically, the former has been repealed by the Punjab law of 2016. These two laws, much talked about but rarely invoked, not only capped the maximum rate of simple interest chargeable but also provided relief to the distressed, indebted landowners against sale of their land and attachment of the standing crops, in execution of the civil court decrees. Perhaps what is required in case of Punjab are provisions similar to the one that Indira Gandhi incorporated in the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976, which not only rendered bonded labour contracts and customs are null and void, but also extinguished the bonded labour debt and barred any suits for recovery. Till such bold legal-cum-political initiative sees the light of the day, we will continue to see cosmetic tinkering with a disease that requires, not sweet medicines, but immediate surgery. kbs.sidhu@gmail.com The writer is a retired Punjab cadre IAS officer. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guest-column-settlement-of-agricultural-debt-in-punjab-rhetoric-versus-reality-101630418992262.html
31-08-2021||Other||After return from Delhi, tight-lipped Baghel meets community leaders in state||Three days after Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo held separate meetings with the high command in the national capital over the reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula, the CM met representatives of communities in the state on Tuesday. TS Singh Deo, who flew to Delhi again on Monday, is yet to return to the state.On Sunday, Baghel met Machhua Kalyan Board Chairman MR Nishad and parliamentary secretary Kunwar Singh Nishad, (both representatives of the fisherman community). He also met Chandranahu Kurmi Samaj’s (one of the other backward castes) representatives, who invited him for a congregation in Mahasamund district on September 26.Although, functionaries close to Singh Deo asserted that the Delhi visit of the minister was ‘purely personal’, the timing of the visit has made headlines in the local dailies.Baghel has been silent after his return from Delhi and avoiding media but continuously meeting the various community representatives in Raipur.The same day, Baghel exhorted that the shortage of rainfall has given rise to ‘drought-like conditions’ in several areas and his government stands with farmers in this time of crisis.“Farmers who have sown paddy, kodo-kutki (millet), arhar pulse in the ongoing kharif season and if their crops get destroyed due to lack of rainfall, they will be given an assistance of ₹9,000 per acre on the basis of survey (for assessment of damage) under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana,” an official statement from Baghel stated.The leaders and Congress functionaries are now eyeing the two-day visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and hoping for some clarity with respect to the high command’s decision on the power-sharing formula.On Saturday, after returning from Delhi, Baghel told the media that Gandhi will be on a two-day visit to the state this week.“It is obvious that Rahul Gandhi will talk to leaders, functionaries and MLAs about everything including the government, policies and power-sharing formula... I don’t know what will happen but Gandhi’s visit will be crucial,” said a senior Congress leader.However, Congress functionaries in the state claimed that the schedule of Gandhi’s visit is not finalised till now.“Our party’s Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia will come first and chalk out the plan for Rahul Gandhi’s visit. On August 3, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken will be in Raipur to address a press conference on the new National Monetization Pipeline announced by the central government while Baghel ji will be addressing media, on the same issue in Lucknow. We are not expecting any political development before August 4,” said Shailesh Nitin Trivedi, chairman, Chhattisgarh Congress media cell.Meanwhile, most of the Congress legislators are still in a state of confusion about the power-sharing formula and waiting for a clear indication from the high command.“Both of them look confident in their statements after their return from Delhi on Saturday. Most of us are still in confusion about the power-sharing formula… One among the two leaders is misleading the MLAs and Congress,” said an MLA on condition of anonymity.The bureaucrats of Chhattisgarh are also eagerly watching the political developments of the state.“Things are not the same in Chhattisgarh as they were a week ago. Most of us are waiting for further political development because nothing is clear,” said a senior IAS officer.“The Congress party is suffering in the ongoing tussle between the two leaders of the Chhattisgarh. I believe that whatever happens, the Congress will have to face the dent in the next assembly elections due to this infighting. Secondly, the whole bureaucracy is at a standstill since everyone is waiting for the final decision of Congress high command,” said Ashok Tomar, a political commentator, based in Raipur.On Friday, Baghel met Gandhi and said that he had said “everything” to his leader. Asked if he would still be the chief minister when Gandhi arrives in Chhattisgarh, Baghel said he had invited him “as the chief minister”.Singh Deo on Thursday fuelled the speculation about the change, saying anyone who plays in a team “wants to be the captain”.In December 2018, in the aftermath of dominant Congress performance where the party won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too.Four state leaders, Baghel, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged as the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-return-from-delhi-tight-lipped-baghel-meets-community-leaders-in-state-101630415513226.html
31-08-2021||Pune||Man in custody for driving wife to suicide in Pune||PUNE: A man was remanded to two days in police custody by a local court on Tuesday for driving his wife to suicide after she was declared dead at a local hospital on Sunday. The arrested was identified as Ghahininath Ambadas Saravade (33), a resident of Ambika Pathar area of Pune. The deceased lived with her husband in their house at Ambika Pathar. The two had been married on February 1, 2019 and have a 18-month-old son who was in the house when her mother took the extreme step. “They used to live in Solapur before moving to Pune. In Solapur, the couple used to have frequent fights as the woman wanted her husband to seek a job in Pune and settle family in the city. However, once they moved to Pune, the domestic scuffles continued. On Friday, the couple had a verbal fight after the man brought street food ‘Pani Puri’ for dinner and the woman said that he should have informed her beforehand as she had already cooked food. They slept without eating. The next day she attempted suicide around 1 pm, and was declared dead under medical treatment on Sunday,“ said assistant police inspector Sachin Dhamne. The woman was a housewife and her husband worked at a nearby private company. A complaint was lodged by Prakash Pise (55) of Beed and the father of the deceased. The complainant told the police that the arrested man used to beat up his daughter. A case under Ssections 306 (abetment to suicide), 498 (A) (domestic violence), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-custody-for-driving-wife-to-suicide-in-pune-101630414970628.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Stay on eviction, demolition, dispossession in Maharashtra till Sept 30: HC||Taking into consideration the opinions of experts that the third wave of the Covid pandemic is knocking at the doors, the full bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday decided to keep in abeyance orders passed by various courts and authorities related to eviction, dispossession and demolition in the state till September 30.The bench noted that in light of lockdown norms being relaxed, which has resulted in crowding at public places, the warning by the experts could not be neglected, hence the government should take steps to curb it. A full bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta, justices AA Sayed, KK Tated and PB Varale extended the interim orders while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) instituted last year in April to provide protection to those who were unable to access justice due to restricted functioning of courts due to the pandemic. While observing that the administrative committee of the HC in its meeting on Monday had been apprised by of the possibility of a third wave due to rising Covid cases by the head of the special task force, it had decided to continue physical hearing of cases with certain precautionary measures and also continue with the hybrid system. The bench also referred to the view of the special task force head that the country could not get rid of the pandemic till April 2022 and held that in light of this, the state had to ensure that all safety protocols were followed. “Considering the view placed by the experts, the situation of uncertainty and the ensuing festivities which could pose a threat to the humankind, we are of the opinion that the interest of justice would be served if the protective interim orders are extended till September 30,” noted the full bench. The full bench will again assemble on September 24 and take a review of the situation and decide on whether the interim orders need to be extended or not. In the previous hearing, the bench had indicated that while it was extending interim orders till August 31, it was not inclined to extend the protection any further thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stay-on-eviction-demolition-dispossession-in-maharashtra-till-sept-30-hc-101630414250934.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Climate change: Snow cover in Himachal down by 18%||The snow cover of the Himalayas in Himachal Pradesh that feeds four major river systems is down by 18% in a year, indicating climate change. A government study has found that 23,542 sq km was under snow cover in 2019-20, which dropped to 19,183 sq km in 2020-21, a decline of 3,404 sq km or 18.52%. The Centre on Climate Change of the Himachal Pradesh Council for Science Technology and Environment (Himcoste) and the Space Applications Centre, Ahmedabad, conducted the study to assess spatial distribution of seasonal snow cover in Himachal Pradesh from October 2020 to May 2021. “Scientists used space technology to study the cyrosphere, comprising the glaciers over the Himalayas in Himachal Pradesh. Satellite data was analysed to map the geographical extent of snow cover and understand the contribution of snow in catchments to sustain the hydrology of the river basins,” Himscote member secretary Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. Fluctuating trends affect weather cycle “If there is a shift in snowfall pattern, as has been observed over the past few years, the long-term implications will be on water availability in the river basins as the seasonal snow cover contributes to the river discharge during the lean season,” said SS Randhawa, a principal scientist at Himcoste, who headed the study team. The late snowfall patterns that extend into summer are not sustainable as it melts fast due to more water content. Similar trends were observed during the 2020-21 winter that was comparatively warmer, he said. If such fluctuating trends continue for long, they affect the weather cycle, resulting in erratic rain, snowfall and heat and ultimately water availability. Himachal Pradesh gets winter precipitation in the form of snow at the higher altitudes. About one-third of the total geographical area of the state remains under thick snow cover during winter. Most major rivers such as the Chenab, Beas, Parvati, Baspa, Spiti, Ravi, Sutlej and their perennial tributaries originating from the Himalayas depend on the seasonal snow cover for their discharge dependability. Four major river basins record area reduction “Data analyses show that all four major river basins in Himachal, namely the Ravi, Sutlej, Chenab and Beas, recorded reduction in terms of the total monthly average area in 2020-21,” said Randhawa. The snow cover in the Chenab basin fell from 7,154.12 sq km in 2019-20 to 6,515.92 sq km in 2020-21, a reduction of 638.2 sq km. The Beas basin shows a decrease of about 19% with its average snow cover area having decreased from 2457.68 sq km to 2002.04 sq km, a loss of 455 sq km. The Ravi basin saw an overall reduction of 23% in the total area under snow cover. This year, the basin recorded snow cover of 1,619.83 sq km compared to 2,108 sq km last winter. The reduction in terms of area under snow cover was 488 sq km. Snow cover in the Sutlej basin shrunk by 2,777 sq km (23%). It was 11823.28 sq km in 2019-20 and 9,045.51 sq km this year. Less snowfall affects runoff patterns In the beginning of winter in October 2020, all basins were characterised by less snow cover area and the decrease of about 51% in the Chenab, 64% in Beas, about 77% in Ravi and 72% in the Sutlej. It was 31% in case of Chenab, 6% in Beas, 52% in Ravi and 21% in the Sutlej basin in November. In January, the Chenab basin shows a decrease of about 2%, the Beas 27%, Ravi 16% and Sutlej 24%. The four river basins again show a decrease of 2%, 27%, 16% and 24%, respectively. It indicates there was less snowfall during the 2020-21 winter, which may affect the runoff patterns during the summer. However, the marginal increase of 8% and 1% in Chenab basin and the Sutlej basin, respectively, indicates that the winter precipitation has extended to the summer months. An analysis of summer months reveals that in the Chenab basin, 85% of the total basin area in April and 71% in May is still under the impact of snow, reflecting that about 14% of the total basin area melted during this period. “In other words, we can say that 52% of the total basin area would melt during the next ablation month (June to August), meeting the discharge dependability from the Chenab basin,” Mokhta said. Likewise, the Beas basin in April had 49% of the total basin area and in May about 35% was under snow cover impact, whereas in the Ravi basin, 29% of the total basin area in April and 24% was covered with snow. The Sutlej basin, comprising Baspa, Pin and Spiti rivers, indicates that 41% of the total area in April and 37% in May was under snow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/climate-change-snow-cover-in-himachal-down-by-18-101630412993338.html
31-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s power crisis deepens due to coal shortage, 7 thermal units shut||Due to the shortage of coal, seven thermal power units in Rajasthan are shut and the rests have 3-4 days of stock left, HT has learnt. The Rajasthan Vidhyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (power generation firm) failed to make payments for coal due to a shortage of funds, and now the supply has become difficult as the coal mines are flooded with water. Undeclared power cuts of 4-5 hours have begun in rural areas and if the situation remains the same, urban areas may suffer power cuts as well. Due to the long weekend on the occasion of Janmasthami on Monday, the power consumption was less by industrial units and markets, but the load would increase by 15,000 MW in normal days. However, officials of the energy department denied any further power cuts and said it was done for the last two days as the demand increased but with the monsoon reviving in the state the demand has declined again. A senior official of the energy department said six units of Suratgarh (250MW each), and a unit of Kalisindh are shut due to coal shortage. The Kota thermal plant is also running at 70% capacity. Another private thermal plant in Kawai (Baran) is also shut. The remaining thermal units are left with 3-4 days coal stock. He said due to weak monsoon, the demand for commercial and domestic electricity has increased. The consumption of electricity in the month of August every year is around 20 crore units per day, which has increased to 31 crore units per day. Besides, some of the thermal plants are also on maintenance. Rajasthan has thermal units in district Suratgarh with 2160 MW capacity, Kota (1240MW), Chhabra (1320MW), Kalisindh (1200MW), Giral 250MW (Barmer), 270.50MW plant in Jaisalmer. Another official of Rajasthan Urja Vikas Limited, the government firm which handles the purchase and sale of power, said there has been no load-shedding as the electricity demand has declined with the monsoon. “In normal days, the electricity rate per unit is ₹6-7, which had increased to ₹20 per unit. With increasing demand and shortage of power with the exchange the national load dispatch, the Centre denied an overdraw. With an adequate supply of coal to plants, the situation will improve,” he said. However, despite all odds, department minister BD Kalla is confident of resolving the issue in a week. “The coal shortage issue will be resolved in a week. Under the agreement, Coal India was supposed to supply four and a half rakes, instead was sending three. We have urged to meet the gap by sending nine racks (one rake contains 4000 tonnes),” the minister said. The shortage is because of coal mines flooded with water – the water is being pumped out and soon supply would start, he said. As of August 1, 2021, Rajasthan has to clear an outstanding of ₹409 crore to Parsa Kanta Collieries Limited (PKCL) while ₹1375 crore has been paid. A total of ₹68 crore is to be cleared of Northern Coalfields Limited, ₹325 crore is released; ₹444.6 crore is pending for South Eastern Coalfields, ₹530 crore has been released, said the official. The state government needs to clear a pending amount of over 900 crore to coal companies. Amid the crisis, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has released ₹900 crore while another ₹1,000 crore will be sanctioned to clear the dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthans-power-crisis-deepens-due-to-coal-shortage-7-thermal-units-shut-101630412752307.html
31-08-2021||Dehradun||Landslide rocks Nainital lake area, boulders and debris fall into waters||A major landslide on Thandi Sadak next to Nainital lake in Uttarakhand had debris and big boulders falling into the waters on Tuesday. No casualties have been reported so far.This comes a day after three houses collapse following heavy rains, leaving five people dead and two others missing in Pithoragarh in the state. Right above the landslide site in Nainital is a girls’ hostel of Kumaon University. However, only two girls were in the hostel at the time and they were evacuated soon after. Nainital district disaster management officer Shailesh Kumar said boulder fall was being reported on Thandi Sadak for the past three days. “There was a major landslide at the same site this morning. The district administration has decided to call experts to check the area and make recommendations,” he said. Prof Lalit Tiwari, research director Kumaon University said, “We will discuss the matter with the district magistrate (DM) following which we will take a decision on when it will be safe to allow students in the hostel.” The DM is scheduled to visit the area later in the evening.Nainital is one of the most landslide-prone areas in the state. Since 2018, this small hill station and the areas around it have been witnessing landslides and cracks on the roads. Surrounded by hills, the Nainital lake is situated at an elevation of 1,938 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/landslide-rocks-nainital-lake-area-boulders-and-debris-fall-into-waters-101630412390981.html
31-08-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Choose wisely, the next elected body must set us right on climate action||The upcoming elections, the public representatives we choose, and their performance from 2022 to 2027 will be crucial to address critical contemporary challenges such as economic recovery from the pandemic and climate action. Election manifestos must present the parties’ proposed policy directions and show wisdom and commitment to sustainability. The public on its part must assess election promises for development projects carefully. We should become system thinkers and critical thinkers to check if proposals really improve wellbeing and reduce carbon emissions and other negative environmental impacts. We will need to be wary of false solutions, an example of which I describe below. But first, indulge me for a quick reminder of what travel (or not) in Pune needs to look like, the sooner the better. Back-cast the future Sustainability thinkers use “backcasting” as a tool – visualise the future and work backwards to devise the projects we should take up today, and to change unsustainable behaviours and investments. For example, by 2027, we should expect the city’s transport system to be climate-friendly, safe, stress-free (no driving road rage) and affordable. And we should have changed, stopped or reduced the policies, projects and behaviours that are getting us into troubleWe envision a drastic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from transport. Private transport is known to be the biggest contributor. Thus, public transport would have excellent frequency and connectivity across the city such that people would happily ditch bikes and cars and take the bus instead. Road space would be mainly for walking and cycling. At crossings, pedestrians and cyclists would occasionally stop to allow buses and the few vehicles to pass. We would be able to reach bus and metro stations with a short walk, cycle ride or auto-shuttle trip. Opportunities to work without travelling much would continue and become better. We would be able to access most daily needs without private motor vehicles. Our city government needs to work backwards from such a scenario (already envisioned in Pune’s mobility plan, cycle plan, street design guidelines). So now, it should implement critical actions – an extensive bus fleet, efficient management, and road design supportive of sustainable mobility. False solutions Unfortunately, instead of envisioning and acting for a sustainable future, false solutions are peddled out. For example, a proposal for a “neo-metro” with elevated roads on which trolleybuses will run appears to show that folks are thinking about public transport. In fact, it indicates the thinking that roads will remain congested with motor vehicles and that buses can have a rapid run only if there are elevated roads. Worse, a need for elevated roads (built at a huge public expense) is projected for public transport, but actually private motor vehicles will get a free run. Two lanes of the elevated neo-metro road are proposed as private motor vehicle lanes. Though the stated intent is to provide public transport, precious public funds will subsidise private transportation. Do we really need to be stuck with road construction for several years only to still be driving or riding? That is not a future we should aim for. We cannot afford to waste time and scarce resources on fake solutions that increase carbon emissions, congestion and crashes, and make the real solutions much more difficult to implement. Responsible decisions needed We hope political parties will take the challenge of sustainable mobility seriously and reduce the city’s carbon footprint in the next five to seven years. The IPCC’s Code Red has signalled that governments and communities at all levels must take urgent steps to reduce carbon emissions. Since time is of the essence, the upcoming elections are crucial for Pune’s future. Pune should emulate the municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai that has just launched a climate action planning process. It focuses on waste management, sustainable mobility, clean energy, urban floods and water management, urban green cover and biodiversity, and air quality. The PMC’s Resilience Plan prepared as part of the 100 Resilient Cities programme already covers such areas and can be the basis for Pune’s climate action plan. Pune now needs to go beyond the excellent plans it develops, to allocating municipal budgets and timelines, and ensuring implementation. Political parties must craft their manifestos keeping environmental sustainability and peoples’ wellbeing at the core. We expect the next city government to firmly set Pune on a course of sustainable development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-choose-wisely-the-next-elected-body-must-set-us-right-on-climate-action-101630411308664.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Secret of wearing a thick skin, saving it||When I joined as a bank officer in 1984, our batch had to undergo an induction programme at the staff training centre (STC), according to the standard procedure at that time. Bank officials who imparted training at the STC were called instructors. It was a month-long programme in a residential campus. The instructors were the bank’s general cadre officers who had been picked up from operations for the training assignment for a fixed tenure. The instructors were repatriated to operations on the completion of their tenure in the training system. There were six instructors at the STC who would take our classes, four in a day, by rotation. Besides teaching us the basics of banking, they would regale us with humorous anecdotes from their work experience. Each one of the instructors had their own eccentricities and peculiar experiences, which would be reflected in their lectures. The lectures of one instructor would be interspersed with two particular tips. He would often tell us, in between his lectures, to “save your skin first”. It was said in the context of decision-making that as bankers we were going to be involved in after completion of the probation period. It was a practical advice to safeguard our job first and foremost while taking any decision, especially those related to credit. Another advice he would repeat frequently was to “be thick-skinned”. It implied that as officers we should not be sensitive to reproach and rebuke from our seniors and customers. He gave to us these pieces of advice from what he had imbibed from his experience in the operations. One day, when he was repeating the same counsel for the umpteenth time, a retort from one the trainees brought the house down with laughter. The trainee summed up succinctly the instructor’s exhortations in a witty riposte: “Sir, do we have to be skin specialists?” Later on in our career, the advisories given by our instructor stood us in good stead. Now that I have retired from the bank service, a reference to ‘skin’ again made an impactful impression during a chat with an NRI friend settled in New York. There was this conversation around health that navigated towards organs of the body. It was a revelation for me when my friend told me that the skin was the largest organ in the human body. I was surprised to think of the skin as an organ. My friend was a bit bemused at my ignorance of this plain fact. But my scepticism didn’t let go of the conversation around the skin. I wondered aloud, seeking clarification from my friend, as to what care did we take of this largest organ? My friend was prompt to satiate my curiosity with a simple counter question. “Don’t we bathe regularly?” It immediately dawned upon me that our bathing basically serves the purpose of cleansing and maintenance of our skin, the largest organ of our body. The significance and secret of the skin were revealed to me again! chander59@icloud.com The writer is a Panchkula-based retired banker||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/secret-of-wearing-a-thick-skin-saving-it-101630410646544.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police recover 20kg of heroin being smuggled from Kashmir in truck||Busting a drug syndicate suspected of being operated by gangsters in jails, Punjab Police have recovered 20kg of heroin being smuggled from Kashmir with the arrest of two smugglers in Kapurthala on Monday. Also read: High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in AfghanistanThe two, Balwinder Singh of Sarangwal village in Hoshiarpur and Peter Masih of Basti Danishmanda locality in Jalandhar, were caught when a police team intercepted a truck and a Hyundai i20 car at the Dhilwan naka (checkpoint) in Kapurthala on Monday. The search of the vehicles led to the recovery. Masih already faces two criminal cases. Accused sent to collect heroin by gangster’s brother In a press statement, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said that the narco-gangster angle was being probed as Masih had been sent to collect the consignment by Gagandeep, the brother of gangster Rajnish Kumar, alias Preet Phagwara. When the drivers of the truck and car vehicles were signalled to stop at the checkpoint, they tried to flee but were caught after a brief chase. The police recovered 20 heroin packets of 1-kg each after their body check and from the two vehicles. Contraband hidden in truck driver’s cabin roof Kapurthala senior superintendent of police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said that two special cavities had been created in the roof of the truck driver’s cabin to conceal the contraband. The drug dealers said the consignment was being smuggled from Purmara Mandi in Srinagar by Balwinder Singh in the truck (HR-55K-2510) and Masih collected it from him. The two are being questioned to zero in on their links in the drug network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-recover-20kg-of-heroin-being-smuggled-from-kashmir-in-truck-101630405546532.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Jantar Mantar hate sloganeering case: Pinky Chaudhary surrenders amid cheers from Hindu Raksha Dal supporters||Hindu Raksha Dal chief Bhupinder Tomar alias Pinky Chaudhary on Tuesday surrendered before the Delhi Police for his alleged involvement in raising hate slogans at Jantar Mantar on August 8. Pinky surrendered at Delhi's Mandir Marg police station and arrived on the shoulders of his supporters who were cheering for him with slogans of ‘Jai Shri Ram’.Chaudhary was evading arrest after videos surfaced of him and other protesters allegedly shouting communal slogans on August 8. The protesters, however, claim that they demanded the removal of ‘colonial-era’ laws.‘Will surrender to police’Pinky on Monday launched a video where he announced that he will surrender to the Delhi Police on Tuesday. He maintained that he and his supporters did not do anything wrong in his video. “I am firm on my point that neither I nor any worker of my organisation did anything wrong at Jantar Mantar. I respect the court. I will get myself arrested tomorrow, on August 31, around 12pm at Connaught Place police station and will cooperate with police during the probe,” Pinky was heard saying in the video, according to a report by HT.Pinky in his video also said that the allegations against him are ‘false and baseless’. HT could not verify the authenticity of the video.Uttam Upadhyay, BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, Vinit Bajpai and Sushil Tiwari were among the others arrested for allegedly chanting communal slogans and defying Covid-19 protocols along with Pinky. They along with their supporters organised a ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ rally, during which activists claim that communal slogans were chanted. Upadhyay, who is also out on bail, continues to maintain that there were no communal chants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jantar-mantar-hate-sloganeering-case-pinky-chaudhary-surrenders-to-police-101630404999601.html
31-08-2021||Other||Telangana HC stays reopening of govt residential schools||The Telangana high court on Tuesday stayed the reopening of all state-run welfare and residential schools. The state government passed orders on August 23 for physical classes in all schools to resume from September 1.The high court, however, allowed private schools to resume physical classes, but said that no one could be forced to attend. The high court also asked the state department of education to issue guidelines for schools to conduct physical classes.The high court’s ruling was in response to a public interest litigation filed by one Bala Krishna Mandapati, a UPSC course coach and advocate. A bench comprising acting chief justice MS Ramachandra Rao and justice Vinod Kumar gave the state government four weeks’ time to show that it is fully prepared to reopen its welfare and residential schools. Also Read | Telangana set to use drones for afforestation campaign“The reopening of all government residential, tribal welfare and social welfare schools has been stayed. With regard to private schools, parents can send their children it they want to, but they have the freedom to choose to do so,” said Mandapati’s lawyer Kruthi Kalaga.Telangana is still reporting about 300 Covid-19 cases everyday even now.In the state, schools and other educational institutions have been shut since the academic year began, and classes are still being held online. After the government decided to reopen all schools, managements were asked to create a customised seating arrangement along with a proper plan for physical distancing, and making students wear masks compulsorily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-hc-stays-reopening-of-govt-residential-schools-101630405066541.html
31-08-2021||Patna||‘Maoist’ posters seeking reduction in bus fares trigger panic in Gaya||Posters allegedly put up by Maoists demanding reduction in bus fares and toll taxes triggered panic among transporters in Bihar’s Gaya on Tuesday. Police said they have seized the posters and were evaluating whether they were genuine. Some of the posters were left on the drivers’ seats of many buses and auto-rickshaws and said they should be plied after the reduction in fares. The posters also urged the Bihar government to bring down the state component of fuel taxes to reduce their prices. They held Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the fare and toll tax rise.Also Read | Bihar trader assaults, tortures staff in captivity accusing him of theft; heldGaya (city) police superintendent Rakesh Kumar said they have seized the posters and were investigating the matter. “Preliminary investigation suggested the posters pasted in the name of Maoists are fake. It is the handiwork of miscreants.” Bihar Motors Transport Federation president Uday Shankar Singh blamed the rise in fuel prices as well as road taxes for the increase in fares. “The public transport fares have been raised by 25% across Bihar since March 15.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/maoist-posters-seeking-reduction-in-bus-fares-trigger-panic-in-gaya-101630404286457.html
31-08-2021||Ranchi||14 held, online racket busted by Delhi Police in Jharkhand's Jamtara||Fourteen persons were arrested by the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police from Jamtara in Jharkhand on Tuesday on allegations of online fraud.According to the Delhi Police, a raid was conducted in Jamtara from where these 14 accused have been arrested."They targetted bank executives and sometimes pretended to provide offers from e-shopping companies," the police said.As per the police, the 14 arrested accused include prime suspects Ghulam Ansari and Altaf."Property worth ₹2 crore and SUV worth ₹20 lakh have been seized from the accused," said the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/14-held-online-racket-busted-by-delhi-police-in-jharkhand-s-jamtara-101630401496603.html
31-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand man lynched for fishing from village dam in Palamu district||A 45-year-old man was allegedly lynched in Jharkhand’s Palamu district on Monday night for fishing from a local dam in his neighbouring village.Janeshwar Chaudhary from Bokya village under Chainpur police station was allegedly beaten up by a group of men from neighbouring Katual village who reportedly objected to Chaudhary fishing in their village dam, claiming they had cultured fish seeds in it and auctioned the harvest in advance.Chaudhary was later handed over in an injured state to his family who had been searching for him on Monday night.Chainpur police station in-charge Uday Kumar Gupta said a murder case had been registered and Binda Chaurasia, one of the four named accused, arrested. Other three accused identified as Mansokh Chaurasia, Basisth Chaurasia and Arup Chaurasia were absconding.“As per the initial probe, late on Monday night, Janeshwar was fishing at the dam with some men. The accused caught hold of the deceased while others managed to flee. He was allegedly beaten by them. Janeshwar developed complications after reaching home and was rushed to hospital, but died soon after,” said Gupta.Police said they were waiting for his post-mortem report to ascertain the exact cause of death as not many injury marks were visible on the body of the deceased.“He could have died of some internal injury. We have arrested one Binda Chaurasia and are conducting raids to arrest the other three accused,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-man-lynched-for-fishing-from-village-dam-in-palamu-district-101630401406427.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||After Delhi rain, traffic snarls and waterlogging at several places||Delhi and adjoining areas of the National Capital Region (NCR) witnessed heavy rain on Tuesday leading to traffic jams after waterlogging in several areas. Following the heavy downpour in the morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the rainfall would continue in Delhi and NCR for at least two more hours.Several users complained of traffic jams due to waterlogging in parts of the city on Twitter. The Delhi Traffic Police issued several travel advisories and updates on the day due to the traffic. They said that waterlogging was reported at Shahjahan Road, W Point ITO, Thyagaraja Marg, Lala Lajpat Rai Marg, Moolchand Underpass, AIIMS, Ring Road, Hyatt Hotel, both sides of the Savitri flyover, Maharani Bagh, Nizamudin Khatta, Dhaula Kuan to 11 Murti Marg and Anand Parbat Gali No 10. “Carriageway of IOCL Dwarka To NSG Dwarka is closed due to waterlogging, Please avoid using this route,” the traffic police said in its latest alert.Also read | IMD predicts light to moderate rain in Delhi, adjoining areas in next 2 hoursAccording to data, 74mm rainfall in Lodhi Road station and 69mm rainfall in Safdarjung station has been recorded in the three hours between 8.30am and 11.30am. In its update at 12.45pm, the IMD tweeted, “Thunderstorm with moderate rain over entire Delhi and heavy intensity rain at isolated places would occur over and adjoining areas of Delhi and NCR… during next 2 hours. Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Manesar were among the areas listed by the IMD, forecasted to receive downpours.An orange alert has been issued by the Met department to all areas of the NCR for two days on August 31 and September 1. It said that generally cloudy skies could be observed over the region with moderate rains and thunderstorms likely at few places. Apart from Delhi, the weather bureau has also forecast heavy rain with thunderstorms and lightning at isolated places over some states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-delhi-rain-traffic-snarls-and-waterlogging-at-several-places-101630399419669.html
31-08-2021||Patna||Bihar trader assaults, tortures staff in captivity accusing him of theft; held||A Bihar trader kept one of his employees captive for three days, during which the boy was tortured with electric shocks and assaulted brutally as punishment for stealing spices from his shop at Bhabua town in Kaimur district, police said.The critically injured boy was rescued on Monday by police and admitted to the district hospital following a complaint by his mother, a widow. A case of wrongful confinement and murderous assault has been registered against seven persons at the Town police station in the district.The businessman’s two sons, Prince Kumar and Akash Kumar, have been arrested while raids were on to arrest five others, including the businessman, involved in the act, superintendent of police, Rakesh Kumar said on Tuesday.According to the complaint filed by the victim’s mother, her son Bholu Keshari was accused of stealing from the general store owned by Rajesh Kumar alias Guddu Keshari, who abducted and assaulted Bholu with assistance from others while keeping him captive.She said Rajesh Kumar and others searched her house in her absence on Friday and her daughter told her mother when she returned on Monday that Golu had been missing for the last three days.Golu’s mother said when she went to the store to ask about his son, the store owner, Rajesh Keshari alleged that Golu had stolen items and cash worth rupees eight lakh from the shop and she needed to return the money by selling her house if she desired to see Golu alive. According to her complaint, she saw her son lying in an unconscious state in a room with his hands and legs tied with rope.Following her police complaint, station house officer Ramanand Mandal led a team and rescued the boy, who was found with several assault marks, cuts and burn injuries on face, neck and the rest of his body.The boy later informed police that he was caught red-handed with some spices he had stolen from the store to use at home. After this, Rajesh Keshari, his sons Prince and Akash Keshari, along with their friends Dharmraj, Ravi Kumar, Aman and Raju locked him up in a room and assaulted him with iron rods and gave electric shops till he became unconscious.Golu said they pressured him to accept that he had stolen eight lakh rupees from the shop and demanded that he returned the amount by selling his house. He said that they also threatened that they will sell his kidney and other body organs after killing him to make up for their loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-trader-assaults-tortures-staff-in-captivity-accusing-him-of-theft-held-101630398646052.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||MNS defies Covid protocol to celebrate Dahi Handi; workers detained in Mumbai||The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) defied the state government by going ahead with Dahi Handi celebration in many places despite the ban in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Four party workers were booked in Worli for defying the government orders.The MNS celebrated the festival in places such as Thane, Kalachowki, Dadar, Mulund and Mankhurd.Assailing the state government, MNS chief Raj Thackeray said, “Everything is going on normally and there are crowds everywhere...A perception is being created that Covid-19 spreads only during the festivals. Fear is being created among the people. Hence, I told my party workers to celebrate Dahi Handi with gusto.” He said it is ironic that ‘Jan Ashirwarad Yatra’ and other gatherings are being held while festivities are being curbed. “Let there be a similar law for everyone,” he added.Dahi Handi is a clay pot filled with milk, yogurt and other such milk products, hung from a height. Young people form a human pyramid to break it. This is one of the major festivals celebrated across Maharashtra where winners get prizes.In Thane, the MNS broke the dahi handi at 12midnight with women volunteers forming a pyramid. In Dadar, MNS workers celebrated Dahi Handi at Khandke building at 7am. At Kalachowki, MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar was not allowed to enter the Bhagat Singh ground so he broke the handi outside. Mumbai Police detained him later.Mumbai Police have booked four MNS workers at Worli under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating the order prohibiting public celebration of the festival. “”Four members of MNS have been arrested by Worli Police for violating the norms against celebrating the festival last night,” said Dyaneshwar Chavan, additional commissioner of police Central region.MNS spokesperson Sandeep Deshpande, who organised the Dadar event, said: “It was the 50th year celebration at Khandke building and we celebrated it despite the ban by the government. We did not bow before this anti-Hindu government.”BJP legislator Ram Kadam who is well known for organising grand festivities celebrated the festival at his house. As per the state government rules announced on Monday, all public gatherings such as community rituals, human pyramids and cultural events for the festival were banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mns-defies-covid-protocol-to-celebrate-dahi-handi-workers-detained-in-mumbai-101630396246271.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Supreme Court orders demolition of Supertech's twin towers in Noida||In a setback to real estate major Supertech, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld an Allahabad high court order from 2014, ordering demolition of twin towers in the group's Noida-based housing project Emerald Court. In its judgment, the top court observed that the construction of the two towers, comprising total 1000 flats, was carried out illegally.Also Read | 'You are in cahoots with them’: Supreme Court roasts Noida Authority over Supertech towersA two-judge bench of the apex court, comprising Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice MR Shah which, during the previous hearing, pulled up the Noida Authority for its "shocking use of power" in sanctioning the structures, observed in its final judgment that their construction was due to a "collusion" between officials of the Authority and Supertech.In the last hearing, on August 5, the bench reserved its order over the demolition of the towers, named Apex and Ceyane.In its final order, the Supreme Court said that the demolition should be done within a period of two months, adding that Supertech will have to carry out the exercise at its own cost. Additionally, every flat owner will have to be paid a reimbursement at an interest rate of 12 per cent.For Apex and Ceyane, the court ruled that the violation was indeed under the minimum distance requirement between the two.On April 11, 2014, the Allahabad high court issued directions to raze Apex and Ceyane observing that these stood too close to each other. This, the high court noted, was against the minimum distance of 16 metres as required under the Noida Building Regulations, 2010. It also noted that Supertech did not take consent of the homebuyers as mandated by the Uttar Pradesh Apartment Owners Act, 2010.The demolition order was challenged in the Supreme Court by Noida Authority and Supertech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sc-orders-demolition-of-supertech-s-twin-towers-in-noida-101630393679105.html
31-08-2021||Jaipur||Vasundhara Raje’s plan to visit Udaipur and Ajmer divisions creates buzz in BJP||Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje is planning to tour a few districts in Rajasthan, and this has created a buzz in the political circles including in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), people aware of the developments said.A senior leader on condition of anonymity said that Raje was planning to visit Udaipur and Ajmer divisions to meet families of recently deceased leaders and lawmakers such as former parliamentarian Rasa Singh Rawat; Begun legislature and former minister Chunni Lal Dhakad; former Jahazpur MLA Shivjiram Meena; former MP Hemendra Singh; former ministers Jeetmal Khant and Kiran Maheshwari and Dhariawad MLA Gautam Lal Meena. They all died recently.The leader quoted above said the tour had to be postponed as Raje’s daughter-in-law was unwell. The BJP stalwart will visit Ajmer, Bhilwara, Rajsamand, Banswara and Udaipur districts during her visit, he said. “Raje may come to Jaipur before the start of the assembly session on September 9. Her tour is likely to begin after the session,” he said.She may also visit Tripura Sundari and Charbhuja Nath temples during her 2-3 day long tour, he added.Talk of Raje’s tour after the controversy over the absence of her picture from the Jan Aashirwad Yatra posters has created a buzz in the state BJP, particularly among senior leaders, who see it as an attempt by Raje to increase her visibility and following keeping the 2023 assembly elections in mind.“On Saturday she went to Aligarh and met relatives of late governor Kalyan Singh, and visited the Mahadev temple there. She has started [her] tour with this and will continue the same in Rajasthan after the assembly session. The former CM is planning these visits to maintain her relevance,” said a senior party MLA, who didn’t wish to be named.He said while the people close to her call it a “personal” tour, it is meant to increase her activities as the elections are now little over two years away. “A similar attempt was made by her in March with a two-day yatra in Bharatpur region, a show of strength on her birthday. The yatra was attended by a large number of MLAs, MPs, ex-MLAs and MPs. The issue was also raised before the Central leadership,” he said.Political analyst Manish Godha said such tours were like warm up exercises before the polls which will also boost workers’ morale while keeping her politically relevant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/vasundhara-raje-s-plan-to-visit-udaipur-and-ajmer-divisions-creates-buzz-in-bjp-101630392225940.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab grenade attack averted, villager held in Tarn Taran||Punjab Police recovered two hand-grenades from a man while patrolling Kakka Kandiala village, 4 km from Tarn Taran, on Janmashtami night. The accused, Saroop Singh of Johal Dhai Wala village in Goindwal Sahib sub division, was arrested by a team led by Tarn Taran city station house officer (SHO) Jaswant Singh while patrolling Kakka Kandiala around 11pm on Monday. Also read: Taliban walk across Kabul airport runway, say want good diplomatic ties with USThe team intercepted Saroop Singh, who was riding a motorcycle, near the village and searched him on suspicion, leading to the recovery of the two hand-grenades, a mobile phone, an Aadhaar card and a driving licence. “On the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami, we had increased vigil that led to the arrest,” said a senior police official, requesting anonymity. Deputy superintendent of police (city) Sucha Singh Bal confirmed the developments and said investigation is on into the links of the accused. The recovery comes three weeks after a tiffin bomb, five hand-grenades and 100 pistol cartridges were recovered near a drain at Daleke village in Lopoke sub division of neighbouring Amritsar district. The ammunition was allegedly dropped by a drone from across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-grenade-attack-averted-villager-held-in-tarn-taran-101630391625961.html
31-08-2021||Bangalore||Seven dead in Audi car crash in Bengaluru||Seven people, aged between 20 to 30, were killed when an overloaded and speeding luxury Audi car lost control and first rammed into bollards and later a building in Bengaluru’s Koramangala on Tuesday, police said. Karuna Sagar, son of Tamil Nadu’s ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam lawmaker Y Prakash, was among those killed in the accident. The six others were identified as Ishita, Dhanush, Akshay Goyal, Utsav, and Rohit. Joint police commissioner (traffic) B Ravikanthe Gowda said the speeding car carrying seven people lost control around 1:45 am and crashed into the building. “The car was completely mangled in the accident. None of the passengers were wearing seat belts; so, the airbags did not open,” said Gowda. He added six of the seven died on the spot while the seventh succumbed on the way to a hospital. “Traffic police personnel reached the location within 10 minutes of the accident and were taking the injured person to the hospital, but he died on the way.”A second traffic police officer cited the CCTV footage from a building near the accident scene and said it shows the car passing through in a fraction of a second. “Looking at the footage, we suspect that car was speeding at over 150 km per hour,” said the officer, who did not want to be named. The officer added the car lost control and first rammed into bollards on the road. “These bollards are heavy and sturdy, but the car was traveling at such speed that it went through them. Then after hitting the bollards, the car crashed onto the Punjab National Bank building. The car hit a corner of the building. Since the ground floor of the building was slightly elevated, the car hit a solid concrete block.”Vishwanath, who lives close to the accident site, said when he came out after hearing a loud noise, he saw a lot of smoke coming from the vehicle. “...though we wanted to check on them, someone said the car could blast, so we were uncertain. But soon, we decided to pour water on the car and pull them (the occupants of the car) out,” he said. He added the person who was alive in the car after the accident was coughing. “So, he was pulled out first and police took him to the hospital in an autorickshaw. Others were clearly dead. There were three people in the front and four at the back. All of them had severe injuries or blood coming out of their mouths. It was hard to see... (there was) one woman at the back (and) something had pierced through her neck. It was very a horrible scene.”Gowda said they have filed a case under Sections 279 (rash driving on a public way) and 304 (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. “As per the preliminary investigation, this is a case of over-speeding and negligent driving. We will know if the driver was under the influence of alcohol after post-mortem.”A relative of one of those killed said he was informed about the tragedy around 3 am. “We were told that he (Rohit) had gone out with his friends. We got a call on this phone and when we reached the police station, they showed us some photos of the accident and said he had died. Rohit’s parents had passed away and he was working in a private firm in Bengaluru,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/seven-dead-in-audi-car-crash-in-bengaluru-101630386645792.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||IMD predicts light to moderate rain in Delhi, adjoining areas in next 2 hours||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate intensity rain in various parts of Delhi and adjoining areas on Tuesday morning. In its forecast at 8.30am, the IMD also predicted thunderstorm over and adjoining areas of isolated places of East, Southeast, Northeast, North, Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Dadri, Meerut and Modinagar "in the next two hours".The MeT department also predicted rainfall in Kithor, Garhmukteshwar, Pilakhua, Hapur, Gulaoti, Siyana, Sambhal, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, Jahangirabad, Anupshahar, Shikarpur, Khurja, Etah, Kasganj, Pahasu, Debai, Narora, Jattari, Khair(UP) Kotputli and Viratnagar (Rajasthan) in the same time period.According to the IMD forecast, the national capital is likely to witness a cloudy sky with moderate rain on Tuesday. The minimum temperature is expected to touch 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 33°C.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 70. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.“Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category with PM10 as leading pollutant. The polluted air from the Indo-Gangetic Plain region is mixed with local re-suspended dust in moderate ventilation. The air quality is predicted to remain in moderate category for next 2 days under similar wind conditions and low rainfall," the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-predicts-light-to-moderate-rain-in-delhi-adjoining-areas-in-next-2-hours-101630380151661.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai taxi driver uses prank app to cheat shop keepers; arrested||The Meghwadi Police on Sunday arrested a taxi driver for allegedly cheating grocery and retail shop owners to the tune of ₹2.80 lakh by using an e-wallet linked to a prank app. The app, available on Google play, helps users show that they’ve debited money from their account when they scan the QR code of the recipient even though the actual transaction hasn’t been made.Police caught Nizamuddin Shaikh, a Jogeshwari resident, while he was making one such ‘payment’ to a shop owner. They were responding to a complaint from one shop owner that the payments made by a customer using an e-wallet did not reach his account. When they started investigation, another shop owner approached them with a similar complaint.Also Read | IMD predicts moderate rain in Mumbai, suburbs in next 24 hoursThe police registered a First Information Report as more and more shopkeepers came forward with the same issue.Sanjeev Pimple, senior police inspector of Meghwadi police station, said they formed teams which started keeping check on shops and customers who were making payments through e-wallet app.Shaikh was intercepted when they saw that his payment had not reached the shopkeeper’s account. He would take advantage of the crowd in a shop and just show the shopkeeper his phone that the amount was deducted from his account and leave the shop. The shopkeepers used assume that the amount will soon reflect in their accounts.On questioning, Shaikh revealed that he had seen a video on YouTube about the app using which the QR code scanned by the user can switch it in a way that the amount of payment is just shown deducted from the account, but does not get credited to the recipient. Police found the app on Shaikh’s phone.They are now on the lookout for more people who might have cheated shopkeepers using similar apps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-taxi-driver-uses-prank-app-to-cheat-shop-keepers-arrested-101630380645388.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Expect a cloudy sky with moderate rainfall today||Delhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky with moderate rain on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature is expected to touch 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 33°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 25.3°C and the maximum temperature was 34.6°C.Also Read | Delhi advises against plying decades-old petrol, diesel vehiclesDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 70. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 81 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category with PM10 as leading pollutant. The polluted air from the Indo-Gangetic Plain region is mixed with local re-suspended dust in moderate ventilation. The air quality is predicted to remain in moderate category for next 2 days under similar wind conditions and low rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-expect-a-cloudy-sky-with-moderate-rainfall-today-101630379085742.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||IMD predicts moderate rain in Mumbai, suburbs in next 24 hours||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday Mumbai and its suburbs will continue to see rain during the next 24 hours due to a low-pressure area over western parts of Maharashtra's Vidarbha, leading to moderate rain at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places."Moderate rainfall measuring 3 cm reported over Mumbai (Santacruz) during 0230-0530 hours IST of today. As the low pressure area now lies over western parts of Vidarbha, rainfall activity over Mumbai and its suburbs would continue during next 24 hours leading to moderate rain at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall (<15cm) at isolated places," the IMD said in its Twitter handle.The weather department further said that the rainfall activity is likely to decrease to light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy rainfall over Mumbai and its suburbs during subsequent 24 hours i.e. on September 1 and decrease further to only light to moderate rain over the region on September 2.As Mumbai witnessed light showers on Monday with moderate rainfall at isolated places, officials at the weather forecasting department sounded a yellow alert in the city on Tuesday and Wednesday. The city is very likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places for the next couple of days, the IMD stated.The Met department also issued an orange alert in Thane for Tuesday. In neighbouring Palghar too, a yellow alert has been sounded for Tuesday and an orange alert has been issued for Wednesday.Data from the IMD's monitoring station at Santacruz has revealed that Mumbai’s rainfall deficit for August stood at 46 per cent on Monday. Till 8.30am on Monday, Mumbai had recorded 288.8mm of rain as against the monthly normal of 531.3mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/imd-predicts-moderate-rain-in-mumbai-suburbs-in-next-24-hours-101630376194219.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Cops at sealed buildings, marshals to ensure masks in Mumbai as Covid cases rise||Mumbai civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has directed officials to deploy police at the entrance of buildings sealed in order to stop people from entering them in another attempt to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases, which have been on the rise in the city. A building is sealed in Mumbai if it has five or more Covid-19 patients, according to the current civic protocol. Chahal said on Monday people living in such buildings in Mumbai might be inconvenienced by the order but asked them to cooperate so that the pandemic could be controlled. "Given our previous experience in this regard, we need to be very vigilant about the implementation of Covid preventive measures. In this connection, as per the rules already enforced, the building in which more than 5 Covid-19 infected patients are found is sealed, must be followed," Chahal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "Precautionary measures must be taken very strictly considering the possibility of a third wave and to prevent the spread of Covid-19 to others," he added.Also read | Covid-19 cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region rise slightly in past few daysThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release that no one would be allowed to enter these sealed buildings and people who come to provide various services would also be stopped. The city had 27 sealed buildings as of Monday. The BMC said the number of Covid-19 patients has gone up slightly in Mumbai and that there was a need to be vigilant about implementing preventive measures against the disease.The decision was taken at a virtual meeting chaired by Chahal and attended by ward officers, hospital deans and officials of the civic public health department as well as the Mumbai police's deputy commissioner (operations), the BMC release said.Also read | Bandra, Mahim, Kandivli in Mumbai see highest new Covid-19 cases in a weekChahal also told authorities in all the 24 wards of the BMC to appoint marshals to take punitive action against those not wearing masks or defying social distancing norms. He also asked civic hospitals and jumbo treatment centres in Mumbai to be prepared amid apprehension of a possible third wave of the pandemic as well as a potential outbreak of the Delta variant. All necessary facilities in all the hospitals, such as ambulances, health care staff, necessary equipment, medical stock of medicines, pills, injections, etc. were reviewed and updated as required.Also read | Maharashtra bans gatherings, human pyramids for Dahi Handi festivalHe said 74 per cent of people above the age of 18 in Mumbai had been vaccinated against Covid-19 and asked civic officials to ensure the rest 26 per cent are covered quickly.Data shows that Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have seen a slight surge in the past 15 days. It also showed that the daily average of 250 new cases registered in mid-August rose to 350 in the last five days. Mumbai recorded around 325 Covid-19 cases on August 1, which dropped to 262 on August 15 but reached 345 on August 29, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-at-sealed-buildings-marshals-to-ensure-masks-in-mumbai-as-covid-cases-rise-101630377189702.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Another way to see Jama Masjid||They literally live in the shadow of the Jama Masjid. Right under the Mughal-era monument’s west-facing wall, towards which the attendees inside the mosque offer their prayers.This late night, the men are lying — head to feet, head to feet — on the pavement that runs along the mosque’s boundary wall. Only one man has his eyes wide open. He is sitting on a low wooden chest, staring expressionlessly at the road in front. “We are 200 people,” says Nizamuddin, 52. Dressed formally at this late hour in pants and full-sleeved shirt, he informs that “we are mazdoor”. The generic description doesn’t give justice to the specialised skills that distinguish these men. Nizamuddin agrees. “Some of us are beldar, some are raj mistri, some are carpenter, some are rang painter, some are plumber… I’m a rang painter.” As he chats on, elderly raj mistri Hamid and teenaged rang painter Farid, sleepily lying on either side of Nizamuddin, appear to listen to him now and then. Occasionally, headlights of passing bikes fall on their faces. Nizamuddin continues: “Some of us are from Bijnaur, some are from Moradabad, some are from Meerut… we are all UP wale.”Daily wage labourers in many parts of the city tend to gather at select intersections to get assignments. Such places are colloquially referred to as “labour chowk”. For these men, the pavement on which they live is their labour chowk. “Contractors needing hands for building projects come here to hire us.”Gesturing towards the many bags lining the pavement wall, Nizamudddin says they contain beddings and clothes. “No outsider touches our bags.” The wall is scrawled with mobile numbers of the men who live here. Nizamuddin talks of a “public nalka (tap)” nearby under which the men wash themselves, and their clothes.It’s now midnight. Most shops have rolled down their shutters. Traffic has thinned. Rats the size of pigeons are out of their hiding holes. And the historic Jama Masjid is looming over like a giant seaside cliff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-another-way-to-see-jama-masjid-101630371656737.html
31-08-2021||Jaipur||16-year-old girl raped by 5, including minor, in Rajasthan||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by five people, including a minor, in Nagaur district of Rajasthan, police said on Monday.According to the police, the victim’s father lodged a first information report (FIR) at Jayal police station in Nagaur on Sunday night.Police said they have arrested a 20-year-old man and detained the minor boy on Monday.Station House Officer, Jayal police station, Surendra Kumar said in the complaint the victim’s father has alleged that the girl was called by the 20-year-old accused, who is their neighbor, at his home for some work on August 26.The SHO added that four other accused were already present at his house.“They raped the girl and threatened her with dire consequences if she dared to reveal the incident to anyone,” said Kumar.“The victim was scared and under depression after the incident. Noticing the behavioural changes, when her family members enquired, the girl narrated the ordeal to them,” Kumar said. He added that the girl’s father then approached the police and a case was registered.Three other accused are absconding and efforts are being made to nab them, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/16yearold-girl-raped-by-5-including-minor-in-rajasthan-101630369012131.html
31-08-2021||Noida||Noida aviation hub to get bigger||The civil aviation hub at Jewar, which includes the upcoming Noida International Airport on 5,000 hectares along Yamuna Expressway, is set to get bigger as the Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has decided to add another 1,000 hectares to the project by merging three proposed industrial sectors with the airport plan.The airport is billed to be the largest in India, and will be the National Capital Region’s third, after the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) and the civilian terminal at Ghaziabad’s Hindon airport. In December 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government approved the design of the airport at Jewar.“Earlier, we planned the aviation hub on 5,000 hectares. But now, due to demand for more industrial land and other requirements, we have decided to merge three industrial cities planned in sectors 8, 30 and 31 with this project. These three sectors were planned on around 1,000 hectares. Therefore, now the aviation hub, which includes the Noida international airport, will be developed on 6,000 hectares. We are revising the master plan of the civil aviation hub accordingly,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida and NIAL, the nodal agency of the UP government to monitor the airport project.The three sectors were among four proposed industrial cities to be built along the periphery of the Noida international airport. Officials said the fourth city, Sector 7, will now be built as a separate project.“It was merged with the aviation hub as we realised MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) of aircrafts has a huge potential to create millions of jobs in this region for skilled workforce,” said Singh.MRO units ensure service worthiness of an aircraft with facilities for inspection and maintenance. The upcoming MRO facility at Jewar will be the first of its kind in Uttar Pradesh, officials said.Yeida and NIAL have already handed over 1,334 hectares of the total 6,000 hectares to Yamuna International airport private Limited -- a special purpose vehicle set up to undertake the airport project -- which has begun constructing boundary walls and levelling the land. The airport project is expected to be completed by 2024 and will entail an investment of around ₹20,000 crore.Further, the authorities also plan to develop a smart city -- modelled on European cities -- on 1,400 hectares of land near the airport.“In the European model, we have commercial spaces on the ground and residential condominiums above it. The smart city near the airport will be a one of its kind urban development with all world-class facilities, zero waste discharge into soil, and best commuting options,” said Singh.‘Economy boost’Singh said the airport project will boost the local economy, creating jobs for residents and business opportunities for investors.“The local economy will witness a seven-fold jump as huge investment is being made by foreign and domestic investors after the airport project picked up pace at Jewar. We have received around ₹15,000 crore in the last three years. This region (along Yamuna Expressway) will generate around 500,000 jobs in the next three years,” said Singh.He further said that several new projects, including warehouses, entertainment zones, amusement parks, apparel parks, logistics hub and film city, will come up once the airport becomes operational in 2024.“The airport will create rental incomes for farmers and other stakeholders because MNCs and industrialists are on way to set up their businesses. The airport at Jewar will fuel growth just like the IGI airport did for south Delhi and Gurugram,” said Singh.Hurdles along the wayLand acquisition for the project was a challenge initially as farmers refused to part with their land and demanded compensation four times the existing circle rate. Officials said that with negotiations running into a stalemate, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh held multiple meetings with farmers to push for acquisition.The MLA said, “We are also requesting the government to set up a skill university for creation of jobs for the local youngsters.”In his comments last month when the state government finalised the airport’s design, Christoph Schnellmann, CEO of the Yamuna International Airport Pvt Limited, said, “We are committed to developing the aviation ecosystem in India, with an investment of ₹5,700cr for phase I of the airport development. The Noida International Airport will hold strategic importance and will be an economic engine for growth in Uttar Pradesh and India.”In November 2019, Zurich Airport International AG (ZAIA) won the contract to build and operate the airport in Greater Noida for a period of 40 years, which includes the phase one construction period of four years.Last year, a consortium of Nordic Office of Architecture, Grimshaw, Haptic and consultants STUP were selected to design the airport. The new passenger terminal is aimed to be ‘India’s greenest airport’ reaching the goal of carbon-net-zero targets as well as efficient and enhanced passenger flows and digital services.Officials have said that Jewar, situated along the Yamuna Expressway, will be connected to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and also have a Metro link to Greater Noida besides the ambitious high-speed Delhi-Varanasi bullet train with a station at the Noida airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-aviation-hub-to-get-bigger-101630367898530.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K cop, mother arrested in Poonch over alleged murder of his wife||A policeman and his mother were arrested over alleged murder of his wife, a teacher, in the Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said Monday. With the two arrests, the police claimed to have solved the murder case of 36-year-old Shahnaz Akhter at Keri Gulatta village last week, they said. Akhter’s body with visible injury marks was found 100m from her house on August 24 and a special investigation team was constituted to probe her death.“The blind murder case was solved within a week with the arrest of the husband and the mother-in-law of the deceased,” sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Mendhar, ZA Jaffri said. He said an 11-member police team zeroed in on the accused persons who allegedly carried out the murder in a well-planned manner and also tampered with the evidence to escape arrest. Officials identified the arrested husband as constable Irfan Manhas who is posted with Indian Reserve Police Battalion in Srinagar. They said the couple, married with three daughters and a son, were having some family dispute. They said the accused had reached his house around midnight on August 24 and allegedly strangled his wife to death with the active support of his mother.He had left the house for his place of posting after dumping the body to evade suspicion, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-cop-mother-arrested-in-poonch-over-alleged-murder-of-his-wife-101630355865223.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will not shift stand on restoration of Art 370: Bukhari||Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Monday demanded immediate restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood, completion of delimitation and conduct of elections.Bukhari was speaking at a press conference organised after a meeting of the party’s core group at Lal Chowk, in Srinagar, where the socio-economic political situation in J&K was discussed.Taking a dig at the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the leader said, “There is no room for shifting stands in Apni Party. Meanwhile, the PAGD which on one hand speaks about ‘No Compromise’ on Article-370 and 35A, has also become a signatory to memorandums that do not mention restoration of these special laws,” he said, adding that the PAGD must clarify whether it had given up on their demand for restoration of the Articles 370 and 35A. “I want to assure the people that we will not give up on the protection of our identity, culture, land, and jobs , which was enshrined in Article 370,” he said, adding the party had been quiet on the issue as the matter is subjudice. “Our identity and statehood have been snatched. Before the electoral process starts, we demand that the government of India restore statehood in J&K. This is the basic right of our people,” he said, adding that the delimitation process be completed at the earliest.“Our demand assumes more significance in view of the remarks made by the Parliamentary Committee on Home Affairs which in its recent visit to J&K expressed satisfaction over the security situation saying that militancy is at an all-time low and there have been no instances of stone pelting in the Valley,” he said. In the meeting, Apni Party leaders demanded a thorough security review of political activists so that they could continue with a hassle-free political process across Jammu and Kashmir. They also raised concern over the exponential increase in unemployment rates while seeking stern action against those involved in corruption irrespective of their position and status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-not-shift-stand-on-restoration-of-art-370bukhari-101630355745555.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Maj Gen Slaria takes over as GoC Counter Insurgency Force Kilo||Srinagar: Major general Sanjiv Singh Slaria took over as the general officer commanding of the Counter Insurgency Force Kilo on Monday. Major general SH Sahi, who was GoC Victor Force, on relinquishing the command will move to the army headquarters in New Delhi. The army spokesperson said that Sahi’s tenure saw Kilo Force take distinctive steps towards ‘peace and stability’ in North Kashmir. Slaria was commissioned into the 10 Armoured Regiment in June 1990. “An alumnus of National Defence Academy and the winner of the Sword of Honour at Indian Military Academy, the GoC has attended staff courses at Defence Services Staff College at Wellington, Command and General Staff College at Thailand, Higher Defence Management Course at College of Defence Management, Secunderabad and the prestigious NDC Course at Mirpur, Bangladesh,” the spokesperson said.In his distinguished military career spanning over three decades, the GoC has held prestigious instructor and staff appointments. He was an instructor at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, and directing staff at College of Defence Management, Secunderabad. The GoC has commanded his own regiment and later the Armoured Brigade in High Altitude Area. He has held various important staff appointments prior to assuming the command of prestigious Counter Insurgency Force (Kilo).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/maj-gen-slaria-takes-over-as-goc-counter-insurgency-force-kilo-101630355564552.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Schools in Kargil to reopen for Classes 6-8 from Sept 1||The Kargil administration has allowed resumption of offline classes for students of Classes 6 to 8 from September 1. Kargil district commissioner Santosh Sukhadeve said the order was taken as many representations had been made requesting the resumption of in-person learning and keeping in mind the decline in coronavirus cases. Physical classes have already been resumed for students in Class 9 and above. Sukhadeve ordered the concerned head of the institution to ensure that Covid standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines issued by the district administration and chief education officer, Kargil are followed.As per the order, any violation of these orders shall invite action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act 2005, and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.So far, the UT has registered 207 Covid-related deaths: 149 in Leh and 58 in Kargil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schools-in-kargil-to-reopen-for-classes-6-8-from-sept-1-101630355084630.html
31-08-2021||Other||Out on parole, Gurdaspur man held with 1kg heroin||Out on parole, a Gurdaspur resident was arrested with 1kg heroin in Khanna on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Amandeep Singh alias Aman of Ali Nangal village of Gurdaspur, who is already facing trial in seven cases, including murder, drug peddling and possession of illegal weapons. Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the accused was nabbed from the national highway near Libra village. He was coming in a Hyundai Verna car from Khanna side when cops stopped him for checking. On frisking, 1kg heroin was found hidden under the car seat. Police said the recovered heroin costs about ₹5 crore in the international market. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at Sadar police station of Khanna. The SSP added that the accused told the police that he had procured the heroin from Dwarka of Delhi and was going to sell it in different parts of Punjab. It has also come to the fore that when the accused was in jail, the staff had recovered mobile phones and contraband from his possession at least twice. He had come out on parole on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/out-on-parole-gurdaspur-man-held-with-1kg-heroin-101630354844547.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Apple price slide: Farmer unions to stage protest in HP on Sept 13||Reeling due to the plummeting price of apples in the wholesale market, farmer unions in Himachal Pradesh will stage a statewide protest against the government for failing to protect the interests of apple growers in the state on September 13.Apples account for around 90% of the state’s horticultural production. The Samyukt Kisan Manch (SKM), a joint forum of farmers’ organisations, on Monday announced that a statewide protest will be organised on September 13 over the falling prices of apple and the problems being faced by the agrarian community in the state. Should the government fail to take corrective steps, a mega protest will be carried out September 26. Representatives of around 20 farmer unions along with political leaders cutting across political lines met at the Kalibari Hall in Shimla. The leaders who attended the meeting included Harish Chauhan, Sanjay Chauhan, Deepak Singha, Kuldeep Singh Tanwar, KN Sharma, Rajesh Chauhan, Rajinder Chauhan, Sushil Chauhan, Dimple Panjata, Sandeep Mastana, Sohan Thakur, Satyawan Pundir, Aam Aadmi general secretary SS Jogta, Zilla Parishad member Vishal Shangta, BJP’s mahila leaders Neelam Saraik and Shimla’s former deputy mayor Harish Janartha besides Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh and CPI(M) legislator Rakesh Singha. SKM convener Harish Chauhan said that the September 13 protest will be held at block and subdivisional level. “All delegates agreed that the agriculture sector was in crisis. While production cost is steadily increasing, farmers are not getting a reasonable price for their produce, ultimately affecting their livelihood,” said Chauhan. “Though the numbers of markets have increased, but government agencies like agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) that have been entrusted with the responsibility to protect interest of farmers have failed in their objective,” he said, adding that due to the lack of intervention by the government growers are not getting a fair price for their produce and the exploitation by traders and arthiyas is increasing,” said Chauhan. The Kisan Morcha also condemned urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj’ statement at the Parala Market wherein he said that the prices are decided on the bases of demand and supply. “His statement reflect the pro-corporate attitude of the state government,” said Chauhan ,adding that horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur had pulled a disappearing act at a tike when the orchardists were in a crisis. The Kisan Morcha also raised 10 main demands, including implementation of the market intervention scheme (MIS) to stop the exploitation of apple growers. Under the MIS, A, B and C grade apples should be purchased at a support price of ₹60, ₹44 and ₹24 per kg respectively. APMC law should be strictly implemented in the markets of the state. Open bidding should take place and arbitrary charges being imposed on farmers in the name of labour charge, discount and bank charge should be nullified and amount recovered should be returned to the farmers, the farmers’ union said. As per the APMC Act, the payments to the farmers should be ensured on the day of procurement. “Strict action should be taken against the traders and the agents who are yet to pay farmers. The hike in prices of packaging material should be withdrawn.The government should provide compensation to the farmers for the loss caused due to hailstorm and unseasonal rains, snowfall and drought, Chauhan said. The unions have demanded that increase in transportation charges should be rolled back and apple and other fruits crops should be sold on the basis of weight. Payments for the apple crop lifted by HPMC and HIMFED should be released immediately. The subsidy on fertilizers, seeds, insecticides and fungicides and farm tools should be restored. The outstanding subsidy of sprayers, tillers, anti-hail nets,should also be released immediately.“ Plummeting rates of apples is not a political issue, it is the moral responsibility of leaders cutting across the political parties and all elected representatives of the apple growing regions to stand for the cause,” said Singha. Vikramaditya Singh said, “Stalwart leaders Virbhadra Singh, Vidya Stokes andNarinder Bragta have stood with apple growers. The apple economy is in deep crisis and fruit growers must unite against the forces manipulating the prices in the market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apple-price-slide-farmer-unions-to-stage-protest-in-hp-on-sept-13-101630354786423.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Kin of naval officer killed in road mishap awarded ₹1.2-crore compensation||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, awarded compensation of ₹1.2 crore to the family of a navy sub lieutenant, who died in a road accident in 2017. Sunita Pawar from Panchkula, mother of victim Atul Kumar Pawar, had filed a petition in the tribunal stating that her 24-year-old son was a sub lieutenant in the Indian navy and undergoing a course at INS Dronacharya in Kochi at the time of his death. It was claimed that Atul was earning over ₹1 lakh per month. Another petitioner was his brother Pankaj Kumar Pawar. The petition was filed against a resident of Kerala, Sidhant, who was driving the vehicle owned by Atul’s father Rajbir Singh Pawar. Rajbir has also been named in the petition as he was the vehicle owner. The third party is the car’s insurer Oriental Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh. As per the petition, Atul was on September 24, 2017, going in a car driven by Sidhant.The car was being driven at a high speed, which led to the accident wherein Atul sustained fatal injuries. The naval officer took his last breath on September 28, 2017, and the autopsy report stated head injury as the cause of his death.Atul’s family pleaded that their “future became bleak as they had no other source of income”. While Sidhant stated that the accident had taken place because of the negligence of the driver of vehicle in front of their car, the insurance company sought dismissal of the petition. After hearing the arguments, the tribunal on August 25 directed the three parties to pay a compensation of ₹1.2 crore along with at 7.5% per annum from the date of filing of the petition till realisation of the compensation. It is pertinent to mention that the compensation is decided on the basis of a few criteria such as age and salary drawn by the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhkin-of-naval-officer-killed-in-road-mishap-awarded-1-2-crore-compensation-101630354544489.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Social media has become a university of lies: Manish Tewari||Former Union minister and Congress’ member of parliament (MP) from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari on Monday said that social media has become a university of lies as rumours spread faster and wider than true information. Tewari, who was speaking on the 13th foundation day of SAS Nagar Press Club, added that most people these days spend more time on social media platforms. “Misinformation spreads faster and by the time the authorities concerned react, it is too late,” he said. Lashing out at the NDA government, Tewari said, “Media houses are scared and working under tremendous pressure. It is like any undeclared emergency in the country. Whenever they bring out the truth, investigating agencies are sent after them.” Mohali mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, who was also present on the occasion, said that media should play an important role in exposing crime, protecting public health and safety and preventing the public from being misled by statements from an individual or organisation.Among others who spoke at the event included senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal and deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi. Pawan Diwan, chairperson, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board and Umang Jindal, founder, Homeland group, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/social-media-has-become-a-university-of-lies-manish-tewari-101630354424592.html
31-08-2021||Other||GADVASU starts admission process, invites online applications||The process for admissions to different undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in veterinary science, fisheries, dairy technology and biotechnology for the academic session 2021-22 has started at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary & Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana. The varsity has invited online applications from aspiring studentsThe controller of examination, AK Arora informed that the prospectus containing detailed information about the admission process, including important dates, seat capacity, counselling /interview dates and reservation of seats has been made available on the university website www.gadvasu.in. The candidates are required to visit the web link https://gadvasu.fdsbase.com/ and register and login to the admission portal. The candidates will be taken to the requisite areas to fill all the columns in the form.Dr Harmanjit Singh Banga, registrar, GADVASU, said that the eligibility for admission to undergraduate programmes in the college of veterinary science and college of fisheries is 10+2 with medical stream from a recognised board/university, while for college of dairy science and technology, it is 10+2 with non-medical stream and for college of animal biotechnology, the eligibility is 10+2 with medical and/or non-medical streams.The last date to apply online for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes isSeptember 6, 2021 (without late fee) and September 9, 2021 (with late fee).The admission to master’s programmes for residents of Punjab and Chandigarh in veterinary sciences, fisheries, dairy technology and animal biotechnology will be based on the merit of the ICAR AIEEA-PG 2021 rank/score and merit of qualifying examination/ rank/score of GAT-B 2021.Dr Banga said that after completion of the degree, the veterinary graduates are placed in the state/central animal husbandry departments/army/paramilitary organisations, R&D centres of government and private sectors. They may become entrepreneurs or pursue higher education in India and/or abroad, while dairy technologists have opportunities in dairy industry, milk plants, dairy cooperatives, multinationals and may undertake entrepreneurship.The fishery sector is also an upcoming industry and has ample opportunities in Central government /state government /fishery department and industry. The biotechnology sector is also evolving fast having job prospects in India and abroad. For more details, the applicants may visit the university website www.gadvasu.in or contact office of registrar at call 0161-2553394.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gadvasu-starts-admission-process-invites-online-applications-101630354370432.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||NHM staffers’ stir: Chandigarh admn yet to take call on pay hike||Over 300 employees of the National Health Mission (NHM) in Chandigarh continued their protest on the eighth consecutive day on Monday to press for their demand of ‘equal pay for equal work’. The UT administration has not taken the final call on their salary hike yet.After the central government refused to increase the annual NHM budget for Chandigarh, the health department had sent a proposal to the finance department of the UT administration to raise the salaries of the protesting staff from the state budget. To increase the salaries of the employees as per the DC rate, the annual budget needs an additional amount of about ₹3 crore to ₹4 crore. “The UT’s finance department hasn’t decide on the salary hike of the NHM staffers and the health department is waiting for its response before giving written assurance to the protesting employees,” said Arun Gupta, UT principal secretary, health. Since 2013, NHM employees in Chandigarh have been working below the pay scale of DC wage rate while the protesting employees claim that their monthly salaries are insufficient to meet their daily needs. The agitating employees on Monday staged a protest at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and raised slogans against the UT administration and the central government. “Even on a day of festival, the NHM members, including paramedical, managerial employees and ANMs, participated in the protest. Instead of going to the temple, all the employees offered their prayers from the protest site so that the administration fulfils our genuine demands,” said Amit Kumar, general secretary, NHM union, adding that they will continue to suspend the health services until their demands are met. Due to non-availability of NHM workers at the government health and wellness centres, especially in the rural areas, the general out-patient department services and Covid vaccination drive were hit badly. “From 9am to 5pm on Tuesday, five of the NHM employees will go on a hunger strike while others will continue to protest against the administration. Soon, our family members will join our stir and will be a part of our sit-ins,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nhm-staffers-stir-chandigarh-admn-yet-to-take-call-on-pay-hike-101630354369338.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 32-bed paediatric ICU centre to come up at GMSH-16||To tackle the spread of Covid infection among children during the possible third wave of the pandemic, the Government Multi Speciality Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 has decided to set up a 32-bed dedicated paediatric ICU centre. As per medical experts, the third wave could be more aggressive and is likely to affect the unvaccinated people. “The dedicated paediatric unit will be built at the hospital’s vacant nursing hostel. Since the nursing hostel was shifted to the campus of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, we had enough space for this centre. The paediatric centre will have 12 ventilators while the remaining 20 beds will have medical oxygen facility,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health services, Chandigarh.“A team of experts will be available around the clock at the centre to monitor the children. In case of emergency, we will expand the facility. The project is at tendering stage and the ICU centre will start functioning in a month,” he added. The Sector-16 hospital already has 20-bed ICU facility for kids which has eight ventilators and 12 beds with oxygen facility at the hospital’s surgical ward.“Since very few children were infected with the virus during the first and the second surge, we are expecting low severity among the paediatric population again. Despite that, we are upgrading the facilities and taking no chance. Even if the new centre takes some time to start functioning, we already have 20 ICU beds available at present to handle the situation,” Dr Nagpal said. Other government hospitals in Chandigarh are also ramping up their facilities. GMCH-32 has also reserved 14 ventilators at its paediatric ICU (for children below 10), while a dozen ventilators are available at the neonatal care facility. During the second wave of the pandemic, around 10 ventilators were dedicated for the paediatric population at the NHE Covid Block of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Besides, PGIMER also had 35-bed ICU with oxygen facility at the institute’s paediatric department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-32-bed-paediatric-icu-centre-to-come-up-at-gmsh16-101630354364555.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Country needs to upgrade itself: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said that the country has to update and upgrade itself to meet the new challenges surrounding the national security. The minister, who was virtually delivering the third Balramji Das Tandon Memorial Lecture hosted by Panjab University, said the initiatives being taken to strengthen India’s national security are unprecedented. “In the recent years, there has been a lot of change in the action taken by the Indian Army. The confidence and morale of the army is high, which can be estimated from the fact that in the last seven years, it has not allowed a single major terror activity take place in the hinterland,” said Rajnath Singh. He said the Pakistan-backed terrorism is slowly subsiding in India. “Lately, Pakistan had increased ceasefire violations on the border, but they always got a befitting reply from the Indian Army. At present, India is taking actions not only against terrorism within the country, but also successfully destroying terror outfits across the border,” he added. The Union minister said the entire world is now aware of India’s strength. Referring to China, he said, “We have had a perceptual difference with China for a long time. The agreed protocol between the two nations was ignored by China, after which the Indian Army once again showed its valour to the world by responding to Chinese PLA.”During the programme, BJP leader Sanjay Tandon said deriving inspiration from his father, he was also trying to uplift the society through Competent Foundation and Balramji Das Tandon Charitable Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/country-needs-to-upgrade-itself-rajnath-singh-101630354245755.html
31-08-2021||Other||GADVASU inks pact for ethno-veterinary research with varsity in Karnataka||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the University of Trans-Disciplinary Health Sciences & Technology (TDU), Karnataka, to collaborate on research and training of scientists and veterinarians in the ethno-veterinary practice area. In a virtual meeting, an MoU was signed by Dr JPS Gill, director of research, GADVASU, and Atul Kumar Gupta, registrar, TDU, in the presence of Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU, and officers of both the institutes. Dr Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education, GADVASU, welcomed the participants and facilitated the meeting. Dr Gill from GADVASU and Dr MNB Nair from TDU briefly described their institute and its role in farmer and social welfare. Dr Inderjeet congratulated both the universities for entering into MoU and revealed that from time immemorial, India has been a hub of education and herbal treatments. GADVASU has also been working on ayurvedic and herbal medicine for livestock treatment. A collaborative research centre for veterinary ayurveda was established at GADVASU campus in December 2016 by the Central council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences, Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India, revealed Dr Singh. Atul Gupta showed keen interest in collaboration in ethno-veterinary research involving domestic and zoo animals, climatic resilience, and health. Further, both universities will work in tandem to train veterinarians, para veterinarians, and other stakeholders in this field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gndu-inks-pact-for-ethno-veterinary-research-with-varsity-in-karnataka-101630354244757.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab CMs locked in wordy duel over farm agitation||A verbal battle erupted between the chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana on Monday over the ongoing farm protests as controversy raged over police action on cultivators two days ago in Karnal and farm groups issued an ultimatum to the state government.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar accused the Congress government in Punjab of driving the farmers’ agitation against the BJP-led Centre’s three farm laws. “Isme Punjab government ke logon ka haath hai. I’m levelling a serious allegation here. Otherwise (farmer leader) Balbir Singh Rajewal would not have been offering sweets to the Punjab chief minister (Capt Amarinder Singh),” he said at a press conference in Chandigarh.Khattar said that 85% of those sitting at the Singhu and Tikri borders adjoining the national capital were from Punjab.On Amarinder asking him to apologise to farmers, Khattar said: “Who is he to ask me to apologise or resign. Rather, he should resign for instigating farmers. You can count people sitting on Delhi’s borders. They are mostly from Punjab, not from Haryana. Farmers of Haryana are satisfied.”Later in the evening, he posed a series of questions to the Punjab CM. He said Haryana procured 10 crops at minimum support prices, provided incentives, late payment fees and irrigation facilities, and asked what Punjab had done for farmers. Khattar said the protesting farmers should adhere to norms of democracy.“A positive dialogue was held between these protestors and district administration wherein they had given written consent that they would only protest in a symbolic manner and will not violate the law-and-order situation. However, it is really unfortunate to see that how at the behest of some politically motivated leaders, they had broken their promise,’’ the CM added.Hours later, Amarinder Singh hit back. “The BJP’s adamant refusal to revoke the laws reflected the vested interests of the party and its leadership, which had once again placed their crony capitalist friends over the common man....the crisis would not have assumed such grave proportions had the BJP heeded the farmers’ concerns and empathised with them,” he said. He said Khattar’s “anti-farmer” agenda was exposed. “Can’t you see that the farmers of your own state are angry with you for your apathetic attitude towards them and your party’s stubborn refusal to repeal the farm laws?” he asked.Khattar and Karnal magistrate Nishant Yadav shielded under-fire sub-divisional magistrate, Ayush Sinha, who stirred a row on Saturday by instructing police to “break the heads” of farmers during a protest against three central laws. Farm groups say police thrashed protesters without any provocation. One person died and another 10 were injured.“He (Sinha) should not have used such language though it is the job of officials to enforce law and order. I’m not saying he should not have enforced the rule of law strictly,” he said. The CM clarified that Sinha was deputed at a spot about 10-12 kilometres away from the spot where the lathi-charge took place.A 2018 batch officer, Sinha was heard instructing police personnel to hit farmers on the head if they broke barricades to disrupt a BJP meeting on Saturday.“Some words shouldn’t have been used. As head of Karnal administration, I express my regret. But SDM, on duty, is a sincere officer. He used some words in heat of the moment, he shouldn’t have. But his intention wasn’t wrong,” said Yadav. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had on Sunday promised action against Sinha amid mounting criticism of the lathi-charge on farmers.The lathi-charge on protesters has sparked protests across Punjab and Haryana with farm groups blocking highways in several places. On Monday, farmers from across the state gathered for a mahapanchayat in Gharaunda town and sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathi- charge.They also threatened to lay siege to the secretariat if their demands were not met by September 6. “Our brothers suffered injuries in the lathi charge...Officials involved in it, be it the SDM or police officials, a case against all of them should be registered,” said Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni.The three farm laws were passed last year but sparked protests from farmers in Punjab, Haryana and other states. Since last October, tens of thousands of farmers have been siting in protest against the laws on the edges of the Capital -- a majority of whom hail from the foodbowl states of Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-punjab-cms-locked-in-wordy-duel-over-farm-agitation-101630354184959.html
31-08-2021||Other||SAD announces Dhillon’s candidature from Samrala||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday announced the candidature of Paramjit Singh Dhillon from Samrala constituency.Addressing a public meeting here, Badal said the SAD-BSP alliance will establish mega schools, having a strength of 5,000 students, in all blocks of the state if it comes to power.He said each school will be able to cater to the educational needs of 10 to 15 villages of the block. “Students will be provided the latest educational tools, along with internet connectivity. It will also be ensured that there is no paucity of teachers, as is being faced currently in many schools in villages.”Badal said the alliance government will reserve 33% seats in all professional educational institutes for government school students. He said the fee for the same will be borne by the government. He also announced that all students will be eligible for an educational loan of ₹10 lakh and that all families will be given a medical insurance cover of ₹10 lakh by the state.Asserting that education and health will be the priority of the next SAD-BSP government, Badal said, “We will also establish 500-bed hospitals in each district of the state.”Speaking about the issues being faced by farmers, Badal said the Congress government had not released any tubewell connections to farmers.“We have decided to release a tubewell connection to all farmers who do not have a tubewell.”He also announced that the state will come out with an MSP on milk, vegetables and fruits. “In case there is a shortfall and farmers are not able to sell their produce on the set MSP, the state will compensate them for their loss.”Accusing the Congress government of stopping social welfare benefits to the people, Badal said all deleted blue cards will be restored. “SC scholarship will be restarted,” the SAD chief said. He also said that women heads of BPL families will be entitled to a grant of ₹2,000 per month. “Development work which has been halted completely by Capt Amarinder Singh will be restarted,” he said.Badal said he has planned to set up a mega solar plant, and the power generated from there will be offered to the people of the state for free.Earlier during the day, SAD supremo Sukhbir Singh Badal faced protesting farmers during his visit to Machhiwara. Badal was visiting the town to meet party workers. However, due to the protest, Sukhbir had to cancel two programmes, including a public rally.Badal paid obeisance at gurdwara Charan Kanwal Sahib in Machhiwara. Youth accompanied him on motorcycles in a huge road show to Lakhowal grain market, where he addressed his first public gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-announces-dhillon-s-candidature-from-samrala-101630353584448.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Junior golf meet held in Chandigarh||Ammania, Jaspal, Raaya Nanda and Esra Dhillon shared first spot in the girls putting competition during the 1st Junior Golf Championship organised as part of Forest Hill Junior Golf Training Programme on Sunday. Meanwhile, Nyrah Nanda and Aneek Raj Dhillon finished runners-up and second runners-up, respectively.Forest Hill Golf Club president Birinder Singh Gill launched the meet in which children between the age of 6-17 years from Chandigarh, Punjab and Delhi participated. In the boys’ category, Yugvir was the winner and Subeg was the runners-up.In category F for boys, Ojasv was the winner and Zuravar Singh came second. In the girls’ category, Gairat Kaur won. In category E for boys, Fatehvir was the winner and in the girls’ category Ojaswini emerged as champion.In category D for boys, Hriday took pole position followed by Daiwik. In the girls category, Tanvi Kaur won.In category C for boys, Ranvijay Singh was the winner while Gobinddeep Singh was first runners-up and Agam came third. In category B for boys’, the winner was Ajay, Jai Gupta and Digvijay came second and third, respectively. In the girls’ category, Jasmandeep Kur was the winner and Harshita came second.In category A for boys, Aditya Sood won followed by Aryaman Rautela in the second position and Arnav Dhaka in the third position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/junior-golf-meet-held-inchandigarh-101630353525950.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Varsity, college teachers to intensify protest||The Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) has decided to intensify protests in the coming days regarding their demand for immediate implementation of the 7th UGC pay scales.PFUCTO, which is a federation of several teachers’ bodies including Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA), in its meeting on Monday decided to cease work on September 3 by going on a mass casual leave and holding a protest rally in Sector 25, Chandigarh. They have also decided to hold continuous protests from September 5 onwards.“A fast programme will start on Teachers’ Day at Panjab University. Thereafter, teachers will protest daily for two hours by boycotting classes/holding dharnas, etc. However, in the interest of the students the admission work will not be interrupted,” said PFUCTO in a statement.The federation is demanding the immediate implementation of the 7th UGC pay scale by the Punjab government and to withdraw the decision of delinking the pay scale of teachers from the UGC pay scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-varsity-college-teachers-to-intensify-protest-101630353524805.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Khattar’s visit leaves residents harried||Residents of Sector 27 were left inconvenienced as police barricaded all the roads leading to the Chandigarh Press Club on Monday for Haryana chief minister (CM)’s meeting with the press.Two ladies, who managed to reach the press club with black flags, were forcibly removed by the Chandigarh Police. On Monday, the police also stopped protesting farmers at Sector 19/20 dividing road. These protesters were on their way to the press club to show black flags to Manohar Lal Khattar against the lathi-charge of the protesting farmers in Karnal.500 cops deployedThe Chandigarh Police had deployed 500 cops including SP and DSP to ensure no law and order situation arises. All roads leading to the press club were barricaded and no one without an accreditation card was allowed to enter the venue. The police had even diverted the traffic.“Due to security concerns, many residents were left inconvenienced as they were to take longer routes to reach home,” said Sonia of sector 27.The residents staying in Sectors 27A and 27B were at the receiving end as their movement was restricted for nearly two hours. The police, however, had later allowed the resident to pass through after proper verification. Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councilor and resident of Sector 27, had an argument with the police and he asked them not to stop the residents of the sector. “How can police harass the residents of the sector? They stopped everyone, even senior citizens, which is unfair. I have written to the adviser about the conduct of the police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhkhattars-visit-leaves-residents-harried-101630353404644.html
31-08-2021||Other||Pensioners’ union members booked for blocking highway in Ludhiana||A day after members of Purani Pension Bahal Sangharsh Committee staged a protest and blocked the national highway near grain market near Jalandhar Bypass for two-and-a-half hours, the Salem Tabri police have lodged an FIR against 2,500 unidentified members of the committee.Interestingly, no action was taken against the protestors who blocked national highway near Ladhowal Toll barrier for two hours, against police lathicharge on agitating farmers in Karnal of Haryana.On Sunday, Purani Pension Bahal Sangharsh Committee members held a rally in the grain market in favour of their demand. After the rally, the members came out on roads and laid siege to the national highway for two-and-a-half hours.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Satnam Singh, the investigating officer, said that an FIR under Section 283 (obstruction or injury to any person in any public way or public line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8B of the National Highway Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pensioners-union-members-booked-for-blocking-highway-in-ludhiana-101630353344388.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||All approvals taken for walk-in aviary, says Chandigarh forest dept||After city residents raised an issue with the upcoming Walk-in Aviary near Sukhna Lake, the UT forest department has written to the Animal Welfare Board of India claiming that they have taken all approvals and have not violated any guidelines or laws.The letter written by UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai to the secretary of Animal Welfare Board of India, SK Dutta, noted that the exotic birds kept in the two walk-through aviaries will only be the ones that are commonly bred in India.As per the letter, the exotic birds were procured from suppliers registered with the Animal Welfare Board of Tamil Nadu and registered on the PARIVESH portal of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Before selecting sellers, a committee of officers from the UT animal husbandry department, UT finance department and the UT forest department cross-verified the details, and the sources of birds were also physically verified.The Animal Welfare Board of India had earlier written to the UT forest department regarding this and in this letter the forest department replied that none of the laws and guidelines had been violated in setting up the park.Residents still dissatisfiedMeanwhile, residents still remain unsatisfied with the answer. The complainant, RK Garg, said, “No documents have been provided along with the letter and the complaint hasn’t been declared as closed. The approval from the authorities is also mentioned, but not attached. An audit report had also objected to the contract for the construction of this aviary which is not mentioned.”Garg added that animal rights activist and politician Maneka Gandhi, who had also raised her voice against the project earlier, had also written to him saying that she was dissatisfied with the response and now they planned to seek legal intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-approvals-taken-for-walk-in-aviary-says-chandigarh-forest-dept-101630353284577.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Most PU departments sceptical of UGC’s blended mode proposal||Majority of the teaching departments of Panjab University (PU) have expressed reservations regarding the use of blended mode of teaching and learning.PU had sought feedback from the departments after University Grants Commission (UGC) in May issued a concept note on introducing the blended mode at higher education institutes.Of the 49 PU departments who have submitted their suggestions to the varsity, nearly 30 have either not favoured the move or sought a partial implementation of the blended mode proposal. However, only a few departments have agreed to fully adopt it.The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has already opposed the move. The varsity has now constituted a 17-member panel to go through the suggestions received from various departments/centres. The response from the departments was sought in May. The panel headed by dean university instructions (DUI) will prepare a consolidated reply which will be sent to UGC.UGC in May had said institutes will be allowed to teach up to 40% of each course, other than SWAYAM courses, online and the remaining 60% syllabus could be taught offline.Issues stated by departmentsA number of PU departments in their suggestions stated that there was a need to develop necessary infrastructure essential for blended mode of teaching-learning, which will need additional budget. Unavailability of learning management systems and issues of digital divide were outlined by the departments.They have also stated that the issue of digital divide should be considered. A few departments have also said that there is a growing dissatisfaction among stakeholders on the feasibility of this system, which is evident from the feedback forms submitted by students at the end of the semester.The departments have said that there was a need for orientation programmes for faculty and students about the use of technology for online academic activities. Most of the science departments stated that their syllabus involved practicals that could not be taken online.Nod from regulatory bodies neededPU’s dental college in its response stated that since they follow the guidelines issued by the National Medical Council (NMC) and Dental Council of India (DCI), they suggested a letter should be addressed to the regulatory bodies.The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) in its suggestion stated that the academic committee in its meeting held on June 24 discussed the concept draft note prepared by the UGC expert committee for blended mode of teaching. “The committee noted that pharmacy courses come under the preview of the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) and that blended teaching could not be applied unless directed by PCI.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/most-pu-departments-sceptical-of-ugc-s-blended-mode-proposal-101630353225932.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Lathicharge on farmers second Jallianwala Bagh, Khattar govt must go: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday termed as the “second Jallianwala Bagh” the lathicharge on farmers by the police in Haryana and said the Manohar Lal Khattar government has no right to remain in power anymore.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was inaugurating the renovated Jallianwala Bagh complex in Amritsar, a second Jallianwala Bagh was happening in Haryana.“The seeds of cruelty being sown by the government will bear sour fruits. This is for sure...The Manohar Lal Khattar government has no right to remain in power,” the Sena said.It said the lathicharge incident might make farmers in India revolt and take revenge for each drop of blood that was shed by them.“The farmers in Haryana were lathicharged on their heads because they raised slogans against CM Khattar. A Union minister speaks of attacking the chief minister of Maharashtra and when action is taken against him legally, the state government is called intolerant. Why are the critics silent on the Khattar government’s action on farmers?” the Sena asked.Will they get the ‘Ashirvad’ (blessings) of people by breaking the heads of farmers,” the editorial asked, referring to BJP’s ‘Jan Ashirwad’ rallies. “Farmers have been protesting at the Ghazipur border near Delhi for the last one year demanding repealing of the three Central farm laws, stopping privatisation of agriculture and preventing APMCs from being taken over by select corporates, MSP law. But PM Modi hasn’t met them yet. The government is so stone-hearted,” it added. At least 10 people were injured on Saturday as police lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway in Haryana while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party meeting attended by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lathicharge-on-farmers-second-jallianwala-bagh-khattar-govt-must-go-shiv-sena-101630353224857.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Air India’s Amritsar-Birmingham direct flight to resume from Sept 3||Air India has announced to resume its Amritsar-Birmingham direct flight from September 3 under the Vande Bharat Mission after the UK moved India to amber list relaxing the Covid-19 restrictions on passengers arriving from the country.VK Seth, director, Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, said, “The flight will operate once a week in view of the demand of passengers.” The airline’s flight will take off from Amritsar at 3pm every Friday and will arrive at Birmingham at 5:20pm (local time) the same day. The return flight will depart from Birmingham at 7:30pm on Saturday and reach Amritsar at 7:35am (India time) on Sunday, officials said. Sameep Singh Gumtala, the Global Convener of FlyAmritsar Initiative, said, “This is a good news for Punjabi diaspora in the UK as they can travel to the holy city without any hassle.On August 16, Air India had resumed its weekly direct flight to London’s Heathrow airport from Amritsar. With this, the perishable cargo movement from the airport to the UK has started once again. According to a tweet by the airport, 6270 kg perishable cargo was dispatched on a flight to Heathrow on August 17.Yogesh Karma, a member of the airport advisory committee, said, the airline’s resumption of flight to London got a huge response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-india-s-amritsar-birmingham-direct-flight-to-resume-from-sept-3-101630353166959.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Half of working women in rural Punjab have an average debt of ₹1.5 lakh||Nearly half (48.38%) of the working women in rural Punjab have an average debt of ₹1.51 lakh, a study by the Punjab State Farmers and Farm Workers Commission has revealed. Also, women construction workers in the state are the most distressed as majority of them have no access to bank credit and depend on non-institutional sources, thus paying interest rates as high as 13.55%. Nearly two-thirds of the respondents interviewed in the study demanded that the government should roll out financial assistance schemes for them, says the study on women involved in agriculture and allied sector activities like dairying and poultry; manufacturing, construction, retail trade, education, health, social work, and domestic services. The working women in rural areas contribute substantially to their household incomes, it was found. The study was conducted in 74 villages of all districts and 20 working women were selected from a village, thus covering a total of 1,480 respondents. One-third of the households have deficit incomes wherein expenditure is more than earnings. Most of these households have a family member suffering from an ailment for many years. But most (80%) of them benefitted from the state government’s Atta-Dal scheme and are aware of the government run schemes for the poor. Women working as farm labourers want to work for more days in a year. Also, the average daily wage is a meagre ₹213 while it is ₹128 for those working as domestic helps. Besides, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) contributes just 4.6% of the total household income of rural women with an average annual earning of Rs. 2,780. An average woman domestic worker owns assets worth ₹26,000, a construction worker ₹53,000 and a farm labourer to the tune of ₹95,000, the study says. On the other hand, women involved in cultivation or dairying own assets worth ₹30 lakh, the highest average, followed by women working in health and education sectors who possess average assets to the tune of ₹27.28 lakh and ₹25.20 lakh. Their expenditure on house construction is nearly 75% of the total spending. In rural Punjab, women constitute 47% of the total population with a literacy rate of 65.8% against to 79.2% of their urban counterparts. Women comprise 42.2% of the rural workforce, according to the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/half-of-working-women-in-rural-punjab-have-an-average-debt-of-rs-1-5-lakh-101630353165704.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Spices ground at jail to add flavour to food at hotels||Spices ground by women inmates at the Chandigarh Model Jail — also known as Burail Jail — will soon be supplied to hotels run by the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO). Being prepared mostly for consumption at the jail, these spices — powdered turmeric (haldi) and coriander (dhania) — are also available in small quantities at Srijan, an exclusive outlet in Sector 22 where all products made by the inmates are sold.At present, the jail authorities are buying raw turmeric and coriander seeds, which are ground and packaged by women inmates at its spice corner. There are also plans to grow the raw material on the jail fields. “The idea is to make the jail inmates self-sufficient and independent,” said inspector general (IG, prisons), Chandigarh, Omvir Singh Bishnoi. As of the now, the spices are sold in packets with a sticker of the Burail Jail on them. “The department is in the process to get the brand patented,” said additional inspector general (AIG, prisons) Virat, adding that it would add authenticity to the products. Besides CITCO hotels (Hotels Mountview, Shivalikview and Parkview), the department also plans to supply the spices to the police canteen and mess, UT Guest House and other places where government-supported kitchens are operating. Furniture already a hit Already, furniture and mementoes prepared by inmates at the jail factory are in great demand. The jail inmates are trained to design and make wooden chairs, tables, computer tables and desks among other furniture items. The items are exhibited with price tags at Srijan, which was inaugurated in 2019, and the jail shopping complex in Sector 51. If anyone intends to buy the furniture, it can be pre-booked and is delivered within 15-20 days, said an official. The furniture is also being supplied to many schools and colleges. Even clothes made by inmates are sold at khadi outlets in the city. The jail authorities are also supplying food prepared by inmates to anganwadi centres in the city. They also sell a special thali comprising four chapatis, rice, dal, two vegetables, raita, pickle and a sweet dish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-spices-ground-at-jail-to-add-flavour-to-food-at-hotels-101630353164510.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Garbage collectors don’t listen to us anymore, rue residents||The Chandigarh municipal corporation’s move to take over door-to-door garbage collection has dramatically changed the relationship between residents and waste lifters. The waste lifters, who were earlier employed by private contractors, have started manning the MC’s twin-bin garbage collection vehicles after the takeover in December last year.While many residents have been complaining about the implementation being sporadic, they now find even the waste lifters being “uncooperative”. “For starters, the behaviour of the garbage collectors has changed overnight. They were earlier were responsive to our suggestions. But now we have no say over their working, as they think they are answerable to the MC and not the residents,” said Pankaj Gupta, president, resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 38 West.Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said, “Even though the same people have been employed by the MC, they have stopped picking garbage from houses on the first and second floors as they used to do earlier. This is particularly tough for the aged people who are not able to go downstairs on a short notice.”“The residents have no control over how the garbage is being collected. There is still lots of confusion, and neither the MC nor the garbage collectors are of any help nowadays,” said Pardeep Chopra, secretary, RWA, Sector 21, adding that earlier the system was much better as the RWA could easily coordinate with garbage collectors.While some residents complained that the garbage is being picked on alternate days, others claimed the workers have been skipping one day every week. A few also pointed out that garbage collectors have stopped entertaining requests for picking up the horticulture waste.‘We are just following rules’ Om Prakash Saini, chairman, Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said: “We are just following MC’s rules. In view of Covid-19, we have to maintain distance from houses. As far as the garden or horticulture waste is concerned, the MC’s two-bin vehicles are not equipped to handle it.”On the collectors taking a day off every week, Saini said: “Like in any other job, taking a day off is the right of a garbage collector. The relationship is bound to change as now the MC is the in-charge and not the waste collectors or residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgarbage-collectors-don-t-listen-to-us-anymore-rue-residents-101630353044696.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Amid Covid curbs, BJP begins its temple run in Maharashtra||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday staged protests across Maharashtra demanding reopening of temples and other places of worship. Key state unit leaders participated in the protest demanding opening up of temples and threatened to forcefully open them next week if the demand is not met. BJP’s spiritual coordination cell organised the protest against Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s decision to prevent entry of general public to places of worship as part of restrictions imposed to check spread of Covid-19 epidemic. BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil asked all party workers, office-bearers and elected representatives to participate actively in the protest near their homes. Significantly, three days ago, Union health ministry asked the state government to restrict religious activities and celebrations during upcoming festivals amid potential threat of third wave of Covid-19. Patil led the protest at Kasba Ganpati temple in Pune, while former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar led it at Babulnath Mandir in Mumbai. Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil and MP Sujay Vikhe Patil participated in protest at Sai Baba mandir in Shirdi. Party legislator Ram Kadam staged protest outside Siddhivinayak temple at Prabhadevi in Mumbai. Party’s Aurangabad leaders and workers tried to break open gates of Gajanan Maharaj Mandir in Aurangabad, following which police arrested the party workers. Patil said that their agitation was not merely for the temples. “We have been demanding opening up of temples, churches and masjids as there is unrest among the people. It is the question of sentiments of 120 million people of Maharashtra. It’s time for the Uddhav Thackeray government to wake up and take decision,” he said.Mungantiwar questioned why the state government, which allowed bars, liquor shops and malls to reopen and fully vaccinated commuters to take trains, is not allowing temples to open. “Temples in all other states have been allowed to open. Kerala, which have been reporting the highest number of cases, has allowed online darshan for worshippers. Then, why has the state government then opened other establishments? Maharashtra is the only state which has kept religious places shut. It is not true that [Narendra] Modi government has asked the state to keep temples shut,” he said after protest at Babulnath temple in Mumbai. Kadam said they were demanding opening up of temples with some restrictions. “We are not asking to violate the Covid-19 lockdown protocols, but our demand is to allow worshippers to visit temples by following Covid protocols.”However, those who participated in the protests were not seen following social distancing or other Covid protocols. The Congress, one of the three ruling parties, alleged that the Maharashtra BJP was politicising the issue despite Modi government’s orders about imposing restrictions on festivals and religious activities. State Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “Maharashtra BJP has been blatantly violating Modi government’s directions. They have been violating Covid-19 restrictions by crowding and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Why doesn’t the Maharashtra BJP protest against the Modi government for imposing restrictions on festivals? Modi government takes the state governments to task for rise in the number of patients, while party leaders have been indulging in crowding which will lead to rise in the number of patients. The BJP was responsible for intensifying the second wave, and now they are indulging in events to ensure advancement of the third wave.”Sena leader Sanjay Raut said, “The BJP should first check whether temples are open in all others states. The Modi-led Central government has asked Maharashtra and Kerala governments to take utmost care amid high number of Covid cases, and not allow festivals. Then, action should be taken against it first for the curbs (on religious activities).”On August 27, Union health and family welfare secretary Rajesh Bhushan had sent a letter to Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte asking the state government to take due precautions during festivities. “In view of the mass events and public gatherings expected during the celebrations of upcoming festivals, including Dahi handi and Ganpati utsav in Maharashtra, it is advised that the state may consider imposing and enforcing local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and mass gatherings,” the letter stated.Meanwhile, the BJP also attacked state government after videos of pujas performed by Sena leaders emerged. Aurangabad district president and legislator Ambads Danve held Kawad Yatra and performed abhishek at Lord Shankar temple in Aurangabad. BJP MLA Nitesh Rane tweeted a video in which sons of Guhagar Sena MLA Bhaskar Jadhav’s sons are seen performing abhishek at a temple on Monday. Danve claimed that he did not perform abhishek but just offered holy water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-curbs-bjp-begins-its-temple-run-in-maharashtra-101630352984615.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||BMC starts online survey to get citizens’ opinion on waste management||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started a survey seeking response from Mumbaiites in a bid to prepare a vision document for 2030 on city’s waste management. The civic body has created an online survey sheet which contains questions on how Mumbai could be made the cleanest global city by 2030.The online survey was launched by BMC over the weekend. Citizens can log in on https://mcgm-citizen-survey.cloudstrats.com/ to give their opinion on the city’s waste situation, its segregation and management.Based on the responses of this survey, a plan called Vision 2030 for solid waste management action plan will be drafted. The plan is expected to be ready by the end of the ongoing financial year, said BMC officials.According to BMC officials, the survey enables citizens to rate BMC’s performance on cleanliness on various aspects such as street sweeping, waste collection, maintenance of public toilets, emptying and upkeep of public litter bins. The survey is available in three languages and requires citizens to anonymously give their opinion on questions like how clean the city is, what will it take for Mumbai to become a top global city in terms of cleanliness by 2030, and facilities and amenities one aspires for in a cleaner Mumbai among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-online-survey-to-get-citizens-opinion-on-waste-management-101630352688695.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh tricity records third death in three days||A 22-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali on Monday. It was third death due to the virus in the tricity in the past three days. A patient from Lalru in Mohali had breathed his last on Sunday while a 76-year-old Chandigarh resident had died on Saturday.So far, the tricity has reported six casualties this month, with three in Mohali, two in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula. Meanwhile 12 new cases surfaced on Monday, with six each in Chandigarh and Mohali. Panchkula reported no new case. In Chandigarh, the cases were scattered across Sectors 19, 20, 38, 45, 46 and 61. In Mohali district, three were reported in Kharar and one each in Dhakoli, Gharuan and Mohali city. The tricity’s active caseload stands at 96, with 47 patients in Mohali, 40 in Chandigarh and nine in Panchkula.In terms of total cases and deaths, Mohali district leads with 68,608 and 1,060, respectively, followed by 65,099 and 813 in Chandigarh and 30,681 and 377 in Panchkula. While 67,501 patients have been cured in Mohali, the number stands at 64,246 and 30,295 in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidchandigarh-tricity-records-third-death-in-three-days-101630352685505.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Female foetus found in dustbin in Sector 40||A decomposing female foetus with the umbilical cord still attached to it was found dumped in a dustbin along a slip road in Sector 40, Chandigarh, on Monday evening. A passerby spotted the foetus and informed the police control room. The slip road runs along a busy national highway with Sector 40 on one side and Palsora village on the other. A case has been registered under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified persons at the police station in Sector 39. Police will be assessing the records of pregnant women and will talk to midwives in the area to get some clues. Footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area will also be scanned, said an investigating official.On August 20, a female foetus was found dumped in a toilet dustbin at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police are yet to make any headway in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-female-foetus-found-in-dustbin-in-sector-40-101630352564381.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||ED raids Sena MP’s premises in money laundering case||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers on Monday conducted searches at seven places linked to Bhavana Gawali, Shiv Sena member of parliament (MP) from Yavatmal-Washim.ED officers along with armed CRPF jawans raided five different institutions controlled by Gawali, including Janshikshan Sanstha at Rishod, a degree college at Shirpur, an Ayurveda college at Degaon, Shri Balaji Sahakari Particle Board Karkhana Ltd at Malegaon, and Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan at Rishod. Two other places including one in Mumbai were also raided.ED officers claimed they have seized some documents from these places. They also questioned and recorded statements of some people at the places that were raided.Officers of the central agency said they have registered an enforcement case on the basis of a first information report (FIR) registered with Washim police in connection with alleged financial irregularities in a trust linked to Gawali. ED suspects Gawali’s involvement in money laundering and embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹17 crore as well as misuse of power in obtaining government grants and funds for a project. Gawali is a five-term Lok Sabha member, representing Yavatmal-Washim constituency since 1999. ED sources said the alleged irregularities revolve around Gawali obtaining loan of around ₹43 crore from National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) through Balaji Sahakari Particle Board which was allegedly misused and not utilised for the purpose for which the loan was provided.Harish Sarda, former vice-president of Shiv Sena’s Washim district unit, had first unearthed the alleged misappropriation of funds at Shri Balaji Sahakari Particle Board Karkhana and named Gawali in his complaints to various authorities. He had also filed petition before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) after local police and other authorities did not act on his complaints. Sarda in his complaint alleged money laundering and embezzlement by misusing power by Gawali and her associates in obtaining grants and funds for Balaji plant located at Malegaon in Washim. Gawali’s father Pudalikrao, who also represented the region in the Lok Sabha, was its chief promoter. The factory was set up in 1998 to collect crop residue and use it for preparation of particle boards for making furniture, partition material and other purposes. The basic aim of the project was to provide employment to local farmers. However, the factory never started functioning. In 1998, the estimated project cost was ₹43.85 crore but undervalued to ₹7.9 crore by a firm called MITCON and was later sold to Bhavana Agro Products run by Gawali on August 16, 2010.Sarda had in his complaints stated that Gawali’s father illegally transferred 14.90 hectares of factory land to Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan in 2001 without obtaining necessary permission from competent authorities. Cooperative society land cannot be transferred to any public trust without government approval, Sarda had stated.Sarda had last year sought thorough investigation into irregularities from any central law enforcement agency like ED or Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).ED initiated an investigation in the matter and is also looking into alleged misappropriation of funds availed by Gawali’s firm Bhavana Agro Products and Service Ltd from the two banks. The agency is likely to summon Gawali for questioning. ED raids 3 places linked to Anil Parab’s aideED on Monday also raided three places in Maharashtra in connection with the Anil Deshmukh money laundering case. These places are related to Nagpur’s deputy RTO Bajrang Kharmate, who is said to be closely associated with transport minister Anil Parab, a close confident of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. However, ED has not revealed the places which were raided. The central agency has already issued summons to Parab and he has been asked to attend the agency’s office in Mumbai on Tuesday. These developments have taken place after a viral video showed Parab purportedly instructing the superintendent of police of Ratnagiri to arrest Union minister Narayan Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-raids-sena-mp-s-premises-in-money-laundering-case-101630352504762.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Badnore leaves Punjab Raj Bhawan after warm send-off||VP Singh Badnore relinquished office of the Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator on Monday. His five-year tenure had ended on August 22. Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit has been given the additional charge of Punjab governor and UT administrator until regular arrangements are made by the Centre. His swearing-in ceremony will be held at Punjab Raj Bhawan at 5pm on Tuesday.Badnore’s send-off ceremony was attended by senior IAS officers of Chandigarh and Punjab. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh also released a coffee table book titled “The Raj Bhawan Punjab — A Glorious Journey”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badnore-leaves-punjab-raj-bhawan-after-warm-sendoff-101630352384501.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||CBI court convicts 5 SBI officials, director of private firm in loan fraud||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Monday convicted five State Bank of India (SBI) officials along with one director of a private company in a 2010 cheating and forgery case.Special CBI judge SU Wadgaonkar sentenced Zarina Bataliwala alias Nargis Rusi Divendry, a resident of Dombivli (West) and director of National Steel Corporation Private Limited, to five years of imprisonment. Dnyaneshwar Sawant, an employee of the company, was also sentenced to one year’s imprisonment.Among bank officials, Utsav Prasad, then customer service officer, and Ram More, then assistant general manager, were sentenced to three years imprisonment; Jayant Bijapurkar, then assistant vice-president, was sentenced to two years in jail; and Neela Samant, then assistant general manager of Opera House branch of the bank, as well as then deputy manager Nand Kumar Karnik got one year in jail.The special court, however, acquitted Kailash Chand Dayani, then assistant general manager, giving him the benefit of doubt.Public Prosecutor Jeetendra Sharma had argued for CBI and had pointed out that Vijay Seth, who expired during pendency of the trial, and Divendry, both directors of National Steel Corporation Private Limited, had forged documents like balance sheets and other documents and in connivance with bank officials availed cash credit from Opera House branch of SBI to the tune of ₹90 lakh. The amount was, however, transferred to their personal accounts, thereby committing a fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-court-convicts-5-sbi-officials-director-of-private-firm-in-loan-fraud-101630352324794.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman drug peddler awarded 10-year jail||A woman drug peddler, who has earlier served a two-year jail term, has been awarded 10-year rigorous imprisonment by a Chandigarh court.The court also imposed a fine of ₹2.5 lakh on the woman, identified as Nirmala, alias Nimmo, of Dadumajra Colony. She was arrested for possessing 200 grams of heroin and 30 vials of psychotropic drugs during checking in Sector 40 in July 2018. Into drug trade for a decade, Nimmo was earlier booked in at least seven cases in the tricity and was jailed once for possessing 5-kg ganja. According to police, she used to roam on a scooter in Sector 38 West and its adjoining areas in search of customers. Her family members are also facing drug peddling charges in separate cases.A mother of four, the woman in court prayed for a lenient view and said there is no one else to look after her children. She said that there was no pending case against her, though she has faced trial earlier and was convicted in one case.However, public prosecutor Phool Singh argued that Nirmala is a habitual offender and the amount of the recovered contraband falls within the commercial category and does not entitle her to any leniency.“Nowadays, drug menace has become a social malady and it has attained monstrous proportions and is tearing families apart. Sale and consumption of narcotics in an illegal manner is immensely affecting the society,” Singh argued, adding that the need of the hour is to choke the supply of drugs and to curb the trade with heady hands.After hearing the arguments, the court of Dr Rajneesh, judge, special court, Chandigarh, found Nirmala guilty under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The court has also ordered that separate proceedings be initiated to confiscate the scooter that was used by her in committing the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhwoman-drug-peddler-awarded-10-year-jail-101630352204499.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Bandra, Mahim, Kandivli in Mumbai see highest new Covid-19 cases in a week||Dadar, Mahim and Matunga in central Mumbai, and Bandra West, Andheri, Kandivli and Borivli in the western suburbs reported the highest number of new Covid cases within the past week, which also corresponds to the days that Mumbai saw higher number of daily cases in comparison to one week ago. HT on Saturday reported of an increase in the daily number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai since Wednesday last week, in comparison to the dip in daily cases witnessed by the city from mid-August. Within the past week, cases have shot up to over 300 per day, whereas Mumbai had hit as low as 195 and 196 cases on August 16 and 17 respectively, and subsequently reported less than 300 cases per day until the surge. According to ward-wise data available with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) until Sunday, H-West (Bandra West), G-North (Dadar, Mahim, and Dharavi), F-North (Matunga and parts of Wadala), R-South ward (Kandivli), K-West (Andheri west), and R-Central ward (Borivli) have all reported a total of over 100 cases respectively, within the past week. This is followed by areas of Andheri East, Malabar Hill, Byculla and Bhandup, which have reported over 90 cases each over the week. The lowest number of cases has been reported in C and B ward in south Mumbai, 12 and 15 respectively, over the week. A senior civic official from the BMC’s public health department said, “These figures largely represent the number of cases reported in these respective areas. In same cases, areas that have public hospitals show a larger number of Covid-19 cases due to the tests conducted on the premises. Mumbai is still recording more cases from residential buildings, in comparison to slums. Wards which are prominently residential areas are reporting relatively higher cases.” For example, in the G-North ward (Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi), on Monday, Dharavi reported three new covid-19 cases, Dadar reported 10, and Mahim reported four. Similarly, on Sunday, Dharavi reported four new cases, Dadar seven, and Mahim 12. In mid-August, Mumbai became free of containment zones in its slums. As of Monday, no slums and chawls are in containment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bandra-mahim-kandivli-in-mumbai-see-highest-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-101630352145740.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||BJP, MVA polls apart; Sena the new target||The main opposition party in Maharashtra, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has believably decided to step up its attack against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, especially after the chances of the Sena joining hands with it to form the government became bleak. It was evident on Monday as prominent BJP leaders participated in agitations across the state demanding reopening of temples. On the other hand, Central government’s Enforcement Directorate (ED) turned the heat on Sena leaders — transport minister Anil Parab and MP Bhavana Gawali — prompting the ruling party to allege political vendetta by the BJP-led government at the Centre. Led by Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and formed with the support of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, MVA has been under fire from the day one of its formation on November 28, 2019. And the BJP has stepped up the attack further in past few months and is not leaving any opportunity to corner the government and CM Thackeray, on issues such as reservation for Marathas an Other Backward Classes (OBC), handling of Covid, ban on traditional bullock cart race in western Maharashtra among others. The attack from the BJP is likely to intensify in the near future as the local body elections —considered mini assembly polls, as more than two-thirds of municipal corporations, councils of the state will go to polls — draw closer.BJP leadership has also strategically tried to corner MVA on issues related to reservation of particular communities and evoke religious sentiments on the issue of the opening up of temples. The party has blamed MVA for its failure in keeping the reservation to Marathas in jobs and education, which was quashed by the Apex court in May. BJP leaders alleged the state government did not present the grounds on which reservation was given in the Supreme Court. It blamed the MVA government after the OBC reservation in local bodies was set aside by the SC two months ago. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has said MVA was totally against reservation to OBCs and hence it did nothing to restore it. “From day one of its formation, the BJP was expecting MVA government to crumble. The hopes were on till recently when the last ditch attempt was made two months ago ahead of the expansion of the Central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Since the hope has come to an end as the Sena did not concede to it, the opposition is targeting the state government tooth and nail. The party appears to have shifted its focus on the Sena among the three ruling allies,” said a Congress leader, requesting anonymity. Within a few months after MVA government came to power, BJP cornered it over the killing of seers in a mob lynching in Palghar. The ruling parties were then targeted in the death cases of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and celebrity manager Disha Salian last year. Former forest minister Sanjay Rathod resigned from his post in the Thackeray cabinet after allegations of his involvement in the death of a TikTok star from Pune. The BJP had launched an attack on Thackeray by holding the minister responsible for the girl’s death. Ruling parties in the state alleged ED notices to Parab and former home minister Anil Deshmukh were done out of political vendetta. However, BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said, “They should have some shame while alleging that the action is being taken out of vendetta. CM Uddhav Thackeray had backed former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze by questioning why he was being targeted as if he is Osama Bin Laden. Vaze was a blue-eyed boy with whom the Sena leader shared dinner and partied till he named Sena leaders saying they were behind his misdeeds. The leaders from the ruling parties should not be scared if they have not done anything wrong.” Reacting to the attacks, water resources minister and NCP state unit chief Jayant Patil said, “Not only leaders from the ruling parties, but everyone who expresses views against the BJP are being harassed by finding out cases related to them. The notices given by the central agencies will be replied to. It is a systematic attempt to defame the state government.”“As the local body elections draw closer, attack from the BJP will intensify. The BJP earlier targeted NCP and has now shifted its focus on Sena in an attempt to wrest power from it in BMC elections. Union minister Narayan Rane’s induction in Union cabinet was with the sole intention of using him against his bete noire Shiv Sena. As the possibility of re-alliance between the Sena and BJP comes to an end, the latter has stepped up the attack,” said political analyst Hemant Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mva-polls-apart-sena-the-new-target-101630352084477.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai releases third merit list for UG courses||As the University of Mumbai (MU) released the third and final merit list for undergraduate (UG) degree courses on Monday evening, at least one coveted college added extra divisions to select courses this year owing to the increase in demand.St Xavier’s College in south Mumbai, a popular destination for students, has added an extra division of 65 seats each in self-financed courses including bachelor of mass media (BMM) and management studies (BMS) this year to incorporate a high number of applications for these courses.“State government gave us a letter stating that being an autonomous institute we need not go through the regular process for permission to start a new course or new division to the existing numbers. This will only be for the current batch, and will be functional till the current batch graduates,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s College. Earlier this month, the state government released a circular addressing it to universities and respective affiliated colleges stating that due to a higher number of students completing Class 12 this year which automatically increased the number of candidates applying for admissions, colleges have been given the option to add an extra division to certain popular courses to accommodate all students.While the government feels this decision will help accommodate more students in undergraduate degree courses, many colleges feel this will not be helpful for all. “Adding a new division will not be an easy task for colleges. While this can be managed while classes are online, soon colleges will reopen and then colleges will grapple with infrastructure constraints,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college.Overall, cut-offs in most popular colleges dropped less than a percentage point from the second to the third merit list. At RA Podar College in Matunga, cut-offs dropped by less than a percent point for BCom and BMS courses — from 95.7% in the second merit list to 95.2% in the third one.Similarly, at Mithibai College in Vile Parle, overall cut-offs across courses dropped by one to three percent points. For BCom course, it dropped from 96.3% to 93.4%.The first merit list announced earlier this month pushed cut-offs across popular colleges to 10-13% points higher compared to last year.Rising Covid-19 cases forced most school education boards to scrap Class 12 board exams this year and instead promote students based on their past performance and that during the year, following a 30:30:40 formula. This led to a rise in the overall score of students from all boards. While CBSE and ISC schools witnessed a hike in the number of students scoring 90% and 95% in their batches, the state board witnessed a 12-fold rise in the number of students scoring 90% and above this year, including 46 students who scored a perfect 100%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-releases-third-merit-list-for-ug-courses-101630351904616.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two FIRs against farmers in Kaithal for blocking highway||At least 85 farmers, including 35 by name, have been booked by the Kaithal police for allegedly blocking highways in protest against police lathicharge on peasants in Karnal on Saturday. Two FIRs have been registered for blocking Hisar-Chandigarh highway near Titram Mor in Kaithal city, and Kaitha-Patiala road. Police said the FIRs were registered under sections 147, 149, 283 and 341 of the IPC and the investigation was going on to indentify the farmers involved in the blockade. BKU (Charuni) activist Hoshiar Singh Gill said such tactics won’t weaken farmers’ stir. “Police should book Karnal SDM and cops involved in brutal attack on farmers,” he said. INLD demands FIR against Karnal SDM, cops KARNAL A delegation led by the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) state president Nafe Singh Rathee submitted a complaint with the Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia and demanded action against Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha and cops involved in the Saturday lathi-charge on farmers. Rathee said the cops acted on SDM’s instructions to beat farmers up. 7 farmers booked in Yamunanagar Ambala A day after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had to cancel two party events in Yamunanagar due to protests, seven farmer leaders and activists were booked for rioting, unlawful assembly and other charges, police said on Monday. Those booked include BKU (Charuni)’s district director Mandeep Singh and Sahb Singh Gujjar. BJP leaders, including education minister Kanwar Pal, MLA Ghanshyam Das Arora, mayor Madan Chauhan and others were scheduled to address an event at Tejli Stadium on Sunday morning, followed by a meeting at a hotel. Head constable Rajiv Kumar said, “Farmers gathered outside the hotel and BJP workers had to jump off from the terrace to adjoining buildings to save their lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-firs-against-farmers-in-kaithal-for-blocking-highway-101630351845043.html
31-08-2021||Other||Tiffin bomb intel in Punjab: Ludhiana police beef up security||After an alert was sounded in Punjab over the possibility of a tiffin-bomb attack, heavy police force was deployed outside temples and other religious places in Ludhiana on the occasion of Janamashtami on Monday evening.Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, in a review meeting of senior officers, had asked all police personnel to stay alert ahead of the festival season and keep an eye out for abandoned things, including tiffin boxes, mobile phones, boxes and other such things.Following the directions of the DGP, Ludhiana police made special security arrangements outside temples. The SHOs and police post in-charges were asked to keep vigil outside temples, other religious places and public places. The police have also installed checkpoints at all major roundabouts.Around 2,000 police personnel, along with senior police officers, remained on road for security. Cops also conducted checking at hotels, inns and guest houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiffin-bomb-intel-in-punjab-ludhiana-police-beef-up-security-101630351665966.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra got 5L extra Covid-19 vaccine doses in August: Centre||The Central government, in an affidavit in response to the public interest litigation (PILs) which sought better administration of the CoWin portal and app and streamlining of allocation and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines to the state, has informed the Bombay High Court that Maharashtra was given five lakh additional doses for August. The affidavit states that instead of the 86.74 lakh doses which were allocated, the state received 91.81 lakh doses from the manufacturers. The affidavit also stated that work on addressing the issue of permitting jab beneficiaries to make corrections on their vaccine certificates on CoWIN portal was under development and would be available soon, especially the fake vaccination drive victims in Mumbai city. The affidavit filed by Satyendra Singh, under-secretary, department of health and family welfare, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, has stated that the Centre had been procuring 75% of the vaccines being manufactured and allocating it to states and union territories for free. The affidavit adds that a month-long date wise allocation schedule has already been provided to the states and supplies of the vaccine are being provided based on it. In the previous hearing of the PILs, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni had been informed by advocate Jamsheed Master for petitioner Yogeeta Rajesh Vanzara and advocate Anita Castellino for petitioner Siddharth Chandrashekhar that many vaccination centres had been unable to provide slots due to shortage of supply. The bench was also informed that the facility to make corrections in Covid vaccine certificates on the CoWin portal was not fully functional. The court had directed the centre to respond to the same and had sought an affidavit enumerating the number of doses being provided to the state of Maharashtra and the status of the correction facility. While responding to the issue of making corrections on the CoWin portal, the affidavit states that while correction of dates of both doses has been resolved and users can rectify the same and download the certificate with correct dates after the technical glitches in the software have been resolved. The affidavit adds that work on allowing further corrections is underway and would be made available soon to all users including those who were victims of fake vaccination drives. The PILs were listed for hearing on Monday but due to paucity of time will be taken up on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-got-5l-extra-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-august-centre-101630351664918.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Former cricketers from Ludhiana selected to mentor upcoming players||In a proud moment for the district’s cricketing fraternity, former players from Ludhiana have been selected by Punjab Cricket Association to mentor and train budding players under various roles.Rakesh Saini has been appointed chairman of the junior selection team, Karan Goel as selector of the senior team, Gagandeep (former Indian player) as Punjab Ranji bowling coach, Ankur Kakkar as batting coach for U-25 PCA team and Tejeshwar Singh as trainer, Punjab Ranji Team.In a press statement issued on Monday, Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) president Satish Mangal, general secretary Anupam Kamaria and honorary secretary Sunny Bhalla thanked PCA and its president Rajinder Gupta for bestowing this responsibility on the players from Ludhiana.They said that ever since the new LDCA executive committee took over, the Ludhiana district team has won 19 matches out of total 32 played, which is 65.5% victory record, whereas 10% matches had no result.LDCA also thanked cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for supporting and promoting sports in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-cricketers-from-ludhiana-selected-to-mentor-upcoming-players-101630351486480.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Slight rise in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region but no need to worry yet’||Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have seen a slight surge in the past 15 days. In mid-August, Mumbai had reported around 250 cases every day, while in the past five days, it has been clocking around 350 cases daily. Significantly, suburban trains in Mumbai have been opened for fully-vaccinated travellers since August 15. However, state health department officials said the surge it is not a trend and that easing of restrictions could have resulted in the minuscule increase in fresh cases.On Monday, Maharashtra reported 3,741 Covid-19 infections to take its tally to 6,460,680. It added 52 deaths, taking the toll to 137,209. The active case count in the state was 51,834 on Monday.As per the state health department, Mumbai recorded around 325 cases on August 1, which declined to 262 on August 15. On August 29, the city reported 345 fresh cases. Similarly, Navi Mumbai had 72 new cases on August 1, which decreased to 51 on August 15, but rose to 87 on Sunday. Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai-Virar, too, have shown a similar increase in the past 15 days. Thane city reported 67 cases on August 1, which decreased to 50 in mid-August. On Sunday, 44 were cases reported.In the past few days, there has been an increase in fresh Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, against the dip in daily cases in mid-August. Cases have shot up to over 300 per day, whereas Mumbai had hit as low as 195 and 196 infections on August 16 and 17 respectively. After August 17, the city reported less than 300 cases daily.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate, said: “Cases in Mumbai and rest of MMR could have seen some minor increase, but it is not a trend,” adding that that overall, there is a downward trend in the state and even in MMR. When asked if opening up of local trains earlier this month could have resulted in the increase, he said, “It is too early to judge that, but easing of restrictions does have some impact [on viral activity].” A senior health department official added, “It take about two incubation cycles or 28 days to see the impact of any restriction being eased or imposed. It has only been 15 days since trains were accessible to more people. By mid-September, we will know if the opening up of trains has had any significant impact on viral activity.”The slight increase in cases in the region has, however, left a section of officials and civic authorities worried, especially with the festive season approaching. The state government on Monday issued an order, prohibiting all public gatherings such as community rituals, cultural events and human pyramids for the Dahi Handi festival in the state. The order issued by the state home department directed to organise symbolic events and telecast them through local cable TV networks and online to avoid crowding in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic and concerns expressed by the Central government in this regard.State health minister Rajesh Tope indicated that the festive season is a cause of concern, with Ganeshotsav – one of the biggest festivals in the state – round the corner. “I spoke to the Kerala health minister to understand the surge in cases there. The minister attributed it to Onam festivities, celebrated by a large number of people. The second reason the minister said was an increase in testing. They tested around 50,000 samples a day, which was increased to 175,000,” said Tope. He added that all the Covid-19 protocols have to be followed by all those going to Konkan for Ganeshotsav, which falls on September 10. “People heading to Konkan for Ganeshotsav must go but the rules and protocols issued by the state must be followed in public interest,” he said. Meanwhile, the minister added that there is no decision to introduce night curfew so far. “The Centre has given guidelines for night curfew for Kerala and Maharashtra. These guidelines are studies by the CM (chief minister), health department and the [Covid] task force. However, so far there has been no decision on it. However, a discussion on this will be held and the CM will take an appropriate decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/slight-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-but-no-need-to-worry-yet-101630351365504.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Nominations filed for UCPMA polls||Nominations for the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) elections were filed on Monday. The polls are scheduled for September 3.For the post of president, veteran industrialist Avtar Singh Bhogal will be up against four-time and incumbent president DS Chawla. Also, Prince Bansal of Chawla group will contest against another veteran industrialist, Gurcharan Singh Gemco, for the post of senior vice-president.Before filling of nominations, member of Sachdeva (United Alliance) group led by Bhogal had sent invitations to all members of the association to assemble at a local restaurant on Dugri Road. On the other hand, members of Chawla group were campaigning door-to-door to garner support and calling voters over the phone.Compared to Sachdeva group, Chawla group has given an opportunity to newcomers this time, who are relatively younger. During the association’s annual general meeting (AGM) on August 18, Chawla was allegedly assaulted and his turban was tossed. He has accused the opposition’s Avtar Singh Bhogal, Gurmeet Singh Kular and Gurcharan Singh Gemco for orchestrating the attack.Later, the police booked 31 people including Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) president and industrialist Gurmeet Singh Kular, cashier Asru Ram Gupta and members Walaity Ram, Vicky Kular, Satnam Singh Makkar and Rajinder Singh Saholi under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of the offence committed in the prosecution of common object) of Indian Penal Code. The then police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal had also marked an inquiry into the matter.On the other hand, Bhogal, Kular and Gemco said the allegation are baseless and accused Chawla of not allowing the members, who were raising the issue of corruption in the UCPMA, to enter the venue where the AGM was taking place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nominations-filed-for-ucpma-polls-101630351314923.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Players ecstatic over Gatka being included In Khelo India Games||Gatka performers are enthralled as the of popular Punjabi martial art has been included in the Khelo India Youth Games in February next year. National Gatka Association president Harjit Singh Grewal on Monday said that the Gatka Association of Punjab is working vigorously to promote the game in all the districts of the state and has also been organising camps for referees and coaches.While presiding over a meeting of the District Gatka Association at Gill village, Grewal said that under the aegis of the World Gatka Federation, refresher courses are being held to impart necessary training to coaches and referees according to a new rule book prepared by the National Gatka Association of India. Grewal was accompanied by senior vice-president Sarbjeet Singh and International Sikh Martial Art Council’s Ludhiana coordinator Gurpreet Singh Batahari.Addressing players and coaches, Grewal said that under the leadership of World Gatka Federation, the game will soon be inducted in the Olympics. He added that persistent efforts will be made in the coming months to ensure a bright future for the players.Those present on the occasion included Jaspreet Singh, Gursewak Singh, Pawandeep Singh Mankoo, Gurwinder Singh Ladi, Bhagwan Singh, Sukhpreet Singh, Amandeep Singh Balara, Fateh Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Pardeep Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Parmjeet Singh Pammi, Jarnail Singh and others representatives of association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/players-ecstatic-over-gatka-being-included-in-khelo-india-games-101630351304453.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bihar woman among 2 held with with 22-kg cannabis in Ludhiana||Two residents of Patna, Bihar,including a woman were arrested near Araichan village in Doraha with 22-kg cannabis on Sunday.The accused have been identified as Kajal Kumar, 20, and Ravi Kumar, 25.Sub-inspector Nachattar Singh, station house officer at Doraha police station, said that they were conducting a special checking and the duo tried to escape after seeing them.Police then nabbed them and recovered the contraband from their bag. A case under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of NDPS act has been registered against them. Police are questioning the accused to find out from where they had procured the contraband and where they were going to deliver it.The police are also investigating to know their past criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bihar-woman-among-2-held-with-with-22-kg-cannabis-in-ludhiana-101630351247776.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man, aide booked for kidnapping, raping teen||Sahnewal police on Monday booked a man and his accomplice for kidnapping and raping a 14-year-old girl for atleast 26 days.The accused have been identified as Adarsh Tiwari of Giaspura and Satyam.An FIR has been lodged against them based on the statement of the victim’s father, a resident of Mahadev Nagar. He stated that his daughter had gone missing on July 18 and he had lodged a missing report with the police and kept looking for her, but to no avail.On August 14, the accused dropped the victim outside her home in an unconscious state and said they had found her roaming around at Eastman Chowk. After 15 days of her return, the girl told her father that she had befriended Tiwari, following which he abducted her with Satyam’s help. She added that they kept her in a room at Sherpur and raped her for 26 days. When her health started deteriorating, they dropped her back and fled, she said.Sub-inspector Sukhdeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc)., 34 (common intention), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been lodged against the accused and a hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-aide-booked-for-kidnapping-raping-teen-101630351246515.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana health dept to conduct random Covid tests at public places from September||The Ludhiana health department is going to start conducting random Covid tests at public places like bus stands, hospitals and OPDs. The teams will also collect samples from factories, drug rehabilitation centres, gyms and restaurants. Earlier, random sampling had been conducted at government schools in the district.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said that random testing is being conducted as per instructions issued by the state health department. She said that although the number of cases have dipped, the pandemic is not over yet. She appealed to the public to cooperate with the health department staffers while taking samples.Dr Ahluwalia said she has instructed the department to conduct maximum tests, so that those affected can be isolated and necessary medical assistance can be provided to them.Dr Ramesh Kumar, district epidemiologist, said that in addition to this, it is also important for fruit and vegetable sellers, salon employees and people in similar professions with high public interaction to get tested on priority.He added that if precautions are followed, the third Covid wave can be avoided.After conducting random sampling of students in schools,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-health-dept-to-conduct-random-covid-tests-at-public-places-from-september-101630351245070.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon in Chandigarh: August was driest in five years||With just 168.3 mm rain recorded in Chandigarh this month, this August has been the driest since 2016, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) records. The trend is likely to continue in September too, with chances of heavy rain remaining low.Overall, too, the rain recorded this monsoon has remained the lowest since 2016. With 427.7 mm showers since June 1, monsoon is 39% deficient at this point. The season comprises four months from June to September. “Rain received across the region has been on the lower side. During monsoon, if low pressure areas form over the Bay of Bengal and then travel to this region, it brings a good amount of rain. However this time, the systems dissipated in the central India. Interaction of easterly winds with westerly winds, which can also bring rain in this region, was also missing,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh. While it is too early to give predictions for September, Singh said that heavy remain will be unlikely though scattered showers are expected to continue in Chandigarh. According to the IMD, the average date for monsoon withdrawal is September 23.Meanwhile, maximum temperature in the city went down from Sunday’s 34.8°C to 32.9°C on Monday. Minimum temperature went up from 24.5°C to 24.8°C. In the next three days, mercury will remain in the range of 24-34°C, said the weatherman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-in-chandigarh-august-was-driest-in-five-years-101630351066132.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Within a week, 36% rise in sealed buildings in Mumbai||With the rise in the number of cases, the city saw a surge in the number of sealed buildings by 36% and sealed floors in the past one week. Mumbai civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal has now asked civic administration to be on alert in anticipation of a third wave of the pandemic. According to the civic body’s Covid protocol, it seals a floor or floors of a building if one or less than five cases are reported. Further, an entire building is sealed if five or more cases are found in it. As per the data, as of August 22, there were 22 sealed buildings and 1,089 sealed floors in the city. According to the data, as of August 28, the city had 30 sealed buildings and 1,107 sealed floors. The number of containment zones has, however, remained zero. A slum or a chawl is declared a containment zone when five or more cases reported, following which they are sealed. As of August 28, 2,794 containment zones and 66,132 sealed buildings have been released. Recently, at least seven buildings were sealed in the western suburbs which included five buildings from Kandivli and two buildings from Bandra ‘s Pali Hill, as each of these buildings reported more than five cases. Currently, areas like Dadar, Mahim, Malad, Byculla, Malabar Hill, Andheri West and Govandi have sealed buildings. In a review meeting, Chahal on Monday directed BMC officials along with Mumbai Police to strictly implement the sealing of buildings. As per the protocol, entry and exit from the sealed building is restricted for 14 days after the building is sealed. A constable from the Mumbai Police is deployed at the entry and exit of the sealed building followed by entry of all maids, drivers and vendors is restricted to only up to the gate of the society. Chahal asked to ensure these protocols are followed strictly expecting a second wave. He also directed officials to ensure that there is enough awareness among citizens to wear a mask properly, maintaining social distance and frequently washing hands. The commissioner has also asked officials to conduct early testing and ensure that citizens use the free testing facility run by the BMC. Chahal has also asked all jumbo centres and hospitals to remain on alert to handle any emergency where more ambulances, oxygen beds, injections and medicines will be required. Meanwhile, on Monday, 333 cases were reported along with two deaths. The city’s tally is 743,832 and toll is 15,976, and the recovery rate is 97%, with 721,921 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.14%. There are 3,504 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/within-a-week-36-rise-in-sealed-buildings-in-mumbai-101630351007291.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Mohali ADC finds seven illegal colonies in Zirakpur||There are seven illegal housing colonies in Gazipur and Nabha areas of Zirakpur. These are the preliminary findings of the probe being carried out into the mushrooming of illegal colonies in the town. Mohali additional deputy commissioner (general) Komal Mittal, who is conducting the probe, has also alleged that despite repeated requests, the Zirakpur municipal council (MC) is not cooperating with her.“I have looked into seven colonies in two areas so far. I found that they were constructed illegally. However, officials of the Zirakpur MC are not cooperating with us in providing the required documents. The complete report will be ready within a week,” said Mittal.The inquiry was ordered after a joint action committee of local resident welfare bodies submitted a complaint about illegal colonies to the Punjab chief minister’s office in July this year. Mittal said most colonisers have taken no-objection certificates (NOC) for plots of smaller sizes and later merged them to raise high-rise buildings, which is against the regularisation policy of 2018.Also, most colonisers did not even leave space for roads earmarked in the master plan, constructing buildings there, she said.Joint action committee president Sukhdev Chaudhary, who is leading the campaign against illegal colonies, said: “Colonisers are constructing illegal colonies in connivance with MC officials. If they hand over the documents pertaining to illegal colonies to the ADC, they will be in the dock.”Girish Verma, executive officer, Zirakpur MC, said: “I have joined recently, and will find out that why the officials concerned are not providing documents to the ADC.”According to the Punjab local government department, there are 59 illegal colonies within the Zirakpur MC limits even though sources say the number could be much higher. Most of these colonies were developed after the master plan was notified.In February 2018, then Mohali ADC Charan Dev Singh Mann had also submitted a report, in which he cited alleged connivance between MC officials and builders as the root cause for the mushrooming of illegal colonies in Zirakpur. “The situation on the ground is alarming and the safety of buyers and their hard-earned money is at stake,” he had said in the report.Even the Zirakpur MC House comprises mainly of realtors and colonisers. Of the 31 councillors, as many as 20 are into real estate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-mohali-adc-finds-seven-illegal-colonies-in-zirakpur-101630350764535.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||ED heat on Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena leaders: Party says BJP, agency ‘hand in glove’||With two Shiv Sena leaders — a minister and a five-term member of parliament (MP) — facing action by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Sena leaders trained their guns at the central agency, saying it is “hand in glove” with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sena on Monday fought back, saying that action against party leaders was “vendetta politics”, adding that it won’t have an impact on Sena or the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.A week after the Uddhav Thackeray-led government took action against union minister Narayan Rane and arrested him over his slap remark, the heat on Sena has been turned by the ruling party at the Centre.After state transport minister Anil Parab received a notice from ED on Sunday, properties of Bhawana Gawali, Sena MP from Yavatmal-Washim, were raided by teams of the agency on Monday. Parab, who has been summoned to ED office in Mumbai on Tuesday, is unlikely to remain present before ED officials. He is expected to respond to the notice, people privy to details said.“The ED is hand in glove with BJP and this must be investigated,” Sena leader Sanjay Raut said. He also said, “For the past few days, BJP leaders had been saying that Anil Parab is next [to face ED action]. Either ED has kept one desk officer in BJP headquarters or a BJP office-bearer has been deputed as a desk officer in ED. Hence, all these actions are happening. Otherwise how did they know that Anil Parab will get notice or when he will be summoned for questioning. Kirit Somaiya, Chandrakant Patil and many others know.”Responding to the allegation, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “Everybody has the freedom to level allegations. But ED, CBI and other agencies are independent bodies that are not controlled by one person or one party.”Terming the ED notice as “love letters” Raut said, the ED notice is not a big thing. “It is not a death warrant, but a medal for us. The frequency of such love letters has increased after unsuccessful attempts to topple the MVA government, which is strong and unbreakable. Anil Parab is being targeted by the BJP and he will respond to the ED notice and cooperate with the ED’s investigation,” said Raut.Parab met Raut at Saamana office in Parel on Monday afternoon where the two leaders reportedly discussed the issue. Later, Parab met NCP’s state chief and his cabinet colleague Jayant Patil at Mantralaya. The MVA allies are expected to put up a united front on the issue. When asked if Parab will appear before ED officials, Raut said, “This is a legal battle and they have to be fought in that manner. Anil Parab is a lawyer himself, he knows what needs to be done.” Patil, however, denied that the meeting between the two was not related to the ED notice. He said, “The ED is being used to create trouble for NCP, Congress and Sena leaders. Whoever has opposed BJP in the country is facing such actions. I am confident that whichever leader from the three parties get notices, will respond to them. But there is an attempt to defame the government.”Stepping up its attack on the BJP, Raut reiterated his statement that he has names of over 100 BJP leaders who are allegedly involved in the wrongdoings. “This is vendetta politics, it is of no use. Everybody gets their turn, we, too, will have ours in Delhi. We, too, will release list of names; I stand by what I said,” he said. Raut in November 2020 said that he would release names of 120 leaders of the ruling party to the ED and Ministry of Finance and await action against them.Further, Raut dismissed the notice to Parab as an attempt to target Thackeray and said they remain unfazed by such moves. When asked if the action against Parab, who is close to CM Thackeray and his family, was a warning to Thackeray, Raut dismissed it and said, “Many people are close to the chief minister, not just one leader. Anil Deshmukh too was close to Sharad Pawar. I also got a notice. We do not worry about any such warning. You can use these agencies as weapons.Gawali, meanwhile, said that the ED raid on the institutions she runs in Vidarbha district was tryannical. Comparing the use of agencies against political opponents to the Emergency, she said, “These raids are tyrannical and akin the Emergency... I think this is being done to damage me, a five-term MP, who has been working for the people. Shiv Sena ministers and representatives are being targeted. I have institutions, including schools and Ayurveda college, which have been raided today. I did not get any notice.” Raut echoed Gawali’s view and added that such things won’t have any adverse impact on the party in the local body polls. “Shiv Sena is the target and everyone knows why it is being done. However, it will have an iota of impact on the Maharashta Vikas Aghadi. Shiv Sena’s resolve will not be dented, instead it will be strengthened. People understand everything and it will have no impact on the urban local body elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-heat-on-shiv-sena-leaders-party-says-bjp-agency-hand-in-glove-101630350585576.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Will celebrate dahi handi, say BJP and MNS||Even as the Maharashtra government prohibited all sorts of public gatherings such as community rituals, human pyramids and cultural events for the dahi handi festival to be held on Tuesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) announced that they will defy the Covid-19 restrictions and celebrate the festival. Health experts have expressed concern and cautioned that such celebrations may turn into super-spreader events in the backdrop of the fast-spreading Delta variant.The state government asked citizens to celebrate the festival in a simple manner and at home. A circular to this effect was issued by the state home department on Monday.This is the second consecutive year the state government has banned public celebrations of festivals.As part of the curbs put in place to prevent the spread of the Covid-19, the state government has banned public celebrations of festivals as well as religious and cultural gatherings. Last week, the central government also sent an advisory to the state asking it to put curbs on festivities so that they don’t turn out to be Covid-19 super-spreaders as the threat of a third wave of the pandemic looms large.Dahi handi and Ganesh Chaturthi are major festivals in Maharashtra and are celebrated with much fanfare. Last year too, the public celebration was banned due to the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic. In a meeting held on August 23, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged organisers of the dahi handi festival to prioritise health amid the raging pandemic and set aside festivities for a while.“Celebrate dahi handi in a simple manner by holding rituals at home. Do not hold any community rituals or cultural programmes. Organise symbolic events instead and telecast them live through local cable TV network or online to avoid crowding in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. Many mandals celebrate the festival by organising community events, in order to prevent transmission of Covid infections, and do not gather for any community events. Do not form human pyramids to celebrate the festival. Instead, hold blood donation and health camps,” states the circular issued on Monday.However, BJP accused the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of deliberately banning Hindu festivals.BJP legislator Ram Kadam, who organises dahi handi festival at Ghatkopar, said he will go ahead with his event. “We will celebrate the festival in a traditional manner and ensure that there is no crowding. The state government should have come out with rules like allowing only vaccinated people to participate and ensuring social distance. However, this has not been done. This shows that the state government is hell bent on not allowing Hindus to celebrate their festivals,” said Kadam.He said the circular displays the arrogance of the state government. “We will first go to the Ghatkopar police station and seek permission. If they give, it’s good, but if they refuse we will still proceed with our programme,” Kadam said. He also accused the state government of twisting the central government’s advisory. “Even we don’t want people to crowd and will take all precautions, just not allowing is muzzling our rights,” he added.The MNS, which is organizing a grand dahi handi at Thane, accused both the state and central government of hypocrisy. Party leader Bala Nandgaonkar said MNS will celebrate the festival come what may. “The state government cannot decide what we should celebrate. Other religions are allowed to celebrate, but when it comes to Hindu festivals all curbs are laid on us. We don’t care about the third wave,” said Nandgaonkar.“The central government allows its newly appointed ministers to undertake ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ but prohibits Dahi Handi festival. Similarly, the Yuva Sena (youth wing of Shiv Sena) can hold demonstrations disregarding Covid-19 norms and we are told to not celebrate any festival. We will go ahead with the festival,” said MNS spokesperson Sandeep Deshpande.The Shiv Sena has accused both the BJP and MNS of playing with the lives of people. “The entire aim of both the parties is to paint us as anti-Hindu and for that they are ready to put the lives of the citizens in danger. It is the BJP-led Central Government which has asked us to impose curbs and their local party leaders are going against them,” said Sena legislator Manisha Kayande. “The dahi handi organised by Ram Kadam is a purely commercial event and has nothing to do with the festival. The state has allowed symbolic dahi handi, but what they want is a grand event which we cannot allow as we are staring at the third wave and cannot risk the lives of the people,” she added.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force, expressed concern saying that the Delta variant is active in the state, which is also the fastest spreading Covid variant. As the cases doubled in Mumbai in the past ten days a lot of strict vigilance and tight adherences to Covid protocols are required to be followed. “The active Delta variant is in circulation and we need to be very cautious and careful. One must have seen, in the last ten days in Mumbai there has been a doubling of cases, which had gone down earlier. Such celebrations can become super spreader events, when we are just getting out of the second wave. We have seen what has happened after Eid and Onam in Kerala,” said Dr Joshi.“We have seen that the world is suffering with Delta strain. It is as fast as chicken pox. It is not like the old strain. The R-naught of Delta is around 10-11 and is also the fastest spreading Covid strain. The R-naught of the old strain was only 3.5. Festivities across all religions need a lot of strict vigilance, control and tight adherences to Covid protocols,” he added.On Thursday, the central government suggested the state government impose restrictions in the districts where test positivity is higher during upcoming festivals. “Even though the trajectory of daily new cases has shown a decline over the last month, there are some districts in Maharashtra which are showing early signs of upsurge in Covid-19 cases and test positivity… In view of mass events and public gathering expected during celebrations of upcoming festivals (including dahi handi and Ganeshotsav) in Maharashtra, it is advised that the state may consider imposing and enforcing local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and mass gatherings,” stated a letter written Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare on August 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-will-celebrate-dahi-handi-says-bjp-and-mns-101630350584457.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s August rainfall deficit stands at 46%||With just a day left for the month to end, Mumbai’s rainfall deficit for August stood at 46% on Monday, data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station at Santacruz has revealed. Till 8.30am on Monday, Mumbai had recorded 288.8mm of rain as against the monthly normal of 531.3mm. Experts and officials attributed the deficit to weakening of monsoon winds, but clarified that there are higher chances of rain for the city and its surrounding areas during the next fortnight.Light to moderate showers were felt across MMR early on Monday, with IMD’s observatory in Santacruz recording 1mm of rain up to 5:30pm. Most of the monitoring stations across the city, Thane and Navi Mumbai saw between 1 and 5mm of rain during the same period.“The offshore trough, which is an elongated low-pressure region off the coast of Maharashtra, plays an important role in bringing proper rainfall to Mumbai and the larger MMR (Mumbai Metropolitan Region) area. As the overall monsoon wind pattern across the South Asian region remained weak, the offshore trough could not gain strength during most of August. Even monsoon low-pressure systems forming over the Bay of Bengal or eastern India could not help in strengthening the offshore trough as the overall monsoon wind pattern was weak,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD student at University of Reading.Current forecasts suggest that rainfall prospects for MMR during the first fortnight of September are better than those in August and second fortnight of September, although a continuous wet spell appears unlikely in the first half of September. Under the influence of a monsoon low-pressure system, the region can expect some increase in rainfall with cloud cover on Tuesday, following which subdued or low rainfall conditions are expected to continue during rest of the week.“There might be an active rain spell around the next mid-week. For Maharashtra in general, the first fortnight of September is expected to be wetter than the second one. The interior parts of the state are expected to be benefitted by two monsoon low-pressure systems over the next two weeks, Deoras added.IMD on Monday issued yellow category storm warning for Mumbai for the next two consecutive days, indicating a very likely possibility of heavy rain at isolated locations. It issued an orange alert (very heavy rain in some locations) for Thane and Raigad for Tuesday and for Palghar on Wednesday. “On August 30, a monsoon low-pressure area is over Chhattisgarh and 15 degrees north of it is the east-west shear zone... much awaited rains will come to Rajasthan and Gujarat. For Maharashtra, too, it is good news,” said KS Hosalikar, scientist with IMD’s surface instrument division in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-august-rainfall-deficit-stands-at-46-101630350284613.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 27 fresh Covid cases, 4 deaths||ChandigarhPunjab on Monday recorded 27 fresh coronavirus cases that took its infection tally to 6,00,576, while four more fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,373, according to a medical bulletin.Of the fresh cases, six were reported from Mohali and four each from Gurdaspur and Jalandhar, the bulletin stated.The latest deaths were reported from Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Mohali districts, it said.There are 359 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the bulletin said.With 54 more recoveries, the total number of cured persons has reached 5,83,844, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-27-fresh-covid-cases-4-deaths-101630349985669.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic official, bodyguard lose fingers after vegetable vendor attacks them||Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) assistant municipal commissioner Kalpita Pimple lost two of her fingers and has suffered grievous injuries on her third finger, while her bodyguard lost one finger after they were attacked by a hawker at Kasarvadavali junction in Ghodbunder on Monday evening.According to TMC officials, Pimple and a team went to vacate street vendors who had encroached upon the area. While they were vacating the vendors, a vegetable vendor, Amarjeet Yadav, 32, took out a knife from his cart and attacked Pimple on her head. Senior police inspector K Khairnar said, “The vendor became furious after his cart was seized. He took his knives from the cart and attacked Pimple and her bodyguard. We immediately arrested the accused. Pimple and the bodyguard are admitted in a private hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-official-bodyguard-lose-fingers-after-vegetable-vendor-attacks-them-101630349925444.html
31-08-2021||Kolkata||CBI probes rape, murder in post-poll violence in 5 Bengal districts||Kolkata: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday recorded complaints of several families in five districts of West Bengal as part of its probe into post-poll violence, said officials aware of the development.Officials said statements of at least two women who alleged rape were recorded as part of this exercise.The Calcutta high court ordered CBI on July 19 to probe the violence and asked the central agency to file its report in six weeks. On Monday, CBI officers visited North 24 Parganas, Bankura, Jhargram and Birbhum districts in south Bengal. A fourth team went to Sitalkuchi in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district. In Birbhum, CBI recorded the statement of a woman who was allegedly raped in the Nanoor area. The probe agency also talked to officers of the Santiniketan police station but the state police personnel were not allowed to be present when the woman was questioned. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that she was raped because her family supported the saffron camp during the March-April polls.Birbhum is a stronghold of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) which won 213 of the state’s 294 seats as compared to the BJP’s 77 seats. In Birbhum, the BJP could win only one out of 11 seats.“The TMC unleashed a reign of terror after the polls,” said Dhruba Saha, BJP’s Birbhum unit president. In North 24 Parganas, a CBI team visited the home of TMC worker Akash Yadav who was shot dead at Jagaddal on May 2. “I gave my statement to the CBI officers. I hope justice will be done,” said Sunita Devi, the victim’s mother. BJP leader Arjun Singh, who represents the Barrackpore constituency in the Lok Sabha, dismissed the allegation. “The family is trying to divert attention. Our party was not involved in the incident,” Singh said.In Jhargram, the allegations of a tribal family at Vadui village were recorded by CBI officers where relatives of BJP worker Kishore Mandi told the officers that he was killed by TMC workers. A CBI team also visited several families in Bankura district to probe allegations of murder and rape but the officers did not talk to the media about these cases till Monday evening. The CBI team in north Bengal visited the home of BJP worker Dhiren Burman in Sitalkuchi. Burman’s body was found inside a bamboo grove on May 24. The leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, had alleged that he was murdered by TMC workers. In Kolkata, the elder brother of Abhijit Sarkar, the BJP worker who was murdered by a mob in the city’s Narkeldanga area on May 2, handed over the victim’s mobile phone to the CBI on Monday afternoon. “My brother took videos of the attacks carried out TMC workers before he was killed. Local police officers were caught in those videos. Abhijit also went live on social media using this phone. The police asked for the handset but my brother had hidden it. We suspected that the police would tamper with evidence. I have also submitted a letter that has details of the complaints we have against the Kolkata Police,” said Biswajit Sarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-probes-rape-murder-in-post-poll-violence-in-5-bengal-districts-101630349924329.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Overcrowding in flat: Singapore official jailed for alerting Punjab-origin tenant about inspection||An Indian-origin Singaporean, who was working as an inspection officer with a public housing authority, was on Monday sentenced to 25 days in prison for alerting an Indian tenant about impending inspections to check overcrowding in his flat.Kalayarasan Karuppaya, 55, who has been suspended from his duties with the Housing and Development Board (HDB) since January 25 last year, pleaded guilty on Monday to two charges of violating the Official Secrets Act by communicating information about the upcoming inspection to Damandeep Singh about his rented unit.The accused was not authorised to release the information to the 22-year-old Indian national, Channel News Asia reported.The court heard on Monday that the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau of Singapore (CPIB) had received information on January 9 last year relating to Kalayarasan providing Damandeep with information about the impending inspection of the HDB flat (apartment) on several occasions in 2019.As an investigation officer with the rank of higher estate executive, Kalayarasan’s work involved conducting investigations into subletting and occupancy related infringements in HDB estates, said deputy public prosecutor Thiam Jia Min.These included offences such as unauthorised subletting of HDB units, overcrowding and the misuse of units for vice or Together with five others, Damandeep was a registered tenant in the unit in question, Thiam said, noting the maximum number of people allowed to stay in the unit is six.Any breach of this condition might potentially result in a debarment of unauthorised tenants from renting HDB units for a fixed period and the unit owner from renting out the unit.A total of about 12 to 13 people were staying in the flat at any one point, she noted, adding that Kalayarasan was not aware of these facts at the time.The HDB had received a complaint about suspected overcrowding in the flat where Damandeep was a registered tenant. The police also found the unit overcrowded on two visits on August 24 and September 4, 2019, with 19 and 18 occupants on each occasion respectively.“Investigations revealed that at all material times, Damandeep and some of the other registered tenants illegally sublet the unit to more tenants, in breach of the HDB rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overcrowding-in-flat-singapore-official-jailed-for-alerting-punjab-origin-tenant-about-inspection-101630349745065.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||BJP responsible for farmers’ unrest, not Punjab: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday slammed his Haryana counterpart for defending lathi-charge on peacefully protesting farmers by putting the onus of the agitation on Punjab, saying that Manohar Lal Khattar’s remarks had exposed his government’s anti-farmer agenda. Amarinder reminded Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala that the farmers who were protesting against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting in Karnal and cops who rained lathis on them belonged to Haryana and not Punjab. He was reacting to Khattar’s and Dushyant’s allegations of Punjab being behind the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. Had the BJP, including the Haryana CM and deputy CM, heeded the farmers’ concerns, the crisis would not have assumed such grave proportions, said Punjab CM said blaming the BJP for farmers’ wrath. He trashed Khattar’s claim that Haryana Police used force only after the farmers disturbed the state’s law and order, pointing out that the viral video of the SDM giving explicit instructions to the cops to bash up the farmers nailed the CM’s lies. “How did the SDM know that the farmers intended to resort to stone pelting etc, as claimed by Khattar?” asked Amarinder. Farmers are fighting for their survival and did not need provocation from Punjab or any other state to protect their rights, he said, adding that the sentiment of the entire country was with the farmers. Responding to Khattar’s remark on farmer leaders giving him (Captain Amarinder) laddoos after the resolution of the sugarcane farmers’ protest, the Punjab CM quipped: “You repeal the farm laws and not just the farmers but even I will share laddoos with you.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-responsible-for-farmers-unrest-not-punjab-capt-101630349626699.html
31-08-2021||Bangalore||Female stabbed to death by colleague for refusing his marriage proposal||A 23-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her colleague after she turned down his marriage proposal. According to police, she was stabbed in the neck by a colleague on Monday morning while she was on her way to work near Doddabele Road in Kengeri.Police have arrested 27-year-old Venkatesh on charges of murder. According to police, after stabbing Anita, the victim, Venkatesh tried to take her to the hospital with help of a colleague, however, she was declared dead on arrival.Venkatesh and Anita hail from Andhra Pradesh and were working for an FMCG manufacturing company near Kengeri. “They have been in Bengaluru for the past two years and were living in the accommodation provided by the company. They were friends for a long time,” said Kengeri police officials who have registered an FIR.During the interrogation, police learned that Venkatesh had developed feelings for Anita and proposed marriage to her. However, Anita turned him down saying her parents will not agree to the marriage. As he continued to insist, she told Venkatesh that she was married to a relative back home when she was minor, but Venkatesh refused to believe her, said police.“On Monday, he approached her when she was on her way to work. He tried to convince her several times, but when she refused, he pulled out a knife and stabbed her on the neck,” said a Kengeri police official.Later, with the help of his colleagues, he took the profusely bleeding Anita to a hospital where she was declared dead. “He confessed that he had purchased the knife from a nearby shop and planned to attack her,” police officials added.Kengeri police have taken the accused into custody and recovered the knife from the scene of the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/female-stabbed-to-death-by-colleague-for-refusing-his-marriage-proposal-101630349347222.html
31-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court rejects NIA’s plea for Sachin Vaze’s custody, allows him to undergo surgery||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday rejected the plea of the central agency, seeking the custody of dismissed Mumbai Police officers Sachin Vaze and Sunil Mane, arrested in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases. Instead, the court allowed Vaze to undergo a coronary artery bypass graft surgery at a private hospital.NIA’s had on Saturday sought Vaze’s custody for two days and Mane’s custody for five days. However, after hearing both the sides on Monday, special judge Prashant R Sitre rejected NIA’s application. The court also allowed Vaze’s application for home food for a period of 60 days, if the doctors recommend the same.NIA special prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves argued that as per the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the agency can demand Vaze and Mane’s custody, who are currently in judicial custody in Taloja jail for 30 days.“We want the custody for a limited purpose. After the arrest of the last five accused in June, we have seized some incriminating materials. The roles of some key suspects – who are major conspirators both in the planting of explosives as well as in the murder case – have surfaced after the seizures,” Gonsalves told the court.He further submitted that Vaze and Mane need to be questioned on the material and new evidence available, as the agency is in its final leg of investigations.“A large amount of cash has been seized in the case and we need to find out its origin in a reverse trail. It’s a pre-planned conspiracy and the suspects have also played a key role. Vaze and Mane have dodged the investigators earlier by misleading them as the two are trained police officers. However, now they need to be confronted on the new material available,” said Gonsalves.Senior counsel Sudeep Pasbola and Raunak Naik, who appeared for Vaze, opposed NIA’s plea. They said all the grounds mentioned in the plea for custody were repetitive and nothing new or substantial was said in it. Pasbola said the application was not sustainable.“The agency’s application doesn’t have merits. The agency was acting in a callous manner. Why do they require confronting the two when they had Mane’s custody for so many days? They have all the cash and documents; they can verify whatever they want. The investigation has not progressed anywhere,” Mane’s counsel told the court.Pasbola also pointed out that the doctors at Sir JJ Hospital had given in writing that Vaze needs to undergo the cardiac surgery at the earliest, and as the fatality rate is high in government hospitals, he wanted to undergo it in Surana and Sethia Hospital that has branches in Mumbai and Thane.“Nothing can be important than this,” Pasbola told the court.He added Vaze was not even able to walk properly and he should be not given any stress during such a critical time.When the court asked Vaze if he wanted to say anything, he said: “Please don’t let me die like Stan Swamy [Jesuit priest arrested in Elgar Parishad case].”Judge Sitre then rejected NIA’s plea and allowed Vaze to undergo the surgery at the private hospital and report to the court in 15 days about the former officer’s condition.NIA is likely to file a charge sheet soon against Vaze, Mane as well as the other accused in the case – Vilas Shinde, Naresh Gor and Riyaz Kazi.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a note threatening to kill the members of the industrialist’s family.On March 5, the body of Hiran – the SUV’s owner who is an auto parts dealer from Thane – was found dumped in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra.NIA eventually took over investigations in both the cases and claimed that Vaze was the main accused in the case and had carried out the crimes out of purported desperation to “restore his lost glory in police.” Later, NIA also arrested former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and four others who allegedly throttled Hiran in a car and dumped his body in the creek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-rejects-nia-s-plea-for-sachin-vaze-s-custody-allows-him-to-undergo-surgery-101630349325881.html
31-08-2021||City||Fully vaccinated people allowed to enter Goa without negative Covid-19 report||The Bombay High Court at Goa on Monday modified its earlier orders allowing all people, irrespective of whether they are tourists or not, to enter the state without having to produce a covid negative certificate provided they are fully vaccinated.The Goa government had moved an application before the High Court to allow fully vaccinated people to enter the state.Initially, in mid-July, the High Court partly allowed the petition and allowed those who were fully vaccinated to enter the state without having to produce a negative certificate. Such exemption was, however, not extended to tourists who had to produce a negative certificate even if they were fully vaccinated.Monday’s order paves way for the state to extend the benefit of the exemption to tourists as well.“The High Court has allowed the application by the state government where people who are fully vaccinated, post 14 days of their second dose, can enter Goa without an RT-PCR negative test or a rapid antigen test,” Advocate Nikhil Pai, who represented the South Goa Advocates Association, the original petitioners, said.Children above two years of age will have to come with an RT PCR test report. Children below two years of age, if symptomatic, will have to carry an RT PCR report while no test report is needed if they are asymptomatic.A person who has completed two weeks since his/her second dose is considered fully vaccinated as per the orders of the High Court.Back in May when the second wave was at its peak, the High Court had asked the Goa government to insist that people entering the state be asked to produce a Covid-19 negative certificate that has been issued 72-hours prior, saying there was “no justification in the state of Goa not insisting upon a negativity certificate from persons who seek entry into Goa at this crucial juncture.”Goa has recorded 1.74 lakh cases of Covid-19 since the pandemic began. About 3,198 deaths have been reported more than half of which have been recorded in the months of April and May this year during the peak of the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fully-vaccinated-people-allowed-to-enter-goa-without-negative-covid-19-report-101630348998037.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Several faces in party, one should not be impatient: Rawat on Pargat remarks||Dehradun After Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh slammed party’s state affairs in-charge Harish Rawat for backing chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for the upcoming state assembly polls, the party veteran said there are several faces in the party and one should not be impatient. Speaking to ANI, Rawat said: “The same allegations were made earlier when I praised Navjot Singh Sidhu. We have many faces at the national level like Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. At the local level also, we have several faces like Captain Amarinder Singh, Navjot Singh Sidhu and even Pargat Singh. One should not be impatient. 2022 elections are nearby and everyone is watching us. So, I believe these conflicts should have first been discussed with the right medium inside the party. I know when I need to say and what to say.”Amid the ongoing turf war in the party’s state unit, Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh on Sunday questioned AICC general secretary Rawat and asked who gave him the right to take a big decision about Punjab.Pargat, who is close to Sidhu, said: “When all the MLAs had met the three-member Kharge committee constituted by the party high command in Delhi three months ago, it was decided that the Punjab assembly elections, to be held in 2022, would be fought under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Now, if Harish Rawat is saying that the 2022 Punjab elections will be fought under the leadership of Amarinder Singh, then he should also tell when this decision was taken.”“Congress state in-charge Harish Rawat is my good friend but who gave him the right to take such a big decision about Punjab at his level? What is the meaning of Captain’s leadership now after the Kharge committee’s decision to contest elections under Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi?” added the Congress MLA.Pargat’s statement comes at a time when Rawat is scheduled to visit Punjab soon and meet Amarinder and Sidhu.Meanwhile, Rawat met the party high command to discuss the turmoil in Punjab Congress. “I had a very short meeting with Rahul Gandhi. I had briefed him about whatever the situation is in Punjab. I have already briefed the Congress president. Nothing more than this,” Rawat told media persons after the meeting on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/several-faces-in-party-one-should-not-be-impatient-rawat-on-pargat-remarks-101630349144253.html
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Fearing arrest, Saini seeks advancing of hearing on 2018 plea after SIT summons||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini has moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking advancing of hearing in a plea filed by him in 2018 after Punjab Police SIT served him a notice for appearance on September 6.The notice says SIT wants to conduct his voice analysis test as it feels that he is intentionally concealing some important facts about the case. Besides Saini, the SIT has also summoned former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma and suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal on the same date. But Umranangal has not been asked to give voice samples in the summons. The SIT is likely to use these samples for Layered Voice Analysis (LVA), which is a technology used as a tool for helping detect stress and other emotions by analysis of the human voice. The 2018 plea demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into FIRs registered against him during the present Congress regime. On this plea, the court had directed that Saini be given a week’s prior notice in the event of his arrest in a case in connection with his service period.The case was to be taken up on September 9, but in the fresh plea, Saini says he has received a letter from the special investigation team (SIT) regarding FIRs registered in connection with the alleged police firing on protesters in 2015 in Kotkapura, to appear at the Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini, New Delhi, on September 6.Saini apprehends that he will again be detained by Punjab Police in some other case like earlier when he went to comply with high court orders. Hence, advancing of hearing in the 2018 plea be allowed. The application will be taken up by the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi on Tuesday.Saini was arrested by Punjab Police when he had gone to join investigation into a September 2020 corruption case on August 18. A day later, the high court termed his arrest illegal and in violation of high court orders on a plea moved by his wife and ordered his release.He has also moved another application seeking permission to place before the court purported videos of some interviews given by Punjab Police officers in which he claims they are levelling allegations against the court of passing the August 19 order “in a tearing hurry” and in “a pre-determined manner by not affording any opportunity” of hearing to state vigilance. These interviews are being circulated on the social media, he has submitted in the application. This application too will be taken up on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-fearing-arrest-saini-seeks-advancing-of-hearing-on-2018-plea-after-sit-summons-101630348964353.html
31-08-2021||Jaipur||Tennis player from Haryana alleges blackmail by woman and others||(PA 21-year-old tennis player from Haryana alleged being blackmailed by a woman and other accomplices after they shot his obscene video in Jaipur in 2018, police said.In the complaint, the victim alleged that the accused woman met him in Karnal in 2017 during a competition. She invited him to Jaipur saying she would help him get a private coaching job and he can earn a handsome amount.Regarding the FIR, station house officer, Ashok Nagar police station in Jaipur, Surendra Kumar Saini, said, “The complainant visited Jaipur in 2018 to participate in an event where he met the woman and other accused, including another girl. They made arrangements for his stay in a hotel and made his obscene video with a girl”.He said that the victim was 18-year-old when the alleged incident took place.After this, the woman and other accused blackmailed him and extorted around ₹6 lakh. On July 23, they started demanding ₹10 lakh. The player then told her mother about this following which she also spoke to them. When the demand continued, his mother registered an FIR for extortion on Sunday, Saini said.He said that one of the accused had also introduced himself as a journalist. “No arrest has been made yet, the case is being probed,” said Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/tennis-player-from-haryana-alleges-blackmail-by-woman-and-others-101630348751579.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi advises against plying decades-old petrol, diesel vehicles||Delhi government on Monday advised people not to ply petrol vehicles which are 15-year-old and diesel vehicles older than 10 years and asked them to get it scrapped at authorised centres.“Owners of over 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles are advised not to ply these vehicles on the roads in Delhi/NCR and further advised to get such end of life vehicles scrapped through authorised scrappers of the transport department,” the notification said.The department clarified that registration certificates of all types of vehicles are valid for 15 years but diesel vehicles which are 10 years old cannot ply in Delhi. It however said that no-objection certificates can be obtained for vehicles aged between 10 to 15 years for states where it is permissible to operate them. The Delhi government cited a Supreme Court order for impounding end-of-life diesel and petrol vehicles.The Centre in its voluntary vehicle scrapping policy allowed plying of old vehicles in case they pass fitness tests. The policy provides for a fitness test after 20 years for vehicles used by individuals for personal purpose and commercial vehicles require it after the completion of 15 years. There are at least 37 lakh end-of-life vehicles in Delhi, including two-wheelers out of one crore registered vehicles.Most of these vehicles ply on the roads causing pollution but authorities cannot take any tough action against these vehicles due to logistical issues of lack of adequate number of scrapping facilities and space for holding impounded vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-advises-against-plying-decades-old-petrol-diesel-vehicles-101630346317308.html
31-08-2021||Other||Telangana to use drones to drop seeds for afforesation||The Telangana government in partnership with Marut Drones, a city-based startup, is set to launch a drone-based afforestation project named 'Hara Bahara', under which seed balls will be dropped in barren and empty forest lands to turn them lush green abode of trees.Fifty lakh trees will be planted in about 12,000 hectares of land in forests across the state under the project, an official release said on Monday.State minister for IT and Industries KT Rama Rao unveiled 'Seedcopter Drone' by Marut Drones and launched poster campaign for 'Hara Bahara'. Seedcopter, an aerial seeding solution for rapid and scalable reforestation, will bring community, science and technology together for an inclusive, sustainable and long-lasting solution, the release said.This project uses drones to disperse seed balls over thin, barren and empty forest lands to turn them into lush green abode of trees. The process begins with a field survey and mapping of the terrain area to understand the ecosystem and demarcate the areas needing urgent attention.The seed balls are prepared by the local women and welfare communities which are dispersed via drones in the targeted areas. Further, the area is continuously monitored to track the growth of plants sown, according to the release."Forests are essential to maintain a clean and habitable environment for human life, and emerging technologies have potential to support the afforestation efforts. Being already at the forefront of using drones for new use-cases, we are initiating Hara Bahara to plant seeds increase the forest areas across all the districts of the state," Rama Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-to-use-drones-to-drop-seeds-for-afforesation-101630348012320.html
31-08-2021||Gurugram||No mandatory conservation of green cover, says draft NCR plan||The draft Regional Plan 2041 for the National Capital Region states that conservation of areas designated as “green cover” will not be mandatory, which poses a threat to the Aravallis in the region as they are not designated as forests and therefore, are not protected by the forest laws.The draft plan, prepared by the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB), which was accessed by HT, states, “The eco-sensitive areas in each subregion of the four participating states shall be identified and notified by the respective state governments. The components under Natural Conservation Zones (NCZ) as in Regional Plan 2021 shall remain and be continued to be conserved. However a distinction shall be made between ’forests’ and ’green cover’, wherein areas now categorized as ‘forests’ shall continue to be conserved, while conservation of the areas now designated as ’green cover’ areas shall not be mandatory.”This move could impact the conservation of Aravallis as they are not designated as forests under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, but are afforded protection as NCZs, after being categorised as such by the NCRPB in 2018.The draft plan, which will be discussed in a meeting by the National Capital Regional Planning Board on Tuesday, states, “The 0.5% of total area under Natural Conservation Zone is allowed for related compatible development which could be either at one place or at multiple locations, subject to other approvals, acts of different states and related sectors and land use compatible with the area.”Experts said that earlier, the 0.5% construction clause applied to each plot separately, but now this can be applied to the whole area of an NCZ. Earlier, construction could only be carried out on 0.5 acres of each 100-acre plot, but now, if the draft regional plan is approved, construction activities may be allowed on a larger scale as it does not elaborate on what constitutes “related compatible development”.When a similar clause was proposed earlier in the draft Regional Plan 2021, the ministry of environment forest and climate change had objected to it. In a letter to the NCRPB in 2014, the ministry said, “Though the Mega Tourism Policy of Haryana allows construction of residential and commercial real estate up to 20% and 10% respectively, in a minimum area of 300 acres, it is reiterated that in the remaining part of NCZ (excluding forests and protected areas), construction activities, even those related to regional recreational activities, shall not exceed 0.5% of the area.”The draft plan 2041 has also removed the clause of forest cover target of 10% for the National Capital Region.Reacting to the distinction, experts said that this will adversely impact the Aravalli forests in this region.“The forest cover of the NCR is just about 4% and it is a shame that the NCRPB has succumbed to the real estate lobby and removed the limit on construction in the NCZ and so called ‘green’ areas. The draft has further removed the target forest cover of 10%, which was there in the regional plan 2021,” said Chetan Agarwal, an independent forest analyst.SS Oberoi, a city-based environmental and legal expert, said, “With climate change picking up steam, groundwater going down, forest cover continuously reducing and the population of Gurugram and Faridabad increasing every year, more area should be conserved instead of a reduction.”Meanwhile, Jagdish Parwani, the director of administration and finance, NCRPB, said, “The draft plan will be discussed in a meeting on Tuesday, after which only we will be able to share more details in the public domain.”When asked, Parwani said all aspects of the plan will be discussed at the meeting and it is not necessary that all facets of the plan will be passed.The NCRPB has also sought suggestions at feedback.ncrpb@nic.in concerning the draft Regional Plan 2041.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ncr-draft-plan-2041-proposes-doing-away-with-mandatory-conservation-of-areas-designated-as-green-cover-may-affect-aravallis-101630346269577.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get new plan to combat climate crisis by year-end||The city will have a new 10-year action plan to combat climate change ready in the next two months and the plan will be implemented by the year-end, said officials of the Delhi government on Monday.The environment department has already requested the Union ministry of environment and forests (MOEF) to release a fund of ₹20 lakh to prepare the action plan.“A request has already been placed before the MoEF for the release of the fund to hire knowledge partners. Once we get the money, we will be able to hold consultations with stakeholders and ready the plan within two months. It will most likely be implemented by the year-end,” said a senior official from the environment department, asking not to be named.The Centre, in 2009, prepared the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) and asked states to prepare their own area specific plans. However, Delhi submitted its plan only in 2019, the last state to do so.“The plan could not be implemented and it expired in 2020. Now, we are due a new plan,” the official quoted above said.The previous plan focused on six areas, including energy, transport, green cover and urban development, and projected a significant decrease in cold days and nights and an increase in heavy rainfall in Delhi.For the new plan, a German agency is likely to be engaged as a knowledge partner, the official said.All extreme weather events of the past 10 years are being analysed to prepare a comprehensive plan which will focus on air pollution, greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy, transport issues, air conditioning, heat islands, agriculture patterns, etc., the official said.The action plan will identify activities causing increase in greenhouse gas emissions and fix responsibilities. It will set targets to be achieved in phases over the next 10 years.The environment department had taken eight years to complete consultations with stakeholders concerned while preparing the previous plan. Delhi had recorded its coldest day since 1901 on December 30, 2019. Since August last year, the city has been breaking weather records every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-new-plan-to-combat-climate-crisis-by-yearend-101630345904773.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Parking brawl: Delhi HC orders two brothers to do community service||The Delhi high court has directed two brothers to do community service at the Lok Nayak Hospital while quashing an FIR against them in connection with a brawl over parking in Gokulpuri in 2017.Justice Subramonium Prasad, in an order of August 13, said the continuation of proceedings will only aggravate the bad blood between the parties who live in the same locality and are also relatives.The petitioners, Mohit and Rohit Kumar, had moved the court seeking the quashing of the FIR against them during an alleged parking brawl with their relatives and neighbours in 2017. According to the police, the accused had hit the complainant with a rod during the fight.In February 2021, the parties settled the matter amicably and thereafter sought that criminal proceedings be quashed.In his order, justice Prasad imposed a cost of ₹10,000 on the brothers so that they do not repeat the offence and directed them to deposit the amount in the “Army Welfare Fund Battle Casualties”.“The petitioner no 1, Mohit and the petitioner no 2 Rohit Kumar are also directed to perform social service for one month. Accordingly, they are directed to do community service at Lok Nayak Hospital for a period of one month — August 23 to September 23,” the court said.The judge said after completion of one month of community service, a certificate from the medical superintendent should be filed to show compliance of the court order.“In case of any absenteeism/default or any misbehaviour on the part of the petitioners, the same shall be conveyed immediately by the medical superintendent to the concerned SHO...for bringing the same to the notice of the court,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parking-brawl-delhi-hc-orders-two-brothers-to-do-community-service-101630345664224.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||34-year-old killed while trying to break up fight in Delhi's Kalyanpuri||A 34-year-old man was killed when he tried to intervene in an argument between his son and another boy on Saturday night in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri. Police said the man was trying to stop the boy from hitting his son, when he allegedly got punched by the boy multiple times and he collapsed as a result. Both boys are minors, police saidPolice said the control room received a call from Kalyanpuri around 9pm, wherein the caller said his brother, 34-year-old Mahesh (police did not reveal his last name), fell unconscious after being beaten up by a boy. A police team rushed to the spot where they were told that Mahesh was taken to a hospital. At the hospital, police were told that the man was declared brought dead.According to police, Mahesh’s elder son was out playing with his friends when an altercation broke out between him and one of the boys. Hearing them fight, Mahesh stepped out to intervene but the boy punched him in the chest. When the locals stepped in to stop them, the boy left for his house nearby.Meanwhile, Mahesh fell unconscious after which he was taken to a local hospital nearby from where he was shifted to a private hospital in Patparganj area, where he was declared brought dead. Police said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered and the suspect juvenile was apprehended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-killed-while-trying-to-break-up-fight-between-son-and-a-boy-in-kalyanpuri-1-apprehended-101630345364212.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Govt allows others to collect ration for those not able to authenticate info||Ration cardholders who are unable to authenticate their biometrics to receive their monthly quota of subsidised food grains in the capital can now nominate others to collect it on their behalf, the Delhi government said on Monday.The government’s food and civil supplies department issued an order to this effect on August 26,after its field officers reported biometrics authentication failure due to technical glitches at some of the fair price shops over the past one month.Even those who cannot visit fair price shops due to old age or disability can also nominate others to collect their monthly quota of subsidised food grains, a senior officer in the department said on condition of anonymity. “The order has been issued to ensure that no PDS (public distribution system) beneficiary drops out of the safety net due to biometric failures, especially since ration shops in Delhi have implemented the e-POS (electronic point of sale) system under which a beneficiary can collect food grains after thumb or iris authentication,” the official said, adding, “The latest order will be very helpful for Delhi because the city is seeing one of the highest usages of portability of ration cards under the Centre’s one nation, one ration card (ONORC) programme.”The latest order allowing beneficiaries to nominate ration collectors on their behalf came after the Centre wrote to the states to implement these steps to address e-POS-related grievances. Accordingly, the Delhi food and civil supplies department identified three categories of beneficiaries who could avail of the facility: a family with members all aged above 65 or below 16 and not in a position to visit the shops themselves; if all members of a family are suffering from leprosy, are differently-abled, bedridden, or affected by other diseases and impairments; and those families whose every member faces biometric authentication failure despite correct Aadhaar seeding. A nominee must have his/her ration card registered in the same fair price shop as that of the family designating him/her.ONORC, introduced in 2019, aims to add digital muscle to the country’s public distribution system through which food grains are offered at subsidised rates to about 739 million beneficiaries under the national food security law. ONORC allows a beneficiary, such as a migrant worker, to access her share of subsidised ration from anywhere in the country regardless of the place where her ration card is registered. In other words, it allows the mobility of food entitlements.The Delhi government implemented the ONORC scheme only on July 20 this year. Data showed that so far, at least 29,600 transactions have already taken place in the city under the scheme since its launch, making Delhi the state/UT having the highest off-take of subsidised grains for migrants from other states.On July 27, a week after ONORC was launched in Delhi, HT had reported how many ration card holders returned empty-handed from fair price shops in south and east Delhi due to glitches in the e-PoS devices.To prevent inconvenience, the government asked the fair price shops to put up boards outside to inform about machines not working.In Delhi, people can get cheap grains from any of the 2,000 fair price shops. For this, the government has deployed 2,005 e-PoS devices across the capital to get ONORC going.Meanwhile, experts said there are flaws in the government order.“This recent order of the Delhi government shows a lack of both understanding and empathy. It says a nominee can only be allowed if the biometrics of all family members fail. What if the person whose biometrics match is the sole bread winner? Should they miss an income-earning opportunity to get ration? A simple bypass system should be put in place, based on self certification and verification,” said Anjali Bhardwaj, member of the Right to Food campaign which surveys FPSs in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/those-unable-to-authenticate-their-biometric-can-now-nominate-others-to-collect-ration-on-their-behalf-101630345124189.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||RFID tags a must for all commercial vehicles entering Delhi from Tuesday||Commercial vehicles will be challaned and their permits may be cancelled if they enter Delhi without radio frequency identification (RFID) tags from Tuesday, according to a notice issued by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).The notice, issued on Friday, stated: “With effect from August 31, all commercial vehicles will be allowed to enter Delhi on payment of the toll tax/environment compensation charge (ECC) through RFID system only.... those vehicles that enter Delhi without paying through the RFID mode shall be liable to face legal action including penalty/cancellation of permit...”SDMC issued a similar notice last month, and the officials were stopping vehicles without RFID tags or telling them to return. A fresh notice had to be issued because last month’s drive was discontinued in view of long traffic jams on the city border points.Corporation officials said, the order will be enforced in a different manner this time.“Earlier, vehicles without RFID tags were told to return leading to pile ups. This time, we will let vehicles pass and note their registration number. These will be sent to the Delhi government’s transport department to issue challans, and cancel their permits.”“We will write to the transport department,” said a senior SDMC official.A transport department official said they were yet to receive any formal request in this regard. “Once we get an official intimation, action will be taken accordingly,” the official said.SDMC is the nodal agency for collection of environment cess and toll tax. ECC was imposed on commercial vehicles by the Supreme Court in 2015 to dissuade their entry into the Capital in order to reduce air pollution.The fresh notice has led to a strike threat by the association of cab drivers. Kamaljeet Gill, president, Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi, said using RFID tags to move within Delhi-NCR is not feasible.“We have raised the issue with the civic body earlier too. Cab drivers make multiple trips in a day between Delhi, Noida and Gurugram. This means, every time we cross the toll plaza, ₹100 will deducted. This is not acceptable at all. We hope the civic agency will come up with a solution, otherwise we will have to go on strike,” said Gill.The RFID tags can be obtained and recharged at 39 point of sale systems set up at the city borders. The tags could also be recharged online on the SDMC website (www.ecctagssdmc.com) and the MCD-Toll mobile app.In order to enforce the order, special teams will be deployed at the 124 toll plazas from where commercial vehicles enter Delhi. “All 124 toll plazas were made RFID compliant by March-end. Now, there is no reason for commercial vehicle owners to not get the tags or recharge them to enter Delhi. This must be put in place before winters when air pollution in the city goes up. The whole point of RFID was to make the toll and ECC payments cashless so that vehicles don’t pile up on the borders and cause pollution,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rfid-tags-a-must-for-all-commercial-vehicles-entering-delhi-from-tuesday-101630345006462.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Work on revamped Chandni Chowk stretch in Delhi likely to be complete by Sept 5||Work on the 1.3km-long revamped Chandni Chowk stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid will be completed by September 5, according to the minutes of an August 26 meeting attended by nodal officers for the project.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the project on September 12.Officials said they are trying to wrap up pending work quickly in the run-up to the inauguration. While work on the installation of CCTV cameras is expected to be completed by the end of the month, boom barriers will be installed by September 5, the control room for which will be handed over to the Delhi Police by September 5, the minutes said. During the meeting, the transport department also invited expression of interest for operators of vintage golf carts.In July, the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) proposed to run electric vehicles similar to golf carts designed to look like vintage cars on the revamped stretch, which has been made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles between 9am and 9pm. These low-speed electric golf carts are expected to have a maximum speed of 25-30 kilometres per hour. The service is being proposed to help the elderly and infirm who visit the popular market and will be run for free. These cars are expected to become operational by October.Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, SRDC, which is the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, said the expression of interest had been sought. “The notification for it was issued on August 26,” said Panigrahi. The last date for submission of EOIs is September 10.According to EOI, the objective of the introduction of golf carts is to cater to the mobility needs of the elderly, disabled people, women and children visiting Chandni Chowk. The carts will be of vintage look in line with the aesthetic and heritage environment of Chandni Chowk, the EOI stated.The golf carts will be run on the main Chandni Chowk stretch and might be subsequently extended to roads adjoining it. As part of the first phase, 11 golf carts will be allowed to operate in the area. In subsequent phases, the number of such vehicles is likely to be scaled up to 22. The golf carts will be eight-seater vehicles.Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that the carts will add to the market’s character. But he added that it is crucial to ensure that other issues pertaining to pending work and encroachment are also looked at and dealt with.Conceived in 2006, the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project was launched after a prolonged delay in December 2018 following the directions of the Delhi high court, which is also monitoring the project. In the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric and other cables were taken underground, and dedicated lanes for non-motorised transport and walkways were constructed. Facilities such as toilets, ATMs, and benches and bollards were also set up. In the second phase of the redevelopment project, façade restoration will be taken up by the SRDC and PWD. A uniform façade will be implemented on the stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/work-on-revamped-chandni-chowk-stretch-in-delhi-likely-to-be-complete-by-september-5-101630345004881.html
31-08-2021||Pune||Pune residents see red over trimmed branches strewn on footpaths, roads||PUNE: The residents of Magarpatta city, Hadapsar, are miffed with the garden department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for leaving trimmed branches of trees on footpaths and roads which in turn are blocking the view and posing hurdles while walking.According to the residents, the tree-trimming work has been going on for the past 15 days and clipped tree branches have been left uncleared at many places, including Akashwani Hadapsar, near Lohia hospital, Solapur road and the Magarpatta corner.On his part, Dnyanoba Balwadkar, garden superintendent, Hadapsar ward, said, “The job of clearing the pared branches got delayed as it was the weekend and tempos were not available. Beginning Monday morning, we have started picking up all cut branches and in a couple of days, the area will be cleared.”A junior official of the garden department of the PMC who did not wish to be named echoed similar views saying, “A two-day delay occurred while clearing the branches from footpaths and roads. We have already told officials to clear the sheared branches and instructed them to clean up the area where tree-trimming work is undertaken in future.”However, Gajanan Shinde, who resides at the Magarpatta corner, said, “They (officials) are throwing all the pruned branches in nearby places and when we tell them to clear the place, they say it is not their job and that the same will be done in the morning by garbage collectors.”While Vijay Patil, who stays near the Lohia hospital, said, “The trimmed branches are lying on footpaths since the last five days and could soon become places for mosquitoes to breed if not cleared soon. Cases of dengue are already on the rise so the PMC needs to be more cautious.”Acknowledging the mistake, Ashok Ghorpade, superintendent of gardens, said, “Such an incident has taken place for the first time. Generally, our people clear the complete area where tree-trimming is carried out.”In the coming days, the PMC garden department will be clipping trees in other parts of the city as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hadapsar-residents-see-red-over-trimmed-branches-strewn-on-footpaths-roads-101630343323583.html
31-08-2021||Pune||No ‘dahi handi’ events in Pune||PUNE The observance of the “dahi handi” tradition held one day after the feast of Janmashtami, will not take place in Pune because of Covid-19. With Janmashtami on August 30 the day for the “dahi handi” tradition - a one person scaling a human pyramid to break a pot of curds suspended high above the ground – is August 31.This city will not hold any such event despite mandals and troupes in Mumbai appealing to the government to allow the event on a small scale. “We will not be celebrating dahi handi this year in the city. We are following the state protocols,” said Amol Balwadkar, BJP corporator.“We will hold a representative dahi handi within the Ganpati temple to break to allow children to enjoy this moment,” said Deepak Marne, president of Babu Genu Mitra mandal.Troupes in Mumbai met with state minister Aaditya Thackeray, appealing that they would form small pyramids using limited fully vaccinated participants.MNS corporator Vasant More has also said no to celebration of this festival. “We have not planned, nor will be holding dahi handi this year, looking at the covid situation,” said More. The Central government has advised state to impose local restrictions in view of the upcoming festive season to prevent mass gatherings so as to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Despite the state showing decline over the last month, there are some districts in Maharashtra which are showing early signs of an surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-dahi-handi-events-to-be-held-in-pune-101630341343446.html
31-08-2021||Pune||Pune police issue rules for upcoming 10-day Ganesh festival||PUNE The Pune police have issued rules and regulations for the upcoming 10-day Ganpati festival which begins on September 10. The order was passed by Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police.These rules were formulated after a meeting held by the Pune municipal corporation with major Ganesh mandals, public representatives, and other government stakeholders.For the sale of Ganpati idols, local government will give permission for certain school grounds and open grounds to set up stalls. No processions on the first or the last day will be allowed this year. The police have urged temples which have a big enough sanctum to not move the idols to mandaps. This rule will be applicable mainly for the bigger mandals, like the five main Ganpatis of Pune, which attract huge crowds of devotees.The height of public idols is limited to four feet, while household idols cannot cross two feet in height, according to the police rules. The puja cannot be attended by more than five people who are required to follow sanitisation, use a mask, and observe social distancing. The police have urged mandals to include only workers of those mandals among the five who attend the aarti. All other devotees will have to settle for online darshan. The police have asked all major mandals to install and record CCTV footage around their idols. They have also urged the installation of the idol to not hamper movement of essential services like ambulances autorickshaws and other large vehicles.In order to avoid untoward incidents like robbery or theft, the police have urged the mandals, which have large quantities of ornaments on their idols, to appoint mandal workers to maintain round the clock security.The police have also urged mandals to not put up huge displays or ‘live’ skits which are otherwise an integral part of the celebration. The mandals are also urged to keep disinfectants like sodium hypochlorite ready and in use at all times.No processions will be allowed for the visarjan (immersion) as well. While public mandals are urged to create immersion spots near the idols, societies are urged to form immersion spots for their own societies. Household ganpatis can be immersed inside the house. Mobile immersion pods by the municipal corporation will also be moving around the city on immersion days.The noise pollution guidelines prescribed by the Supreme Court will be in effect. Additionally the state government rules for noise pollution and the district government noise pollution control orders issued on February 4 will also be in effect between 6am and midnight. However, on the fifth day, seventh day, ninth day and the final 10th day music systems will be allowed to play from 6am till midnight. On all other days the police have urged the mandals to shut down music by 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-issues-rules-and-regulations-for-upcoming-10-day-ganesh-festival-101630341104581.html
31-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest 12 people for running fake call centre||The police has arrested 12 people for allegedly running a fake call centre in Rohini and defrauding over 700 by promising them loans at low interest rates under the a cooked-up government programme called the ‘Pradhan Mantri Loan Yojana’, spokespersons of the agency said on Monday. The owner of the call centre, however, is still at large, said the police.The police said that the arrested suspects rain the operation for at least seven months, and cheated people Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the district’s cyber cell received information around 11.30pm on August 28 about a fake call centre being operated from a building near Vishram Chowk in Rohini’s Sector 6.The 12 people — 11 women and one man — were arrested during a raid later that day.“They were defrauding people in the name of providing loans,” said Tayal.The arrested man was identified as 24-year-old Deepak Saini, a resident of Delhi’s Nangloi. Police have not disclosed the names of the arrested women.Tayal said the arrested women worked as tele-callers and called people in different states. They introduced themselves as authorised agents offering a central government scheme providing loans to start businesses at exceptionally low interest rates.“Any client interested in the scheme was asked to fill a form meant for getting financial assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Employment Generation Programme. The loan amount ranged from ₹one lakh to ₹20 lakh. The suspects then roped people in with lucrative offers and tricked them into depositing money as a processing fee for the loan amount. They used to charge between ₹40,000 and ₹2.5 lakh to sanctioning the loan, said Tayal.In some cases, the suspects even issued fake loan approval letters.“The arrested people duped more than 700 people in less than a year. We have got a few complaints and have identified some more victims who will be contacted for their complaints,” said an investigator who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-12-people-for-running-fake-call-centre-duping-over-700-across-states-101630335465037.html
31-08-2021||Other||Infiltration bid foiled on LoC in Poonch, 2 terrorists killed||Indian Army on Monday foiled an infiltration bid and gunned down two terrorists on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said.A defence spokesperson said, “In the early hours of Monday, terrorists from across the Line of Control attempted to infiltrate the Poonch sector. Alert Army troops detected the infiltration bid by effective use of the integrated surveillance grid”.“On being challenged by Army troops, there ensued a fierce firefight with the terrorists in which one terrorist was neutralised and his body along with an AK-47 rifle has been recovered,” he added.The operation is still in progress in the area.“In continuation of operations in Poonch, search operations near the LoC revealed the presence of the body of another terrorist with AK 47 across the LoC. Thus, two terrorists have been successfully neutralised by the Indian Army which remains ever vigilant,” he added.This action by alert Army troops displays the resolve of the Indian Army to thwart any sinister design of the adversary along the Line of Control, he added.Since June this year, there has been a spurt in infiltration bids from across the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts.Since then, there have been four encounters in the Rajouri district.On August 10, director-general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said that “after a brief lull following renewed truce deal between the two DGMOs on February 25, infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir resumed” and added that “terror camps across the border were still intact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/infiltration-bid-foiled-on-loc-in-poonch-2-terrorists-killed-101630334926444.html
31-08-2021||World||EU to convene forum in September to discuss resettlement of at-risk Afghans||In the aftermath of the United States and its allied troops withdrawing from Afghanistan, following a two-decade battle, the European Union on Tuesday said that it will convene a forum in September to discuss the “legal routes for resettlement” of at-risk Afghan nationals, especially women and children.Taking to Twitter, EU Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, said, “I will convene, in September, a high-level Resettlement Forum to discuss concrete priorities with member states and provide sustainable solutions to those Afghans who are most vulnerable, particularly women and children.”In another tweet, she added that the forum will also focus on resettling “human rights activists, journalists, [and] lawyers.”“We will cooperate together with the other global leaders on a coordinated approach to safe and legal routes for resettlement,” her tweet further noted.1/2 As part of the follow up to the #JHA @EUCouncil today, I will convene, in September, a High Level Resettlement Forum to discuss concrete priorities with Member States and provide sustainable solutions to those Afghans who are most vulnerable, particularly women…Notably, the EU Council ministers met on Tuesday for a roundtable discussion on the recent developments in Afghanistan that fell in the hands of Islamist militant group Taliban after the US decided to end its longest war of nearly 20 years. Leading up to the earlier decided August 31-deadline by US President Joe Biden for his troops to depart Afghanistan, there were speculations and even insistence from allied forces to extend the time. However, Biden decided to stick with it and the last US military flight flew out of the war-torn nation late Monday – with videos of Taliban firing gun shots and celebrating being reported.Also Read | US troops exit: This army general is the last American soldier to leave AfghanistanIn a statement after the meeting, the EU Council said that it will “continue to coordinate with international partners, in particular with UN and its agencies, on the stabilisation of the region and to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the vulnerable populations, in particular women and children, in Afghanistan and in neighbouring countries.”“The EU will engage and strengthen its support to third countries, in particular the neighbouring and transit countries, hosting large numbers of migrants and refugees, to reinforce their capacities to provide protection, dignified and safe reception conditions and sustainable livelihood for refugees and host communities,” the statement added.The EU’s statement also mentioned that the union and its member states will do their “utmost to ensure that the situation in Afghanistan does not lead to new security threats for EU citizens.”“All efforts must be pursued to ensure that the Taliban regime ceases all ties and practices with international terrorism and that Afghanistan does not become once again a sanctuary for terrorists and organised crime groups,” it read.This development came on the same day when Nato secretary general Jens Stolenberg reiterated his need to look after the vulnerable Afghans who wished to be evacuated from their homeland, but couldn’t be part of the military airlift.In an interview with AFP, he said that it is important for Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport to remain open in order to continue providing “humanitarian aid” to the Afghans as well as to ensure that people can be flown out. “We will not forget them,” Stolenberg added.Emphasising that the Taliban had earlier assured that people will be permitted to leave even after the withdrawal of the US troops, he said that Nato will continue to work with its allies and other countries to “help people leave,” and that Taliban will be judged not on what they say, “but by what they do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-convene-forum-in-september-to-discuss-resettlement-of-at-risk-afghans-101630433068261.html
31-08-2021||World||Security, logistics, repair: What next for Kabul's airport?||With the Taliban in possession of Kabul's airport after the United States completed its withdrawal on Tuesday, the focus will now shift from the mammoth Western evacuation operation seen in the past two weeks to the group's plans for the transport hub.The symbolism of the airport was underlined Tuesday when the Taliban's top spokesman stood on its runway and declared victory over the United States. But what happens next remains unclear. Here is a look at the future of Hamid Karzai International Airport:Who is going to run security?Attacks in the past week have shown the airport is a target for terrorists, so security is the primary concern.The United States took control of the airport to manage the evacuation of tens of thousands of people with help from other countries, coming under attack from the Islamic State group's Afghanistan-Pakistan chapter.Turkey had offered to run security following the withdrawal of foreign troops, but the Taliban repeatedly said they would not accept any foreign military presence after August 31."Our fighters and special forces are capable of controlling the airport and we do not need anyone's help for the security and administrative control of the Kabul airport," Taliban spokesman Bilal Karimi told AFP on Monday.However, Michael Kugelman, a South Asia specialist at the Wilson Center think tank in Washington, said a foreign security presence would be necessary if airlines were to return, and that a deal could yet be struck."You're looking at a very volatile environment security-wise," he told AFP."There are all kinds of alarm bells that should be sounding for commercial airlines that I imagine would not be comfortable getting into the airport."Qatar's foreign minister, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani, told the Financial Times the Gulf state was urging the Taliban to accept foreign help."What we are trying to explain to them is that airport safety and security requires a lot more than securing the perimeters of the airport," he said.Who will operate the airport's logistics?As far as the United States is concerned, State Department spokesman Ned Price said on Friday that it was "essentially giving the airport back to the Afghan people".In recent weeks, NATO has played a key role, with civilian personnel taking care of air traffic control, fuel supplies and communications.As with security, there were discussions with Turkey over running logistics.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said his country was still assessing the Islamist group's offer, but with the Taliban insisting on controlling security, Erdogan appeared to drop the idea."Let's say you took over the security, but how would we explain to the world if another bloodbath takes place there?" he said.Running and maintaining an airport is complex and requires expertise. With thousands of skilled workers believed to have fled the country -- despite Taliban pleas for them to stay -- questions remain over whether there will be enough trained workers left in the Afghan capital.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said keeping the airport open was of "existential importance", adding Berlin stood ready to provide technical assistance to keep it operational.French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, speaking on France Television, said that a solution must be found, adding that "there are discussions underway today with the Qataris and the Turks".What state is the airport in?US officials have said the airport is in a bad condition, with much of its basic infrastructure degraded or destroyed.A pilot told AFP the terminal building was trashed by passengers during the chaos of the early days of the Taliban takeover.As well as the passenger halls, critical infrastructure has been destroyed, including air traffic control terminals, which will need to be replaced for commercial flights to run again.On the plus side, the two-week mass evacuation campaign has shown that the airport's runways are at least operational, if in poor condition.Will commercial flights restart?The Taliban have insisted they want to keep the civilian airport open, but without guarantees over security, commercial airlines simply won't operate out of Kabul."You're looking at a perfect storm of risks for airlines," Kugelman said.A key incentive to operate a functional airport would be the boost it would give to the Taliban's international image."If the Taliban's looking to get recognition and legitimacy from governments around the world, then it has to have a working, safe, trusted airport in place," Kugelman added.But it is likely to take time.Will people even be allowed to leave the country?The Taliban have insisted Afghans will be able to come and go.The group's deputy chief negotiator, Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, said those with passports and visas can go abroad "in a dignified manner and with peace of mind" after commercial flights open.However, many are sceptical about the Taliban's claims that they will not seek revenge against those who worked for the collapsed government or foreign forces.And Kugelman said he believed the Afghans who did not manage to be evacuated before August 31 may now be too afraid to travel to the airport."I think that for many of them who already have reason to fear the Taliban, the prospect of trying to escape the country by going to an airport controlled by the Taliban will be a very unpalatable thought."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/security-logistics-repair-what-next-for-kabul-s-airport-101630429538608.html
31-08-2021||World||‘Afghan territory not to be used to threaten or attack any country’: UNSC||The United Nations Security Council asserted on Tuesday that Afghanistan’s soil shouldn’t be used to attack any country or to shelter terrorists, even as foreign secretary Harsh Shringla highlighted the importance of combating UN-designated terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). In a strongly worded resolution adopted at the close of India’s presidency of the Security Council for the month of August, the UN’s highest body pointed to the Taliban’s commitments regarding combating terrorism and allowing the safe and orderly departure of Afghan and foreign nationals. The UN Security Council resolution 2593, tabled by permanent members France, the UK and the US, was backed by 13 of the 15 council members. Permanent members China and Russia abstained. The resolution demanded “that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts”, and reiterated the “importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and notes the Taliban’s relevant commitments”.The Security Council pointed to a Taliban statement of August 27, in which the group made a commitment that Afghans will be able to travel abroad, and leave the country at any time they want via any border crossing “with no one preventing them from travelling”, and said it expects the Taliban “will adhere to these and all other commitments, including regarding the safe, secure, and orderly departure from Afghanistan of Afghans and all foreign nationals”. Shringla, who presided over the Security Council meeting that passed the resolution, told the media that the UN and the international community had sent out a “strong signal” on its expectations regarding Afghanistan. Referring to the resolution underlining the importance of combating terrorism, he said, “In that context, I may mention that the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed are UN Security Council-proscribed terror entities that need to be called out and condemned in the strongest possible terms.” The reference to terrorist individuals and entities designated by Security Council resolution 1267 is of “direct importance to India”, he added.Shringla noted that the resolution also recognises the importance of upholding human rights, especially of Afghan women, children and minorities, an inclusive negotiated settlement and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. “Over the last two decades, we have extended over $3 billion of assistance to Afghanistan in infrastructure development, capacity-building, education, agriculture – areas that are important for the people of Afghanistan,” he said.Shringla didn’t comment on the abstentions by China and Russia, saying only that the Security Council had been unequivocal and the resolution reflected the views of council members.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that China abstained after it failed to have a reference to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) included in the text of the resolution. China also wasn’t keen on the resolution being passed while India held the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August, the people said.The Russian side, which has been working closely with China on Afghanistan, abstained on similar lines, the people added. The resolution was discussed by external affairs minister S Jaishankar with his US counterpart Antony Blinken and there were high-level contacts with other Security Council members. The resolution also addresses India’s key concerns pertaining to Afghanistan, such as facilitating travel from Kabul airport, the people said. Shringla noted that the resolution highlighted the importance of upholding human rights, and said, “India has always provided very strong support to minority communities in Afghanistan, in particular the Sikh and Hindu minority communities, and it is an important part of our effort to try and bring those Afghan nationals, including minorities, who want to leave Afghanistan and evacuate them.” The resolution, he added, indicated the need for a “safe zone for the passage of travellers in and out of Kabul airport” and highlighted the Security Council’s will to take necessary steps for the world community’s engagement with Afghanistan.The Security Council pointed to the “dangerous security situation” around Kabul airport and expressed concern that “intelligence indicates further terrorist attacks may take place in the area”. It sought steps for the “rapid and secure reopening of the Kabul airport and its surrounding area”. The council reaffirmed its commitment to the “sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, and national unity of Afghanistan”, and called on all parties to “seek an inclusive, negotiated political settlement, with the full, equal and meaningful participation of women, that responds to the desire of Afghans to sustain and build on Afghanistan’s gains over the last twenty years”.Hours after the US completed the withdrawal of its troops from the Kabul airport and ended its 20-year presence in Afghanistan, the Taliban contended on Tuesday that the country had “gained full independence”. Despite the Taliban’s public announcements about a general amnesty, there have been numerous reports of summary executions and human rights violations from across the country. A number of terrorist leaders, including those with links to al-Qaeda, have resurfaced in Afghanistan. India’s greatest security concern is the presence in Afghanistan of up to 10,000 fighters from Pakistan-based groups such as LeT and JeM. Speaking shortly after the US withdrew all its troops from Afghanistan, Blinken said Washington will remain focused on counter-terrorism and hold the Taliban accountable to the commitment to prevent terror groups from using Afghan soil. “But while we have expectations of the Taliban, that doesn’t mean we will rely on the Taliban. We’ll remain vigilant in monitoring threats ourselves. And we’ll maintain robust counter-terrorism capabilities in the region to neutralise those threats, if necessary...,” Blinken said without offering details. Blinken also said any future engagement with a Taliban-led government in Kabul will be driven only by US national interests. “But we will not do it on the basis of trust or faith,” he said. “The Taliban seeks international legitimacy and support. Our message is: any legitimacy and any support will have to be earned.” He said a “new chapter of America’s engagement with Afghanistan has begun” with the drawdown of US forces. After ending its diplomatic presence in Kabul, the US has built a new team to lead the diplomatic mission from Doha in Qatar, which has served as the venue for negotiations with the Taliban in recent years. The US team in Doha will be led by Ian McCary, the deputy chief of mission in Afghanistan for the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-territory-not-to-be-used-to-threaten-or-attack-any-country-unsc-101630429738311.html
31-08-2021||World||UK ready to attack ISIS-K network in Afghanistan: Report||The United Kingdom said it is ready to attack the Islamic State-Khorasan (ISIS-K) terror network in Afghanistan, news agency PTI reported citing The Daily Telegraph. Britain’s chief of the air staff, Air Chief Marshal Sir Mike Wigston told the English daily that the UK could also be involved in strikes against the terror outfit.“The UK stands united with our coalition partners in mourning those killed by Daesh’s (ISIS) horrific attack at Kabul airport and in our unwavering collective resolve to combat Daesh networks by all means available, wherever they operate,” Wigston was quoted as saying by the English daily.Air Chief Marshal Sir Mike Wigston further added that if the UK finds an opportunity to contribute to efforts in containing the Islamic State's Afghanistan affiliate, it is ready to do that. He also said that the rise of violent extremism is a threat to the UK and its allies. He said the UK is able to operate in Afghanistan despite it being one of the most inaccessible parts of the world.Wigston’s comments come after the Pentagon revealed that there are at least 2,000 fighters of the outfit in Afghanistan. The ISIS-K was responsible for deadly twin blasts at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul in which 169 Afghans and 13 American soldiers were killed last week.Logistics for conducting air strikesThe report said that the UK is examining logistics for air strikes. It is checking where the Royal Air Force (RAF) jets would be based, how they would refuel and how targets would be identified on the ground. Wigston said that the UK needs to play a global role in the Global Coalition to Defeat Daesh, the US-led coalition that previously targeted ISIS in Syria and Iraq, be it by conducting air strikes or by ‘moving troops or equipment into a particular country, at scale and at speed’.‘UK has right to self-defence’UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab said that the country retains the right to exercise ‘self-defence’ in relation to ‘terrorist groups operating from abroad’. Responding to Wigston’s comments, he said he cannot go into ‘operational details’, but said that the UK needs to face the ‘new reality’ in the war-torn country. He said that nations will have to exercise a ‘moderating influence’ on the Taliban and hold it to the pledges it made.‘UK still has nationals in Afghanistan’Raab said that over 5,000 British nationals were among more than 17,000 people evacuated by the UK from Afghanistan. He highlighted that a few hundred UK nationals are still in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-ready-to-attack-isis-k-network-in-afghanistan-report-101630427383781.html
31-08-2021||World||‘We'll not forget them’: Nato chief on Afghans left behind after US troops left||As the Taliban celebrated its victory over the US and other foreign forces following a 20-year battle, Nato secretary general Jens Stolenberg on Tuesday said that Afghans who wished to leave their home country, but were unable to, won’t be forgotten.In an interview with AFP, Stolenberg noted that it’s vital to keep Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport open – “both to enable humanitarian aid to the Afghan people and also to make sure that we can continue to get people out” – those who wished to but couldn’t make an escape via the military evacuation.“We will not forget them,” Stolenberg was quoted as saying.Thank you @SecBlinken for convening today’s #Afghanistan virtual Ministerial. We stand united: those Afghans who have worked with us and are at risk must be given safe passage. #NATO remains committed to fighting terrorism with resolve and in solidarity. pic.twitter.com/Fyey2knj8jThe Nato chief also lauded Turkey, its member, for offering to play a role in operating the Kabul airport as the Taliban attempt to get it functional, and also thanked nearly 800 Nato civilian staff for their help in managing the airlift.“We will continue to work with Nato allies and other countries to help people leave. The Taliban has clearly stated that people will be allowed to leave, we will judge the Taliban not on what they say, but by what they do,” he pointed out.Stolenberg also stressed that allied forces would maintain diplomatic pressure on the Islamist insurgents on permitting remaining Afghan nationals who had worked for the foreign forces, and now feel at risk, to leave the country.Notably, the last US military flight flew out of the Kabul airport late on Monday ending a two-decade-long presence of Western forces in Afghanistan. According to the latest update by the White House, the US and coalition aircraft evacuated over 123,000 civilians that were all “enabled by US military service members.”“Since August 14, U.S. military aircraft evacuated more than 79,000 civilians from Kabul. This includes 5,526 Americans, and more than 73,500 third country nationals and Afghan civilians. This last category includes SIVs (Special Immigrant Visas), consular staff, at-risk Afghans and their families,” another tweet by the White House on Tuesday morning read.Since August 14, U.S. military aircraft evacuated more than 79,000 civilians from Kabul. This includes 5,526 Americans, and more than 73,500 third country nationals and Afghan civilians. This last category includes SIVs, consular staff, at-risk Afghans and their families.Stolenberg further stated that Nato will use its “political, diplomatic, [and] economic leverage” to make sure that people are able to still leave Afghanistan. “This is important because the Nato allies have been there for so many years,” he was quoted as saying by AFP.Going forward, the Nato chief said the 30-member western alliance would have to carefully look as to what went wrong in their mission to build an Afghan government and a military capable enough to dethrone the Taliban.Watch | Taliban fire guns in celebration as US troop withdrawal concludes | Afghanistan"These are among the hard questions we have to ask, when we now will have a process where we're going to assess, analyse, and have our lessons learned process in NATO," he added.Such questions, Stolenberg said, will help them understand “better” – both what went wrong, and also to gauge achievements they made in Afghanistan, “not least when it comes to fighting terrorism.”A few days before, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid had said that the US troops were taking away “Afghan experts” such as engineers from the country that the insurgents need, and had also asked for the same to be stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-will-not-forget-them-nato-chief-on-afghans-left-behind-after-us-troops-pul-101630426173900.html
31-08-2021||World||Abandoning Afghanistan could lead to serious consequences: Pak foreign minister||Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi warned that if the international community abandons Afghanistan it would lead to an economic collapse of the war-torn nation and lead to serious consequences, news agency PTI reported. Qureshi also said that it is a pivotal moment in Afghanistan’s history.Qureshi’s comments came amid the visit by German foreign minister Heiko Maas to Islamabad where both the ministers are scheduled to discuss bilateral issues and regional situations. “The international community must remain engaged. Humanitarian assistance must flow. Do not let the economic collapse in Afghanistan take place,” Qureshi said.He also urged the international community to remain vigilant about the role of spoilers in Afghanistan. He said it is necessary for the international community to ‘discern between those standing for peace and the spoilers.’The German foreign minister, however, said that if the Taliban made commitments to form an inclusive government it remains to be seen if they keep the promises. “It is important for us that all Afghans, even those who do not support the Taliban, feel represented by this government and it remains to be seen whether the Taliban take this into account,” Maas said.Qureshi said that the Taliban’s recent statements on respect for human rights and international norms were encouraging.Restarting charter flightsMaas also said that Germany was preparing in close coordination with other nations to organise charter flights in order to take eligible Afghans to Germany once the Hamid Karzai International Airport becomes functional again.Qureshi and Maas also spoke about developing bilateral cooperation in diverse fields and regional peace and security, with focus on Afghanistan. Qureshi also said that since Germany is Pakistan’s one of the largest trading partners in the European Union, there were possibilities that trade could be enhanced by developing economic linkages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/abandoning-afghanistan-could-lead-to-serious-consequences-pak-foreign-minister-101630423743180.html
31-08-2021||World||Pakistan counter-terrorism forces gun down 11 IS terrorists: Report||Pakistan on Tuesday claimed that its counter-terrorism forces acted on a tip-off and killed 11 terrorists belonging to the Islamic State terrorist group at Mastung province in Balochistan, according to a report by news agency PTI.An official familiar with the developments told PTI that the terrorists were first asked to surrender but they opened fire at the counter-terrorism personnel, prompting them to retaliate.Pakistan ready for any eventuality: BajwaPakistan Army chief general Qamar Javed Bajwa assured Pakistan’s parliamentarians on Monday that Pakistan’s borders are secure and the forces are ready to face any situation evolving in Afghanistan. “Due to our timely steps for western zone border management, today despite challenges Pakistan’s borders are secure and we are prepared to meet any situation,” Bajwa was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-counter-terrorism-forces-gun-down-11-is-terrorists-report-101630414540503.html
31-08-2021||World||Presence of US troops in Pakistan not long-term, says interior minister||Pakistan interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmad on Tuesday dismissed reports that the US troops coming to Islamabad from Afghanistan would be long-term. Ahmad clarified that their stay is for a ‘limited period’ and the American soldiers in Pakistan have been issued transit visas ranging from three weeks to one month, news agency PTI reported quoting Pakistan’s Dawn.Ahmad’s response comes after videos and pictures of the US troops surfaced on social media, sparking speculations that there would be a long-term presence of the American military on Pakistan’s soil. Earlier, the Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam’s chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman claimed that Pakistan was booking hotels for Americans in Islamabad and said that it was returning to Musharraf-era. This speculation was dismissed by Ahmad.‘Pak played huge role in peace process’The interior minister also said Pakistan played a huge role in the peace process in Afghanistan and will continue to fulfil its duty of national security and its international expectations. “No other country has rendered sacrifices for peace in Afghanistan more than Pakistan. Peace and stability in Afghanistan were linked with peace and stability in Pakistan,” Ahmad said. He also said that he received assurance from the Taliban that the banned outfit Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) will not use Afghan soil to foment terror activities against the nationHe also said that all Pakistanis were evacuated from Afghanistan except for 30-to-40 of its nationals as their families remain there.‘Feared huge migrant influx’The interior minister said that following the blasts at Kabul airport, Pakistan expected a huge influx of migrants but expressed relief that such an event has not occurred. He also highlighted that 2,192 people entered Pakistan through the Torkham border while 1,627 people reached Islamabad on flights. He also said that a small number of people arrived via the Chaman border.Ahmad also said that issuance of visas to those coming from Afghanistan was not a money-making exercise and normal visa fee was being charged from the people and visas on arrival were issued free of cost. He said these people were not given refugee status.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/presence-of-us-troops-in-pakistan-not-long-term-says-interior-minister-101630413503773.html
31-08-2021||World||No ‘future’ for women under Taliban: Former Afghan football player after fleeing||Before the United States ended its longest war on Monday with the country’s last troops withdrawing from Afghanistan, several fortunate Afghan citizens were able to get evacuated. One such was the former player in Afghanistan women’s national football team, Fanoos Basir, who escaped her homeland as she saw no future for herself under the Islamist insurgent group Taliban’s rule.Now, sitting at a reception centre for refugees in France, Basir reminisces of her life back home and the “nightmare” the citizens had of Taliban recapturing Afghanistan. “We had a lot of dreams for our country, for our future, for the future of women in Afghanistan,” she told Reuters after being flown out of Kabul on a French evacuation flight.Soon after joining a novice Afghan national football team in 2010, Basir commenced to take part in international tournaments overseas – pictures often showed her head uncovered, and smiling with her arms around her teammates. This scenario couldn’t go more against what the Taliban is notoriously known for as in the 90s when they were in power: they had ordered women to stay indoors, barred them from receiving education or work, taking part in sports or even leaving the house without a male chaperon. “There is no future for women… for now,” Basir told Reuters.Following the sweeping triumph of the insurgents after they regained control over Kabul on August 15, and the former President of Afghanistan Ashraf Ghani and nearly all of his aides fleeing the country, Afghans have been desperately trying to escape. The Afghan national football team has been shut down, and a vast majority of the contingent has been evacuated via an Australian military aircraft.Watch | 'Saw Taliban around my home': How Afghan women's basketball star escapedEarlier, Khalida Popal, the former Afghan women’s football team captain had urged her teammates to burn their kits, delete any trace of their social media accounts, and erase their public identities for the sake of their safety. In a video interview, Popal, now based in Copenhagen, said that during their two-decades-long reign, the Taliban had killed, raped and stoned women to death and female footballers were scared what their future may be like. “[It’s] painful for me, for someone as an activist who stood up and did everything possible to achieve and earn that identity as a women's national team player,” the co-founder of the Afghan women's football league added to Reuters.Also Read | Afghan women set afire for 'bad cooking', used as sex slaves by Taliban: LawyerAlthough Basir had left playing the sport many years before, she has since run a club side for women – and even worked as a civil engineer. The 25-year-old told Reuters that after the militant group took over Kabul, she refrained from leaving her house for days – wearing a burqa when she did finally decide to venture out.With no possibility of a woman’s sport team in Afghanistan at the moment, Basir said that she had to quit her job as an engineer as well. Addressing various reports regarding the insurgents imposing their old diktats on women not leaving the house without a male relative, she said that it would have meant bringing her father or brother to work every day.As glimpses of the old life under Taliban began coming back, Basir decided to leave Afghanistan with her frail parents.Evacuation battleIt is no novelty that the scenes outside Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport – both before and after the deadly suicide attacks by the ISIS-K, were dangerous. Basir failed to get through the enormous queue and crowds of people outside the airport for three days in a row. In her interview with Reuters, she even described seeing Taliban fighters firing guns and beating people with sticks.When she got a chance to speak with one of the militant group’s representatives, she was told, “You are a woman, we do not want to talk with you.”The former Afghan women's team footballer had given up hope to escape the Taliban regime, and that’s when she and her family heard the French embassy had organised buses to pick up eligible people for evacuation. Basir and her parents were able to reach the Kabul airport, and eventually fly out.Future plansBasir and her parents are undergoing Covid-19 quarantine at the reception centre for refugees – about 450km west of Paris. She told Reuters that she hopes to eventually work as a civil engineer in her new home, although she said that leaving Afghanistan, “[their] dreams. Everything is so hard for everyone.” “Now, we will start from zero,” she was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-future-for-women-under-taliban-former-afghan-football-player-after-fleeing-101630411277865.html
31-08-2021||World||Japan ministry seeks 2.6% defense hike amid China worries||Japan’s Defense Ministry on Tuesday asked for a 2.6% increase over this year’s record budget as it seeks to further strengthen the country's military in the face of China’s growing assertiveness in the region.The ministry's budget sought 5.48 trillion yen ($49.86 billion) for the year starting April 1, 2022, in what could be a record high if approved by the Finance Ministry and parliament later this year, after a nine-year consecutive increase.Japan’s concerns about China’s increasingly assertive military actions in the region, as well as Beijing’s growing tension with Taiwan and rivalry with the United States, were specifically noted in this year’s defense report adopted in July.The report said China's increased military capability and the lack of clarity regarding Chinese military spending is “a matter of grave concern" and criticized China’s maritime activity in and around Japanese-claimed waters.Japan has been stepping up defense in the country’s southwestern regions and islands, including Ishigaki Island, where a new military base with a land-to-sea missile defense system will be opened. Ishigaki is north of the uninhabited but Japanese-controlled Senkaku Islands, which are also claimed by China and called Diaoyu.Japan's military spending and capabilities have grown continuously since former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office in December 2012, rising by 17% over the past nine years. Abe's government allowed Japan's self-defense force to play a greater international role by adopting a new interpretation in 2015 of the war-renouncing Article 9 of the constitution.Critics say Japan, as the world’s fastest-aging country with a shrinking population, should allocate more money toward health care and other purposes instead of defense spending.Costly items in the latest budget request included 130 billion yen ($1.18 billion) to acquire a dozen more U.S.-made F-35 stealth fighters from Lockheed Martin, including four F-35Bs capable of short takeoff and vertical landings that can operate on two Japanese helicopter carriers that are being converted.The Defense Ministry also seeks to increase research and development spending to a record 325.7 billion yen ($2.96 billion) for “game-changing” technologies such as unmanned aircraft operated by artificial intelligence.The ministry is seeking nearly 105 billion yen ($1 billion) for home-developed fighter jets — the first in about 30 years since the Mitsubishi F-2 — by around 2035, a multibillion-dollar project led by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries.In order to beef up its space forces, Japan wants 84 billion yen ($765 million) that includes purchasing lasers and satellites to track targets in space, as well as increasing space force personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-ministry-seeks-2-6-defense-hike-amid-china-worries-101630412191426.html
31-08-2021||World||70% adults in EU fully vaccinated against Covid-19, Ursul von der Leyen says ‘must go further’||Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission on Tuesday said that 70% of the adult population in the European Union (EU) has been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Calling it a ‘great achievement’, she said more than 250 million people have now been immunised against the disease.In January 2021, the EU had set itself a target of fully immunising a minimum of 70% adult population by the end of summer.“I want to thank the many people who made this great achievement possible. But we must go further! We need more Europeans to vaccinate. And we need to help the rest of the world vaccinate, too,” von der Leyen tweeted.70% of adults in EU are fully vaccinated.I want to thank the many people making this great achievement possible.But we must go further!We need more Europeans to vaccinate. And we need to help the rest of the world vaccinate, too. We'll continue supporting our partners. pic.twitter.com/VxdvZlrwYvEarlier in July, the EU said that it had vaccinated 70% of its adult population with at least one dose of the vaccine. Also, 57% adults were already fully vaccinated by the time.Warning that the pandemic is not over, von der Leyen said people must remain vigilant and called upon more Europeans to vaccinate themselves. “We need many more Europeans to vaccinate rapidly, to avoid a new wave of infections and to stop the emergence of new variants,” she said in a video message. She called vaccination “the only way” for people to protect themselves and others.Also read | EU removes US and 5 other nations from Covid safe travel list. Check list hereShe also vowed to support other countries in their efforts against the disease and in vaccination. “We will only end this pandemic if we defeat it in every corner of the globe,” she said.The announcement came a day after the World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday warned of 236,000 more Covid-19 related deaths across the continent by December 1, 2021, in a grim forecast. “Several countries are starting to observe an increased burden on hospitals and more deaths. Last week, there was an 11% increase in the number of deaths in the Region – with one reliable projection expecting 236 000 deaths in Europe by 1 December,” WHO regional director for Europe Dr Hans Kluge said.As of Monday, 281,424,190 adults have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 249,464,809 were fully immunised, data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/70-adults-in-eu-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-ursul-von-der-leyen-says-must-go-further-101630411882229.html
31-08-2021||World||At least seven Taliban reported killed in Panjshir fighting||Taliban forces clashed with militia fighters in the Panjshir valley north of the Afghan capital Kabul on Monday night, with at least seven killed, two members of the main anti-Taliban opposition group said on Tuesday.Since the fall of Kabul on Aug. 15, the Panjshir has been the only province to hold out against the Taliban, although there has also been fighting in neighbouring Baghlan province between Taliban and local militia forces.Fahim Dashti, a spokesman for the National Resistance Forces, a group loyal to local leader Ahmad Massoud, said the fighting occurred on the western entrance to the valley where the Taliban attacked NRF positions.He said the attack, which may have been a probe to test the valley's defences, was repulsed with eight Taliban killed and a similar number wounded, while two members of the NRF forces were wounded."Last night, the Taliban attacked Panjshir, but were defeated with 7 dead and several wounded," Bismillah Mohammadi, a member of the resistance movement who served as a minister under exiled President Ashraf Ghani, said in a tweet."They retreated with heavy casualties."It was not immediately possible to reach a Taliban spokesman for comment.Also Read | US policy of arbitrary military intervention is doomed to fail, says ChinaMassoud, son of the former anti-Soviet mujahideen commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, has established himself in the Panjshir valley with a force of several thousand, made up of local militias and remnants of army and special forces units.He has called for a negotiated settlement with the Taliban but has said his forces will resist if their province in the narrow and mountainous valley is attacked.A significant force of Taliban fighters has been moved to the area but the two sides have so far been engaged in negotiations and have avoided fighting.Celebratory gunfire resounded across Kabul on Tuesday as Taliban fighters took control of the airport after the withdrawal of the last U.S. troops, marking the end of a 20-year war that left the Islamist militia stronger than it was in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-seven-taliban-reported-killed-in-panjshir-fighting-101630410049951.html
31-08-2021||World||EU ministers meet to discuss Afghanistan's fall to Taliban, influx of refugees||European Union justice and home affairs ministers are meeting Tuesday to discuss the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan and the flow of refugees and migrants it is expected to produce.The meeting comes the day after the last US forces flew out of Kabul's international airport, ending America's longest war.The 27-nation bloc is looking for ways to prevent a repeat of a 2015 refugee crisis fueled by Syria's civil war. The arrival in Europe of well over a million migrants that year led to infighting among EU member nations over how best to manage the influx. A new wave of migrants from Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate tensions.The EU is likely to provide funding to house refugees in countries bordering Afghanistan to prevent them heading for Europe.“It’s important that we are in a position where we can avoid a humanitarian crisis, migratory crisis and a security threat from Afghanistan," European Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson said before the ministers' meeting.“But then we need to act now and not wait until we have big flows of people at our external borders or until we have terrorist organisations being stronger,” she added. "So that’s why we need to act now to support people in Afghanistan, in the neighboring countries, and work together with international organisations.”The EU's focus on accommodating migrants close to Afghanistan will not please rights groups.Also Read | Don't want Afghan militants arriving under cover of refugees: PutinAmnesty International said in a letter to Johansson that the EU and its member nations “must refrain from extremely damaging responses that put emphasis on keeping the EU’s border ‘protected’ and proposing or adopting measures that shift the responsibility for the protection of refugees to third countries.”The human rights group said the EU should give Afghans who reach Europe “access to the territory and to fair and effective asylum procedures and adequate reception conditions” and also consider all Afghan women and girls as “prima facie refugees” due to the risks they would face in Afghanistan.American forces helped evacuate over 120,000 U.S. citizens, foreigners and Afghans after the Taliban regained control of the country, according to the White House. Coalition forces also evacuated their citizens and Afghans. But foreign nations and the U.S. government acknowledged they didn’t evacuate all who wanted to go.According to some EU estimates, around 570,000 Afghans have applied for asylum in Europe since 2015.Asylum applications by Afghan nationals have climbed by a third since February as it became clear that the United States would pull troops out of Afghanistan. More than 4,648 applications were recorded in May, according to the EU’s asylum office. About half of the applications tend to be successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-ministers-meet-to-discuss-afghanistan-s-fall-to-taliban-influx-of-refugees-101630409018599.html
31-08-2021||World||'Deeply troubling': UN atomic agency raises concern over North Korea's nuclear activities||The UN atomic agency has raised concerns over the nuclear activities of North Korea, saying there were indications of the operation of its main nuclear reactor used to produce weapon fuels. The director-general of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said in a report that indications of the operation of the radiochemical laboratory at the Yongbyon Site from mid-February to early July 2021 are consistent with previous reprocessing campaigns of irradiated fuel discharged from the 5-megawatt reactor at the same site.“The DPRK’s nuclear activities continue to be a cause for serious concern. Furthermore, the new indications of the operation of the 5MW(e) reactor and the Radiochemical Laboratory are deeply troubling,” the report noted.The UN Security Council has passed multiple resolutions to impose a wide range of sanctions on North Korea over its nuclear activities but the secretive regime continues to violate international regulatory norms. The United States and several other countries have imposed separate sanctions but that hasn’t deterred North Korea from nuclear tests and missile programmes. The 5-megawatt reactor is widely believed to have produced plutonium for nuclear weapons and is at the heart of North Korea's nuclear programme, reported news agency ANI.“The continuation of the DPRK’s nuclear programme is a clear violation of relevant UN Security Council resolutions and is deeply regrettable,” the IAEA director-general said.The IAEA called upon Pyongyang to comply fully with its obligations under relevant Security Council resolutions and cooperate promptly with the atomic agency in the full and effective implementation of its NPT Safeguards Agreement.On Monday, UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said that Secretary-General Antonio Guterres was aware of the reports from North Korea "and concerned by the latest developments.""He calls for the DPRK to refrain from any nuclear weapons-related activities and to resume talks with the other parties concerned,” Dujarric said. "Diplomatic engagement remains the only pathway to sustainable peace and complete and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deeply-troubling-un-atomic-agency-raises-concern-over-north-korea-nuclear-activities-101630403828799.html
31-08-2021||World||Eight injured in Houthi drone strikes on Saudi Arabia's Abha airport: Report||At least eight people were wounded on Monday in Houthi drone strikes on Saudi Arabia's Abha airport that also damaged a civilian airplane, Saudi state TV reported.The Saudi-led coalition fighting the Houthi group in Yemen said earlier that it intercepted a Houthi drone that was targeting Abha International Airport.Shrapnel was scattered in the vicinity of the airport, the coalition said.Ekhbaria TV said a second armed drone was intercepted, but debris wounded eight people and damaged a civilian airplane inside the airport. It did not give further details.The Houthis did not claim responsibility for the attack, but the Iran-aligned group regularly fires drones and missiles into Saudi Arabia.The Saudi-led military coalition intervened in Yemen in 2015, backing forces of the ousted government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi fighting the Houthis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eight-injured-in-houthi-drone-strikes-on-saudi-arabia-s-abha-airport-report-101630406449544.html
31-08-2021||World||Moderna Covid-19 vaccine produces more antibodies than Pfizer shot: Study||Two doses of the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine produced more antibodies than those fully vaccinated with the vaccine from Pfizer-BioNTech, a study comparing the immune response of the two vaccines showed. The vaccines by both Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna use the mRNA technology and are currently being widely used in inoculations by several countries.Almost 1,650 healthcare workers from a hospital in Belgium, including men, women, those previously infected with Covid-19 and those uninfected, across age groups, were involved in the study. As many as 688 people received the Moderna vaccine and 959 people were immunised with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.Also read | Two die in Japan after getting Moderna vaccine jabs suspended over contaminationThe findings of the study were published in a letter to the Journal of the American Medical Association on August 30. The study showed that among people previously uninfected, those who were inoculated with the Moderna vaccine had an antibody response of 2,881 units/ml while those administered with the Pfizer vaccine had 1,108 units/ml. Similarly, among those previously infected too, those with the Moderna vaccine showed higher antibody presence than those who received the Pfizer vaccine.The study also show that previously infected participants had higher counts of antibodies than those who were not infected, after receiving both doses of the vaccine. Both the vaccines have demonstrated an efficacy rate of more than 90% in preventing Covid-19 illness.Earlier on August 27, another separate study by the Northwestern University in the US showed that the antibody response in adults with prior history of Covid-19 infection reduced by 20%, two months after receiving the second Moderna or Pfizer vaccine dose. The university said in a press statement that the study “underscores the importance of receiving a second dose of vaccine, not only because it is commonly known that immunity from vaccines wanes over time, but also because of the risk posed by emerging variants, including the highly contagious delta variant.” The study said that prior exposure to Covid-19 does not guarantee a higher level of antibodies or a robust antibody response to the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-covid-19-vaccine-produces-more-antibodies-than-pfizer-shot-study-101630404239662.html
31-08-2021||World||'Super power decided to be mini power': Amrullah Saleh lashes out at US||Amrullah Saleh, Afghanistan's self-proclaimed acting vice-president, has lashed out at United States of America, which announced that last of its soldiers have left the war-torn country, thereby ending the 20-year-long mission. Saleh said on Twitter that super power US "decided to be mini power".The Afghan leader posted one of his old interviews on CBS' 60 Minutes along with the tweet, in which he is discussing about US' withdrawal from Afghanistan. Saleh is heard saying in the video that Afghanistan won't cease to exist if the US leaves - something which he used in his tweet text today too. He is also heard saying being a super power comes with a moral obligation, but if US decides to leave, it will be their choice.Also Read: High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in Afghanistan"Afgh wasn't packed & put in the bag of the last US solider The country is here. D rivers are flowing & d mountains are majestic. Talibs R an unpopular proxy force & hated that is why the whole country wants to escape from them. A super power decided to be mini power that is OK," Saleh said in his tweet on Tuesday.Afgh wasn't packed & put in the bag of the last US solider The country is here. D rivers are flowing & d mountains are majestic. Talibs R an unpopular proxy force & hated that is why the whole country wants to escape from them. A super power decided to be mini power that is OK. https://t.co/5cDR1lTNz3Saleh left capital city Kabul after Afghanistan's takeover by the Taliban on August 15, and made his base in Panjshir valley - the only place which has not been captured by the insurgent group. Saleh, along with Ahmad Massoud, the son of powerful military commander Ahmad Shah Massoud who took on the Taliban in 1990s, has been giving tough fight to the Sunni Pashtun fighters.Saleh considers Ahmad Shah Massoud as his mentor and has vowed not to give up the resistance against Taliban.Also Read: 'Not afraid', says Kabul school girl as Taliban celebrate 'complete independence' after US troops departureMeanwhile, local media reports said that the Taliban attacked an outpost in the Panjshir province but were held off by resistance forces. Sporadic fighting is going on in the region, the reports further said.The Taliban have not yet commented on the incident.Local residents in Panjsir say that the Taliban has cut telecommunication networks in the province."They have cut off telecommunication services in Panjshir for the last two days. Panjshir people are facing challenges in this regard and cannot get in touch with their relatives living in other parts of the country," Tolo News quoted Gul Haidar, a Panjshir resident.The valley lies in the Hindu Kush mountains, approximately 90 miles north of Kabul. The Taliban have been unable to take this major holdout of resistance after steamrolling across pro-government troops in a matter of months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/super-power-decided-to-be-mini-power-amrullah-sale-lashes-out-at-us-101630402303045.html
31-08-2021||World||UAE's crown prince Nahyan, Turkey's Erdogan hold 'friendly' call||The defacto ruler of the United Arab Emirates held a “positive and friendly” call with Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to discuss bilateral ties, the latest sign of a rapid thaw between the two countries which have been locked in regional feuds. The contact between Erdogan and Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan was very positive and friendly according to Anwar Gargash, a UAE presidential diplomatic adviser in comments on Twitter Tuesday. It was in line with the UAE’s desire to “build bridges, maximize common goals and work together with friends” to ensure stability and regional prosperity, he wrote.  The call comes after a surprise meeting between Erdogan and the UAE’s national security adviser Sheikh Tahnoun bin Zayed Al Nahyan earlier this month that discussed boosting investments and seemed to cap years of hostile rhetoric between the two countries which have been locked in proxy conflicts from Libya to Syria for nearly a decade. UAE officials have spoken about the need to shore up Middle East ties as Washington draws back from the region and seeks to revive nuclear diplomacy with Iran. At home Erdogan’s poll ratings have hit an all-time low this year amid disenchantment with the Turkish government’s handling of the economy. At the same time the UAE started to hold out the promise of better ties that could benefit trade. Sheikh Tahnoun is the chairman of International Holding Co., which is one of the UAE’s most valuable listed firms. The company is weighing investment opportunities in Turkey, Reuters reported last week. Tahnoun, who is the brother of Abu Dhabi’s crown prince, also chairs Abu Dhabi’s newest sovereign fund, ADQ, which has amassed an estimated $110 billion in assets since being founded in 2018. It recently joined a funding round for Turkish e-commerce company Trendyol. Read More: Gulf Reaches Out to Erdogan in Wary Move to Ease TensionsSo far, though, investments have been largely tentative due to longstanding tensions stemming from Turkey’s support for the Muslim Brotherhood -- an Islamist political organization viewed as a threat by the UAE’s rulers. Turkey and the UAE have been on opposing sides of a proxy war in Libya and have disagreed on issues ranging from Syria to Iraq and the eastern Mediterranean. The UAE has also moved to mend ties with Qatar, which has counted on the support from Turkey during a near three-year feud with the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Egypt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uaes-crown-prince-nahyan-turkey-s-erdogan-hold-friendly-call-101630400333052.html
31-08-2021||World||'No possibility of long-term stay in Pakistan of US troops arriving from Afghanistan': Interior minister Sheikh Rashid||Pakistan’s interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed on Tuesday dismissed any possibility of allowing US troops arriving in Islamabad from neighbouring Afghanistan to stay for a longer period, news agency PTI reported citing the minister’s comments to Dawn. Their stay in the country, Ahmed said, “is only for a limited period.”“Foreigners are coming to Pakistan after evacuation from Afghanistan, and their stay here would be only for a limited period. They have been issued transit visas ranging from 21 to 30 days,” he told Dawn. Ahmed's response came after pictures emerged on social media showing American forces at the Islamabad airport, triggering speculations of a possible long-term presence of the Americans in Pakistan.On the number of arrivals in Islamabad from Afghanistan, the minister said as many as 1627 people entered Pakistan’s capital city on flights. 2192 individuals, he said, arrived in his country from the Torkham border crossing, while a “small number of people” came here from the busier Chaman border. He described as a “normal activity” Afghans arriving in Pakistan from the Chaman border and returning to their homeland using the same route.“None of those who arrived via the two borders have been granted refugee status,” he further said, adding that issuing visas to those arriving from Afghanistan is not being misused as a “money-making activity.” Ahmed said, “Normal visa fee is being charged from them. Also, visas on arrival being provided free of coast.”When it comes to the Taliban, several Pakistani personalities have made remarks that are seen to be in favour of the regime. On August 16, prime minister Imran Khan described the group’s takeover of Afghanistan as Afghans “breaking the chains of slavery.” On Monday, Shahid Afridi, who, like Khan, is a former cricketer, said, “They (Taliban) have come with a very positive mind and are allowing women to work. And I believe they like cricket very much.”The Taliban seized power in Afghanistan for a second time by capturing Kabul on August 15 as the US troops prepared to leave the country after 20 years. The United States ended its military mission in Afghanistan on Monday, a day before self-imposed August 31 deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-possibility-of-long-term-stay-in-pakistan-of-us-troops-arriving-from-afghanistan-interior-minister-sheikh-rashid-101630393189166.html
31-08-2021||World||Canada’s role in Afghan turmoil may dent Trudeau’s chances in election: Survey||In what could further dent the already flagging fortunes of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau ahead of the September 20 snap polls, a nationwide survey has shown that a large majority of people are closely following the ongoing turmoil in Afghanistan, and 20% of them say Ottawa’s role in it could negatively impact how they vote.As many as 80% of Canadians are watching the proceedings and very few believe Trudeau’s handling of Canada’s evacuation mission in Kabul was a success.These are among the main findings of the survey carried out by the non-profit polling agency Angus Reid Institute (ARI). PM Trudeau himself had called the September 20 snap polls on August 15, seeking to turn the Liberal Party’s minority government in Ottawa to a majority one. But the incumbent prime minister now faces a rising challenge from rival PM hopeful Erin O’Toole of the Conservatives, according to recent pre-poll surveys.“An election campaign many had thought would be fought and won or lost on the basis of Canada’s post-pandemic future is instead being overshadowed in its first weeks by the future of Afghanistan and the evacuation of those desperate to leave the embattled nation,” polling agency ARI said in a release. Almost 60% of respondents said their voting preference has not been affected by the situation in Afghanistan, but 20% are taking it into consideration. In a close election, that could matter, ARI noted, saying, “Those who say these events will affect their choice are unfavourable to the Liberal Party.” Just 2% consider the Canadian airlift ops a success, 41% consider it to have gone alright and 37%, deem it a failure. “The timing of the crisis - running in parallel with the 44th federal election - creates an obvious political dimension for parties and leadership,” ARI commented.Canada had wrapped up its evacuation efforts in Afghanistan last week. But last Sunday, foreign minister Marc Garneau had described the criticism of Ottawa’s mission as “fair enough” during an interview with the outlet CTV News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-role-in-afghan-turmoil-may-dent-trudeau-s-chances-in-election-survey-101630395406526.html
31-08-2021||World||'Not afraid': Kabul school girl as Taliban celebrate 'complete independence' after US troops departure||Several children rushed to the school in Kabul on Tuesday even as the Taliban symbolically walked across the runway of the airport in the capital of Afghanistan, marking their victory after the withdrawal of US troops. “I am not afraid of the Taliban. Why should I be?” Masooda, a class 5 student of a private school in Kabul, told the Associated Press.The Taliban have said students will be segregated by sex, which has anyway been a practice in many schools for older students across Afghanistan. On Sunday, the Taliban's acting higher education minister said Afghan women will be allowed to study at university but there would be a ban on mixed classes under their rule."The... people of Afghanistan will continue their higher education in the light of Sharia law in safety without being in a mixed male and female environment," Abdul Baqi Haqqani, the Taliban's acting minister for higher education, said. The Taliban want to "create a reasonable and Islamic curriculum that is in line with our Islamic, national and historical values and, on the other hand, be able to compete with other countries", Haqqani said.Also read | Taliban pin letters with chilling 'surrender or die' message in cities: ReportActivists and women have expressed apprehension over the Taliban's assurances that they will respect progress made in women's rights, but only according to their strict interpretation of Islamic law. The hardline Islamist group captured power in mid-August after ousting the Western-backed government of Ashraf Ghani and have vowed to rule differently compared to their previous stint. Girls and women were banned from education and they were not allowed to step out of their homes without a male relative, even if it was a boy. Anyone who digressed was handed down brutal punishments-- from public beatings to stoning to death for adultery.Taliban fighters took control of the Kabul airport, which witnessed scenes of chaos, desperation and a suicide bombing, on Tuesday following the withdrawal of the last US troops, ending 20 years of war, and several reports said there was celebratory gunfire across the Afghan capital. Taliban fighters draped their group's white flags over barriers at the airport and others guarded the civilian side of the airfield. “The world should have learned its lesson and this is the enjoyable moment of victory," Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said in a live stream.Also read | 'Full independence', 'historic moments': Taliban after US troops leaveMujahid also addressed the gathered members of the insurgents' elite Badri unit at the airport. “I hope you are very cautious in dealing with the nation," he said. “Our nation has suffered war and invasion and the people do not have more tolerance.”“Afghanistan is finally free," Hekmatullah Wasiq, another Taliban official, was quoted as saying by AP. "The military and civilian side are with us and in control. Hopefully, we will be announcing our Cabinet. Everything is peaceful. Everything is safe.”Also read | This army general is the last American soldier to leave AfghanistanWasiq also asked people to return to work and reiterated the Taliban pledge offering a general amnesty. “People have to be patient. Slowly we will get everything back to normal. It will take time.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-afraid-kabul-school-girl-as-taliban-celebrate-complete-independence-101630391245538.html
31-08-2021||World||Afghan soil shouldn’t be used to shelter terrorists, says UNSC resolution||The United Nations Security Council has demanded that Afghan soil shouldn’t be used to attack any country or to shelter terrorists even as American forces completed their drawdown in Afghanistan a fortnight after the Taliban takeover. In a resolution adopted at the end of India’s presidency of the Security Council for the month of August, the UN’s highest body reiterated the importance of combating terror in Afghanistan, including individuals and entities sanctioned under UN Resolution 1267 and pointed to the Taliban’s commitments in this regard. Hours after the US completed the withdrawal of its troops from the Kabul airport and ended its 20-year presence in Afghanistan, the Taliban contended the country had “gained full independence”. Despite the Taliban’s public announcements about a general amnesty, there have been numerous reports of summary executions and human rights violations from across the country. A number of terrorist leaders, including those with links to al-Qaeda, have resurfaced in Afghanistan. India’s greatest security concern is the presence in Afghanistan of up to 10,000 fighters from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. The UN Security Council resolution demanded “that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterates the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and notes the Taliban’s relevant commitments”. Also Read | Last serving US soldier leaves Afghanistan: Who is Major General Chris Donahue?Speaking shortly after the US completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, secretary of state Antony Blinken said Washington will remain focused on counter-terrorism. “The Taliban has made a commitment to prevent terrorist groups from using Afghanistan as a base for external operations that could threaten the US or our allies, including al-Qaeda and the Taliban’s sworn enemy, ISIS-K...We will hold them accountable to that commitment,” he said. “But while we have expectations of the Taliban, that doesn’t mean we will rely on the Taliban. We’ll remain vigilant in monitoring threats ourselves. And we’ll maintain robust counter-terrorism capabilities in the region to neutralise those threats, if necessary...,” Blinken said without offering details. Blinken said the US had engaged with the Taliban over the past few weeks to enable evacuation operations, and any future engagement with a Taliban-led government in Kabul will be “driven by one thing only: our vital national interests”. The US will work with a new Afghan government to ensure greater stability in the country and region and protect the gains of the past two decades. “But we will not do it on the basis of trust or faith,” Blinken said. “The Taliban seeks international legitimacy and support. Our message is: any legitimacy and any support will have to be earned.” The Security Council also pointed to a Taliban statement of August 27 in which the group made a commitment that Afghans will be able to travel abroad, leave the country at any time they want to via any border crossing “with no one preventing them from travelling”, and said it expects the Taliban “will adhere to these and all other commitments, including regarding the safe, secure, and orderly departure from Afghanistan of Afghans and all foreign nationals”. Also Read | Biden to explain why deadline of US pullout from Afghanistan was not extendedThe council noted the “dangerous security situation” around the Kabul airport and expressed concern that “intelligence indicates further terrorist attacks may take place in the area”. It called on relevant parties to work with global partners to strengthen security and prevent further casualties. It also requested that steps should be taken for the “rapid and secure reopening of the Kabul airport and its surrounding area” – a significant demand since nationals of several countries, including India and the US, are still believed to be in Kabul. The UN Security Council reaffirmed its commitment to the “sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, and national unity of Afghanistan”, and condemned the “deplorable attacks” near Kabul airport on August 26 that were claimed by the Islamic State-Khorasan and resulted in deaths and injuries of more than 300 civilians and 28 military personnel. The council also highlighted the importance of upholding human rights, including those of women, children and minorities, and called on all parties in Afghanistan to “seek an inclusive, negotiated political settlement, with the full, equal and meaningful participation of women, that responds to the desire of Afghans to sustain and build on Afghanistan’s gains over the last twenty years”. Blinken said a “new chapter of America’s engagement with Afghanistan has begun” with the drawdown of US forces. He added, “It’s one in which we will lead with our diplomacy. The military mission is over. A new diplomatic mission has begun.” After ending its diplomatic presence in Kabul, the US has built a new team to lead the diplomatic mission from Doha in Qatar, which has served as the venue for negotiations between the US and the Taliban in recent years. The US team in Doha will be led by Ian McCary, the deputy chief of mission in Afghanistan for the past year. “For the time being, we will use this post in Doha to manage our diplomacy with Afghanistan, including consular affairs, administering humanitarian assistance, and working with allies, partners and regional and international stakeholders to coordinate our engagement and messaging to the Taliban,” Blinken said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-soil-shouldn-t-be-used-to-shelter-terrorists-says-unscresolution-101630391745963.html
31-08-2021||World||Over and out: US completes withdrawal from Afghanistan||The United States on Monday announced the end of its military mission in Afghanistan, bringing to an end a 20-year presence that had started with the invasion of the country following the September 11, 2001 terror attacks in America.The US has now left Afghan soil completely, barring an estimated 100-200 Americans still trying to leave the country. The American embassy in Kabul had been shut down some days ago and its diplomats had been operating from the airport in the Afghan capital before being flown out. The US mission will now conduct diplomacy with the Taliban administration and consular operations out of Doha, Qatar.The last American military plane left Kabul on Monday night at 11.59pm, local time. “Our 20-year military presence in Afghanistan has ended,” US President Joe Biden said in a statement shortly after, thanking military personnel for completing the “execution of the dangerous retrograde from Afghanistan as scheduled”. He will speak more broadly in an address to the nation on Tuesday.Until then, the US president said in defence of his decision to end the mission on schedule that it was “the unanimous recommendation” of the military leadership on the ground to end the airlift operations. “Their view was that ending our military mission was the best way to protect the lives of our troops, and secure the prospects of civilian departures for those who want to leave Afghanistan in the weeks and months ahead,” he said.Biden is facing unrelenting criticism in the US on two fronts - for leaving Afghanistan that paved the way for the return of the Taliban obliterating the progress made in the past 20 years, and for the chaotic evacuation operations that played out in full view of the world, involving a deadly terror attack carried out by Islamic State at the Kabul airport that claimed close to 200 lives.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid welcomed the completion of the US pull-out on Monday evening, tweeting, “The last American occupier withdrew from (Kabul Airport) at 12 o’clock, and our country gained its full independence.”There was no further comment from the Taliban on the future of its ties with the US.“The military mission is over, a new diplomatic mission has begun,” US secretary of state Antony Blinken said in a speech, seen as the Biden administration’s first high-level response to the development. Blinken has rolled out a seven-point plan for America’s relationship with Afghanistan that revolves around the Taliban government’s ability to deliver on an entire range of assurances; such as not allowing Afghanistan to be used by terrorists to attack the US or its allies, allowing women and girls to study and work; and letting Afghans leave the country if they have the paperwork.A key part of this plan is the new US mission in Doha. “As of today, we suspended our diplomatic presence in Kabul and transferred our operations to Doha, Qatar, which will soon be formally notified to Congress,” Blinken said. “Given the uncertain security environment and political situation in Afghanistan, it was the prudent step to take.”Combating terrorism will be an important component of the relationship. “We will stay focused on counterterrorism,” Blinken said. “The Taliban has made a commitment to prevent terrorist groups from using Afghanistan as a base for external operations that could threaten the United States, our allies, including Al-Qaeda, and the Taliban’s sworn enemy, ISIS-K. We will hold them accountable to that commitment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-and-out-us-completes-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-101630389045872.html
31-08-2021||World||Last serving US soldier leaves Afghanistan: Who is Major General Chris Donahue?||Major General Chris Donahue has been identified by the United States Department of Defence as the last serving member of the US military to leave Afghanistan, bringing to an end America’s 20-year military presence in that country. “The last American soldier to leave Afghanistan: Maj. Gen. Chris Donahue boards a C-17 of the US Air Force on August 30th 2021, ending the US mission in Kabul,” the Department of Defence said in a tweet.The last American soldier to leave Afghanistan: Maj. Gen. Chris Donahue, commanding general of the @82ndABNDiv, @18airbornecorps boards an @usairforce C-17 on August 30th, 2021, ending the U.S. mission in Kabul. pic.twitter.com/j5fPx4iv6aMajor General Donahue is the commanding officer of the 82nd Airborne Division which comes under the Fort Bragg, North Carolina-based 18th Airborne Corps of the US Army. According to a report in USA Today, the officer was deployed this month to help secure the Kabul airport as America’s self-imposed August 31 deadline to withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan neared. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1992 and was commissioned as a second lieutenant.Also Read | Biden says will address America on why deadline to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan was not extendedThe report further notes that Donahue has been deployed 17 times to oversee operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, northern Africa and eastern Europe. His career includes a stint in the Pentagon, where he served as a special assistant to chairman of the Joints Chief of Staffs.Also Read | US suspends diplomatic presence in Kabul, moves to Qatar as troops withdrawThe now viral image shared by the Pentagon was taken just as the officer was getting ready to board the departing C-17 aircraft.Also Read | Taliban walk across Kabul airport runway, say want good diplomatic ties with USAmerican troops had landed on the Afghan soil in 2001 in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. They defeated the Taliban, five years after the regime first seized power in the country. The group’s latest advance towards Kabul, and eventual victory, came amid the withdrawal of US soldiers as directed by president Joe Biden in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/last-american-soldier-to-leave-afghanistan-who-is-major-general-chris-donahue-101630387258433.html
31-08-2021||World||Ex-servicemen ask Austin, Milley to resign over 'disastrous Afghan withdrawal'||The United States' handling of the crisis in Afghanistan has been criticised by dozens of retired generals and admirals who have demanded that defence secretary Lloyd Austin and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff General Mark Milley should step down. US forces ended their two decade long mission in Afghanistan on Monday.In an open letter, these retired flag officers claim that both Austin and Milley "should have recommended against this dangerous withdrawal in the strongest possible terms". The two officers should resign as a matter of conscience and public statement, the retired general said in the letter.The ending of US mission coincided with a chaotic and bloody evacuation that left stranded hundreds of American citizens and thousands of Afghans who had aided the American war effort."The retired Flag Officers signing this letter are calling for the resignation and retirement of the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) based on negligence in performing their duties primarily involving events surrounding the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan," said the letter signed by 87 retired servicemen. It was released on Monday.Austin, meanwhile, posted a series of tweets on Tuesday morning about the completion of US evacuation process. "Today, we completed the U.S. military evacuation of civilians and the removal of all forces from Afghanistan. I'm deeply saddened that in the course of this historic evacuation we lost 13 of our own, along with so many others who were killed and wounded by cruel terrorists," he said on Twitter.Today, we completed the U.S. military evacuation of civilians and the removal of all forces from Afghanistan. I'm deeply saddened that in the course of this historic evacuation we lost 13 of our own, along with so many others who were killed and wounded by cruel terrorists. (1/5)"The end of this operation also signals the end of America’s longest war," Austin added in subsequent tweet.Taliban fighters took control of the Kabul airport - the last territory under the control of US troops - after the withdrawal, symbolically walking across the runway and marking their victory.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said in a livestream posted by a militant as he walked through the facility: "The world should have learned their lesson and this is the enjoyable moment of victory.”Taliban officials filmed the empty airfield on their mobile phones, surrounded by special forces members of the insurgents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exservicemen-ask-austin-milley-to-resign-over-disastrous-afghan-withdrawal-101630385508544.html
31-08-2021||World||Taliban walk across Kabul airport runway, say want 'good diplomatic ties' with US||Taliban leaders on Tuesday symbolically walked across the runway of Kabul international airport to mark their victory in Afghanistan as the US forces completed the withdrawal process. The group that regained control over the country, a fortnight ago, also said that they "want good diplomatic relations with the US.""This victory belongs to us all," Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said during the celebration, according to an AFP report. "The world should have learned their lesson and this is the enjoyable moment of victory," Mujahid also said from the runway.Until now, the airport was in control of the US forces. The two-decades-old war in Afghanistan came to an end on Monday eve as the plane carrying the remaining American troops left the country. "Every single US service member is out of Afghanistan, I can say that with absolute certainty," General Kenneth F McKenzie, head of the US Central Command, said.The US-supported Afghan government collapsed on August 15 after the Taliban seized control of the capital city of Kabul. The military takeover led to chaotic scenes at the very same Hamid Karzai International airport after thousands of Afghans made a desperate attempt to flee the brutal regime of Sunni fundamentalists. Last week, an Islamic State suicide attack at an airport gate killed at least 169 Afghans and 13 US service members.With Taliban's return to power, panic has gripped country as many afghan fear a repeat of Taliban's initial rule from 1996-2001, which was infamous for their treatment of girls and women, as well as a brutal justice system.However, since their takeover, the group has repeatedly promised a more tolerant and moderate rule compared with their first stint in power.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-walk-across-kabul-airport-runway-say-want-good-diplomatic-ties-with-us-101630385530472.html
31-08-2021||World||Taliban pin letters with chilling 'surrender or die' message in cities: Report||The United States has finally ended its mission in Afghanistan after two decades, but those who are left behind in the country now being run by the Taliban are facing a harrowing time. The insurgents are not only conducting door-to-door searches, looking for people who helped American and allied forces, they are also pinning letters on their houses warning them to "surrender or die".Also Read: Afghans in Belgium organise protest, slam Pakistan for supporting TalibanAccording to Daily Mail, the letters pinned to the doors ask people to attend a Taliban-convened court where their punishment will be announced. The letters warn that failure to attend the court will result in death penalty, the Daily Mail reported.It spoke to a number of such people who have received these letters. One of them, whose construction company helped the UK military build roads in Helmand province, said he is hiding because he doesn't want to die. The 34-year-old also said that the letter pinned at his door was stamped by the Taliban.Another person the Daily Mail spoke to worked as a translator for the British military. He said the letter has branded him as "spy of the infidel" along with a warning to give himself up or pay with his life.Another translator found the letter in his shoe after he came back from prayers at a mosque.These men said they wanted to get out of Afghanistan and had even gone to Kabul airport, but couldn't board an evacuation flight due to the rush of the people. They told Daily Mail that they are now trapped and fear for the lives of their families.Also Read: Biden to explain why US deadline was not extendedThe Taliban used this tactic of issuing threats using the letters in villages when they were in power in Afghanistan more than 20 years ago. But this time, they are now being widely circulated in cities.This shows that the governing style of the insurgent group has hardly changed form its last rule, despite Taliban leaders portraying the group as moderate.Meanwhile, celebratory gunfire echoed across Kabul as Taliban fighters took control of the airport before dawn on Tuesday following the withdrawal of the last US troops, ending 20 years of war that left the Islamic militia stronger than it was in 2001.America's longest war took the lives of nearly 2,500 US troops and an estimated 240,000 Afghans, and cost some $2 trillion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-pin-letters-with-chilling-surrender-or-die-message-in-cities-report-101630383557833.html
31-08-2021||World||Afghans in Belgium organise protest, slam Pakistan for supporting Taliban||The members of Afghanistan's diaspora residing in Belgium organised a protest demonstration in capital Brussels on Monday to protest against Taliban's hostile takeover of their country. The protest was organised at Schuman Circle, in front of the European Commission (EC) and the European External Action Service (EEAS) building.The protesters also raised slogan against Pakistan for its alleged involvement and support to the Taliban.Also Read: 'Full independence', 'historic moments', say Taliban after US troops leaveThe protest demonstration was attended by about 60-70 members of Afghan diaspora. Some of the protesters were seen wearing army combat uniform.A series of protests have been organised by Afghan citizens living in various countries since the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan on August 15. On Sunday, nearly 800 demonstrators protested in front of the Greek Parliament blaming Pakistan for the worsening conditions in Afghanistan. They shouted slogans like - "Who killed Afghanistan- Pakistan Pakistan"; "Pakistan supports terrorists"; and "Stop killing Afghans."On Saturday, similar protests were held across the globe in more than 30 cities, including Washington, London and Berlin calling for support of Afghans in the final hours of the evacuation process.Also Read: Biden to explain why US deadline was not extendedParticipants held signs that read, "Save Afghanistan" or "Save Afghan lives."The United States, meanwhile, said on Monday that its mission in Afghanistan has ended. The announcement was made by the department of defense, which posted on Twitter a photo of Chris Donahue, the commander of the 82nd Airborne Division, leaving the war-torn country. "The last American soldier to leave Afghanistan: Maj. Gen. Chris Donahue, commanding general of the 82nd Airborne Division boards on US Air Force C-17 on August 30th, 2021, ending the US mission in Kabul," the department of defense said in the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghans-in-belgium-organise-protest-slam-pakistan-for-supporting-taliban-101630381230454.html
31-08-2021||World||US troops exit: This army general is the last American soldier to leave Afghanistan||America's longest war came to an end on Monday as the last troops left Afghanistan after 20 years of military operations. Chris Donahue, the commander of the 82nd Airborne Division, was the last American soldier to step off Afghan soil as the C-17 Globemaster III left Kabul airport. "The last American soldier to leave Afghanistan: Maj. Gen. Chris Donahue, commanding general of the 82nd Airborne Division boards on US Air Force C-17 on August 30th, 2021, ending the US mission in Kabul," the department of defense wrote on Twitter while sharing a picture of the soldier.The flight also carried Ross Wilson, ambassador to Afghanistan, back home as the complete withdrawal of US troops came just before the end of an August 31 deadline set by President Joe Biden to call time on America's longest war -- one that ultimately claimed the lives of more than 2,400 US service members.American forces entered Afghanistan in 2001 in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks for anti-terror operations, ousting the Taliban. Over the next years, the American forces remained in the country and took on nation-building tasks by providing financial aid, training Afghan forces against the insurgents.However, Afghanistan returned to Taliban rule on August 15 even as foreign forces started withdrawing from the country as per the peace deal agreed between the US and the hardline Islamist group. In the February 2020 agreement, Washington committed to withdrawing its forces, while the Taliban agreed to not attack American troops in the meantime.Earlier in the day, US secretary of state Antony Blinken said the US will continue its provide humanitarian aid to the war-torn country through independent organisations like the United Nations agencies and NGOs.Following US troops withdrawal, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid has also said the last American soldier left Kabul airport at 9pm Afghan time. "The last American soldier left Kabul airport at 9pm Afghan time and our country gained full independence, Alhamdulillah Walmana," he tweeted.Anas Haqqani, another senior Taliban official, also rejoiced at the occasion and said he was "proud" to witness "these historic moments".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-troops-exit-this-army-general-is-the-last-american-soldier-to-leave-afghanistan-101630378833920.html
31-08-2021||World||Biden says will address America on why deadline to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan was not extended||US president Joe Biden announced on Monday (local time) he will address the nation on Tuesday to explain his decision not to extend the deadline beyond August 31 to end America’s military presence in Afghanistan. Biden’ announcement, made in a statement released by the White House, came as the United States completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, thus ending its 20-year military presence in the country.Also Read | 'Full independence', 'historic moments': Taliban after US troops leave“Tomorrow afternoon, I will address the American people on my decision not to extend our presence in Afghanistan beyond August 31. For now, I will report that it was the unanimous recommendation of the Joint Chiefs and all of our commanders on the ground to end our airlift mission as planned,” the statement quoted Biden as saying.The commander’s view, he noted, was that concluding the military mission was the “best way” to protect the lives of the US troops, as well as to secure the prospects of civilian departures from the war-torn country in “the weeks and months ahead.”Also Read | Afghan territory shouldn't be used to attack others, shelter terrorists: IndiaBiden described the evacuation efforts from Kabul as the “largest airlift in our nation’s history,” adding that since August 14, a day before the Taliban captured the Afghan capital, more than 120,000 people including Americans, citizens of US allies, and its Afghan allies were evacuated safely by the US military.The president also stressed he had directed secretary of state Antony Blinken to lead the ongoing joint international efforts to ensure safe exit from Afghanistan of US nationals, Afghans and foreign nationals who wished to leave that country.Also Read | Why did Biden choose August 31 as deadline for US withdrawal? Here's a timelineBiden concluded by expressing gratitude for the sacrifice of 13 service members who were among the victims of a suicide blast at the Kabul airport on August 26. The attack was claimed by ISIS-Khorasan.With all its troops now out of Afghanistan, the Biden administration has suspended its diplomatic presence in Kabul, shifting operations to Doha, the capital city of Qatar. Major General Chris Donahue became the last US service member to leave the Afghan soil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-explain-why-deadline-of-us-pullout-from-afghanistan-was-not-extended-101630377260288.html
31-08-2021||World||FAA says Kabul airport now uncontrolled as US military exits||Kabul airport is without air traffic control services now that the U.S. military has withdrawn from Afghanistan, and U.S. civil aircraft are barred from operating over the country unless given prior authorization, the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said on Monday.The FAA said in a statement that "due to both the lack of air traffic services and a functional civil aviation authority in Afghanistan, as well as ongoing security concerns, US civil operators, pilots, and US-registered civil aircraft are prohibited from operating at any altitude over much of Afghanistan."Earlier this month, the U.S. military said it had assumed air traffic control responsibilities in Kabul to facilitate the evacuation of tens of thousands of people from Afghanistan.The FAA said US civil operators "may continue to use one high-altitude jet route near the far eastern border for overflights. Any U.S. civil aircraft operator that wants to fly into/out of or over Afghanistan must receive prior authorization from the FAA."On August 18, the FAA said U.S. air carriers and civilian pilots could fly into Kabul to conduct evacuation or relief flights with prior US Defense Department approval. U.S. airlines helped transport thousands of evacuees this month but conducted flights from airports outside Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/faa-says-kabul-airport-now-uncontrolled-as-us-military-exits-101630375167094.html
31-08-2021||World||Hurricane Ida inflicts 'catastrophic' destruction on Louisiana||Rescuers on Monday combed through the "catastrophic" damage Hurricane Ida did to Louisiana, a day after the fierce storm killed at least two people, stranded others in rising floodwaters and sheared the roofs off homes.The city of New Orleans was still mostly without power over 24 hours after Ida slammed into the Louisiana coast as a Category 4 storm, exactly 16 years to the day that Hurricane Katrina made landfall, wreaking deadly havoc."The biggest concern is we're still doing search and rescue and we have individuals all across southeast Louisiana... who are in a bad place," Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards told NBC's "Today".Two deaths have been confirmed as crews began fanning out in boats and off-road vehicles to search communities cut off by the hurricane.Images of people being plucked from flooded cars and pictures of destroyed homes surfaced on social media, while the damage in New Orleans itself remained limited.Ida -- which was downgraded to a tropical depression on Monday -- knocked out power for all of New Orleans, with more than a million properties across Louisiana without power, according to outage tracker PowerOutage.US."I was there 16 years ago. The wind seems worse this time but the damage seems less bad," said French Quarter resident Dereck Terry, surveying his neighborhood in flip flops and a t-shirt, umbrella in hand."I have a broken window. Some tiles from the roof are on the streets and water came inside," the 53-year-old retired pharmacist added.According to Edwards the levee system in the affected parishes had "really held up very well, otherwise we would be facing much more problems today."- 'Total devastation' -In the town of Jean Lafitte, just south of New Orleans, mayor Tim Kerner said the rapidly rising waters had overtopped the 7.5-foot-high (2.3-meter) levees."Total devastation, catastrophic, our town levees have been overtopped," Kerner told ABC-affiliate WGNO."We have anywhere between 75 to 200 people stranded in Barataria," after a barge took out a bridge to the island.Cynthia Lee Sheng, president of Jefferson Parish covering part of the Greater New Orleans area, said people sheltered in their attics.Several residents of LaPlace, just upstream from New Orleans, posted appeals for help on social media, saying they were trapped by rising flood waters."The damage is really catastrophic," Edwards told Today, adding that Ida had "delivered the surge that was forecasted. The wind that was forecasted and the rain."President Joe Biden declared a major disaster for Louisiana and Mississippi, which gives the states access to federal aid.One person was killed by a falling tree in Prairieville, 60 miles northwest of New Orleans, the Ascension Parish Sheriff's Office said.A second victim died while trying to drive through floodwaters in New Orleans, the Louisiana Department of Health tweeted.Edwards reported on Twitter that Louisiana had deployed more than 1,600 personnel to conduct search and rescue across the state.US Army Major General Hank Taylor told journalists at a Pentagon briefing that military, federal emergency management officials and the National Guard had activated more than 5,200 personnel in Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, and Alabama.- 'Way less debris' -Most residents had heeded warnings of catastrophic damage and authorities' instructions to flee."I stayed for Katrina and from what I've seen so far there is way less debris in the streets than after Katrina," Mike, who has lived in the French Quarter, told AFP Monday, declining to give his last name.The memory of Katrina, which made landfall on August 29, 2005, is still fresh in the state, where it caused some 1,800 deaths and billions of dollars in damage.The National Hurricane Center issued warnings of storm surges and flash floods over portions of southeastern Louisiana, southern Mississippi and southern Alabama as Ida travels northeast.As of 2100 GMT Monday, Ida was located about 20 miles northwest of Jackson, Mississippi, with maximum sustained winds of 20 miles per hour.The storm system is expected to track across the United States all the way to the mid-Atlantic through Wednesday, creating the potential for flash flooding along the way.Scientists have warned of a rise in cyclone activity as the ocean surface warms due to climate change, posing an increasing threat to the world's coastal communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-ida-inflicts-catastrophic-destruction-on-louisiana-101630374637926.html
31-08-2021||World||China bans exams for junior kids as it aims to rein in hyper-competitive education system||Beijing on Monday banned written exams for six- and seven-year-olds as part of sweeping education reforms aimed at relieving pressure on students and parents in China’s hyper-competitive school system.China’s exam-oriented system previously required students to take exams from first grade onwards, culminating in the feared university entrance exam at age 18 known as the gaokao, where a single score can determine a child’s life trajectory.“Too frequent exams ... which cause students to be overburdened and under huge exam pressure” have been axed by the ministry of education, according to new guidelines released Monday. The ministry said the pressure on pupils from a young age “harms their mental and physical health”.China limits online gaming to 3 hrs a weekChina has forbidden under-18s from playing video games for more than three hours a week, a stringent social intervention that it said was needed to pull the plug on a growing addiction to what it once described as “spiritual opium”.The new rules, published on Monday, are part of a major shift by Beijing to strengthen control over its society and key sectors of its economy. They limit under-18s to playing for one hour a day - 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. - on only Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, according to the Xinhua state news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-bans-exams-for-junior-kids-as-it-aims-torein-in-hyper-competitive-education-system-101630373716068.html
31-08-2021||World||‘IS attacks will stop when US leaves’||The Taliban’s spokesman has said that the group will crack down on Islamic State (IS) attacks and expects terror strikes to end once foreign forces leave the country.“We hope that those Afghans who are influenced by IS... will give up their operations on seeing the formation of an Islamic government in the absence of foreigners,” Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told AFP. “If they create a situation for war and continue with their operations, the Islamic government... we will deal with them.”A devastating suicide bomb attack claimed by IS outside Kabul airport on Thursday killed scores of people who were hoping to flee the country, as well as 13 US service members. Retaliatory and pre-emptive strikes by the United States on IS positions over the past few days seem to have angered the terrorists.The Pentagon said it carried out a drone strike on Sunday against a vehicle threatening Kabul airport that had been linked to IS.“There is no permission for them to do such operations... our independence must be respected,” the Taliban spokesperson said.Islamic State has been highly critical of the troop withdrawal deal struck between the Taliban and Washington last year, which saw the Taliban offer security guarantees.One IS commentary published after the fall of Kabul accused the Taliban of betraying jihadists with the US withdrawal deal and vowed to continue its fight, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors militant communications.During the Taliban’s prison break spree this summer to free its fighters, many battle-hardened IS militants were also released - increasingly looking like a lethal error.Although both groups are hardline Sunni Islamist militants, they have differed on the minutiae of religion and strategy, while each claiming to be the true flag-bearers of jihad.In recent years, the IS Afghanistan-Pakistan chapter has been responsible for some of the attacks in those countries.Global coalition’s vowA group of countries that have banded together to fight Islamic State, including the US, released a statement pledging to work to eliminate the group. “We will draw on all elements of national power - military, intelligence, diplomatic, economic, law enforcement - to ensure the defeat of this brutal terrorist organisation,” the coalition said in a statement released by the US state department.Macron’s ‘safe zone’ callRussia has welcomed French President Emmanuel Macron’s proposal to create a “safe zone” in Kabul to protect humanitarian operations. “This is certainly a proposal that must be discussed,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. He said that it was “very important” to discuss all aspects of “such a zone”.France and Britain will urge the United Nations Security Council on Monday to work for the creation of this secure area to “allow humanitarian work to continue”, Macron said.World needs to guide the Taliban: China tells USThe international community including the US should “guide” the Taliban, provide aid, stop the currency from depreciating and help maintain stability, Chinese state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi has told US secretary of state Antony Blinken.“The US should... help Afghanistan fight terrorism and stop violence, rather than playing double standards or fighting terrorism selectively,” Wang said in a phone call with Blinken.With inputs from Sutirtho Patranobis in Beijing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/-is-attacks-will-stop-when-us-leaves-101630372627667.html
31-08-2021||World||'Full independence', 'historic moments': Taliban after US troops leave||The Taliban have proclaimed “full independence” for Afghanistan and celebratory gunfire rang out in Kabul as the US confirmed its last troops withdrew ahead of a Tuesday deadline following 20 years of war. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said on Tuesday that “American soldiers left the Kabul airport, and our nation got its full independence.”Anas Haqqani, a senior Taliban official, said he was "proud" to witness "these historic moments". "We made history again I am very happy that after 20 years of jihad, sacrifices & hardships I have this pride to see these historic moments," Haqqani tweeted.AFP reported the sound of small arms and heavier machine gun fire continued 45 minutes after the first announcement and that tracer rounds lit up the sky in Afghanistan's Kabul. In another tweet, Haqqani also urged Taliban fighters to avoid celebratory gunfire so as to make sure no innocent bystanders were hurt."All the American troops have left Afghanistan, we are very happy -- you can listen to the celebratory fire," Bilal Karimi, another Taliban spokesperson, told AFP by phone.Also read | Afghan territory shouldn't be used to attack others, shelter terrorists: IndiaAs the last US planes drew their wheels up around midnight on Monday, Taliban fighters fired their guns into the air, celebrating victory after a two-decade insurgency in Afghanistan. “The last five aircraft have left, it's over! I cannot express my happiness in words. ... Our 20 years of sacrifice worked,” Hemad Sherzad, a Taliban fighter stationed at Kabul's international airport, told the Associated Press.Also watch | Osama Bin Laden's former aide returns to Afghanistan after Taliban takeoverGeneral Frank McKenzie, commander of the US Central Command, announced the completion of America's longest war and the evacuation effort. McKenzie said the last planes took off from Kabul airport one minute before midnight on Monday in Kabul and that chief US diplomat in Afghanistan, Ross Wilson, was on the last C-17 flight out.Also read | Taliban say IS attacks will stop after US forces leave Afghanistan: Report"There's a lot of heartbreak associated with this departure. We did not get everybody out that we wanted to get out. But I think if we'd stayed another 10 days, we wouldn't have gotten everybody out," McKenzie told reporters.As the Taliban took over Afghanistan rolled into the capital earlier this month surprising everyone with their swift capture of the country, tens of thousands of people tried to flee Afghanistan, fearful of the return of the hardline Islamist group's rule as well as reprisals.The Taliban now control all of Afghanistan except for the Panjshir province, where a few thousand local fighters and remnants of the country's collapsed security forces have pledged to resist them. The Taliban have said they are seeking a peaceful resolution there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/full-independence-historic-moments-taliban-after-us-troops-leave-101630371275284.html
31-08-2021||World||Afghan territory shouldn't be used to attack others, shelter terrorists: India||Afghanistan's territory should not be used to threaten and attack any country or to shelter, finance or train terrorists, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Monday. Shringla's comments came after the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) passed a resolution on Afghanistan even as US troops withdrew from the war-torn country after two decades. The UNSC resolution, under India's presidency, was adopted with the support of 13 members as Russia and China abstained."It underlines the risk individuals and entities designated by UN Security Council 1267. This is of direct importance to India," Shringla said while briefing the media after chairing the UNSC meeting on Afghanistan. "The resolution also notes the statement by the Taliban in the 27th of August and the Security Council does expect them to adhere to their commitments, including regarding the safe, secure and orderly departure from Afghanistan, of Afghan and all foreign nationals," he said.Also read | US suspends diplomatic presence in Kabul, moves to Qatar as troops withdraw"The resolution also recognises the importance of upholding human rights, especially Afghan women, children and minorities, as well as to inclusive negotiated settlement, and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan," the foreign secretary said as he also expressed condolences on behalf of India to Afghan nationals and US troops who lost their lives in the terrorist attack in Kabul.Also watch | Osama Bin Laden's former aide returns to Afghanistan after Taliban takeoverShringla said some very key issues came up for consideration in the council in August, including those of Afghanistan, maritime security, the Middle East, Myanmar, Syria and Yemen. He also thanked all members of the UN Security Council as India's presidency of the UNSC for the month of August drew to a close. "A very notable initiative that our delegation took was the organisation of the first comprehensive consideration of the issue of maritime security at the high-level event, chaired by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said.Also read | Taliban say IS attacks will stop after US forces leave Afghanistan: Report"You will recall that under our presidency, the Security Council adopted three press statements on Afghanistan following related developments in the third, the 16th and the 27th of August... We also had two events on technology and peacekeeping and counterterrorism which were chaired by our external affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar."The resolution said that it expects that the Taliban will adhere to commitments made by it regarding the safe, secure, and orderly departure from Afghanistan of Afghans and foreign nationals. It was the first such resolution adopted on the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban. It came on the penultimate day of India's presidency of the UNSC for the month of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-territory-shouldn-t-be-used-to-attack-others-shelter-terrorists-india-101630369018835.html
31-08-2021||World||US suspends diplomatic presence in Kabul, moves to Qatar as troops withdraw||The US on Monday suspended diplomatic presence in Afghanistan and shifted its diplomatic operations to Qatar, secretary of state Antony Blinken said as the American military completed its withdrawal from the country to end a brutal 20-year war. "As of today, we've suspended our diplomatic presence in Kabul and transferred our operations to Doha, Qatar," Blinken said, adding that Congress would be notified.America's top diplomat also expressed commitment to helping every American who wants to leave the war-torn country. Blinken, who was speaking just hours after the final evacuation flights left Afghanistan's Kabul, said a small number of US citizens remained in the country. They could be "under 200" but likely closer to just 100, he said.Reports said celebratory gunfire could be heard from several Taliban checkpoints in Kabul early on Tuesday as senior Taliban officials hailed the US drawdown as a watershed moment.Also watch | Osama Bin Laden's former aide returns to Afghanistan after Taliban Takeover"I'm here to announce the completion of our withdrawal from Afghanistan and the end of the military mission to evacuate American citizens," US General Kenneth McKenzie told reporters on Monday at Washington time. "Tonight's withdrawal signifies both the end of the military component of the evacuation but also the end of the nearly 20-year mission that began in Afghanistan shortly after September 11th, 2001."The final flight left at 1929 GMT on Monday - just before the start of Tuesday in Kabul, he said.Also read | Rockets fired at American forces on eve of Afghanistan exitTaliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said Afghanistan had "gained full independence" with the US withdrawal, and Anas Haqqani, a senior Taliban official, said he was "proud" to witness "these historic moments".The withdrawal came before the end of August 31, the actual deadline set by President Joe Biden to call time on America's longest war. The war has claimed the lives of more than 2,400 US servicemembers.Biden said he would address the nation on Tuesday in Washington.Also read | ETIM may shift to ISKP with Taliban-China alliance over Xinjiang The withdrawal also came after the tensed final days of a frantic mission to evacuate tens of thousands of Americans and Afghans who had helped the US-led war effort and which left scores of Afghans and 13 US troops dead in a suicide attack last week.The attack claimed by the Islamic State's Afghan offshoot gave edgy urgency to the risky US-led international airlift from Kabul, and also revealed the possible troubles ahead for Afghanistan as the Taliban move to form a government and actually rule.The Taliban's return as they captured Kabul on August 15 after a swift takeover of the country triggered a massive exodus of people who fear a new version of hardline Islamist rule.Meanwhile, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution on Monday, requiring the Taliban to honour a commitment to let people freely leave Afghanistan in the days ahead, and to grant access to the UN and other aid agencies, but did not create a "safe zone" in Kabul.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-suspends-diplomatic-presence-in-kabul-moves-to-qatar-as-troops-withdraw-101630366845660.html
31-08-2021||India||Taliban reaches out, says no anti-India activity in Afghanistan will be allowed||Putting unfounded fears of Opposition about “diplomatic isolation of India” after Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to rest, India today discussed the safety and security of its nationals with senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Stanekzai at Doha and got assurance from him that the new regime will not allow its territory to be used for anti-India activities. Stanekzai is the head of Taliban political office in Doha, Qatar and a former alumnus of Indian Military Academy in the 1980s. The meeting, sanctioned by the top Taliban leadership, lasted over an hour.After Stanekzai publicly made overtures to India to resume trade and economic ties on August 29, the Taliban leader quietly reached out to the Indian leadership both in New Delhi and Qatar in the past two days. The Taliban leader acknowledged the positive role that India had played in Afghanistan in the past two decades. The Indian interlocutor, Ambassador to Qatar and Af-Pak expert Deepak Mittal, made it clear that India wanted the safety and security of its nationals still stuck in Afghanistan as well as those of Hindu and Sikh minority communities living in that country. Mittal also sought assurance from the Taliban that Afghanistan under the Taliban would not allow the use of its territory for anti-India activity without naming Pakistan based terrorist groups.While the Modi government was caught by surprise with the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul, it chartered its own diplomatic course in that country with the evacuation of its nationals as its priority. Without making any statement on the Taliban takeover, the government used its good offices with the US, Iran and Tajikistan to evacuate its nationals. The US forces were managing the Hamid Karzai airport, the Iranian support was needed for overflying rights for Indian Air Force heavy-lift aircraft and the Tajikistan government helped in allowing the IAF aircraft to be parked at the Dushanbe airport.Also Read | 'Super power decided to be mini power': Amrullah Saleh lashes out at USAt the all-party meeting on August 26, Opposition members raised the question of Indian diplomatic isolation at the turn of events in Afghanistan and others outside the government gratuitously suggested that the Modi government should seek the support of Russia and the UK. However, the Modi government refused to panic on the rapidly unfolding situation and dealt with the situation after considering at pros and cons among the national security planners.It was due to this confident approach and the investment in the people of Afghanistan that the Taliban reached out to India, something they would not do in the past due to pressure from an adversary. That Stanekzai personally called to fix up the meeting held in the Indian Embassy premises at Doha says it all with New Delhi already alerted in advance a day before. Clearly, the Indian efforts to broker a resolution at the UNSC on August 30 and that it heads the UNSC sanctions committee had a role to play in the Taliban reach-out.While the Opposition criticized the wait and watch policy of India in the all-party meeting, the Modi government wants all the assurances that Taliban leader Stankezai gave to be translated on the ground before it takes the next steps to deal with the new regime in Afghanistan. The ball is in the Taliban's court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-reaches-out-says-no-anti-india-activity-in-afghanistan-will-be-allowed-101630419768512.html
31-08-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 10 million administered doses on Tuesday, 500 million given first dose so far||More than 10 million doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were administered in a single day on Tuesday (till 6pm) to reach a new milestone in India’s inoculation drive.“Congratulations, as India administers another 1 crore #COVID19 vaccinations today Highest one-day record of 1.09 crore vaccine doses achieved till 6 pm - and still counting!,” Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh tweeted.1⃣ Crore, 2⃣ Times, in 5⃣ daysCongratulations, as India administers another 1 crore #COVID19 vaccinations todayHighest one-day record of 1.09 crore vaccine doses achieved till 6 pm - and still counting!Under PM @NarendraModi ji, India is fighting strongly against corona. pic.twitter.com/ByEECsn1T5Earlier on August 27 (Friday), the country had for the first time administered over 10 million doses in a single day. As many as 10,335,290 doses were delivered on Friday. However, more than 10.9 million doses have already been administered as of 6pm on Tuesday, which is the new record for single-day vaccinations so far.Meanwhile, Mandaviya also said that 500 million people have received their first dose of the vaccine so far against Covid-19. “Another milestone achieved in the world's largest vaccination drive under PM @NarendraModi ji. 50 crore people received their first #COVID19 vaccine dose. I applaud the hard work of COVID warriors & diligence of citizens in helping achieve this momentous feat,” he tweeted.Another milestone achieved in the world's largest vaccination drive under PM @NarendraModi ji.50 crore people received their first #COVID19 vaccine dose.I applaud the hard work of COVID warriors & diligence of citizens in helping achieve this momentous feat 👏#50crBaahubali pic.twitter.com/5LycWu7QstThe cumulative Covid-19 vaccinations in the country crossed the 650-million mark on the day. "India marches ahead with another achievement in its fight against Covid-19," the Union health ministry said, sharing the news on Twitter. Earlier on Monday, it went past 640 million doses. Among these, 247,508,226 doses first doses and 27,263,275 second doses have been administered to beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years of age, the ministry's data showed. Further, in a separate update, the ministry also said that more than 54 million vaccine doses (54,230,546 doses to be exact) are remaining unutilised with states and Union territories as of date. Also, 1,494,040 doses are in the supply pipeline, the ministry noted. On Tuesday, the country reported 30,941 new Covid-19 infections and 350 more deaths, pushing the total confirmed infections so far to 32,768,880 cases and the death toll to 438,560.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-over-10-million-administered-doses-on-tuesday-500-million-given-first-dose-so-far-101630417853792.html
31-08-2021||India||Second phase trial of intranasal Covid-19 vaccine begins at 5 centres across India||The second phase clinical trial of Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine against Covid-19 began at Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur and four other centres in the country on Tuesday, officials said.A total of 152 people have volunteered for this trial and nine of them were given the vaccine in Kanpur on Tuesday.The other centres are the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-New Delhi and Patna, Nizam Institute in Hyderabad, and the Belgaum Medical College in Karnataka.Dr JS Kushwaha, chairman of Prakhar Hospital, said a total of 30 volunteers would participate in the trial (in Kanpur) which was being conducted as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech.The nine volunteers were given four drops in each nostril at a gap of five minutes. They were observed for 30 minutes before they were allowed to go home. They would be called for the second dose after 28 days.Before this trial, Prakhar Hospital was involved in clinical trials of Covaxin meant for adults and children.The company had asked for the second phase trials of the intranasal vaccine on the basis of the phase one trial results.Approving the request, the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) sent out emails to these five centres on Sunday night to go ahead with the trials. The volunteers for this trial are in the 18 to 65 years’ age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-phase-trial-of-intranasal-covid-19-vaccine-begins-at-5-centres-across-india-101630418572581.html
31-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Punjab CM take different stances on Jallianwala Bagh revamp||Congress leaders have once again taken different stances on the same issue. While former party chief Rahul Gandhi condemned the government’s move to revamp the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Punjab’s Amritsar, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has come out in support of the decision.“Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi on Tuesday. “We are against this indecent cruelty.”Hours after Gandhi’s remark, the Punjab chief minister termed the government’s revamp move “very nice”. “I don’t know what has been removed. To me it looks very nice,” Singh said.CM Amarinder Singh on Saturday said it must serve as a reminder for future generations about the right of people to peaceful democratic protest.Several other Congress leaders, including the party’s deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi, also tweeted on the Jallianwala Bagh memorial issue. Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government’s project of giving a makeover to the “Jallianwala passage is not to preserve but erase the marks of atrocities committed by General Dyer during British rule”. “Central vistafication of Jallianwala Bagh passage is the ultimate insult to those killed on that fatal day! Shame,” he said.Gogoi tweeted on Monday that such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial to “base entertainment”. “Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity,” he said.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal also lashed out at the government and said that the government has “created an event out of a tragedy”. “BJP not only erased all traces of the massacre by revamping Jallianwala Bagh, but added insult to injury by celebrating with sound&light show!” the Congress leader tweeted on Tuesday.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi slammed the government for the renovations and said that the revamp was damaging “our collective history”.CPM leader Sitaram Yechury also criticised the move. “Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise this.” “Insulting our martyrs. The Jallianwala Bagh massacre of Hindus Muslims Sikhs who gathered together for Baisakhi galvanised our freedom struggle. Every brick here permeated the horror of British rule. Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise thus,” Yechury tweeted.The renovation of Jallianwala Bagh, where more than 1,000 people died 102 years ago, has come under fire, with not just politicians but also historians accusing the planners of ‘Disneyfying’ the monument.Indian historian S. Irfan Habib said that the revamp of the historical monument is “corporatisation” of monuments and asked the government to look after them without meddling with the “flavours of the periods these memorials represent”.British historian Kim A Wagner, who has written a book titled “Jallianwala Bagh”, analysing various aspects of the massacre, described the renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to mean “that the last traces of the event have effectively been erased”.Wagner’s post was also retweeted by British Member of Parliament Preet Kaur Gill, who wrote, “Our history- being erased! Why?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-punjab-cm-take-different-stances-on-jallianwala-bagh-revamp-101630416892916.html
31-08-2021||India||CM Biplab Deb inducts three ministers into Tripura Cabinet||Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb inducted three ministers into his cabinet on Tuesday. It is the first Cabinet expansion since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed the government in the state in 2018. The three, Sushanta Chowdhury, Bhagaban Das, and Ramprasad Paul, are first-time legislators. “We have taken the decision to expand our Cabinet to strengthen the government..., “ Deb told the journalists after the oath-taking ceremony. The expansion followed a series of meetings BJP national secretary Dilip Saikia, its North-East zonal secretary (organisation) Ajay Jamwal, the party’s Tripura unit in charge, Vinod Sonkar, and general secretary (organisation) Phanindranath Sarma held in Agartala on Monday.The four leaders rushed to Agartala on Monday after BJP leader Sudip Roy Barman, who was dropped from the state Cabinet in 2019 over alleged anti-party activities, held a meeting with some BJP legislators.Barman said the meeting was held to identify BJP’s mistakes and weaknesses for strengthening the party. He claimed the BJP and the state government were uninterested in listening to the party’s workers and that they will bring these issues to the attention of the central party leadership.Also Read | Teachers whose jobs were terminated stage demonstration in Tripura’s AgartalaThe rumblings within the BJP surfaced amid Trinamool Congress’s efforts to make inroads into Tripura.Paul and Chowdhury accompanied Barman to New Delhi last year to meet the BJP’s central leaders over the functioning of Deb’s government. He later told the media that the meeting was related to party organisation. Paul on Tuesday said he is hopeful of meet the expectations of the people. “I got a big responsibility, “ he said. Chowdhury promised to work for the welfare of the people. “I will appeal to the people to keep their faith in the state government,” said Chowdhury. Das said he has performed his duties sincerely given to him earlier. “Likewise, I will do my new duty as minister sincerely in the line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas promise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-biplab-deb-inducts-three-ministers-into-tripura-cabinet-101630415574622.html
31-08-2021||India||First formal diplomatic contact between India, Taliban: Safe return of nationals a priority||India on Tuesday raised with the Taliban the safe return of Indian nationals still in Afghanistan and concerns about Afghan soil being for anti-India activities during the first formal diplomatic contact between the two sides. India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, flagged these issues when he met Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha. The meeting was held at the Indian embassy in Doha, on the request of the Taliban side, the external affairs ministry said in a brief statement. “Discussions focused on safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The travel of Afghan nationals, especially minorities, who wish to visit to India also came up,” the statement said. Mittal also “raised India’s concern that Afghanistan’s soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism in any manner,” it added. Also Read | High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in Afghanistan“The Taliban representative assured the ambassador that these issues would be positively addressed,” the statement said without giving details. As first reported by Hindustan Times in June, India had for the first time opened channels of communication with several Afghan Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, last year. The outreach was largely being led by Indian security officials and was limited to Taliban factions and leaders that were perceived as being outside the sphere of influence of Pakistan. Tuesday’s meeting was the first time that India has acknowledged any sort of official contact with the Taliban since the group assumed power in Kabul on August 15, following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Experts said it was also significant that the meeting was sought by the Taliban’s political leadership. Stanekzai, seen as the number two in the Taliban’s negotiating team and third overall among leaders based in Qatar, trained for several years at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun in the early 1980s when he was an officer in the Afghan Army. He has apparently taken on a key role in foreign relations, including the Taliban’s outreach to countries in the region. In a nearly 46-minute video posted on the Taliban’s social media platforms on Saturday, Stanekzai had said the group wants to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India. This was the first time a member of the Taliban’s top hierarchy has spoken on the issue since the takeover of Kabul. “India is very important for this subcontinent. We want to continue our cultural, economic and trade ties with India like in the past,” Stanekzai said. “Trade with India through Pakistan is very important for us. With India, trade through air corridors will also remain open,” he said, outlining the Taliban’s plans for trade in the region. “We give due importance to our political, economic and trade ties with India and we want these ties to continue. We are looking forward to working with India in this regard,” Stanekzai added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-formal-diplomatic-contact-between-india-taliban-safe-return-of-nationals-a-priority-101630413470963.html
31-08-2021||India||Samyukt Kisan Morcha seeks Haryana CM’s resignation over lathi charge on farmers||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday demanded Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s resignation and registration of a case against Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha over the lathi charge on protesting farmers over the weekend.The Haryana Police on Saturday lathi-charged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal. The farmers said the police started beating protesters without any provocation, injuring at least 10. Sinha was caught on video telling policemen to “break the heads” of any protester who crossed police barricades.SKM leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjit Singh Dallewal released video messages extending their support to the farmers of Haryana.Also Read | The political battle over reformsThe messages came a day after Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni questioned SKM’s silence over the repeated lathi charge on farmers of Haryana.“We strongly condemn the police action on the farmers in Karnal causing injuries to several farmers and the alleged death of a farmer who had also participated in the agitation. We are with Haryana farmers. We also demand that Khattar should resign immediately, and an FIR be registered against Sinha,” said Rajewal. He slammed Khattar for questioning Punjab farmer leaders for serving sweets to Punjab chief minister over the increase in sugarcane prices. “We greeted the chief minister for highest sugarcane prices in the country. We want to say that if an opponent does a good job, we should appreciate it.”Dallewal said the farmers were protesting on the call of SKM. “All farmers of the country are with the farmers of Haryana, and they should not think that they are alone in this fight against the BJP-led government in Haryana.” He said the Morcha leaders will support the protest call of Haryana farmer unions on September 7 if their demands were not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-seeks-haryana-cm-s-resignation-over-lathi-charge-on-farmers-101630413351314.html
31-08-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah, L-G Sinha spar at J&K panchayat bodies outreach programme||The first-ever parliamentary outreach programme for Jammu and Kashmir panchayat bodies on Tuesday saw a face-off between former chief minister and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, with Abdullah saying, “If we are with the country, the country should also take care of us.”The former CM was referring to terrorist attacks on panchayat officials and demanded security for them. He also advised Sinha to do his work “honestly” and cautioned that if India can’t protect its diversity, it can’t prosper. “Srinagar and Chennai are so different. But our binding factor is the resolve that we can come together to create this country,” Abdullah said.He, however, “regretted” that NC didn’t participate in the grassroots-level elections — the panchayat elections in 2018 and the block development council polls in 2019. L-G Sinha’s speech was almost entirely a response to what Abdullah said. The J&K L-G recollected how he had to battle “legacy issues” and said, “Now, under the new dispensation, every penny is accounted for. No one can usurp public funds like they did earlier,” in an apparent reference to the tenure of earlier J&K governments when development funds allegedly didn’t reach the people.Also Read | Amit Shah launches portal for industrial development in Jammu & KashmirLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who had convened the programme, urged all democratic institutions to “work together” to “improve people’s lives. “If Panchayati Raj is strong, we can improve our governance and delivery systems and create atma-nirbhar (self-sufficient) villages,” he said.While Abdullah underlined that during National Conference’s tenure, elections could be held with great difficulty in two tiers of the three-tier panchayat system, Sinha hailed the implementation of the entire three-tier system under the Narendra Modi government. He also claimed that the district development council elections of 2020 were “impartial” and “without any violence”, trying to draw a parallel between the earlier elections and the recent ones.But Sinha and Abdullah agreed with Birla’s vision of the key role of panchayat leaders in J&K. The former CM cautioned that it would not be an easy job, but Sinha said all rural works should happen under panchayat supervision. He announced that J&K has received business proposals worth ₹25,600 crore, and in the coming years, at least ₹50,000 crore worth of investments will come.Birla maintained that J&K is now on the path of peace and prosperity and said that while India has a lot of diversity, it is democracy that holds the country together. “If democratic institutions are strong, we can reach out to the last person,” he said.“Tourists want to explore the lesser-known places in J&K. To find national or international markets for J&K produce, the panchayat institution must perform,” said Birla, adding, “If grassroots-level institutions are not strong, we can’t make a strong India. People want to work. They want their areas, villages to be at the top.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-l-g-sinha-spar-at-j-k-panchayat-bodies-outreach-programme-101630413110994.html
31-08-2021||India||Indian envoy meets Taliban representative in Doha after complete US troops' withdrawal||Indian envoy to Qatar met the head of Taliban's political office in Doha in a first formal diplomatic contact, the ministry of external affairs said on Tuesday. The meeting between Indian ambassador Deepak Mittal, and Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s Political Office in Doha, took place at the Indian Embassy at the request of the Taliban side, according to the ministry."Discussions focused on safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The travel of Afghan nationals, especially minorities, who wish to visit to India also came up," the ministry said in a statement.This is the first time India has acknowledged formal contact with the Taliban since Kabul fell to the group on August 15. During the meeting, India flagged concern that Afghanistan’s soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism in any manner after US-led foreign troops have completely pulled out from the region. The ministry said that the Taliban Representative assured that India's concerns would be "positively addressed."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-envoy-meets-taliban-representative-in-doha-after-complete-us-troops-withdrawal-101630412560924.html
31-08-2021||India||Parliamentary panels to be encouraged to visit ‘far-flung’ areas: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla announced on Tuesday that parliament panels would be “encouraged” to visit Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), Ladakh and other far-flung areas during their study tours for better parliamentary outreach in these parts of the country. Also Read | Amit Shah launches portal for industrial development in Jammu & KashmirAt the end of his week-long tour of J&K and Ladakh, Birla said, “I will ask the 16 House panels under the jurisdiction of Lok Sabha to frequently visit these far-flung areas and interact with local people and grassroot level bodies and administration.” Birla, who planned the parliamentary outreach programme for J&K panchayat bodies, urged all democratic institutions to “work together” to “improve people’s lives”. “If panchayati raj is strong, we can improve our governance and delivery system and create atmanirbhar villages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panels-to-be-encouraged-to-visit-far-flung-areas-om-birla-101630410586619.html
31-08-2021||India||PM Modi to release 125 rupee coin on birth anniversary of ISKCON founder AC Bhaktivedanta Swami||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be releasing a 125-rupees coin on Thursday to mark the 125th birth anniversary of AC Bhaktivedanta Swami, a Kolkata-born spiritual leader who founded the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) also known as the “Hare Krishna movement” in 1965. The move comes a day after the birth anniversary of Lord Krishna, Janmashtami.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release a special commemorative coin of ₹125 and will also address the gathering on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Srila Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada Ji on 1st September 2021 at 4.30pm via video conferencing,” a statement from PM Modi’s office said.Union minister of culture G Kishan Reddy will also be present on the occasion.Born in 1896, AC Bhaktivedanta Swami authored several books besides establishing temples. He graduated in chemistry from Scottish Church College in Kolkata (then Calcutta_, following which he married, had children, and started a pharmacy business, which he quit to become a monk in 1959.He later moved to the US where he disseminated Vedic literature. Nearly 100 ashrams, gurukuls, temples, and farmhouses are believed to be established by him across many western countries. In West Virginia, US, he established New Vrindaban Temple in 1968. Swami died of a six-month-long illness in Uttar Pradesh’s Vrindavan in 1977 at the age of 82.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-125-rupee-coin-on-birth-anniversary-of-iskcon-founder-ac-bhaktivedanta-swami-101630409627937.html
31-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mulayam's meet with BJP leader creates buzz and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP-Mulayam meet creates buzz ahead of record memorial meetings for Kalyan SinghAhead of the memorial meeting in Lucknow to honour Kalyan Singh, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev paid a surprise visit to the Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav. The visit was described as a “courtesy call” by the BJP. Read more here.Shershaah becomes Amazon Prime India's most watched movie, Sidharth Malhotra is 'overwhelmed with love'Sidharth Malhotra has thanked his fans for making Shershaah Amazon Prime's most watched movie in India. The film released on August 12. Read more here. Triumph launches 2021 Speed Twin in India, gets new brake, suspension, wheelsThe 2021 Triumph Speed Twin also gets some cosmetic updates and revised features as well. Read more here. Nora Fatehi in mustard embroidered lehenga set worth ₹2 lakh serves the look of your dreamsNora Fatehi drops a stunning video of herself in an ethereal mustard-yellow embroidered lehenga set worth ₹2 lakh on Instagram today. The outfit is a perfect choice for your own Haldi bash. Read more here. South Africa's Dale Steyn announces retirement from all forms of cricketSouth African pacer Dale Steyn has announced his retirement from all forms of cricket. Since making his international debut in 2004, He played 93 Tests, 125 ODIs and 47 T20Is. Read more here. US soldiers disable planes before leaving Afghanistan; Taliban's airport parade﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-stories-from-ht-sp-bjp-meetings-ahead-of-up-polls-creates-buzz-101630408162822.html
31-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Nadda congratulates Himachal govt for 100% vaccination of adults||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda congratulated Himachal Pradesh government for inoculating all the adults of the state with at least one dose of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. Nadda said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is witnessing the world's fastest vaccination drive."Himachal has become the first state in the country, which administered first dose of corona vaccine to every adult citizen. I congratulate the people and the government of Himachal Pradesh for this achievement. Under the leadership of respected prime minister @narendramodi, India's vaccination campaign is the fastest in the world," according to the translation BJP chief's tweet. He is a member of Rajya Sabha from Himachal Pradesh.हिमाचल देश का पहला ऐसा राज्य बन गया है, जिसके हर वयस्क नागरिक को कोरोना वैक्सीन की पहली डोज लगाई जा चुकी है।मैं इस उपलब्धि के लिए हिमाचल प्रदेश की जनता और सरकार को बधाई देता हूँ।आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व में भारत का टिकाकरण अभियान दुनिया में सबसे तेज है।The Himachal Pradesh government announced achieving the milestone on Sunday."The state has completed the first dose of the vaccination to people of 18 plus age group with 100 per cent completion and it aims to complete hundred per cent vaccination of both the doses by November 30, 2021," said the state's health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal.The health minister also said that the state government will organise a special virtual event where PM Modi would interact with beneficiaries and health care workers of the state government.On Monday, Himachal Pradesh recorded 96 cases of Covid-19, which pushed it's tally to to 2,13,341. The death toll climbed to 3,579 as three more people succumbed to the infection, according to state health department.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh stands at 1,643, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nadda-congratulates-himachal-govt-for-100-vaccination-of-adults-101630408000251.html
31-08-2021||India||ISKCON founder's birth anniversary tomorrow; PM Modi to release special coin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release a special commemorative coin of ₹126on Wednesday, on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Srila Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. PM Modi will also address the gathering via video conferencing, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.The function will start at 4.30pm, the PMO said. Union culture minister G Kishan Reddy will be present on the occasion.Swami Prabhupada founded the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), also known as the "Hare Krishna movement", in New York in 1966. ISKCON has translated Shrimad Bhagavad Gita and other Vedic literature in 89 languages, playing a stellar role in the dissemination of Vedic literature across the world.Swamiji Prabhupada also established over a hundred temples and wrote several books, teaching the path of Bhakti Yoga to the world, the PMO said.According to ISKCON's website, it is a part of the Brahma Madhva Gaudiya Vaishnava Sampradaya, one of the four vaishnava sampradayas, and hence comes in an authorised disciplic succession of great spiritual preceptors.The precepts and practices of ISKCON were taught and codified by Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu (1486-1532) along with His brother Nityananda Prabhu and six of His principle associates, according to the website.It claims that ISKCON spread to the major cities of the whole world in just 11 years after the movement was established.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iskcon-founder-s-birth-anniversary-tomorrow-pm-modi-to-release-special-coin-101630407202753.html
31-08-2021||India||Amit Shah launches portal for industrial development in Jammu & Kashmir||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday launched a portal for the registration of units for Industrial development in Jammu & Kashmir via video conferencing. Speaking at the launch event, Shah encouraged industry leaders to invest in the Jammu and Kashmir to help develop the Union territory."The launch of this new portal under the 'New Central Sector Scheme 2021' will offer benefits of over ₹24,000 crores to the industrial sector. This is just an estimate," Shah said, adding that the actual benefits will be greater than the estimate.The home minister further stated that the youth of Jammu & Kashmir had to depend on government undertakings for employment due to the lack of industries in the erstwhile state. He asserted that Article 370 and 35A were the biggest hurdles for private sector investment."After the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A under the leadership of Shri Narendra Modi on August 5, an open environment was created, and employment opportunities were created for Jammu & Kashmir," Shah said at the launch.Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Jitendra Singh were also present alongside Shah for the launch of the portal.The portal was launched under the ‘New Central Sector Scheme for industrial development of Jammu and Kashmir’ which is applicable for any eligible manufacturing entity or eligible service sector enterprise registered business enterprise under Goods and Service Tax, according to the ministry of commerce & industry.The portal has been designed and developed for the effective implementation of the scheme in a transparent manner, the ministry added. The entire process under the scheme, which includes applying for registration, submitting claims and their processing within the department, will be done through the portal to avoid human interface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-portal-for-industrial-development-in-jammu-kashmir-101630406070852.html
31-08-2021||India||Bengal MLA's ghar wapsi to Trinamool; 3rd BJP leader to switch since Didi's win||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Bengal's Bagda assembly constituency, Biswajit Das left for Trinamool Congress camp on Tuesday. He is the third BJP leader to switch camp to the ruling Trinamool Congress after the Mamata Banerjee-led party's thumping victory in the assembly polls held earlier this year.Das's exit from BJP came a day after Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh went back to Trinamool Congress, and after political heavyweight Mukul Roy's return in June. All three of them had ditched the Trinamool Congress for BJP before the assembly elections.Mukul Roy is a prominent face in Bengal politics and his return to the Trinamool Congress, could prove to be a boon for Mamata Banerjee's party in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.Biswajit Das, who was earlier with Trinamool Congress, had joined the BJP in June 2019. He had won twice from Bongaon North assembly constituency on Trinamool Congess ticket in 2011 and 2016 assembly election."I never felt very comfortable in the BJP. I wanted to return to the TMC long ago. The BJP has done nothing for Bengal," he said after joining the party in the presence of Trinamool Congress general secretary Partha Chatterjee in Kolkata.ALSO READ | Bengal assembly elections: BJP heavyweights, TMC turncoats fail to make a dentBiswajit Das had courted controversy within his own party ahead of the assembly elections in Bengal earlier this year, when he accused the BJP of "blackmailing" the people of the powerful Matua community on the pretext of granting citizenship. Despite joining the BJP, Das was also seen touching the feet of chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the state assembly last February, giving rise to speculations that he could return to the Trinamool Congress.With the exit of the three MLAs, the strength of the BJP in the 294-seat Bengal assembly came down to 72. Mamata Banerjee's party won 213 seats to secure a third-term in the West Bengal government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-mla-s-ghar-wapsi-to-trinamool-3rd-bjp-leader-to-switch-since-didi-s-win-101630405044508.html
31-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand minister draws flak for saying app can help regulate rainfall||On Monday, Uttarakhand minister for disaster management Dhan Singh Rawat copped flak by opposition leaders for a video where he was heard claiming that the state government was considering using “an app that could increase or decrease the intensity of rainfall as per requirement.” However, while there is no “app”, a three member expert panel has been formed by the department, headed by the director of the Uttarakhand Space Application Centre(UCAS) to study technology developed by Dubai based Russian scientist Yuri Tkatchenko that can reportedly affect rainfall patterns using “ion generators.” Rawat made the statement while speaking to a group of people in a gathering few days ago while speaking on the disaster management steps being taken by the state government amid heavy rains in state since last one week. The minister in the video circulated on social media could be purportedly heard saying, “Now there’s an app that has come out which can increase or decrease the intensity of rain in a place where it is expected to rain heavily and cause damage to life and property.” “I will soon give a presentation to the Centre on the same. If it allows, then this can be a boon for many other states of the country,” stated Rawat in the video. Congress national general secretary and former chief minister (CM) of Uttarakhand Harish Rawat while taking a jibe at Dhan Singh, shared the video on Facebook stating, “The app that Dhan Singh Rawat is talking about to give a presentation before the Centre would help to solve the challenges faced by the country and its farmers due to uncertain rains every year.” “Now, CM Pushkar Singh Dhami should recommend his name for Bharat Ratna award for this,” said Rawat. Another Congress state leader and party state spokesperson Garima Dasauni too ridiculed the minister and said, “There should be no dearth of entertainment in the state. After former CMs Trivendra Singh Rawat and Tirath Singh Rawat, BJP leaders Ajay Bhatt and Bansidhar Bhagat, the command has been taken by Bharat Ratna Dhan Singh Rawat.” “Now Rudraprayag’s rain will occur at Rudrapur and Dharchula’s rain will occur at Dehradun. Where did these leaders get so much wisdom?, “ said Dasauni. When contacted, Rawat laughed off the ridiculing of Opposition and said, “They are oblivious of the existence of such a technology. My department was apprised of that about a month ago after which we formed a panel of three experts led by director of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) MPS Bisht to submit a report on the same to us after proper analysis.” “I am yet to receive that report after which following a detailed evaluation, I would go to the Centre to explain it for further action in direction to acquire it,” said Rawat. On the viral video, he clarified that he “didn’t make the statement to any media or official gathering.” “A few days ago, I was with four-five people in an informal gathering. We were discussing disaster management in the state when I also brought the new technology in the discussion. Someone among the gathering was recording by conversation. He put that video on social media but after editing the full context of my statement. I never talk about something without knowing it,” said Rawat. Corroborating Rawat, Director USAC MPS Bisht, informed that the government had earlier formed a panel of three experts led by him to study the technology known as “magnetic ion generator” while planning to implement in the state to fight forest fires. HT had earlier reported the development on the technology on August 7. Also Read | AAP says Char Dham Board will be scrapped if party assumes power in Uttarakhand“Minister Rawat was actually talking about the above-mentioned technology but he mistakenly used the work app for which he is being unnecessarily mocked. This technology actually does exist in the world and is developed by a Dubai based senior Russian scientist named Yuri Tkatvhenko Pavlovich . It is already used on several occasions in Dubai to create rainfall and or to push away the clouds formed in the atmosphere to cause cyclone,” said Bisht. He said as asked by the government the three-member expert panel which includes one expert each from Nainital based Aryabhata Research Institute of Observational Sciences and Dehradun centre of India Meteorological Department have submitted their report to the government about a week ago. “We have submitted it after proper analysis and with reactions from other experts to the secretary of disaster management department. Now it is up to the government to take any decision on its implementation,” said Bisht adding a representative of the Russian scientist is also present in Dehradun at present. Informing about the technology Bisht said, “Under this technology, magnetic ion generating plants are installed which artificially fuses the ions of hydrogen and oxygen present in the atmosphere. Their fusion then results into the formation of water which in turn increases the density of water droplets in freely moving clouds in the atmosphere, making them to rain over a desired area.” He said, “if implemented the technology which has not even gone to big countries including China and USA, Uttarakhand would be the first state in India to use it.” Claiming the new technology to be far superior to the existing cloud seeding one, Bisht said that the former is not “harmful to the environment but the latter one is.” “In cloud seeding which is often used by China to artificially create rains, chemical elements are dispersed in the atmosphere to create rains which is harmful to the environment. But in this technology, the existing ions of hydrogen and oxygen are artificially fused without use of any harmful chemicals,” said Bisht. Bisht also said that apart from fighting forest fires, the technology could also be used in fighting droughts. “In our state, sometimes people of rural areas migrate due to severe water problem. This technology could help in stopping that migration by creating artificial rains over that particular village as it has a range of about 1000km,” said Bisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-minister-draws-flak-for-saying-app-can-help-regulate-rainfall-101630405247485.html
31-08-2021||India||BJP-Mulayam meet creates buzz ahead of record memorial meetings for Kalyan Singh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is holding ‘Shraddhanjali Sabhas’ or memorial meetings across 1918 places in Uttar Pradesh (UP) in honour of former UP chief minister and Hindutva icon Kalyan Singh; and the biggest of these events in Lucknow is being attended by a galaxy of top BJP leaders on Tuesday afternoon. The BJP has already named two medical institutes in Lucknow and Bulandshahr after Kalyan Singh and more such dedications are in the offing as the party looks to play up the Other Backward Caste (OBC)-Hindutva connect that Kalyan Singh represented ahead of assembly elections early next year. Kalyan Singh, a Lodh, was not just a powerful OBC leader but also a torch bearer of the Ayodhya temple movement and he formed a heady cocktail of the two to become the first BJP chief minister of politically most important state of Uttar Pradesh in 1991. He died after a long illness at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) on August 21. Top BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah flew down to UP to pay their last respects to the late leader. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who himself escorted Kalyan’s mortal remains on all three-days while they were moved to different parts of the state for people to pay their last respects, had declared a three-day mourning in the state in Kalyan’s honour. Ahead of the memorial meeting in Lucknow, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev paid a surprise visit to the Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav. The visit was described as a “courtesy call” by the BJP. A picture of the two leaders meeting was shared by the UP BJP chief on his official twitter handle. “I met respected Mulayam Singh ji ‘netaji’ at his residence to inquire about his well being and received his blessings. I pray to God for his good health and long life,” Swatantra Dev tweeted. The meeting comes in the backdrop of the BJP’s heavy criticism of Mulayam’s son and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav for not paying last respects to Kalyan Singh in person. Therefore, much significance was attached to Swatantra Dev-- who is himself an OBC representing the Kurmi sub caste-- visiting the SP patron, an OBC and a three-term former chief minister. A buzz gained ground that BJP chief visited Mulayam to invite him for Lucknow’s ‘shraddhanjali sabha’, to be also attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, defence minister Rajnath Singh, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) veterans. Some prominent Muslim clerics like Kalbe Jawad, too, are likely to attend the memorial meet in Lucknow, BJP leaders said. The BJP, however, rejected speculations that the meeting with Mulayam Singh was to invite him to the memorial meet. “It was a courtesy visit by the party chief and I think [it] denotes a healthy trend in our democracy,” said UP BJP leader Himanshu Dubey. According to speculations fuelled by the SP camp, Mulayam Singh asked the UP BJP chief to join SP during the meeting. “You are doing good work. I have told you many times that you should be in SP and rise.” However, there was no confirmation of the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpmulayam-meet-creates-buzz-ahead-of-record-memorial-meetings-for-kalyan-singh-101630404586306.html
31-08-2021||India||Janmashtami long weekend gives hope for faster revival of travel industry||The Janmashtami long weekend saw more people travelling, giving hope to portals that things could look up for the travel industry. Like last year, portals said, this jump can also be attributed to continued decline in Covid cases combined with pent up travel demand and upcoming festive travel season. MakeMyTrip, one of the leading portals, said the current booking pattern reflects more confidence, willingness and comfort among travellers to venture out for leisure or work related travel.EaseMyTrip spokesperson said, “Compared to the period of July 28-30, we have seen a jump of 54% for Aug 28 to 30 in terms of travellers. Users have utilised this extended weekend to travel for leisure.”“Data on MakeMyTrip indicates a five times increase in travel bookings made this August as compared to last year for the same period. As compared to bookings in the same period last year, hotel bookings for stays more than two days have increased by 20%; and family travel with more than two members has witnessed growth by over seven times,”said Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer of MakeMyTrip.Prakash said near-term leisure travel bookings are up by 20%, with bookings for travel during the festive dates seeing a jump of 35%. As per OYO’s August 2021 booking data for August 27 to 30, the global travel technology company has witnessed a 34% surge in leisure travel across the country.“In India, for the Janmashtami weekend, we have seen an uptick in demand for local travel, wherein consumers are choosing destinations closer to their location or heading to religious cities like Mathura and Vrindavan,” said Yatish Jain, vice president and Chief Growth Officer, OYO (India & South East Asia).OYO’s booking trends revealed that Jaipur, Goa, Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Udaipur topped India’s most popular leisure destinations among travellers this long weekend. Majority of the demand stemmed from travellers in metro cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru. “Among business destinations, Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Mumbai emerged as the most booked cities,” Jain said. Amanpreet Bajaj,general manager, Airbnb India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Taiwan said they are seeing a strong demand for travel, particularly to destinations a drive away from metro cities. “Travelers are showing a strong desire for vacations designed around private spaces and unique and immersive experiences. We’ve also seen people continue to embrace more flexible travel. Earlier this year, our YouGov survey showed that 69% of Indians were particularly interested in unique accommodations for their next trip -- such as heritage homes, farm stays, villas and havelis,” said Bajaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/janmashtami-long-weekend-gives-hope-for-faster-revival-of-travel-industry-101630403506548.html
31-08-2021||India||Lucknow to build next-gen BrahMos missiles, confirms Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday that the state-of-the-art next-generation range of BrahMos missiles will be manufactured in Lucknow.While inaugurating a slew of developmental projects, Rajnath Singh said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has informed him that the proposed manufacturing unit of BrahMos missiles in the state would generate employment for an estimated 5,000 people. "Nobody ever imagined that missiles would be manufactured in Uttar Pradesh. BrahMos missiles will be manufactured near Lucknow," the defence minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Adityanath gave his consent to the project last week. According to media reports, director general of BrahMos Aerospace Sudhir Kumar Mishra had last week written to Uttar Pradesh's additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, seeking 200 acres of land for the project at the UP Defence Industrial Corridor.Speaking on the occasion, Singh said that each household in Lucknow would get piped natural gas (PNG) connections soon. "I have been informed by Green gas Limited that a target has been set to provide PNG gas to each household in Lucknow which will reduce the consumption of LPG gas," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-to-build-next-gen-brahmos-missiles-confirms-rajnath-singh-101630401660168.html
31-08-2021||India||Five cases of Covid Delta variant sub-lineage AY.12 detected in Uttarakhand||Five cases of AY.12 variant of Covid have been detected in Uttarakhand -- three in Nainital district, one in Kotdwar area of Pauri Garhwal district, and 1 in Rudraprayag district. Dr Manoj Sharma, Dr BK Shukla, and Dr Bhagirathi Joshi, chief medical officers of Pauri, Rudraprayag, and Nainital districts respectively, confirmed that these five sample were detected with AY 12 sub-lineage of the Delta variant of Covid. They said they have started contact tracing and testing. They added that while the people whom these samples came from have recovered, a tab is being kept on the locality they live in. On August 28, six cases of Delta variants were detected in the state-- three in Pithoragarh and three in US Nagar districts. Last month, for the first time in the state, a 23-year-old in US Nagar was detected with the Delta plus variant. So far, Uttarakhand has reported over 342,000 Covid positive cases and 7,380 deaths from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-cases-of-covid-delta-variant-sub-lineage-ay-12-detected-in-uttarakhand-101630402366320.html
31-08-2021||India||‘Can think of a middle ground if govt invites farmers for talks with open mind’||The farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws plan a mahapanchayat on Sunday after violence marred their protests over the weekend in Haryana’s Karnal. Ratan Mann, the state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union who has been also spearheading the protests in Haryana, spoke to Umar Sofi about their plans. Edited excerpts:How do farmers plan to go forward with their protests?There is a threshold to everything; one’s patience starts to break slowly once things cross that threshold. The government should work to end this mess. Even the Supreme Court has ordered it to resolve our issues, but when they promote an atmosphere of violence, anger will rise... Do you think if your demands are not met, given the anger, these protests might go out of hand?...no violence should take place as that is not a solution. But different kinds of people are protesting. Not all have that patience. There is a limited tolerance in everyone. Yet, we are trying to keep everything peaceful. We are already sitting in Delhi; there cannot be a bigger protest than this.Are farmers still determined to continue their protests despite a lack of success?If the government, with an open mind, invites farmers for talks, then we can think of a middle ground; everything is possible when people talk…. The government is not even ready for talks. They do invite us but say that do not talk about these laws. What is the point of going there? The government basically is not in a mood to embrace the farmers yet.Do you think there is pressure building on the government now?Definitely. If four people go and sit outside someone’s house, it does affect the person. But the government thinks farmers will eventually get tired and leave and that only a few will remain, who they shall quell. It is not easy for farmers to revive such a big movement if it ends. They have come and they shall stay.Also Read | Haryana, Punjab CMs locked in wordy duel over farm agitationPeople waited for Lord Ram even for 14 years. For us, it has just been nine months. The government has to agree one day.What is the road map ahead?It is not that the protest is not having any impact. The protest is uniting all the farmers across the country as brothers… The government is a people’s institution. In this institution, the vote is a big weapon for people and this weapon works peacefully. On September 5, we are organising an all-India mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. In a democratic way, we shall educate farmers and other people there. We are, for now, beginning this mission in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, both poll-bound states. We believe the way (the Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP) was defeated in West Bengal; it will be definitely defeated in these two states as well. In Punjab, the game is totally against the BJP. Only after the defeat, they (BJP) will talk about farmers.Do you think the Opposition has been effective in raising farmers’ demands in Parliament?We had asked the Opposition parties that they should not walk out of the Parliament. The request was heeded, and they (Opposition) were strong. We organised a mock Parliament parallel to the original one. This was very effective and since independence, never has such a thing been done as a protest. We prepared resolutions there which we will be sent to the President. Is an amendment to these laws, not a solution?Even if they amend them right now and the protest ends, the government will amend them back to what they are. Would we be coming to Delhi again for protests? We never sought these laws. This is nothing but a forceful imposition only to benefit corporates who are already building godowns on government subsidies. Why is there a need to boost corporates through subsidies? Let the government make these godowns themselves; purchase directly from us and store them there. This should not be a matter of ego; the Prime Minister should embrace farmers and end this mess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-think-of-a-middle-ground-if-govt-invites-farmers-for-talks-with-open-mind-101630399666191.html
31-08-2021||India||SC orders demolition of 40-storey towers in Noida over building norms violation||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the demolition of twin 40-storey towers of realty firm Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida over grave violation of building norms. A bench, headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, upheld the 2014 judgment of the Allahabad high court and directed Supertech to pull down the towers at its own cost within three months under the supervision of an expert body. It has also asked the firm to refund all the homebuyers within two months apart from paying ₹2 crore to the Residents’ Welfare Association that led the fight against the illegal construction.The top court came down heavily on the Noida Authority for colluding with the builder to pave way for the illegal construction in breach of municipal and fire safety norms. It said the 2009 sanction plan approved by the Authority was illegal since it flouted the minimum distance criteria. The top court added the plan could not have been sanctioned even otherwise without the consent of the homebuyers.The verdict came on a clutch of petitions by homebuyers for and against the 2014 verdict of the high court. On April 11, 2014, the high court ordered the demolition of the two buildings within four months and the refund of money to apartment buyers. This judgment was stayed by the top court after the firm filed an appeal.Also Read | Govt doesn’t accept 14 collegium picks for HC judgesOn August 4, the top court reserved its verdict while reproaching the Authority for its “shocking exercise of power” in sanctioning the two residential towers in a green area, and then blocking the right to information requests from homebuyers about the building plans.As the Authority blamed homebuyers for complaining too late, the top court said: “From the way you are arguing it appears that you are the promoter. You cannot be fighting against the homebuyers. As a public authority, you have to take a neutral stand. Your conduct reeks of corruption from the eyes, ears, and nose and you are trying to find fault with the homebuyers.”The top court pointed out that when the homebuyers asked for the plan, the Authority wrote to Supertech on whether to share it and refused to give it to them at the developer’s behest. It added it was only after the high court expressly directed the Authority to give the plan that it did so.Supertech defended the construction of twin towers and claimed there was no illegality. It added it lost the case in the high court on two counts -- distance criteria and not taking consent of homebuyers before constructing the towers. The firm said the Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association, which moved the high court challenging the construction of the twin towers, did not even exist when the plan was sanctioned, and construction began. It said out of 633 people, who booked the flats initially, 133 moved out to other projects; 248 took refunds, and 252 still had their bookings with the company in the project.The association claimed that the towers constructed by the builder were not in the original plan shown to them at the time of booking and they have blocked their view, fresh air, and sunlight.The two towers have 915 apartments and 21 shops. Of these, 633 flats were booked initially.In its verdict, the high court sought prosecution of Noida Authority officers allegedly involved in collusion with the developer. It ordered the demolition saying the two towers were built too close to each other and violated the Noida Building Regulations of 2010 that requires the minimum distance to be 16 metres. The high court noted the developer had not taken the consent of homebuyers as required under the Uttar Pradesh Apartment Owners Act, 2010.In appeal, Noida Authority argued the homebuyers did not complain when Supertech was increasing flats and floors in this project with each successive building plan.Supertech cited other housing projects in Noida which had a distance of six to nine metres between towers. It added in the case of the company’s twin towers, the distance between them is 9.88 metres or 32 feet. The company said it is the discretion of the builder to create a building block by keeping the buildings adjacent to each other or separate as long as the floor area ratio allows that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-demolition-of-40-storey-towers-in-noida-over-building-norms-violation-101630398886327.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka makes 7-day quarantine mandatory for those coming from Kerala||The Karnataka government has made institutional quarantine must for people entering the state from Kerala. Such travellers will have to quarantine themselves for a week, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday.The rule will be applicable even for those who are vaccinated and carry a negative RT-PCR test report, Sudhakar added.Travellers who arrive in Karnataka on a flight from Kerala will also have to mandatorily undergo seven-day quarantine. These travellers can choose a hotel of their choice, which had been designated for institutional quarantine, said Sudhakar. Such travelers undergoing institutional quarantine will be tested on the sixth day and if the report comes out negative for Covid-19 on the seventh day, they will be allowed to go, he added.The decision has been taken due to high numebr of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala. On Monday, the southern state recorded 19,622 new cases and 132 related fatalities. Kerala logged 29,836 Covid-19 infections and 75 related deaths on Sunday. A day before, there were 31,265 cases and 153 deaths in the state.According to Sudhakar, the Karnataka government is working out a strategy in consultation with experts on how to further strengthen Covid prevention drive in the districts bordering Kerala, such as Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chamarajanagar.He said the government may take "even more" stringent measures in the border districts to control the spread of Covid-19.Asked if there will be Covid-19-related restrictions during the upcoming Ganesha festival, Sudhakar said the health department has been insisting that no public function should take place, because wherever people gather in large numbers, the threat of the spread of the pandemic increases.To check the spread of the infection, the Kerala government has clamped night curfew and also decided to conduct a seroprevalence study to determine the immunity of people against the virus and assess the risk of the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-makes-7-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-those-coming-from-kerala-101630398527822.html
31-08-2021||India||High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in Afghanistan||A high-level group that includes external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval is focusing on India’s priorities in Afghanistan, including the safe return of Indian nationals and ensuring Afghan soil isn’t used for terrorism against the country. The group, which also includes senior officials from key ministries and organisations, was directed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to focus on India’s immediate priorities against the backdrop of the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The high-level group has been meeting regularly over the past few days, and among the key issues it is focusing on are the safe return of Indians still in Afghanistan, the travel of Afghan nationals, especially members of minorities such as Hindus and Sikhs, to India, and ensuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used in any manner for terrorism directed against India, the people said. Also Read | Afghan soil shouldn’t be used to shelter terrorists, says UNSC resolutionThe group is also monitoring the ground situation in Afghanistan, where the US completed the drawdown of its troops on Monday, and international reactions to the latest developments, including the resolution passed by the UN Security Council. The external affairs minister acknowledged last week that at least 20 Indian nationals had missed a military evacuation flight from Kabul but didn’t give an exact figure for the number of Indians still in Afghanistan. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the number changed as requests came in from Indians to be evacuated. It is believed several dozen Indians are still in Afghanistan, down from about 1,500 late last month. Another 140-odd Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were also barred by the Taliban from entering Kabul airport to take a military evacuation flight to New Delhi. India has said it will stand by Afghans who had supported the country and those who are facing threats from the Taliban or fear persecution. As part of these efforts, the government introduced a new emergency e-visa regime though it is not clear how many visas have been issued under this arrangement. On the security front, India has strong concerns about the reported presence in Afghanistan of up to 10,000 fighters from Pakistan-based terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. There are also concerns about the Haqqani Network, a key faction of the Taliban that has targeted Indian interests in the past and has close ties to Pakistan’s security establishment. In a resolution adopted at the end of India’s presidency of the Security Council for the month of August, the United Nations Security Council demanded that Afghan soil shouldn’t be used to attack any country or to shelter terrorists. Even as American forces completed their drawdown in Afghanistan a fortnight after the Taliban takeover, the UN’s highest body also reiterated the importance of combating terror in Afghanistan, including individuals and entities sanctioned under UN Resolution 1267 and pointed to the Taliban’s commitments in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlevel-group-focuses-on-india-s-priorities-in-afghanistan-101630398166056.html
31-08-2021||India||Mujhe yakeen hai mere pe film banegi: Mountaineer Uma Singh who conquered Mt Kilimanjaro||Will power drove Uma Singh, 25, from Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur, who conquered Africa’s tallest peak, Mount Kilimanjaro, on a cycle to the first base. Singh dedicated his achievement to Sonu Sood, carrying a poster of the actor to the top, which said ‘The Real Hero of India’. The actor congratulated Singh and promised to meet him. Singh has previously set the record for completing the fastest solo bicycle expedition to all Indian states and their capitals as per India Book of Records.Singh flew straight to Mumbai from Tanzania to meet Sood after the feat. Now elated to have met his idol, he says, “Bilkul believe nahi hua mil ke. Koi words nahi hai. Maine apna video daala sir ke saath social media pe, star jaisa feeling aa raha hai.” On why he decided to dedicate the win to the actor, he says, “Log jab bahar jane se darrte the, Sonu Sood sir ne itna kiya desh ki aam janta ke liye, apni jaan ki parwah bina kiya. Dil ke kareeb ho gaya.”Recollecting his journey so far, Singh reveals he worked odd jobs to pay for training. He shares, “Government job ki taiyyari mein parvat aur pahad pe charcha hua toh dimag mein baith gaya ke pahad climb karna hai ek din. In January 2019, I started my training.” He also credits his family and people from his hometown for raising funds. “My family has been my biggest support mentally but it was financial struggles that were a challenge toh mere gaao walo ne aur aas paas ke logo mujhe bohot help kiya. A good amount of money, approx. 5 lakhs were needed – for guide, permit fees, tickets and other expenses. Toh kisi ne 50 se leke 1500 rupees diye mujhe,” adds Singh who also feels he took a huge risk by not taking any insurance to save the costs.He now wants to climb Mt Everest, and hopes a film is made on him. “Next target hai Mt Everest. I want to make 4-5 more records, Bharat ka naam roshan karna chahta hun. Mujhe yakeen hai mere pe koi film banegi,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mujhe-yakeen-hai-mere-pe-film-banegi-mountaineer-uma-singh-who-conquered-mt-kilimanjaro-101630398046227.html
31-08-2021||India||Centre releases ₹13,385.70 crore grant-in-aid for rural local bodies||The Union finance ministry on Tuesday said that it has released an amount of ₹13,385.70 crore for providing grants to the rural local bodies. The amounts has been given to 25 states for the purpose, the ministry said in a release.This is the first instalment of the tied grants for the year 2021-22, and have been released as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, the ministry said.✅Grant-in-aid amounting to Rs. 13,385.70 crore released to Rural Local Bodies✅Total grant amounting to Rs. 25,129.98 crore released to Rural Local bodies so far in 2021-22Read more➡️ https://t.co/MQBdooqFDf pic.twitter.com/FzHBKcMbZPThe highest amount has been given to Uttar Pradesh ( ₹2,162.4 crore), followed by Maharashtra ( ₹1,292.1 crore), Bihar ( ₹1,112.7 crore) and Madhya Pradesh ( ₹883.2 crore).With the release of the latest tranche, the Centre has given ₹25,129.98 crore in grants for rural local bodies this year, the finance ministry said.Explaining the purpose of tied grants, the ministry further said that these are released for improving two critical services: Sanitation and maintenance of open-defecation free (ODF) status, and supply of drinking water, rain water harvesting and water recycling.These tied grants are meant to ensure availability of additional funds to the rural local bodies over and above the funds allocated by the Centre and respective state governments.The finance ministry said that the amount of tied grants should be released by a state government within 10 working days of receiving it from the Centre, failing which they will have to pay interest.Out of the total Grant-in-aid allocated for Panchayati Raj institutions, 60 per cent is 'tied grant, the ministry said. The remaining amount can be utilised at the discretion of the Panchayati Raj institutions for location specific felt needs, it added. However, the ministry mentioned that the remaining 40 per cent of the amount should not be used for payment of salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-rs-13-385-70-crore-grant-in-aid-for-rural-local-bodies-101630395790626.html
31-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal district reports first case of AY.12 variant and all the latest news||First case of AY.12 sub-lineage of Delta variant in Pauri Garhwal: Check detailsPauri Garhwal distrcit in Uttarakhand reported its first case of AY.12 variant of coronavirus on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The case of the variant was reported in Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal, the district authorities said, according to ANI. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Singhraj Adana wins bronze medal in shooting eventIndia's Singhraj Adana bagged the bronze medal in shooting P1 men's 10m air pistol SH1 final at the Tokyo Paralympics on Monday. His total score in the final was 216.8 and he finished in the third position to add to India's medal tally. It takes India's total medal tally at the Games so far to 8. Read moreBigg Boss OTT: Shilpa Shetty is 'proud' as Shamita Shetty tears letter from family to save Raqesh BapatShilpa Shetty is nothing but 'proud' of her sister Shamita Shetty after she came forward to save her 'connection' Raqesh Bapat on the recent episode of Bigg Boss OTT. Read moreTata Tigor EV 2021 launched, gets 4-star safety rating; range and price revealedTata Motors on Tuesday officially launched Tata Tigor EV at a starting price of ₹11.99 lakh, going up to ₹13.14 lakh (ex showroom). Read moreAnkita Konwar does 30k run and 30 Surya Namaskars for 30th birthday, Milind Soman is proudFitness-enthusiast Ankita Konwar and wife of the 55-year-old actor and celebrated supermodel Milind Soman celebrated her 30th birthday on Monday, August 30. Read moreShahid Afridi supports Taliban: What Pakistan sports star said on Afghan cricketFormer Pakistan Cricket Captain Shahid Afridi shared his views on cricket and women’s rights in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover. The Pakistan cricketer spoke in favour of the Taliban for supporting cricket in Afghanistan. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uttarakhand-s-pauri-garhwal-district-reports-first-case-of-ay-12-variant-and-all-the-latest-news-101630394816427.html
31-08-2021||India||'Won't tolerate insult of martyrs': Rahul Gandhi tweets amid outrage over Jallianwala Bagh memorial revamp||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday commented on the government's revamp of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Punjab's Amritsar, where more than 1000 people were gunned down by British troops in 1919. The Congress leader's attack came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial. "Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost," Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. "We are against this indecent cruelty."Rahul Gandhi also tagged a media report on the outrage on social media over the alleged changes at the Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex. "Those who didn’t struggle for freedom can’t understand those who did," the former Congress president said in a later tweet.जलियाँवाला बाग़ के शहीदों का ऐसा अपमान वही कर सकता है जो शहादत का मतलब नहीं जानता। मैं एक शहीद का बेटा हूँ- शहीदों का अपमान किसी क़ीमत पर सहन नहीं करूँगा। हम इस अभद्र क्रूरता के ख़िलाफ़ हैं। pic.twitter.com/3tWgsqc7LxSeveral other Congress leaders, including the party's deputy leader in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi and Jaiveer Shergill, also tweeted on the Jallianwala Bagh memorial issue. Shergill alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government's project giving a makeover to the "Jallianwala passage is not to preserve but erase the marks of atrocities committed by General Dyer during British rule". "Central vistafication of Jallianwala Bagh passage is ultimate insult to those killed on that fatal day! Shame," he said.Also watch | Row over renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial's light & sound show, new entranceAlso read | Jallianwala Bagh has inspired countless revolutionaries: PMOn Monday, Gogoi tweeted such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial to "base entertainment". "Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity. Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment. Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling."PM Modi also digitally inaugurated the museum galleries at the memorial during the event, which also showcased the multiple development initiatives undertaken by the government to upgrade the complex in wake of the 100th anniversary of the 1919 massacre.A sound and light show was held to depict the events of the day of the massacre when more than 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919. British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands assembled in Jallianwala Bagh amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2-tweets-rahul-gandhi-comments-on-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-revamp-101630394058063.html
31-08-2021||India||Telangana high court stays govt decision to reopen schools from September 1||The Telangana high court on Tuesday put a stay on state government's order to reopen educational institutions from September 1, news agency ANI reported. Schools, colleges and other institutions are closed in the state due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Also Read: States where offline classes will resume from Sept 1Imposing the stay on reopening of schools, the high court said that no student from any school - private or government, KG to class 12 - will be compelled to attend physical classes.The high court's order was in response to a public interest litigation (PIL). It asked the state government to file an affidavit on the matter.The Telangana government had on August 24 announced that all government and private educational institutions including Anganwadi centres in the state will be allowed to reopen from September 1.The decision was taken after a high-level review meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao (KCR). He said that the education system in the state has suffered a lot because of Covid-19.The state government had issued detailed guidelines for the reopening of schools. The schools were ordered to clean the premises and water tanks, and sanitise the classrooms.The schools were getting ready to hold classes and welcome students. Wearing masks and carrying hand sanitisers were made mandatory for every student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-high-court-stays-govt-decision-to-reopen-schools-from-september-1-101630393589795.html
31-08-2021||India||'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' in defence should not be at mercy of military bureaucrats||Addressing the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington in Tamil Nadu on August 29 on "Defence Reforms in shifting National Security Paradigm", Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said that his ministry was considering "integrated battle groups" to fight against the enemies. He said under this concept, extremely lethal brigade sized agile and self-reliant fighter formations will be made.While defence minister Singh is pro-reform and pro-military, his statement is also a revelation on how mired the Indian armed forces are in bureaucratic red tape. They are no different, perhaps worse, from the civilian bureaucracy in first taking the decision and then in implementing them. In fact, it is seen that in some cases, the military technology moves to a more advanced level while the military-civilian bureaucracy is still mulling on acquiring the previous version of the technology. Just like the Indian Constitution, the defence acquisition manual, with over 600 pages splattered with archaic words of the imperial past, is perhaps the longest written document in the military world.The concept of self-contained integrated battle groups was agreed to by the Army top brass nearly two decades ago after mobilisation of the Indian military under Operation Parakram against Pakistan immediately after the December 13, 2001 terror strike on Indian Parliament by Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists. As many as eight integrated battle groups were meant to replace the lumbering three strike corps of the Indian Army, which were based on World War II concepts of dedicated offensive and defensive formations. The integrated battle groups were at the heart of the "Cold Start " war doctrine of the Indian military, where the troops would be agile and prepared to go on offensive from the word go. The idea was that wars in the 21st century would be instant and would not give time for military preparation. Agile focused forces with defined war objectives would take the unprepared enemy by surprise was the concept that was validated way back in the 1761 Third Battle of Panipat, which changed the history of India.Just like the integrated theatre battle groups are being discussed and debated ad nauseam by the military and civilian brass, there have been hurdles put in place for the formation of the theatre commands as no service chief wants to let go of his fiefdom. For them, theatre command is a loss of power for individual military forces with the post of now exalted chief reduced to training and procurement under the new concept. And all central governments including those in the past tend to be on the right side of the military just like they are with the Indian farmers.While it is nobody’s case to demean the Indian military and exploits of the Indian forces, it is just that reforms in military take more time than even the civilian set-up with seniority-based bureaucrats and brass sending even the files pertaining to urgent acquisitions and decisions on a merry go round in the South Block and service headquarters. For them political leadership changes at best after a decade but they, and this includes the military brass, are around for three to four decades. It is another matter that neither the technology waits for them nor the revolutions in military concepts. But does the military-civilian brass of the defence ministry care?Just like the Army, the Navy is wrapped in its own cocoon when it comes to human resources or acquisitions. While the military industrial complexes of the world are moving towards nuclear attack submarines, the NHQ after a decade has come up with qualitative requirements or what is called QRs for six air independent propulsion submarines, which firmly shows the door to Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) on grounds of not having a two-year sea proven experience of Air Independent Propulsion (AIP) technology. The DRDO-developed AIP is land proven and validated by the best in the world in submarine design and development. The DRDO has other issues, but that is a topic for another day.However, the technology of diesel submarines has shifted from AIP to lithium ion batteries, which are more efficient and have longer sub-surfaced endurance than traditional lead acid submarines. Japan’s Taigei class of lithium ion battery submarine has already been commissioned this year and reports indicate the new batteries are technology of the future as they are operationally far better than the AIP submarine. This means that the Indian Navy’s AIP submarines, if and when they are built, tested, and commissioned, will be outdated in technological terms on the date they are put out at sea. And a decade later another defence minister will perforce have to extoll the virtues of the commissioned AIP submarine. The same is the case of third aircraft carrier in the era of stand-off weapons and ship killer missiles.The Indian Air Force bureaucracy is no different. They are still stuck on fighter aircraft numbers based on Chairman, Chief of Staff Committee approval that they should have 42 squadrons. With the onset of highly capable S-400 air defence systems, armed drones and swarm drones with the PLA air force, the way forward would be to rationalize the fighter requirements, but it is virtually impossible to convince the IAF brass.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his national security planners are aware of the gaps in the military-civilian decision making and the threat it poses to much required Atmanirbhar Bharat, the seniority and not merit based defence ministry brass is killing the initiative due to lack of speed in decision making and implementation. It is the bureaucracy and not the political leadership that will let down the “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Jai Vigyan” mission. Time for old wine in a new bottle is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aatmanirbhar-bharat-in-defence-should-not-be-at-mercy-of-military-bureaucrats-101630389646561.html
31-08-2021||India||Assam: PM Modi reviews flood situation in call with CM Sarma; assures all possible support||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Himanata Biswa Sarma, chief minister of Assam, to take stock of the flood situation in the parts of the state. During the call, PM Modi also assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. "I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas," said PM Modi on Twitter.Sarma also informed about his conversation with PM Modi through his Twitter handle. "Current flood has gravely impacted the livelihoods of people. My gratitude to Adarniya Modi Ji for standing with us at this hour of crisis," he wrote on the micro-blogging site.Assam has been battling flood situations for the past several weeks. According to the Flood Reporting and Information Management System (FRIMS) report, 950 villages in 21 districts of Assam have been affected due to floods caused by torrential rains. These villages are inhabited by as many as 363,135 people, it also stated.As per the report, 44 relief centres that include 16 relief camps and 28 relief distribution centres have been opened in the state to help the flood victims. A total of 1,619 people have taken shelter in these relief camps. While no human casualty has been reported in the flooding so far, the rising water levels continue to pose a threat to the wildlife in the state.However, officials of the state disaster management authority were hopeful that the condition would improve in the coming days. “The water levels of major rivers are showing a receding trend and there’s no alert for more heavy rainfall in the next few days. Hopefully, the situation will improve rapidly soon. Thankfully, there have been no human deaths reported across the state thus far,” Dhiraj Saud, the project coordinator of Assam State Disaster Management Authority, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-pm-modi-reviews-flood-situation-in-call-with-cm-sarma-assures-all-possible-support-101630389376981.html
31-08-2021||India||First case of AY.12 sub-lineage of Delta variant in Pauri Garhwal: Check details||Pauri Garhwal distrcit in Uttarakhand reported its first case of AY.12 variant of coronavirus on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The case of the variant was reported in Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal, the district authorities said, according to ANI.The state health department said that necessary guidelines have been issued and the patient has been quarantined at home. The medical team of the health department is continuously monitoring the patient.Officials said that relatives and other people who came in contact with the patient are being traced, the health department added.What is the AY.12 variant of coronavirus?The Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) has classified AY.12 as a sub-lineage of the Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. The cases carrying the variant have been reported from many states in the country.This sub-lineage has been associated with the recent surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Israel.According to Insacog, both Delta and AY.12 appear to be very similar at a molecular level despite the functional impact of changes between the two not being known.What is the difference between Delta and AY.12 sub-lineage?Insacog said that Delta is the major variant of concern in India at this time. And AY.12, a reassigned sub-lineage of Delta, is being seen in many states.However, it said that the only difference between the two is that this sub-lineage does not have some of the mutations seen in the Delta parent lineage, such as G142D in spike protein.No new mutations of concern are noted in the spike protein of this variant, added Insacog.What authorities in Uttarakhand are doing?Chief Medical Officer, Pauri Dr Manoj Sharma said, "travel history of the patient of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus is being taken. Along with this, the relatives and other people who came in contact with the patient are being traced."Tests are also being done at the entry points of Pauri Garhwal district.Meanwhile, the number of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus cases in Rudraprayag district rose to 15 after a fresh case was reported on Monday, said the district health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-case-of-ay-12-sub-lineage-of-delta-variant-in-pauri-garhwal-check-details-101630387682427.html
31-08-2021||India||India has administered about 640 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered about 640 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, August 30. With schools reopening in many states and the government having already approved the first vaccine for those above 12, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation is likely to discuss vaccination of children at its meeting this week.Meanwhile, by 8pm on Monday, 639,901,822 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,337,042 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,855,587 got their first dose while 1,481,455 got their second dose.Also Read | Sero survey, new testing strategy: How Kerala is battling rising Covid-19 casesIn the 18-45 age group, 2,861,405 were given the first dose while 679,966 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 247,136,975 people have been given the first do while 27,224,648 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,357,664 have been given the first dose while 8,369,624 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,320,807 have got their first dose and 13,136,776 have got their second dose too.With 30,941 new cases, India’s total tally on Tuesday rose to 32,768,880, while the active cases declined to 370,640, according to the Union Health Ministry data.The death toll climbed to 438,560 with 350 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-about-640-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101630387606025.html
31-08-2021||India||Sero survey, new testing strategy: How Kerala is battling rising Covid-19 cases||Out of the 30,941 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 350 deaths across the country on Tuesday, Kerala has contributed most of the infections and fatalities. Kerala reported 19,622 Covid-19 cases and 132 deaths on Monday, which have pushed the southern state's caseload to 40,27,030 and the toll to 20,673. The state logged 29,836 Covid-19 infections and 75 related deaths on Sunday. A day before, there were 31,265 cases and 153 deaths in Kerala.Thrissur in Kerala reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 3177, followed by Ernakulam with 2315 and Kozhikode 1916. "Out of those found infected today, 62 reached the state from outside while 18,436 contracted the disease through their contact. The source of infection of 1,061 is yet to be traced and 63 health workers are also among the infected," Kerala health minister Veena George said in a release on Monday.Amid surging Covid-19 cases, the Kerala government clamped night curfew and has also decided to conduct a seroprevalence study to determine the immunity of people against the virus and assess the risk of the spread of the pandemic. Kerala health minister George said the permission to conduct Covid-19 seroprevalence study in the state has been granted. "The seroprevalence study is being conducted to find out how many people who have been vaccinated or have contracted the Covid-19 have been able to achieve the immunity against the virus. It will also be possible to find out how many more people are at risk of contracting the disease," she said.Also read | Karnataka govt mandates 7-day isolation for visitors from KeralaGeorge said the seroprevalence study would help in strengthening the Covid preventive measures the state is taking. "The last ICMR seroprevalence study conducted found that in Kerala, 42.07 per cent of people had acquired immunity against Covid-19. Kerala had the lowest number of infected people in the state. Since then, the state has made great strides in vaccination. That is why the seroprevalence study conducted by the state is very important," she added.In Kerala, George said the survey would cover people over the age of 18, pregnant women, children between the ages of 5-17, tribals above 18 and those living in coastal areas and slum dwellers. A seroprevalence survey uses antibody tests to estimate the percentage of people in a population who have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.George has also announced a revised Covid-19 testing strategy after 71 per cent out of Kerala's total population was eligible to be vaccinated taking at least the first dose of the vaccine. "The guidelines have also been issued based on the vaccination status in the districts. More people will be screened to know the exact extent of the spread of the disease in the community. The Covid spread will be assessed in all the districts based on sentinel and random samples. All the districts would take random samples to find out any new clusters of Covid outbreaks," she said.Also read | Covid-19 surge rages on despite curbs in KeralaThe minister said that in districts where the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine has been given above 80 per cent, RTPCR is recommended for individuals with any symptoms like mild sore throat, cough, and diarrhoea. "Antigen testing will be conducted at this location as part of Sentinel Surveillance. This test is performed on people with high social contact such as shops, malls, offices, institutions, and transit sites," she added. "Antigen will also be sufficient for a random test to assess the disease status in the district. The old system will continue in local government areas where the first dose of the vaccine is given below 80 per cent."Also read | India logs 30,941 new Covid-19 cases; fresh infections 28% lower than yesterdayThe collected samples should be sent to the labs without delay and the positive and negative results should be uploaded as soon as possible, she said. "Strict action will be taken against the labs which do against this. District health department officers will check the quality of Antigen and RTPCR test kits," she added.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government will also call a meeting of experts on September 1 to assess the current situation and formulate a strategy on the way ahead.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-new-testing-strategy-how-kerala-is-battling-rising-covid-19-cases-101630384702073.html
31-08-2021||India||The rumblings within the Congress continue -- from Punjab to Kerala||Former lawmaker AV Gopinathan quit the Congress on Monday amid growing rumblings within the party in Kerala. The Congress has faced similar challenges across the country, including Punjab, Chhattisgarh, and Rajasthan, where it is in power. Here is all you need to know about the troubles the Congress faces:KeralaGopinathan quit the party amid infighting over the selection of 14 district Congress Committee chiefs in Kerala. He said he has lost faith in the party leadership and that there was no point in remaining with Congress. Gopinathan had been upset over the denial of a ticket for contesting the assembly elections in March. But he was placated with the promise of a party post. Hours after Gopinathan quit the party, another functionary, PS Prasanth, was expelled. Prasanth’s expulsion came after he wrote to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the party workers have doubts about general secretary KC Venugopal’s actions. Prasanth insinuated that Venugopal was working in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party. He said the party has been destroyed in states such as Goa, Karnataka, and Madhya Pradesh that Venugopal has been in charge of. On Sunday, two Congress leaders K Sivadasan Nair and AP Anil Kumar were suspended for criticising the party.PunjabChief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu remain at loggerheads even as the latter was appointed as the Punjab Congress chief to end the infighting within the party. Sidhu has urged the party leadership to give him freedom in decision-making and insisted he does not want to be a dummy party chief. He has been critical of the chief minister for not delivering on the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 assembly elections.Also Read | TMC to approach Union minister for funds for work in cyclone-hit areasChhattisgarhChief minister Bhupesh Baghel appeared to have gained the advantage in the tussle for the top post in Chhattisgarh after a meeting with the Congress top brass on Friday. He invited Rahul Gandhi to visit the state after meeting him for the second time in three days. Baghel and his rival, state health minister TS Singh Deo, earlier held long meetings with Gandhi. Baghel later flew back to Raipur, organised a show of strength, and met loyalists. Ahead of Friday’s meeting, at least 45 of the party’s 70 lawmakers also flew to the Capital. The meetings came amid a reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement between Baghel and Deo. The conflict between Baghel and Deo stems from the agreement reached in December 2018 when Congress swept to power in Chhattisgarh by winning 68 of the 90 assembly seats.RajasthanThe ruling Congress in Rajasthan is yet to fulfil the promises made to Sachin Pilot after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year. The party has faced bigger troubles in Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Pilot’s loyalists are likely to be accommodated in the Cabinet while he is expected to be assigned a plum position in the Congress organisationKarnatakaInfighting has emerged within the party over the chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 assembly polls. DK Shivakumar, the state Congress chief, and former chief minister Siddharamiah in June were involved in a war of words on the probable Congress’s chief ministerial candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-rumblings-within-the-congress-continue-from-punjab-to-kerala-101630384905824.html
31-08-2021||India||India logs 30,941 new Covid-19 cases; fresh infections 28% lower than yesterday||India saw 30,941 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), along with 350 related fatalities, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Tuesday. The cumulative Covid-19 infection tally in the country has risen to 32,768,880 including 438,560 deaths comprising 1.34% of overall cases, the data showed.Though the country has recorded less than 50,000 daily Covid-19 cases over the last few days, including single-day rise of less than 30,000, this is for the first time since August 25 when less than 40,000 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease in 24-hour span. Additionally, the fresh infections are a significant 28% lower than 42,909 cases reported on Monday.Also Read | At 42,909, India logs over 40,000 Covid-19 cases for 5th straight day Tuesday's data shows that 36,275 more patients were discharged, taking the total recovered cases to 31,959,680 or 97.53% of the cumulative caseload. The number of active patients, meanwhile, fell by 5684 to 370,640 representing 1.13% of the total cases.In a statement, the Union health ministry said the daily positivity rate is at 2.22% as the latest positive cases were from 1,394,573 samples tested for the viral disease. Total 521,541,098 samples have been tested till now for Covid-19, it said.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/3BPaohAcRCThe number of vaccine doses administered since the nationwide inoculation drive commenced on January 16 has gone past the 640 million-mark, and is currently at 640,528,644. This includes 5,962,286 people who received their shots on August 30. On August 27, more than 10 million beneficiaries were vaccinated, making India the first country to record this milestone.From Wednesday, schools and educational institutions will reopen in several states, including in Delhi. Those in some states have already restarted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-30-941-new-covid-19-cases-fresh-infections-28-lower-than-yesterday-101630382740037.html
31-08-2021||India||Amit Shah launches free laddu scheme for pregnant women in his constituency||Union home minister Amit Shah launched a laddu distribution scheme for pregnant women in his constituency of Gandhinagar, Gujarat, on Monday. It being Janmashtami, Lord Krishna’s birthday, Shah emphasised that Krishna’s child form is considered a model for a healthy child, and that no country can progress until its children were healthy. In that direction, he said, around 7,000 expecting women in Gandhinagar will be provided 15 nutritious laddus each through voluntary organisations every month, till the birth of their child.Also Read | Delhi weather: Expect a cloudy sky with moderate rainfall todayEmphasising PM Narendra Modi’s slogan of ‘Sahi Poshan, Desh Roshan’, Shah said that “in three years, around 75 million pregnant women and 30 million lactating mothers have been given 180 doses each of the folic acid supplement.”He added that Anganwadi and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers have been given 860,000 smartphones. He said, “in a democracy, an individual is the first and the smallest unit,” adding that these schemes become meaningless if the beneficiaries remain weak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-free-laddu-scheme-for-pregnant-women-in-his-constituency-101630384125639.html
31-08-2021||India||9 new Supreme Court judges, including 3 women, to take oath today||Nine new judges, including three women, would be administered the oath of office as judges of the Supreme Court by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Tuesday. Three out of these nine new judges -- Justice Vikram Nath and Justice BV Nagarathna and Justice PS Narasimha -- are in line to become the chief justice of India. The strength of the Supreme Court would go up to 33, including the CJI, out of the sanctioned strength of 34, after the swearing-in of the nine new judges.This will be for the first time in the history of the top court when nine judges would be taking the oath of office in one go. Also, the swearing-in ceremony would be held in the auditorium of the Supreme Court's additional building complex due to the coronavirus pandemic. Traditionally, new judges take the oath of office in the CJI's courtroom.Also read | Govt doesn’t accept 14 collegium picks for HC judgesThe Supreme Court Collegium recommended the names of these nine judges on August 17 for appointment as judges of the top court. President Ram Nath Kovind then signed the warrants of their appointment as top court judges.The top court has seen very few women judges since its inception and in the last over 71 years has appointed only eight women judges starting from M Fathima Beevi in 1989. Justice Indira Banerjee is the lone serving woman judge in the top court after her elevation on August 7, 2018.Supreme Court judges retire at the age of 65 and the retirement age of high court judges is 62.1. Justice Vikram Nath: Justice Nath, who was the chief justice of the Gujarat High Court, is in line to become the CJI upon the retirement of sitting top court judge Justice Surya Kant in February 2027. He would be succeeded by Justice Nagarathna, who would have a tenure of over a month as the head of the judiciary.2. Justice BV Nagarathna: Justice Nagarathna was a judge of the Karnataka High Court. Justice Nagarathna is in line to become the first woman CJI in September 2027. Justice Nagarathna, born on October 30, 1962, is the daughter of former CJI ES Venkataramiah.Also read | Supreme Court issues SOP for physical hearing of cases from Sept 13. Justice PS Narasimha: Justice Narasimha was a senior advocate and former additional solicitor general. Justice Narasimha would succeed Justice Nagarathna as the CJI and would have a tenure of over six months.4. Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka: Justice Oka was the chief justice of the Karnataka High Court),5. Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari: Justice Maheshwari was the chief justice of the Sikkim High Court.Also read | Speak truth to power, SC judge tells citizens6. Justice Hima Kohli: Justice Kohli was the chief justice of the Telangana High Court7. Justice CT Ravikumar: Justice Ravikumar was a judge of the Kerala High Court8. Justice MM Sundresh: Justice Sundresh was a judge of the Madras High Court9. Justice Bela M Trivedi: Justice Trivedi was a judge of the Gujarat High Court(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-new-supreme-court-judges-including-3-women-to-take-oath-today-101630380635271.html
31-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD predicts moderate rain in Mumbai, suburbs in next 24 hours and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IMD predicts moderate rain in Mumbai, suburbs in next 24 hoursThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday Mumbai and its suburbs will continue to see rain during the next 24 hours due to a low-pressure area over western parts of Maharashtra's Vidarbha, leading to moderate rain at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Read MoreBiden says will address America on why deadline to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan was not extendedUS president Joe Biden announced on Monday (local time) he will address the nation on Tuesday to explain his decision not to extend the deadline beyond August 31 to end America’s military presence in Afghanistan. Read MoreCops at sealed buildings, marshals to ensure masks in Mumbai as Covid cases riseMumbai civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has directed officials to deploy police at the entrance of buildings sealed in order to stop people from entering them in another attempt to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases, which have been on the rise in the city. Read More‘They were bowled out for 36 in Adelaide but came back to pull off a famous series win’: Nasser Hussain warns EnglandJoe Root-led England bounced back in the ongoing five-match series after experiencing a stunning defeat in the second Test at Lord’s. Read MoreKBC 13's first crorepati Himani Bundela was apprehensive of how she'd be treated: 'Will they be sympathetic?'Himani Bundela has become the first crorepati of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13. The 25-year-old teacher from Agra has won ₹1 crore and will be attempting the ₹7 crore question. Read MoreMadhuri Dixit in embroidered rani pink sharara with sleeveless kurta weaves magicBollywood actor Madhuri Dixit Nene loves wearing sarees and lehengas and often sticks to traditional silhouettes for her red carpet or award show appearances. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-predicts-moderate-rain-in-mumbai-suburbs-in-next-24-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101630378602832.html
31-08-2021||India||Villagers take shelter on roads, higher ground, as rivers swell in north Bihar||A large number of villagers on Monday took shelter on roads, embankments and other safe places amid fears of flooding in parts of East Champaran, Gopalganj and West Champaran districts in north Bihar, where water levels in rivers kept rising ominously, officials said on Monday.In East Champaran’s Sangrampur block, a large number of villagers have taken shelter on roads, Champaran embankment and other higher grounds, while several families from Nautan block in West Champaran, too, have taken shelter on Champaran embankment with their livestock.“You never know how things will pan out in the next few hours considering the way water level in the river is rising. Therefore, we have taken no risk with regard to the safety of our family members and livestock. Like many other co-villagers, we have put up our tent,” said Prahalad Yadav, who has taken shelter on a road in Sangrampur block.Suresh Paswan, circle officer (CO), Sangrampur said the number of families taking shelter on the embankment and other places was between 50 and 60. “We will distribute raw food materials among them,” the circle officer said.Nautan circle officer (West Champaran) said villages in Bishambharpur and Bhagawanpur panchayat were prone to flooding. “There is waterlogging in agricultural land there and the possibility of a few villages getting flooded cannot be ruled out if water level rises further. We have already alerted the residents of those villages,” said Bhaskar, the CO, who doesn’t use a surname.In Sagauli and Banjariya blocks of East Champaran, water has entered the low-lying areas in about two dozen villages. “We are watchful. Need for evacuation has not arisen as yet,” Dharmendra Prasad Gupta, CO, Sagauli, said.In East Champaran, major rivers like Gandak, Lalbakeya and Sikrahna continued to be in spate on Monday following the heavy discharge of water (3.53 cusec at 5pm on Monday) from Valmikinagar barrage and incessant rain in the catchment area of Nepal. Meanwhile, two drowning deaths were reported from different parts of the district.In neighbouring West Champaran district, road link between Lauriya and Narkatiaganj has been disrupted with water from Sikarahana river flowing over the stretch of road at a diversion near Ashokan Pillar in Lauriya. The link between Sheohar and Motihari through Patahi is expected to be disrupted for the next few days, said Kumar Ravindra, sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Pakaridayal. The road transport was disrupted on Saturday with water submerging a stretch of road between Devapur and Belwaghat.In Gopalganj district, several families in Baikunthpur, Gopalganj (Sadar), Barauli, Kuchaikote, Majha and Sidhawaliya blocks have also taken shelter on roads and other safer places following incessant rainfall and rise in water level in the Gandak river. “Around 200 people were shifted to safer places in Baikunthpur and Sidhawaliya each. Community kitchens are running at five places in the district,” said Birendra Prasad, additional district magistrate (ADM), in-charge of disaster management, Gopalganj.The water in Gandak has risen around 3 inches above the danger level, he added.The district administration, however, has ruled out any threat to the embankment. “Though the water level has risen in Gandak, it is static now. We are watchful,” said Dr Naval Kishor Choudhary, Gopalganj’s district magistrate (DM)..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-take-shelter-on-roads-higher-ground-as-rivers-in-spate-in-north-bihar-101630380105722.html
31-08-2021||India||Assam: 70% of Kaziranga national park submerged by flood; 4 hog deer killed||Flood waters have submerged nearly 70% of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) in Assam, forcing wild animals to move to higher grounds for safety. The park, spread across 430 sq km, has witnessed deaths of four hog deer till Monday morning due to drowning, attacks by villagers and accidents while crossing the National Highway-37 that passes through the reserve. The flood situation across Assam deteriorated slightly on Monday with the number of affected districts rising to 21 from 16 and affected persons rising to 363,135 from over 258,000 a day earlier. According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 950 villages in 50 revenue circles of the affected districts have been hit by flooding. Two incidents of drowning, the first human casualties due to floods this season, were reported in Barpeta and Morigaon districts. According to KNPTR authorities, 125 of the total 223 anti-poaching camps used for patrolling and keeping a tab on the animals are inundated at present while one has been vacated due to flooding. On Monday, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma ordered that heavy vehicles are kept off the road passing through the national park until significant improvement in the flood situation. “From Sunday, we have introduced a timecard system for vehicles, directing them not to cross the speed limit of 40 km/hr while passing through the park. This helps in saving the animals from getting hit by speeding vehicles,” said P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR. Every year, as flood waters inundate KNPTR, hundreds of wild animals including deer, rhinos, wild buffaloes and elephants cross NH-37 and head towards the hills of nearby Karbi Anglong district. Some get hit by vehicles while crossing the highway, especially at night. “We expect the flood waters to recede in the next few days as there’s no forecast for heavy rainfall soon,” said Sivakumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-70-of-kaziranga-national-park-submerged-by-flood-4-hog-deer-killed-101630377645389.html
31-08-2021||India||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region rise slightly in past few days||Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have seen a slight surge in the past 15 days with the daily average of 250 new infections registered in mid August climbing up to 350 in the past five days.As per the state health department, Mumbai recorded around 325 cases on August 1, which dropped to 262 on August 15 but reached 345 on August 29. Similarly, Navi Mumbai had 72 fresh infections on August 1, which decreased to 51 on August 15, but rose to 87 on Sunday. Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai-Virar, too, have shown a similar trend in the past 15 days. However, the graph is a bit different for Thane city, which reported 67 cases on August 1, which decreased to 50 in mid-August and dropped further to 44 new infections on Sunday.Maharashtra health department officials say the surge is not a trend and the easing of restrictions could have resulted in the minuscule rise in the number of infections. Among the most significant relaxations, suburban trains in Mumbai were opened for fully-vaccinated travellers starting August 15.On Monday, Maharashtra reported 3,741 Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to more than 6.46 million Covid cases including 137,209 deaths, 52 of which were recorded in the 24 hours preceding the release of the state health bulletin on Monday. The active case count in the state was 51,834 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-rise-slightly-in-past-few-days-101630375545269.html
31-08-2021||India||'RC valid for 15 years but diesel vehicles can’t ply after 10 years'||The state transport department on Monday issued public notices to clarify that diesel vehicles over 10 years old and petrol variants over 15 years old cannot ply on Delhi-NCR roads even though the registration certificates (RCs) of the vehicles are valid for 15 years.The notice came after the department received a number of queries from the public pointing to the conflict in the validity of RC and the life of registered vehicles in Delhi, especially diesel variants as several people pointed to the contradiction with the proposed national scrappage policy.“The general public is informed that the validity of all category of vehicles in the RC is shown as 15 years. But a diesel vehicle cannot ply in Delhi beyond 10 years in terms of court orders. However, NOC can be obtained for diesel vehicle beyond 10 years but less than 15 years for [other] states which have conveyed their concurrence for registration of such diesel vehicles,” read the notice.“Owners of such vehicles, i.e., more than 10 year old diesel and more than 15 years old petrol vehicles, are hereby advised not to ply these vehicles on the roads in Delhi-NCR, and further advised to get such end-of-life vehicles scrapped through authorised scrappers of the transport department, the list of which is available at the website of the department,” it further stated.At present, the Delhi transport department is reaching out to owners of vehicles registered in 2014-15 and have de-registered at least 100,000 such vehicles. Officials said that this number is quite small considering there are 3.8 million vehicles -- 3.5 million petrol and 300,000 diesel -- which are older than the permitted age limits.As per orders issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2015 and the Supreme Court in 2018, any registered diesel vehicle over 10 years old and petrol vehicle over 15 years old cannot operate in the National Capital Region.This is different from the Centre’s draft scrappage policy, where the age for re-registration depends on whether it is a private or a commercial vehicle, and will also take into account the fitness of the vehicle.Officials, however, said the Centre’s draft vehicle scrapping policy will have little impact for owners of vehicles registered in Delhi, unless there are fresh directions from the NGT or the Supreme Court.In March, the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) released the first draft of the national voluntary vehicle scrappage scheme, under which a private vehicle over 20 years old will have to mandatorily undergo fitness and emission tests, failing which it will be deemed as an end-of-life vehicle (EOLV) and scrapped.For commercial vehicles, the age limit is 15 years, following which such vehicles will have to pay more for fitness certificates and also cough up a “green tax” which will vary from state to state, depending on the pollution levels.None of the rates have been decided yet, and the policy is likely to be implemented from next year.“Delhi’s motor licensing officers issue no-objection certificates (NOCs) for vehicles that are either above 15 years old, or above 10 years if it is a diesel variant. The vehicles cannot be used in Delhi, but these NOCs can be used in select states to get the vehicle re-registered there. It is illegal to drive any such vehicle without re-registration in that state,” said a senior transport official.States where such vehicles are allowed to be sold and re-registered include Rajasthan, which allows it in all its districts; Bihar (18 districts); Maharashtra (26 districts); Uttar Pradesh (33); West Bengal (all districts but only BS-IV vehicles); and Meghalaya (all districts).On July 15, MoRTH notified fresh amendments to the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 2021 to include a special provision for registration of vintage motor vehicles. All two-wheelers and four-wheelers over 50 years old from the date of first registration, maintained in their original form and not having undergone any substantial overhaul, which includes any modification in chassis or body shell or engine, shall be defined as Vintage Motor Vehicles, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rc-valid-for-15-years-but-diesel-vehicles-can-t-ply-after-10-years-101630373079256.html
31-08-2021||India||EIU declined India's offer to use govt data for Democracy Index||The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) declined an offer from the Indian government to provide official data for its “Democracy Index” rankings, according to documents accessed by HT and officials aware of the development.According to documents prepared by an inter-ministerial group for Niti Aayog’s plan to create a dashboard for monitoring global indices, the Principal Economist (Asia) of EIU informed Indian government officials that the scoring for the index was done on the basis of monitoring developments through information available in the public domain.This, the documents suggested, include political opposition to certain new laws, and mentioned issues such as the Land Report Bill, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and the state-backed blackout of the internet in Jammu & Kashmir that may have led to a downgrade.The response came after government officials reached out to EIU to seek clarifications regarding the Democracy Index, which put India in the 53rd spot and classified it as a “flawed democracy”. Indian officials sought details on the sample size; the other aspects of the methodology; the details of agencies/authors or contributor; and consultations with government agencies, if any.According to documents reviewed by HT, the Union government asked the High Commission of India (HC) in London to understand from the EIU based in London, “the assessment mechanism of the Democracy Index (DI)” and the “methodology, sample size, details of authors and agencies that were used to curate this index”.Other documents note that the government made several attempts to reach out to EIU’s Principal Economist Asia & Client Engagement Officer, Fung Siu, and finally interacted with her in September 2020 via Zoom.HT reached out to EIU with a detailed questionnaire but received no response. HT also reached out to Fung Siu separately but got no response.It isn’t clear when the Zoom interactions took place but the documents put down details of the interaction.“EIU relies on the annual reports of US based think-tanks like Freedom House and Pew Research, Human Rights Watch and Reporters Sans Frontieres (Reporters without Borders). For example, the action of JSF to recently downgrade India from completely free to partially free in terms of press freedom will definitely resonate in EU country forecasts,” they noted her as saying.According to the documents, on being asked on whether there were any consultations with government or official agencies during the preparation of the index, the EIU officer asserted that at no point does EIU consult governmental agencies, as their work is independent of any external interference. Concerned entities are informed and sent a copy of their report. “On the qualitative side, Ms Siu emphasised that India was a very strong country, and even if some quantitative elements looking dismal, she would have the final say on the forecast, and asserted that barring extreme scenarios of India going to war and suffering a terrible monsoon, the net report for India will still be positive.”Her team generates data for various forecasts, including monthly forecasts and the annual Democracy Index, the documents added. They also mentioned that there are 100 employees in the EU’s Gurugram office.HT on August 16 reported that Union government tried to engage with EIU headquartered in London, according to documents accessed by HT and officials familiar with the development. This admission was made in a letter, reviewed by HT, written by the Union law ministry to the Rajya Sabha secretariat on July 15 seeking to disallow a question by an MP on “Indian Position in Democracy Index,” that was due for answer on July 22. The ministry said the question was sensitive in nature.The EIU released the Democracy Index in 2008 (with updates in 2008, 2010 and every year since), which is an index compiled by examining the state of democracy in 167 countries (of which 166 are sovereign states and 164 are UN member states), attempting to quantify this with an Index of Democracy focusing on five general categories: electoral process and pluralism; civil liberties; political participation; functioning of government; and political culture.“The scoring is done on the basis of monitoring developments through information available on the open source. When asked about the sources of data used by EIU, Ms Siu was empathic in asserting that government data is never a primary source. While they look at RBI announcements, finance ministry, and other departmental announcements, these are only supplementary sources,” the documents said.“Ms Siu politely but firmly declined the offer from the Mission to supply data, research or similar inputs. Policy implementation is evaluated both in terms of the intention of the GOI to implement policies, and also in terms of political backing (for example, Ms Siu mentioned that when the government did not have majority in the Rajya Sabha, any proposed scheme would be analysed in the light of the possibility of opposition in the RS,” they added.The documents noted that, according to the economist, EIU would look not just at “the government’s projected intention and will, but also political backing”.“Ms Sui gave the example of the Land Reform Bill, which she suggested will be almost impossible for GOI to implement even with full majority. This deduction is based on her team’s historical perspective on this issue, as they have surmised that land reform has always been a thorny issue for any Government attempt over the decades. The First Secretary (Eco, Press & Info) responded by saying that Land Reform in India is not a new process, and it was successfully implemented earlier also. This is in continuation of the same. Many states have also implemented land reforms,” the documents said.EIU also stated that the nine months of State-backed internet blackout in Jammu & Kashmir from 2019 was logged in their system as a perceived threat to civil liberties, resulting in a consequent downgrade.“She (Ms Sui) also referenced the CAA and the subsequent protests leading to the alleged muzzling of civil liberties, as also being a likely factor in India being marked down in the index,” the documents said.HT on April 17 reported that the law ministry’s legislative department wrote to several ministries and departments on April 1 seeking details on the parameters used in the rankings of the EIU’s Democracy Index, as part of a larger exercise under the aegis of Niti Aayog to monitor parameters used in key global indices including Ease of Doing Business, World Press Freedom, Human Development, Global Innovation, and Global Climate Risk.The legislative department had been assigned to monitor India’s performance on the Democracy Index. Niti Aayog’s Development Monitoring & Evaluation Office (DMEO) was tasked with monitoring all the indices and facilitating the measurement and monitoring of India’s performance on these indices through a single dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eiu-declined-india-s-offer-to-use-govt-data-for-democracy-index-101630368712964.html
31-08-2021||India||Govt doesn’t accept 14 collegium picks for HC judges||The Union government has declined to accept 14 names for appointment in the high courts as judges, asking the Supreme Court collegium to review its recommendations. The numbers include the oldest recommendation made by the collegium back in July 2019.According to people familiar with the development, it has taken more than a year for the government to decide on returning 10 of these 14 names while two of them have been sent back for the second time even after the collegium reiterated them.Those names returned for reconsideration earlier this month included five names for appointment in the Calcutta high court which had been pending with the government since July 25, 2019, despite the final recommendation of the SC collegium.Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir high court had been pending for almost 21 months while another one not accepted by the government for the same court was forwarded in March this year after additional inputs sought by the government regarding the advocate’s legal practice. Pending for 11 months, four names for the Delhi high court have also been returned, the people cited above said.Apart from those being sent back for a reconsideration for the first time, the government has also opted to seek a review of two names for the second time. This, even though the memorandum of procedure (MoP), which guides the appointment of judges in the higher judiciary, makes it clear that the government is bound by the decision of the collegium after the names are reiterated.The government has demanded reconsideration of two names meant for the Karnataka and Kerala high courts. Of the two names returned for the Karnataka high court, one was initially recommended in October 2019 and reiterated in March this year.Similarly, despite the collegium’s reiteration of a name for the Kerala high court in March this year after rejecting all objections, the government has chosen not to clear a name for that court.As of August 1, 455 posts of high court judges were lying vacant in the 25 high courts across the country against the total strength of 1,098. The vacancy translates to more than 41% of the total strength. The high courts of Delhi, Allahabad, Calcutta, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Patna, Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana face shortage of more than one-third of their total judges’ strength.The files have been sent back after attorney general KK Venugopal assured the top court in April that the government will take a decision on the oldest pending names within three months. Later in April, the Supreme Court had in a judgment set down 18 weeks as an outer time limit within which the Centre is expected to process the names for appointment of high court judges, besides notifying appointments once the names are reiterated by its collegium.However, on August 9, citing huge vacancies of judges across the high courts in the country, the Supreme Court had come down heavily on the Union government for bringing the “third pillar of democracy to a standstill” by not appointing judges and warned that the government’s administration will also come to a standstill if this attitude continues.“There is a huge paucity of judges but you are not interested... If the judicial system is sought to be brought to a working halt, then your administrative system will also come to a working halt. It is time you (government) realise this,” a bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, told a government law officer on August 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-doesn-t-accept-14-collegium-picks-for-hc-judges-101630367061316.html
31-08-2021||India||Govt says rules explanatory as social media firms await clarity on new IT guidelines SOP||New Delhi: Even as social media companies such as Twitter and Facebook await clarity about a standard operating procedure for the new social media and intermediary guidelines, a ministry of electronics and information technology official on Monday said that the rules are self-explanatory. The Information Technology (IntermediaryGuidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 were notified by the Centre on February 25, and came into effect on May 25 ; they are applicable on social media intermediaries such as Twitter and Facebook, and over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar and Amazon Prime.“It is very clear that the agency administering a particular law will be the appropriate government authority, whether it is under the state government or the Centre,” the IT ministry official said on condition of anonymity. “There is a need to realise that the law enforcement agencies concerned also seek information from these intermediaries. This touches upon a larger issue and all law enforcement agencies are allowed to ask the companies to act in congruence with Indian law.”The official added that even as the government works on the SOP, the rules for the removal of unlawful content are already clear. “An intermediary, on whose computer resource the information is stored, hosted or published, upon receiving actual knowledge in the form of an order by a court of competent jurisdiction or on being notified by the Appropriate Government or its agency under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 79 of the Act, shall not host, store or publish any unlawful information, which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force in relation to the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India; security of the State; friendly relations with foreign States; public order; decency or morality; in relation to contempt of court; defamation; incitement to an offence relating to the above, or any information which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force,” states the relevant section in the guidelines. At least five industry bodies wrote to the ministry in May, seeing a SOP for better implementation of the rules. HT reached out to Facebook and Twitter for a response but did not receive any till the time of going to press. Industry officials, however, claim that there is a lack of clarity when it comes to the definition of ”appropriate government (authority)”. “Does this mean that any local police station can send a takedown request?” asked one industry official who asked not to be named. “The government can always notify a list of appropriate governments and its agencies. That way there will be clarity.”Apar Gupta, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, an NGO that works in the area of digital rights and liberties said the power to demand removal of unlawful content posted on intermediaries is already abused by police departments under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and there have been instances in the past when it was used to block content even before a first information report was filed. “The government justification is correct to a reasonable extent; it doesn’t have to define appropriate government , which already includes central and state agencies that operationalise particular areas of work,” he said. “The social media companies, though, to act under the Shreya Singhal judgment, will comply with notices by government bodies that are legally empowered to direct removals. Beyond compliance, they may be seeking ease of coordination.” The Supreme Court ruled in the landmark Shreya Singhal case of 2015 that online intermediaries would only be obligated to take down content on receiving government or court orders.The industry official asserted that the social media firms are complying with the new rules even without a SOP. “What they are seeking is clarity so that compliance is practical. As far as takedown orders under section 69 (A) of the IT Act are concerned, there is a set procedure. A notice is issued, followed by a meeting, a discussion and then there is agreement or disagreement over the content,” the official said, adding that the companies only want to know the process in the light of the new rules so “they can comply better”. Representatives of various social media firms also met minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrashekhar on Thursday to discuss a host of issues. “Twitter remains deeply committed to serving India. I appreciate the conversation with @Rajeev_GoI and look forward to working with @GoI_MeitY on our shared goal of ensuring that the Internet empowers healthy public conversation,” Twitter’s legal, policy and trust & safety lead Vijaya Gadde tweeted after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-rules-explanatory-as-social-media-firms-await-clarity-on-new-it-guidelines-sop-101630354123915.html
31-08-2021||India||Money laundering case: ED raids 7 places linked to Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday conducted searches at seven places in Maharashtra linked to Bhavana Gawali, Shiv Sena MP from Yavatmal-Washim, in connection with an investigation into alleged money laundering, people aware of the development said. The central agency on Monday also raided three places in Maharashtra in connection with the money laundering case registered against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. These places are related to Nagpur’s deputy RTO Bajrang Kharmate, said to be a close associate of transport minister Anil Parab, a close confident of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. However, ED did not reveal the places that were raided. The central agency has already issued summons to Parab and asked him to attend the agency’s office in Mumbai on Tuesday. The raids have come after a viral video showed Parab purportedly instructing the superintendent of police of Ratnagiri to arrest Union minister Narayan Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant. On Monday, ED officers along with armed Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans raided five institutions controlled by Gawali, including Janshikshan Sanstha at Rishod, a degree college at Shirpur, an Ayurveda college at Degaon, Shri Balaji Sahakari Particle Board Karkhana Ltd at Malegaon, and Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan at Rishod. Two other places, including one in Mumbai, were also raided, the people added. ED officers claimed they have seized some documents and recorded statements of some people during the raids. Officers of the central agency said they have registered a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of a first information report (FIR) registered with Washim police in connection with alleged financial irregularities in a trust linked to Gawali. ED suspects Gawali’s involvement in money laundering and embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹17 crore as well as misuse of power in obtaining government grants and funds for a project. Gawali is a five-term Lok Sabha member, representing Yavatmal-Washim constituency since 1999. People cited above said the alleged irregularities revolve around Gawali obtaining loan of around ₹43 crore from National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) through Balaji Sahkari Particle Board, which was allegedly misused and not utilised for the purpose the loan was provided. Harish Sarda, former vice-president of Shiv Sena’s Washim district unit, first unearthed the alleged misappropriation of funds at Shri Balaji Sahakari Particle Board Karkhana and named Gawali in his complaints to various authorities, including police. He also filed petition before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court after local police and other authorities did not act on his complaints. Sarda in his complaint to the police alleged money laundering and embezzlement by Gawali and her associates by misusing power in obtaining grants and funds for Balaji plant located at Malegaon in Washim. Gawali’s father Pudalikrao, who also represented the region in the Lok Sabha, was its chief promoter. The factory was set up in 1998 to collect crop residue and use it for preparation of particle boards for making furniture, partition material and other purposes. The aim of the project was to provide employment to local farmers, Sarda said in his complaint. However, the factory never started functioning. In 1998, the estimated project cost was ₹43.85 crore but it was allegedly undervalued to ₹7.9 crore by a firm called MITCON and was later sold to Bhavna Agro Products run by Gawali on August 16, 2010. The complainant also claimed that Gawali’s father illegally transferred 14.90 hectares of factory land to Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan in 2001 without obtaining necessary permission from competent authorities. Cooperative society land cannot be transferred to any public trust without government approval, Sarda had stated. Last year, Sarda sought thorough investigation into irregularities from any central law enforcement agency like ED or Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). ED initiated an investigation in the matter and is also looking into alleged misappropriation of funds availed by Gawali’s firm Bhavana Agro Products and Service Ltd from the two banks. The agency is likely to summon Gawali for questioning. Shiv Sena on Monday said action against party leaders was “vendetta politics”, adding that it won’t have an impact on Sena or the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “The ED is hand in glove with BJP and this must be investigated… For the past few days, BJP leaders had been saying that Anil Parab is next [to face ED action]. Either ED has kept one desk officer in BJP headquarters or a BJP office-bearer has been deputed as a desk officer in ED. Hence, all these actions are happening. Otherwise how did they know that Anil Parab will get notice or when he will be summoned for questioning. Kirit Somaiya, Chandrakant Patil and many others know,” Sena leader Sanjay Raut said. Responding to the allegation, Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “Everybody has the freedom to level allegations. But ED, CBI and other agencies are independent bodies that are not controlled by one person or one party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-ed-raids-7-places-linked-to-shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-101630353464550.html
31-08-2021||India||Man held for smuggling gold-laced trousers at Kannur airport||Customs officials on Monday arrested a man arriving from the United Arab Emirates at the Kannur international airport after they found out that he was wearing double-layered pants laced with gold past worth ₹14 lakh.Officials said, though he cleared the initial check, they got suspicious about the thick jeans he was wearing. After removing the artfully crafted jeans, they found gold paste filled in between. The officials said it took them almost two hours to remove layers to retrieve the paste. This is the first time they came across such a smuggling technique, they said. “Air Intelligence unit at Kannur international airport seized 302 grams of gold in the form of a very thin paste, concealed within the double-layered pants worn by a passenger,” the Kochi customs unit said in a tweet. Officials admitted gold mixed in the form of paste with some impurities is tough to trace, and smugglers resort to ingenious methods to dodge them. Date seeds, thick bra straps, heavy belt buckles, shoe soles, sausages and gold paste are some of the methods smugglers resort to for smuggling gold in the country. Last year in Kozhikode, they arrested a passenger after detecting gold in his facemask. A woman passenger, carrying her baby, was found holding a water bottle made of gold. Officials said hiding gold in cavities and swallowing gold capsules are also common. Every day, they offer refreshingly new ideas to dodge the law, they said. Kerala tops in the country in terms of gold seizure. Last year, around 550kg were seized from four airports, and Kozhikode airport tops the chart. Despite special flights, it continued unabated, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-smuggling-gold-laced-trousers-at-kannur-airport-101630349625778.html
31-08-2021||India||Telangana set to use drones for afforestation campaign||The Telangana government has partnered with Marut Drones, a Hyderabad-based startup, to launch a drone-based afforestation project, named ‘Hara Bahara’, under which five million trees will be planted in 12,000 hectares across all 33 districts of the state. The project was announced on Monday by state IT minister K.T. Rama Rao (KTR) during the launch of ‘AgHub’, or Agri Innovation Hub, at the Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University (PJTSAU) in Hyderabad. Information technology & communication (IT&C) and forest departments have partnered with Marut Drones for the project. During the launch of ‘AgHub’, the Seedcopter drone by Marut Drones was unveiled along with the poster launch of the ‘Hara Bahara’ campaign, which the state government has initiated to accelerate the mission of a ‘green Telangana’. The mission was initiated under the state’s ‘Telangana ku Haritha Haram’ programme, which has been running over half a decade to accelerate afforestation. Addressing delegates and other officials at the event, the state IT minister said, “Forests are essential to maintain a clean and habitable environment for human life, and emerging technologies have potential to support the afforestation efforts. Being already at the forefront of using drones for new use-cases, we are initiating Hara Bahara to plant seeds to increase forest areas across all the districts of the state.” Seedcopter is an aerial seeding solution for rapid and scalable reforestation. “It’ll not only reverse environmental damage but also create vital employment in rural, tribal and other vulnerable communities. Its core objective is to build strong communities for afforestation and bring awareness at a grassroots level on the effects of deforestation,” said a press release from the state government. The new project uses drones to disperse seed balls over thin, barren and empty forest lands to turn them into “lush green abode of trees,” the release said. The process will begin with field surveys and mapping of terrain in the state to understand the ecosystem and demarcate the areas needing urgent attention. ‘AgHub’ to support agritech startups ‘AgHub’ has been set up by PJTSAU) as a special purpose vehicle to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture. The newly launched startup incubator will also have rural innovation centres in other parts of the state to encourage rural innovation, said a note on the new initiative from PJTSAU. “It will cater to the promotion of rural entrepreneurship for building agribusiness enterprises promoted by rural youth, women, farmers and FPOs,” the note said. The ‘AgHub’ has been granted ₹9 crore for five years by the National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (Nabard), which has funded the incubator under its Rural Business Incubation Scheme (RBIC) scheme||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-set-to-use-drones-for-afforestation-campaign-101630349624469.html
31-08-2021||India||NTK chief Seeman supports Raghavan in ‘sting video’ case||Tamil nationalist and founder of Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) S Seeman on Monday extended his support to KT Raghavan, who recently resigned from his post as the general secretary of Tamil Nadu BJP over a sexually explicit video of him released on social media, engulfing the national party into a series of controversies. “Has he done something that is not happening in the world?” Seeman asked while speaking to reporters. “People have been caught watching porn inside the Assembly. That is wrong. But he was doing something in his room.”Last Tuesday, YouTuber and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Madan Ravichandran, who was later ousted from the party, released the video of Raghavan on a video call with a woman, whose identity was protected. Ravichandran said that the woman was helping them in their ‘sting operation’ to probe if their senior leaders were involved in sexual harassment and exploitation.Seeman said the crime was recording Raghavan and making it public. “Without his knowledge, you’ve recorded him in his personal space that’s a social crime. He (Ravichandran) should have been arrested first,” said Seeman. “What can be achieved by eavesdropping on what people are doing and recording it?”However, Congress MP Jothimani released a video on social media calling Seeman irresponsible and a B-team of the BJP. “It is shocking to see him supporting a sexual offence,” said Jothimani. “Tamil society will never accept those committing sexual crimes against women and those who support such women.” She went further to say that since there have been allegations of sexual offences made against Seeman in the past, he was supporting Raghavan. “It leads us to doubt whether Seeman is trying to cover up his crimes.”While Seeman’s speeches have often caused a furore, they are more keenly watched now as NTK has grown rapidly to become the third-largest party after the Dravidian majors in Tamil Nadu. It secured a 6.7% vote share in the recently concluded elections.Meanwhile, Raghavan has denied allegations of sexual misconduct made against him in the video and has decided to face it legally. The party has formed an internal committee to probe the issue and expelled Ravichandran and an associate G Venba for going ‘against party ideals’.Ravichandran said that he had gathered similar evidence against 15 others and that BJP’s new president K Annamalai allowed him to release the video. BJP has denied receiving such complaints.The incident comes after the state BJP issued a legal notice to Tamil daily Dinamalar in June over an article that claimed the party had allegedly received several complaints of sexual harassment against its leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ntkchief-seeman-supports-raghavan-in-sting-video-case-101630349564468.html
31-08-2021||India||Kerala reports 19k new Covid cases, 132 deaths||Kerala on Monday reported 19,622 new Covid cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 16.17 per cent after 117,261 samples were tested, and 132 deaths, the state health ministry said. The drop in TPR is a result of low testing held on Sunday, the health department confirmed. In the wake of rising Covid cases and rap from the Centre, on Saturday the government announced that it will impose night curfew across the state Monday onwards, while efforts are on to ramp up Covid testing and vaccination drive. The total active Covid cases in the state now stand at 209,493, while total fatalities have risen to 20,673. Thrissur reported maximum cases on Monday with 3,177 positive reports, followed by Ernakulam (2,315) and Kozhikode (1,916). A look at the health ministry statistics shows that at least five districts reported a high TPR average in the last one week, with Thrissur 22.6, Malappuram 22.3, Palakkad 21.7, Kozhikode 21.4 and Wayanad 21.3 per cent leading the charts. The health department has asked the district collectors to take stern action to control the abnormal TPR. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, TPR above 10 per cent is a serious situation, warranting strict measures, including total lockdown. But not a single district is below the criteria. The lowest TPR is in Kasaragod at 10.8. Critically- hit during the first phase, medical experts feel that the northern-most district is likely to have achieved herd immunity. “The present surge is likely to continue for more than a week. But we have no idea why the night curfew was imposed, usually at night movement is minimum. We are happy finally the government decided to call a meeting of experts which was quite overdue,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal, who was earlier with the WHO. Despite high TPR and daily cases, there is no unusual rush in hospitals, and at least 30 per cent of the ICU and ventilators beds are vacant. In the last two days, hospital records show but there is a steady rise in normal admission (not serious ones), state health minister Veena George said, adding that the situation is well under control and the Onam festival surge will subside soon.“Situation is under control. The government will do everything possible to contain the surge. We are planning to vaccinate all eligible by Sept end,” she said. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 42,909 cases with a TPR of 2.14% and Kerala contributed lion’s share of total cases and Covid-related deaths in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-19k-new-covid-cases-132-deaths-101630349507275.html
31-08-2021||India||Naidu asks DGP to drop ‘false’ cases against TDP leaders||Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu asked the state director general of police on Monday to withdraw what he claimed “false cases” filed against his party leaders in connection with a statewide protest against rise in fuel prices on August 28.“A section of police was harassing opposition leaders along with the general public if they exhibited any iota of dissent against the government,” Naidu said in a strongly worded letter to DGP Gautam Sawang. The TDP attempted to hold a statewide protest against fuel hike on August 28, which led to arrest of some of its leaders, including Chintameneni Prabhakar, former MLA from Denduluru in West Godavari district.Calling the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government a “suppressive police raj,” Naidu alleged that the police arrested TDP leaders from their homes late in the night as well, and asked the DGP to take cognizance of a “deteriorating” law and order situation.The former chief minister claimed that agitators on August 28 were demanding a rollback of prices of petrol, diesel and essential commodities in a “peaceful manner.”Naidu claimed that Prabhakar held a peaceful demonstration, for which a false case was registered against him under sections of Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He said Prabhakar was arrested from a wedding function in Visakhapatnam. “What was the need to arrest an opposition party leader and former MLA in such an unscrupulous manner?” the TDP national president asked. The ruling YSRCP hit back against Naidu, stating that Chintamaneni Prabhakar has 74 cases against him for various offences committed in the past.“Chandrababu Naidu talking about Chintemaneni, who is a rowdy sheeter, does not make sense as he has 74 cases against him. The same fellow during Naidu’s time as chief minister had attacked two sub-inspectors and two mandal revenue officers. If you are writing a letter to the DGP on him, what kind of a message are you sending?” questioned Abbaya Chowdary Kothari, YSRCP spokesperson and MLA from Denduluru.Kothari said Prabhakar had obstructed the road with 150 people and even pushed a police official, for which action was taken against him. “Petrol prices are high as we have to pay back oil bonds, so why can’t Naidu use his MPs and question the BJP-led Centre? An officer on duty was attacked, so is Naidu saying that law should not take its own course?” he asked. In AP, the main opposition TDP is weak in terms of MLAs, as the ruling YSRCP, led by chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, won 151 out of the 175 in the 2019 assembly elections. The TDP and YSRCP often lock horns over hosts of issues, and Naidu has often alleged police partiality ever since he lost the elections two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-asks-dgp-to-drop-false-cases-against-tdp-leaders-101630349505712.html
31-08-2021||India||Congress leader quits over Kerala DCC list||Senior Congress leader V Gopinathan on Monday announced his resignation from the primary membership of the party as the internal rift over the selection of 14 presidents of District Congress Committee (DCC) continued.Later on Monday, the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) expelled PCC secretary P S Prashant for anti-party activities. He was suspended from the party but continued to flout discipline by raising frivolous charges, said PCC chief K Sudharkaran. He had raised serious charges against AICC general secretary K C Venugopal and blamed him for the present mess in the party. Prashant was a candidate from Nedumangad in Thiruvananthapuram district in assembly elections but failed to win it.Announcing his resignation from the party at a press conference here, the senior leader said he would not like to continue as a stumbling block in the progress of the party for which he worked tirelessly for the last five decades.“I have been with the party for almost 50 years. I have lost all hopes now. So there is no point in remaining in it,” the former MLA and Palakkad district Congress committee chief said. Supporters of Gopinath had pressed for his appointment to the post of DCC chief but the leadership selected A Thankappan to lead the party in the district. Gopinathan was also unhappy after he was denied a party ticket in the March assembly election but was placated after he was promised a party post. While reports suggest the ruling CPI(M) is trying to woo the grassroots leader, Gopinathan said he has no plans to join any other party for now. CPI(M) leader A K Balan said it was for Gopinathan to take a final decision. “The developments show decline and degeneration of the Congress. It is for him to chalk out his future plan,” he said.Meanwhile, it is learnt that the party central leadership is reportedly upset with former chief minister Oommen Chandy and senior party leader Ramesh Chennithala for their public outburst over the selection of DCC chiefs. The top leadership also reportedly directed the state unit not to amend the list according to the sulking leaders. The new list by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chief K Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan have come under criticism from several party leaders, with both Chandy and Chennithala alleging that the DCC chiefs were selected sans discussion. Sudhakaran and Satheesan have, however, maintained that adequate talks were held with everyone before shortlisting the names. Some leaders have also blamed AICC general secretary K C Venugopal for the mess.The party on Monday issued show cause notices to two senior leaders -- K Sivadasan Nair and former PCC general secretary K P Anil Kumar -- who were suspended two days ago for publicly expressing displeasure over the listParty leader Joseph Vazhakkan said the party cannot move ahead by ignoring the views of senior leaders like Chandy and Chennithala. Chandy’s erstwhile supporters like Thiruvanchur Radhakrishnan and P T Thomas have asked party leaders to bury their differences and accept the list approved by the high command. Meanwhile the allies of the United Democratic Front (UDF) expressed reservations over continued infighting in the lead party. The Revolutionary Socialist Party said it will keep away from the UDF meet if the drama was not settled soon. Other allies like the Muslim League and Kerala Congress (Joseph) are also unhappy. But UDF convener M M Hassan said he will talk to allies and their worries will be sorted out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-quits-over-kerala-dcc-list-101630349504300.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka HC tells govt to ensure strict adherence to rules on manual scavenging||Karnataka high court on Monday asked the state government to ensure strict compliance of rules with regard to manual scavenging. A division bench of acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said that the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 and the rules must be followed in such cases. Talking about the instances where people have lost their lives in manual scavenging the court said no safety gear is provided to workers. “The persons who have lost their lives were certainly not wearing air purifier gas mask and they were not properly equipped and therefore the state government and all local bodies of the state government are directed to ensure that in case a sewer has to be cleaned manually, no cleaning will take place without following statutory provisions under the act and the rules, especially from rule 3 to 8,” the order said. “It is unfortunate that even when the act is in existence, its provisions are being violated by local bodies by the state government or by the contractors appointed by the local bodies.”During the hearing on Monday, the court pointed out that the statutory provisions contained in the 2013 Act provide for the rehabilitation of manual scavengers, however, the survey, which is the first step in the rehabilitation process, has not been completed yet. The court directed the state government to file a detailed report and further inform the reasons as to why the survey has not been completed. The court has also pulled up the government for not rehabilitating the family members of those who lost their lives due to manual scavenging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-tells-govt-to-ensure-strict-adherence-to-rules-on-manual-scavenging-101630349324449.html
31-08-2021||India||Dispose SC/ST atrocity cases quickly: Karnataka CM Bommai to officials||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday directed officials for speedy and swift disposal of atrocity cases against Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) after reports of long delays in initiating processes in such cases across the state.Chairing a meeting of the state level vigilance and monitoring committee under SC/ ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989, Bommai directed the social welfare department to coordinate with the home ministry on these matters.“He (CM) directed the officials to review (the) action taken report on the decision taken in the meeting every month. It was decided to hold (a) quarterly meeting of the committee, in case there are issues that need to be addressed immediately. He directed to ensure the district level and sub-divisional level committees hold meetings quarterly,” a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated.The statements and directions come at a time when Karnataka has seen an increase in cases of atrocities against marginalised sections.Between April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, there have been 2,327 cases of murder, exploitation and other cases on members of the SC/ST community in Karnataka, according to data from the Karnataka government, Hindustan Times reported on July 1.The number of cases grew from 1,504 cases registered the previous year, according to data from the National Crime Records Bureau. The cases include murder, exploitation, burns and other crimes against the members of the community.In total, there have been 87 murders, 216 cases of exploitation, 2,024 other instances and 3 incidents of fire, according to government data. The government has given around ₹2,842.38 lakh as compensation for these crimes.Out of the 2,775 arrested persons and 2,945 have been charge sheeted for crimes and atrocities against SC/ST communities in 2019, while only 50 were convicted and 1,513 were acquitted, data shows.On June 6, two brothers from the Dalit community were assaulted, abused and humiliated when they approached two barbers for a haircut in Yelaburga taluk in Koppal, one of the most backward villages in the state and country.But law enforcement authorities, whose duty it is to stop such practices and book those responsible, have also been accused of not just turning a blind eye on such atrocities but also fueling them.Bommai on Monday said that the authorities should focus on safety and protection of complainants and witnesses and even suggested that, in sensitive cases, they be under police protection. It was also decided to appoint the Additional Advocate General to oversee the process.The chief minister also said that more than 108,000 applications under Scheduled Tribes and other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act 2006 have been rejected in the state. “To review this matter, it was decided to set up a state level review committee, comprising 3 members representing these communities too,” the CMO said.Karnataka fares among the poorest in terms of distribution of land deeds to forest dwellers and tribals who have inhabited these lands for generations when compared to its counterparts in southern India, data shows, indicating how issues pertaining to non-dominant caste groups are rarely a priority for the state and its political dispensation, Hindustan Times reported on August 20.Out of the 275,446 applications received till end of 2020, only 14,667 titles have been distributed, according to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change in a response to the Lok Sabha.This amounts to 20,813.51 acres of forest land (already distributed) to dwellers who have been demanding proper titles for them to remain in their natural and traditional habitat without being under the sword of eviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dispose-sc-st-atrocity-cases-quickly-karnataka-cm-bommai-to-officials-101630349264365.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka govt mandates 7-day isolation for visitors from Kerala||The Karnataka government on Monday said that all visitors coming from Kerala will be subjected to seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine as a measure to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state.“One week institutional quarantine is mandatory for people coming from Kerala and testing on 7th day is compulsory irrespective of the persons vaccination status or he/she is holding (a) negative RT-PCR report,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue department said on Monday.The decision comes in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kerala which has been reporting a high number of new infections as against Karnataka which reported less than 1,000 cases across the state on Monday.Karnataka’s active case count came down to 18,392 after 1,324 more patients recovered, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.The positivity rate in Karnataka stood at 0.64% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.54% as 15 more died, taking the death toll to 37,293, data shows.Ashok also said that the night curfew restrictions in Chikmagalur, Hassan , Mysuru, Shivamogga, Kolar and Kalaburagi would be relaxed. He, however, said that Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada that border Kerala will remain under the same restrictions as before.Night curfew will continue in Hassan as well, the minister said.“Positivity rate has increased to 19% in Kerala and everyday 30,000 cases are being reported. Therefore restrictions will continue in Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu,” according to the statement from the government.Ashok also said that marriage halls and other events will be allowed 50% occupancy like in cinema theatres with a ceiling of 400 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-mandates-7-day-isolation-for-visitors-from-kerala-101630349205586.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka schools gear up to welcome students from Sept 6||The Karnataka government on Monday said that physical classes for students of classes 6, 7 and 8 will resume from September 6 across the state in taluks or administration units where the positivity rates is below 2%.“Classes will be conducted with 50% attendance on alternative days, five days a week. During weekends, sanitization will be done,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue department and in-charge of Covid-19 in Bengaluru said on Monday.The decision comes a week after the state government reopened classes for students of 9 and 10 which has received a good response in terms of attendance so far as the administration and ministers continue to encourage more students to return to attend physical classes.Ashok said that they will continue with the current arrangements for a month and then take a call on resuming classes for students below class 5.“We are fine with that (today’s announcement). But still we want to tell the government to please look into the recommendations made by the state task force where the main thing is literacy and numeracy have completely collapsed at primary level and something has to be thought of at this level,” Shashi Kumar, the state convenor of the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC) said. He added that the government was not looking at the earlier recommendations made by the expert committee to reopen physical classes in schools at the earliest. “Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition worse,” the report submitted to the government on June 22 stated.The call to resume physical classes has come under significant criticism from various quarters in the state, especially by parents and guardians, who have asked the government to reconsider its decision due to the impending third wave of Covid-19 infections.Parents and guardians have also alleged that the decision to reopen schools are part of the ploy by private educational institution operators who will now have more reason to demand fees for the academic year despite the looming threat of another Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown.There are 38,040 schools having classes 6, 7 and 8 in which over 3.1million students and 152,000 teachers, according to data shared by the primary and secondary education department.There are 24,391 schools having classes between 1 and 5 which have over 5.4 million students and around 162,000 teachers, data shows.The government has even stated that there has been a positive response to children wanting to return to school.Ashok said that there were 6,472 samples taken from students attending schools and only 14 of them have tested positive so far, which he said, was a validation for the government’s initiative to resume physical classes.The minister also said that there were 2,912 gram panchayats in the state that had zero Covid cases.Data shared by the government stated that there have been days when the percentage of attendance in classes 9 and 10 were around 65%, which the government believes is testimony that more students want to return to schools at the earliest.“We want to protest this decision but protests are not allowed since there is Covid, but schools are allowed,” Ganesh Poojary from the parents coordination committee told Hindustan Times on Monday.He said that it was fine to start schools in rural areas since many children had missed classes due to lack of connectivity but said that the government could have waited to do the same in Bengaluru.“Bengaluru is a big no no. Because the density of the city is too much and people are travelling around and we do not know where they are travelling,” he added.Poojary said that schools are being forced to reopen to help private schools collect fees and nothing more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-schools-gear-up-to-welcome-students-from-sept-6-101630349204315.html
31-08-2021||India||SC Bar Association terms SOPs on physical hearings arbitrary, non-starter||Less than 48 hours before the Supreme Court was set to begin physical hearings in a limited number of cases, the biggest body of lawyers practising in the top court – the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) – termed the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Court a “non-starter”, and contended that lawyers were not willing to take the option of physical hearings with so many conditions attached.In a letter addressed to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Monday, SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh said, “In our view, the SOP is a non-starter as our members would not like to take the option for physical hearing with so many conditions attached.”The SCBA also called for a wider opening up in the court, citing how the Covid case positivity rate in the Capital was down to 0.04%, and several other sectors had already been reopened.Singh termed the SOP a “mere lip service”.“Ultimately the effort seems to be to ensure that the courts do not open. This is a mere lip service to reopening the Supreme Court,” Singh told HT.The senior lawyer added: “The bar association began vaccination drive for its members in March and now most of the lawyers have got both doses of the vaccine. The staff of the Supreme Court have already been vaccinated by the administration. So, what is the purpose of issuing this kind of an SOP?”Singh further said that it will be for the SCBA members to individually decide if they want to attend physical hearings with so many conditions attached.The SOP released by the Supreme Court on Sunday said that lawyers opting for physical hearing of cases would require a special entry pass and had to exercise the option well in advance to the registry of the Court. The physical hearing of cases was restricted to hearing of regular appeals or old matters on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, beginning September 1. On the remaining days (Mondays and Fridays), the hearing of fresh/miscellaneous matters would strictly be through videoconferencing, the SOP said.The guidelines also restricted entry in the court to 20 lawyers at a time, and said that in matters where more than 20 persons appear physically, the concerned Supreme Court bench will have the discretion to adjourn the matter and hear the case through videoconferencing mode.The Registry of the Supreme Court met bar association leaders earlier this month and took their view on opening up courts for physical hearing. The circular of the court releasing the SOP noted that the decision to resume physical hearings (with hybrid option) was in continuation of the decision of the court taken in March this year, and on consideration of the requests received from the bar associations, along with the recommendation by a seven-judge Committee of Supreme Court judges recommending limited physical hearing of cases in August last year.Opposing the SOP on multiple grounds, the SCBA letter said, “The system of issuing special passes should be dispensed with in the SOP.” It said that the SOP should be only with regard to entry of courtrooms, and not restrict the movement of lawyers in the high security zone, which included the corridors, libraries, bar rooms and canteens. “The SOP prohibits the entry of lawyers to the high security area without special passes, which will, in turn dissuade our members from applying for physical hearing,” SCBA said.Even on the restriction imposed on 20 lawyers per courtroom, SCBA expressed reservations, suggesting that the limitation should be based on the size of courtroom. “The number of 20 can be justified only in the smallest courtrooms.” On the aspect of adjourning the matter at the last minute where number of litigants/lawyers in a case exceeds 20, the SCBA said, “A decision on adjourning the matter should be taken before listing the matter.”SCBA has more than 13,000 lawyers as its members.The association, however,emphasized the need to begin physical hearing of cases.It said, “While the bar is also apprehensive about the third wave (of Covid pandemic)…the said fear does not justify restricting the functioning of the Supreme Court now.” SCBA supported resumption of normal functioning of court at the earliest, as it said that the Supreme Court, being the apex court of the country, should be a guiding star for other high courts and lower judicial courts in the country to follow their example.The lawyer body said Covid-19 is not going to end completely, and lawyers must be proactive and learn to live with it. With the appointment of nine new judges in the top court, SCBA said that more benches will be available for disposal of cases. “If the hearings were to resume in the physical court, the number of cases disposed off will be very large and the huge pendency created during the pandemic will get some respite.”After beginning on an experimental basis for one week or so, we must move to physical hearing to restore normalcy in the Supreme Court, the association said, adding that a call can be taken later on continuing with it if number of cases suddenly spike.As courts account for a small aggregation of people, the association added that by “any stretch of imagination”, their functioning cannot result in a spike in Covid-19 cases. “This is because our premises can be a place where the activities will be controlled completely (by following Covid protocols).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-bar-association-terms-sops-on-physical-hearings-arbitrary-nonstarter-101630348784444.html
31-08-2021||India||Farmers broaden agenda, it’s no longer just about farm laws||Farm unions protesting three agricultural laws passed last year are broadening their agenda to oppose the Modi government’s major economic policies, including the new asset monetization programme, which, they claim, will impact the farm sector directly.A key farm union leader, Gurnam Singh Charuni, accused the Union government of harbouring a secret agenda to “kill farmers and their leaders” by unleashing brutal police force -- an allegation that follows a bloody put-down of a farm protest in Haryana’s Karnal on Saturday.Rakesh Tikait, a leader representing the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said “sarkari Taliban and their commanders” had been identified, referring to the government and bureaucrats as “Taliban”.“Haryana has always been a land of farmers’ activism. But never before we have seen such brutality. Both the state and central governments have a secret agenda to kill farmers and farm leaders through police beatings,” Gurnam Singh Charuni, a top leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said.A redrawn agenda of the unions is likely to be unveiled on September 5, when a major mahapanchayat (rural rally) is slated to be held in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar.Farmers, largely from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, are on protest since November last year, demanding a rollback of a set of laws to liberalise the farm sector in a challenge to the Modi government.On Saturday, a farmer, Sushil Kajal, died after returning from a protest in Haryana’s Karnal, where protestors faced heavy police crackdown. State authorities have denied he died from the beating, saying the deceased had a heart condition.A viral video showing a Haryana sub-divisional magistrate, Ayush Sinha, issuing a set of instructions in which he asked a posse of riot policemen to “break the heads” of protesting farmers has riled farm unions. Thousands of farmers gathered at the spot of the police action on Monday to demand action against the official and policemen.At a press conference in Chandigarh, Haryana chief minister ML Khattar said the officer’s “choice of words” was not correct but action would be taken on the basis of an assessment by the local administration.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala also said he did not approve of the 2018-batch IAS officer’s choice of words and that the latter would face action.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has held a series of meeting since. One of its members, requesting anonymity because the new plans were not officially adopted yet, said its demands would no longer be about just a repeal of the three laws.“We will oppose all of the (Union) government’s economic policies. Farmers will oppose privatisation of assets recently announced because they will directly impact farmers,” he said.The farm leader said the new “privatization” plan includes “selling off” warehouses of the state-run Food Corporation of India.Last week, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled a ₹6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline to lease out assets to the private sector to unlock capital. The finance minister rejected charges that the plan amounted to privatization.The farm unions said they would choke major cities and centres with large demonstrations in the next few weeks.Under the monetization plans, the government plans to lease out warehousing assets owned by state-owned firms FCI over the next four years for an estimated ₹28,900.“This means costs of storing grains will increase. Ultimately, public and farmers will have to suffer. That is why I have been saying that this government is run by two-three big corporations, not a political party,” Tikait said.In their new agenda, the farm unions will also include issue such as unemployment and functioning of the national rural employment guarantee scheme.“The crackdown in Karnal in which a farmer died will increase the stalemate because the police used unprecedented force. Such tactics ultimately will preclude any scope for dialogue,” said Sudhir Panwar, a professor with Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-broaden-agenda-it-s-no-longer-just-about-farm-laws-101630347583710.html
31-08-2021||India||J&K Panchayat leaders urge LS Speaker to bolster security||In wake of recent attacks and threats from terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, several Panchayat leaders on Monday urged Lok Sabha Speaker for additional security cover and modern vehicles.Birla, who is on a four-day trip to the Valley, visited Pahalgam on Monday and interacted with the panchayat leaders.Anantnag’s District Development Council chairman Md Yusuf Gorsi told Birla that he has been given just two PSOs (personal security officers). “We are from south Kashmir and we have just two security guards. It is strange that Jammu and south Kashmir panchayat leaders have same security levels” Gorsi said.Zerena Akhtar, DDC chairperson of Pahalgam, said, “We are required to inform police before we go anywhere. And then, we again come back to the hotel. We haven’t met our family members for months now.” Another DDC member, Nihar Mir from Dashnepora argued that the security situation in Jammu and south Kashmir are “very different.” “We require more security. We are under constant threat. We must be given good vehicles to travel in hilly terrain,” said Mir.Speaker Birla, who has come to Srinagar for the first of its kind parliamentary outreach programme for panchayet leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, assured them that “the union government is fully committed to provide you security”. “I will convey your security concerns to the Jammu and Kashmir Lt.Governor (Manoj Sinha),” Birla said.Lauding their efforts, he said, “It’s for everyone to see how Panchayat Raj Institutions have strengthened democracy in Jammu and Kashmir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-panchayat-leaders-urge-ls-speaker-to-bolster-security-101630347345836.html
31-08-2021||India||UP Police book Sisodia, Singh for ‘violation of Covid norms’ at Tiranga Yatra||Deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha member and in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Sanjay Singh, were booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Act for taking out Tiranga Yatra in Agra on Sunday evening. The AAP leaders are blamed for allegedly leading the Yatra with more than 500 participants while not complying with Covid-19 norms even as the permission was granted for only 50 participants.The case was registered at Loha Mandi police station in Agra on Monday morning under sections 188, 269, 270 of IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Act for exceeding the limit of participants permitted to attend the ‘Tiranga Yatra’. Police said while only 50 people were permitted to participate in the Yatra, but the number went above 500.“Permission granted by the district administration of Agra was for 50 participants but the 17 named and 400 to 500 unidentified participated, not complying with Covid-19 norms, which require wearing of mask and social distancing. The rally moved while the participants raised slogans. There were found in violation of Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure implemented in the district,” said the police.The case was registered against 17 named AAP leaders and workers, including Sisodia, Singh, party’s Agra district chief Bane Singh Pehalwan, and Kapil Vajpayee,incharge of Agra North assembly seat. About 400 to 500 unidentified people have also been booked, police said.“Agra police has been acting under pressure from ruling party BJP, they first denied permission for the Yatra, then allowed it with change in route and has now registered case against the AAP leaders,” Vajpayee said.The Tiranga Yatra was undertaken from GIC ground to Shaheed Smarak in Agra on Sunday evening with a sizeable turnout of AAP workers. The route of the Yatra was changed as the Agra administration refused to allow AAP leaders to move from GIC ground to Bijlighar.Earlier in the day, Sanjay Singh at a press conference had said that the party would undertake Tiranga Yatra in all 403 assembly constituencies of the state. Uttar Pradesh goes to polls early next year. Tiranga Yatra will be taken out in Noida on September 1 and Ayodhya on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-book-manish-sisodia-sanjay-singh-for-violation-of-covid-norms-at-tiranga-yatra-101630347344466.html
31-08-2021||India||Dindori bears brunt of Maoist-police game||Fitari is quiet. The kind of quiet that can only exist in a village in the middle of a Sal forest. And the kind of quiet that can only exist in a village whose habitants are famously reclusive. A thin black tar road snakes its way to the village, cutting through the Maikal hills, and crossing small rivulets. As the rare vehicle passes through the village, playing children scatter and adults stop and stare.The sound of engines and strange faces are equally rare here, but the demeanour of people shows a disquiet that comes from a new threat. Over the past year, uniformed visitors, both Maoists and the police, have become increasingly frequent. And for villages in Dindori, now on the country’s Maoist map, that can only mean trouble.In July, the Union home ministry revised its list of districts affected by Left Wing Extremism across the country, bringing them down from 90 to 70. In every affected state, except one, the number of districts either stayed the same, or declined. The only exception was Madhya Pradesh, where Dindori was added to the list. The list has also seen the addition of Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli district, but that replaces another district, Balod.Mungeli shares a border with Dindori, and another district on the list, Kabirdham (also in Chhattisgarh). For security agencies, this is an admission that a decade-long expansion project of the Maoists into a region called the MMC (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence) zone, first spotted in 2012, requires focussed attention.For 17-year-old Maha Singh Dhruv, the classification comes with a sense of dread, of the uncertainty and fear impending conflict bring. “For the last year, I have been afraid of entering the forest thinking that if someday they (Maoists) will meet me and ask for help, and what will I do? I will have to help them because they carry weapons, but if I do, the police will ask a hundred questions.”Dhruv is a Baiga, a tribe that accounts for at least 80% of the population in Fitari, which has a population of 500 voters. The tribe, famously reclusive, is one of the 75 notified Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups(PVTG) in the country, and one of the seven notified in Madhya Pradesh.The government defines PVTG’s as “tribal communities who have declining or stagnant population, low level of literacy, pre-agricultural level of technology and are economically backward.”Dhruv lost his father very young, and lives in small one-room hut with his mother. He once went to school in the village itself, but dropped out once his father died. Like with everyone else in the village, he has no income. There is only subsistence. There is paddy that grows seasonally in two acres of land, and a small kitchen garden where there are long stalks of maize. The rest, the forest has always provided for. But now, with the peace beginning to fray, Dhruv wants to leave. “I want to leave this place now. I need a job in Dindori town, 80 kilometres away.”The village has electricity but no mobile towers, and to make a phone call, the few who have phones climb up to specific areas atop hills where the signal bar on the handset flickers on.The police focus is on three police station areas in Dindori district, Samnapur, Bajag and Karanjiya. But senior police officials told HT that earlier this year, they were given inputs of a team of Maoists attempting to speak to villagers in Fitari. Silence is perhaps the best escape and Dhule Baiga, another villager, has an answer everyone else does too. “I know nothing,” he says.Sanjay Singh, superintendent of police, Dindori, said the police have noticed movement of Maoists and their interactions with villagers in and around 65 villages, mostly in “Baiga Chak.”In 1890, the then colonial government notified “Baiga Chak” as an area that the Baigas lived, where they would practice shifting agriculture, locally called “Bewar”. At the time, the Baiga Chak had seven villages, but the term is now commonly used to refer to 52 villages, both in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.But even if villagers are afraid to talk of the increase presence of Maoists, the police argue that there are clear indications of their growing presence. In 2018, a mere 4km away from Fitari, in the biggest local market in Dhurkuta, where everything from an umbrella to spices are sold, a driver spotted a group of 28 armed cadres crossing the forests. “I remember it was a chilly morning and I was returning from a marriage in Dhurkuta. I counted them. Initially , I thought they were police personnel but later because they were very cautious, I realised that they are Maoists,” said the driver, tracked down by HT, who lives in Chhattisgarh’s Kabhirdham, bordering Dindori, and asked not to be named.Acting on this information, the police had at the time, sent teams to the village and found telltale footprints at the spot the driver mentioned. “I tried to ask the villagers but most said nothing. Only one elderly Baiga told me that he saw those people twice, walking outside the village,” a local police officer said.Officers of the Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh Police, who have interrogated surrendered cadres who worked in the MMC zone in the last three years, believe that the Maoists are developing a new base in the dense Amarkantak forests.Amarkantak is where the Vindhya, Maikal and Satpura ranges converge in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.In 2012, the Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) decided to form this new zone, apart from the one already operational in Bastar called the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC). Documents accessed by the police show that by 2017 the work of “social investigation” was completed by “vistar platoons” covering more than 500 villages in the area. This survey included analysis of demography, target population, economic status, employment, and socio-economic problems of the area along with the identification of safe routes for the movement of armed cadres. The aim is to create another “Abhujhmaad”, which is a 4,000-sq-km area in south Bastar, unmapped by the government, and known to be the area where members of the Central Committee of the CPI(Maoist) live and from where they operate.In their conversations, surrendered cadres have told police that the Maoists have surveyed the forests to map water bodies, high vantage points to watch the movement of troops and police stations in a bid to create a safe zone. The team responsible for developing this passage and base area is headed by Maoist commander Rakesh Ode, originally from Gadchiroli, who has a team of 22 armed cadres. Ode heads three Area Committees of CPI (Maoist), Bhoramdeo, Bodla and Khatiamocha, and reports to Kabeer who heads the Kanha Bhoramdeo ( KB) division of the MMC zone. Police records show that there are a total of 85 armed cadres operating in the area, of which 34 are women.The increase in the Maoist presence is also throwing up a familiar, hotly contested argument, one that has caused much strife in areas such as Bastar -- the growing police presence. The Dindori Police plan to set up four new police camps in the area, at Chauradadar , Padaripani , Chada and Gaurakanhari , all in Baiga Chak. In Dhurkuta, this plan worries Arjun Singh Dhruv, president of the Baiga Nritak Dal and a retired teacher. “I don’t know about Maoists and their presence in this area, but one thing is concerning for us – our freedom. When the forces will be deployed, we will be caged.”Dhruv said that Baiga culture has very little crime, close to no theft, so much so that there are very few homes that even own a lock. “The nearest police station, Bajag is 28 km from this village, but when the police from outside (referring to paramilitary personnel) come to this area they definitely intrude into our daily lives, and can harass us,” he said.Dr Vijay Chaurasia, a homeopathy doctor based in Baiga Chak and author of the book “Prakriti Putra Baiga”, shares similar concerns and said that it took him close to a decade to win the confidence of the Baigas. “If the Maoists are talking to Baigas and trying to enter this peaceful community –they are actually harming them. But the government decision to deploy forces in this area makes this tribe venerable. This is a bad move.”But Ved Ram Hanote, station house officer of the Bajag police station, said he has already spotted signs of a shift in stance and vocabulary in some sections of the population. “We have information that some people, possibly Maoists, are entering remote villages of Baiga Chak and encouraging the residents to encroach forest land for cultivation. To me it seems that the language of Baigas has changed; they have a new vocabulary where some are talking about rights and laws. Rights and laws are not bad in themselves, just that the change in words tells me that a new influence has seeped in.”Although there has been no recorded Maoist violence in Dindori, the district police believe that the villages inside the forest of Dindori are now a safe area for Maoists. In March, a massive anti-naxal operation was launched by the Mandla police where, under fire, the Maoists escaped towards Dindori and settled there for about a week. “They travel along a river called Kharmer, which borders the two states, every time they feel pressure in Chhattisgarh or Mandla,” said Singh, the Dindori SP, adding that the state government had been trying to include Dindori in MHA’s list for last two years.He said that he hoped that the inherent reclusiveness of the Baigas would stem the spread of Maoist influence, but hidden in that, is a double edged sword. “They rarely entertain outsiders and therefore the chances of widespread Maoist influence is less. But if the Maoists do manage this, then it would be really difficult for us because they rarely say anything to the police,” added Singh. The district plans to deploy only Baiga policemen in these areas, who will aid the paramilitary in their operations, and attempt to “keep a check on them.” The plan is to deploy 400 central forces, but augment them with 550 district police personnel. “We have started training officers to prevent any harassment . The behaviour of police must change while working in these tribal dominated areas otherwise the Maoists could take advantage and we will lose the trust of the community,” said the SP.However, within the state apparatus, there is no unanimity on what is clearly a complicated question. Intelligence officials HT spoke to said that the increase in deployment itself may be just what the Maoists wanted. “I think that the Maoists want such a deployment of police forces because this will make tribes feel threatened and in turn, they can create ideological space for themselves. What is the need of such a huge deployment? These villages are merely along the passage of Maoists towards Amarkantak. Baigas don’t like uniformed people and hence it could be dangerous,” an officer posted in the region said on condition of anonymity.In Chhattisgarh’s neighbouring Mungeli district, also newly added to the list of Maoist districts by the MHA, around 50 villages of the Khudiya post in Lormi, are being watched closely by the state. Police functionaries said that all of these are Baiga dominated villages and more than 10 “interactions” have been recorded in the past year. Remote and sparsely populated, these villages are cut off in the monsoon. “My brother lives in Aurapani and guards a small rest house there. He told me that about a year ago , four people in black uniform came and asked him several questions about and topography. They enter our village from Ajgar Pahad in Mungeli,” said Chamran Singh Baiga, who once lived in Aurapanu, but has since moved to Mahuamacha village.A senior police officer, posted in Chhattisgarh’s capital of Raipur said that Mungeli has developed into an area of strategic importance for the MMC zone. “We have included the district in our list Khudiya outpost is the entrance point of their base area –the Amarkantak forests. If they get support or recruitment from the villages alongside, it will be very difficult to contain them in next few years,” added the officer who asked not to be named.Chhattisgarh DGP DM Awasthi said that the state wanted to be careful with its planning and deployment and not exacerbate a sensitive situation. “In 2018, Kabirdham was added in MHA’s list and now we have decided to add Mungeli. The reason is simple, Maoists are expanding the MMC zone towards Amarkantakand it is important to check them. We are still thinking about deployment and based on intelligence inputs decisions will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dindori-bears-brunt-of-maoist-police-game-101630347224447.html
31-08-2021||India||Crackdown on gutka sale leads to serial rapist in Chennai||What started as a crackdown on a shopkeeper for selling a banned product, chewing tobacco (gutka) in Chennai, and an examination of his phone to trace his source of supply took a horrific turn after the police discovered that he was an alleged serial rapist of minors, and had actually saved video clips of the assaults.In all, police have discovered that he was involved in five rapes; worse, in two cases, the mothers of the girls were complicit in the rapes.By Monday, the five girls, aged 4,9,11,13 and 15 were rescued and sent to a government-run home for children. The accused, A Perumal and the mothers of two of the girls who connived with him have been jailed under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and section 376 (rape) of the IPC and Information Technology Act.On Saturday, the police received a tip-off that Perumal was selling gutka. Sure enough, a raid turned up 30 packets of the banned product. But the police wanted to also apprehend the dealer supplying to him but he resisted handing over his phone. “We grew suspicious and thought the phone had details of a godown where gutka is stacked,” said inspector E Rajeshwari. The police eventually seized two mobile phones, including an iPhone, from Perumal. That’s when the bigger crime began to unravel.“My head was spinning,” the officer said. “There were so many videos--some he had recorded with these five girls and a lot, he had downloaded from the internet.” The police confirmed that the videos which he downloaded were adult pornography and didn’t involve children. His phones have been sent to a special team to analyse if he shared the videos of the children he had filmed.Deputy commissioner R Karthikeyan said they are yet to ascertain if this has been going on for months or years. “There is a lot of obscene content on his phone. Only after forensic examination and gathering more evidence can we come to a conclusion,” the officer said.Police said that the two mothers arrested are sisters who are also seen in the videos engaging in sexual acts with the 48-year-old man. “The crime has happened with the children at their own homes with the mothers’ knowledge,” said an investigating officer who asked not to be named.Once the videos were discovered, the police set out to find the victims. It isn’t clear how they did this, but the first child they found was a 9-year-old who led them to the remaining girls. “She said one of them was her cousin sister and the other three were their friends.” The parents of the other three girls didn’t know what had happened to their daughters and had left them with the two accused women when they went to work, said the police. “The children had not complained before but now when we are questioning them they are opening up,” added the officer.Police said that money was behind the involvement of the mothers in trafficking and sexual assault. Each time, Perumal paid each of the two mothers between ₹1,000 and ₹2,000. “The fathers brought no income. These women did odd household jobs and said they were struggling to eat even one meal,” said the police. The other three girls are also from poor families and police said that they will remain in the government home until investigations are complete.“These two mothers without any hesitation agreed to send their daughters in exchange for money,” Karthikeyan said. “Had we not checked his phone, this would never have come to light.”Perumal’s wife and two adult children were also unaware of his behaviour, police said. They are now investigating whether there are more victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crackdown-on-gutka-sale-leads-to-serial-rapist-in-chennai-101630346684296.html
31-08-2021||India||Assam Congress severs ties with AIUDF; yet to take a call on BPF alliance||The Assam Congress on Monday decided to sever ties with All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which was part of the ‘mahajot’ or the Opposition grand alliance of 10 parties formed ahead of the March-April assembly elections. The final decision with regard to breaking ties with the “unwilling” Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) is yet to be taken.The decision came at the core committee meeting of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) held at Guwahati ahead of by-election to six assembly constituencies in the state.“The committee observed that ‘mahajot’ alliance partner AIUDF’s behaviour and attitude in relation to Bharatiya Janata Party has baffled the members of the Congress party. The AIUDF leadership’s and senior members continuous and mysterious praise of the BJP party and the chief minister has affected public perception of Congress party,” a resolution adopted at the meeting stated.“The core committee members of APCC unanimously decided that AIUDF can no longer remain an alliance partner of ‘mahajot’ and in this regards will send intimation to All India Congress Committee (AICC),” it added.Congress, AIUDF, BPF and seven other parties were part of the ‘mahajot’ formed to counter the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the state polls this year. While Congress won 29 seats, AIUDF bagged 16, BPF won 4 and CPM bagged 1 seat—taking the grand alliance to 50 seats. On the other hand, BJP and its allies won 75 seats and returned to power for the second consecutive term.Reacting to Congress’s move, organising sectary of AIUDF and MLA, Md Aminul Islam said, “The Congress is free to take decisions regarding their party, but we would term their decision to sever ties with us a historical blunder. We had formed alliance with Congress in order to oppose BJP’s communal agenda in the assembly polls.”“Congress can’t accuse us of having nexus with BJP. Instead today’s decision was the outcome of pro-BJP elements within the Congress. It was a BJP strategy to use Sivasagar MLA and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi to break our alliance. They become successful in that and Congress was the loser,” he added.Monday’s core committee meeting also decided that the BPF had “already expressed their unwillingness in various forums to remain in the alliance” and hence, it authorised APCC president Bhupen Borah to take a decision on continuation of the party’s ties with BPF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cong-severs-ties-with-aiudf-yet-to-take-a-call-on-bpf-alliance-101630346143617.html
31-08-2021||India||How to read the June quarter GDP numbers||The National Statistical Office will release the GDP numbers for the quarter ending June on August 31. The June quarter saw a large economic disruption on account of the second wave of Covid-19 infections. The wave, which peaked on May 9 in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases, was far more severe than the first wave in terms of infections and deaths. While mobility restrictions were not as crippling as the 68-day nationwide lockdown which was imposed on March 25, 2020, there were some and they did generate significant headwinds for economic activity.RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), according to its latest resolution of August 6, expects June quarter GDP to grow at 21.4%. Interestingly, this is an improvement over the 18.5% forecast made in the June meeting of MPC. Here are three charts which tell us what to expect and what to make of the GDP numbers to be released on Tuesday.RBI’s projection suggests output will not come back to pre-pandemic levels Like most economic statistics after the lockdown, the GDP numbers will also have a large base effect. This is because of the massive economic disruption which the 68-day long lockdown inflicted on the economy last year. In normal times, even a double-digit GDP growth rate would have meant that the economy was experiencing a boom. However, when read with the massive contraction in last year’s numbers, even a 21.4% GDP growth – this is what MPC has projected – will mean that economy has not regained pre-pandemic levels. India’s GDP suffered a contraction of 24.4% in the quarter ending June 2020.India’s growth challenge in the post-pandemic phase has been to take economic activity levels back to pre-pandemic levels and then try and get it on to a healthy growth path. The economy was losing growth momentum even before the pandemic broke. MPC’s latest projection is intriguing, because while it has upwardly revised June quarter GDP projections, the numbers for the remaining three quarters have been brought down compared to the June projection.High-frequency indicators suggest a staggered demand side damage because of the second wave While GDP numbers come with a significant lag and are likely to be revised further during the course of the year, many high frequency indicators can tell us about the state of economic activity in the first quarter of the current fiscal year.The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) has emerged as among the most popular high-frequency indicators of economic activity in the post-pandemic period. NIBRI comprises Google mobility indices, driving mobility data from Apple, and details of power demand and the labour force participation rate. The NIBRI series considers 23 Feb 2020 as the base and subsequent data entries have been indexed to it.NIBRI started losing momentum in the March quarter itself and fell sharply as the second wave of Covid-19 cases gained momentum. NIBRI’s lowest value in the June quarter was 60.3 in the week ending May 23. It recovered to 86.3 by the week ending June 27. NIBRI’s all-time low was in the week ending April 26, 2020, when it fell 44. It recovered to 70.5 by the week ending June 28, 2020.The fact that the second wave led to a smaller fall in NIBRI compared to the first wave is good reason to believe that economic activity did not suffer as much. However, when seen with the fact that RBI’s MPC has made a downward revision in its growth forecasts for the remaining three quarters of the year, even though NIBRI has shown a V-shaped recovery and has already crossed 100, suggests that the second wave’s economic impact might manifest more on the demand side rather than supply side – and perhaps with a lag.Services might have suffered more than manufacturing activity, and this can lead to broad-based economic pain The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) from IHS-Markit suggests that the second wave might have inflicted a bigger shock to service sector activity than industry. PMI manufacturing, which crossed the psychological threshold of 50 – a PMI value above 50 indicates expansion in economic activity compared to the previous month and therefore indicates sequential recovery – in August 2020 itself, and stayed above the 50-mark in the months of April and May, though the second wave. In fact, PMI manufacturing increased marginally between April and May. It only fell to 48.1 in the month of June. Services PMI, on the other hand, lost momentum in April itself and was below 50 in the months of May and June. To be sure, the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) suggests that industrial activity in the June quarter also lost momentum. The IIP index in the June quarter was 121.8 compared to 137.4 in the March quarter. The corresponding values for the quarters ending June 2020 and June 2019 were 84 and 130.4. A bigger adverse impact on services because of the second wave of Covid-19 infections could have meant that a bigger proportion of the workforce might have experienced a squeeze in incomes, as services, especially in the informal sector are a bigger employer in India than manufacturing. It will be interesting to see whether the GDP numbers are in keeping with these trends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-read-the-june-quarter-gdp-numbers-101630343084149.html
31-08-2021||India||'Terror forces may exploit Afghan situation': Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said that the government was closely monitoring the situation unfolding in Afghanistan and taking steps to ensure that anti-India forces do not exploit the developments there to fuel cross-border terrorism in India.Delivering a talk on national security as part of the late Balramji Das Tandon lecture series, the defence minister said the developments in Afghanistan posed new security challenges. He said the government is committed to ensuring the security of Indians in Afghanistan.“Security of Indians is a cause of concern for the government. We also do not want anti-India forces to take advantage of the evolving Afghan situation for cross-border terrorism,” he said.The Indian security establishment has flagged concerns about terror spilling over from Afghanistan to Jammu and Kashmir via Pakistan after the Taliban takeover. Last week, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said India was concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the takeover and contingency plans were in place to deal with the scenario.On August 25, Rawat, the country’s senior-most military commander, said India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but its rapid pace was surprising.Taliban wrested control of the Afghan capital Kabul on August 15, capping a swift takeover of most major cities in the country.In an assessment done as recently as last month, the Indian side had concluded that the Taliban would shift its campaign to capture territory from rural areas to urban centres and provincial capitals only by the end of August, after the completion of the withdrawal of US forces. The Indian side had also expected that there would be air support for Afghan security forces from the US if the Taliban entered urban areas. Assessments done by both the Indian and Afghan sides also suggested that the fighting would continue for at least two to three months, till winter sets in.However, the Taliban rapidly stepped up its offensive this month, seizing one provincial capital after another, both in the southern part of Afghanistan, the traditional stronghold of the group, and the north, where it had faced greater resistance in the past. This was done by concluding agreements with warlords and commanders of the security forces, and thousands of troops simply surrendered without a fight at a time when the Ashraf Ghani government showed no indication of taking the fight with the Taliban.Singh touched on the ongoing border row with China in the Ladakh sector. He said that the government had made it clear to the forces that any unilateral action by the neighbour on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) will not be ignored.“That’s what the Indian Army did that day in Galwan and bravely confronted the PLA soldiers and forced them to retreat,” Singh said, referring to the June 2020 brutal skirmish that left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead.He said future generations would be proud of the bravery and restraint shown by the Indian Army in Galwan valley.Talking about the efforts of the security forces to counter terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir during the last seven years, Singh said the UT would soon be free of terror.“The strength that separatist forces used to get due to Article 370 and 35A is now nowhere to be seen,” Singh said. The government’s 2019 decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution that provided for special status to J&K and the bifurcation of the border state into two union territories was hailed by military experts as a bold and logical move towards national integration.“The anti-India forces have understood that they are no longer in a position to do much in the Kashmir Valley, especially after the abrogation of Article 370. I want to assure you that no power in the world can separate J&K from India,” the minister said.He also enumerated reforms undertaken by the government to strengthen national security, including creating the post of chief of defence staff and the department of military affairs.“We are working towards creating theatre commands in a new way. This is also going to be a revolutionary step in itself,” he said. On Sunday, he said discussions on the creation of joint commands and their implementation were progressing well and fast, indicating that differences between stakeholders on the theaterisation model are being addressed and India is on course to set up theatre commands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-want-anti-india-forces-to-exploit-afghan-situation-to-fuel-cross-border-terror-rajnath-singh-101630332045141.html
31-08-2021||India||After Mukul Roy, BJP MLA Tanmay Ghosh joins Trinamool Congress||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) strength in the West Bengal assembly fell to 73 on Monday when Tanmay Ghosh, who won the Bishnupur seat in Bankura district in the March-April polls, joined the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).While Ghosh did not give a direct reply on whether he will resign from the assembly to avoid action under anti-defection law, education minister Bratya Basu, who inducted him in the party, said, “Everything will be done according to rules.”“I invite people’s representatives from all parties to join the TMC and be a part of the mammoth development and social welfare projects taken up by Mamata Banerjee. Her dedication and performance drew me towards the TMC,” Ghosh said.Also Read | Bengal post-poll violence: CBI meets affected families, files 7 more casesThis is the second defection by an Opposition MLA since the polls earlier this year in which the BJP won 77 seats.Before Ghosh, Mukul Roy, who was a BJP national vice-president, returned to the TMC on June 11. But the legislator from Krishnanagar North has not resigned from the BJP till now and has been appointed the chairman of the assembly’s public accounts committee.The BJP has sought his disqualification under anti-defection law.Earlier, two other BJP MLAs did not take oath but resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats, bringing down the party’s tally in the 294-member assembly to 75.The TMC bagged 213 seats. Polls were held in 292 seats as two candidates died in Murshidabad district before the elections. The Left and Congress could not win any seat.“The BJP has no base at the grassroots level in Bengal. Everything is superficial. It could have never won 200 seats. The leaders were only making loud noises. Those who won, did so because of their own strength and charisma,” Ghosh said.Ghosh’s absence will make no difference to the BJP and the party will seek action against him under anti-defection law, said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.“Not all people are capable of handling the pressure Opposition leaders have to face. Ghosh gave in. He came from the TMC before the polls. This has no significance for us,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-mukul-roy-bjp-mla-tanmay-ghosh-joins-trinamool-congress-101630321663546.html
31-08-2021||NA||News updates: EU removes US from Covid-19 safe list for non-essential travel||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:EU removes US from Covid-19 safe list for non-essential travelThe European Union (EU) has removed the United States from Covid-19 safe list for non-essential visits, reports AFP citing a statement. The move comes amid surge in infection rates in the US.'AIUDF no longer part of grand alliance,' says Assam CongressAhead of by-polls in six constituencies of the state, Assam Congress has said that the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) is no longer going to be a part of grand alliance. The decision came at the core committee meeting of Assam Congress held in Guwahati.Military operations to continue in Afghanistan, says US Army Major General William 'Hank' TaylorMilitary ops in Afghanistan continue, with our primary focus on safety & security of troops who remain in Kabul.On Sunday US military forces conducted an unmanned, over-the-horizon airstrike on a vehicle known to be an imminent ISIS-K threat: US Army Maj Gen William “Hank” Taylor pic.twitter.com/V9MlCabDt1The US conducted the strikes after attacks carried out by the IS late last week claimed the lives of more than 100 people, including 13 US troops.Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till September 6The Uttarakhand government has extended the Covid-19 curfew till 6am of September 7, news agency ANI reported on Monday.Tamil Nadu implements news Covid-19 curbs till September 15The Tamil Nadu government has implemented new Covid-19-related restrictions till September 15. All religious places will remain closed from Friday to Sunday. Entry to the beaches will be prohibited on Sundays, news agency ANI reported.Maharashtra prohibits public gatherings for Dahi Handi festivalThe Maharashtra government has prohibited all types of public gatherings, including community rituals, cultural events, and human pyramids for the Dahi Handi festival in the state. It has directed to organise symbolic events and telecast them through local cable TV network and online media to avoid crowding in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, according to a notification issued by the state home department.India has administered 64 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine so far: Union health ministry#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/PnYJ808NQ3The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Monday took to Twitter to announce that India has administered 64 crore doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far.Classes for 1-8 students in Firozabad to stay shut till Sept 6 due to dengue spreadSchools for Classes 1-8 will remain shut in Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad till September 6 in view of spread of dengue, ANI reported.Karnataka schools for Classes 6-8 to resume in talukas with below 2% Covid positivity rate from Sept 6 onwards, says education ministerSchools for classes 6 to 8 will resume in talukas with Covid-19 positivity rate below two per cent, starting September 6, Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh said. "Classes to be conducted with 50 per cent attendance, five days a week," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Two terrorists successfully neutralised near the LoC by Indian ArmyContinued search operations near the Line of Control (LoC) on Monday revealed the body of another terrorist with AK-47 rifle across the Line. With this, two terrorists have so far been neutralised by the Indian Army, news agency ANI reported.IS claims responsibility for rocket attack at Afghanistan's Kabul airport, reports ReutersThe Islamic State (IS) has claimed responsibility for the rocket attack at Kabul's Hamid Karzai International Airport, reports Reuters citing the group's statement on the telegram channel.Coronavirus deaths surpass threshold of 4.5 million as Delta variant wreaks havoc, reports AFPThe world has passed the grim threshold of 4.5 million Covid-19 deaths, according to an AFP tally, as the virulent Delta variant wreaks havoc globally https://t.co/HlgHsH3gfH pic.twitter.com/gqt73sh5gOThe coronavirus death toll across the globe has crossed 4.5 million, according to the AFP tally.ED questioning Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez in Delhi in money laundering case, reports ANIEnforcement Directorate (ED) is questioning Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez in Delhi for the last five hours, in a money laundering case.(File photo) pic.twitter.com/ftUj2CkNcNBollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez was summoned by the ED in connection with a money laundering case.'Nation's proud of ...record-breaking performance': PM Modi on Sumit Antil's gold medal at Tokyo Paralympics and setting WROur athletes continue to shine at the #Paralympics! The nation is proud of Sumit Antil’s record-breaking performance in the Paralympics.Congratulations Sumit for winning the prestigious Gold medal. Wishing you all the best for the future.Sumit Antil on Monday set a new world record with a best throw of 68.85 m in the final in Japan, thereby taking India's medal count to 7. Read more.UP CM confirms death of 32 children, and 7 adults due to suspicious dengue like fever in FirozabadUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has confirmed the death of 32 children and 7 adults from the suspicious dengue like fever in Firozabad.Tanmoy Ghosh joined TMC out of helplessness: Dilip GhoshThey were behind him for a very long time, he was scared. He had left TMC and come to us. They even filed an FIR against him, so they scared him in every way. He has joined TMC out of helplessness: West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Tanmoy Ghosh, BJP MLA who joined TMC today pic.twitter.com/Tv3gsQR1z3NIA dismisses demand for custody of ex-Mumbai cops Waze and Mane in Antilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiren murder casesAntilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiren murder cases | Special NIA court rejects NIA's demand for custody of dismissed Mumbai Police officers Sachin Waze (in file pic) and Sunil Mane. They are presently in judicial custody at Taloja prison. pic.twitter.com/C5Z1xlMA8KWHO fears 236,000 more Covid-19 fatalities in Europe by December 1The World Health Organisation (WHO) fears 236,000 more Covid-19-related fatalities in Europe by December 1. The public health agency has also shown 'serious concern' over the stagnating vaccine administration rates in the continent, reports AFP.'Will go through it': Karnataka health minister Sudhakar on report presented to him by experts to combat possible Covid third waveHealth practitioners and private nursing homes of Karnataka had formed a committee to combat possible third COVID wave. They've officially presented a report to me. I will go through it: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar pic.twitter.com/JRcqGoqWymHaryana CM Khattar says farmers from his state aren't protesting; asks who is Capt Singh to demand his resignationWho is he (Capt Amarinder Singh) to demand my resignation Instead, he should resign because he is behind the farmers' agitation. Farmers protesting there (at Delhi borders) are from Punjab. Farmers from Haryana are not protesting at Singhu or Tikri border: Haryana CM ML Khattar pic.twitter.com/D7dvNVN6CuED raids seven-eight locations in Maharashtra's Washim in connection to alleged money laundering case by Shiv Sena MP Bhavna GawliThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday conducted raids at seven to eight locations in Maharashtra's Washim district in connection to an alleged money laundering and embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹14 crore by Shiv Sena MP Bhavna Gawli by misusing powers in obtaining government grants and funds for a project.Hurricane Ida downgraded to tropical storm, reports Associated Press citing forecastersBREAKING: Ida downgraded to a tropical storm, 16 hours after striking in Louisiana as a Category 4 hurricane, forecasters say. https://t.co/pIhworTVemWest Bengal BJP MLA Tanmoy Ghosh joins TMCWest Bengal | BJP MLA from Bishnupur, Tanmoy Ghosh, joins Trinamool Congress"BJP is into vindictive politics. They're attempting to snatch rights of WB people by using central agencies. I urge all politicians to support CM Mamata Banerjee for public welfare," he says pic.twitter.com/Bd0BtI5JlrPithoragarh cloudburst update: 7 feared dead; 3 bodies recoveredSeven people were feared dead after their houses were hit by debris and muck following a cloudburst in Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand on Monday. Three bodies have been recovered, all of them of children. Read moreKarnal lathi-charge: Haryana govt has no right to remain in power, says SenaThe Shiv Sena on Monday lashed out at the Haryana government over the lathi-charge on farmers and said the police action against the protesters was like the "second Jallianwala Bagh". Read moreTeachers should be priority group for Covid vaccines, says WHOThe World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday that school teachers and other staff members should be the priority group for taking the vaccine against Covid-19.According to the United Nations's agency, measures to ensure that schools can function throughout the pandemic include "include offering teachers and other school staff the Covid-19 vaccine as part of target population groups in national vaccination plans."Mizroram records 440 new Covid-19 cases; 88 children among infectedMizoram's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 57,962 on Monday as 440 more cases were recorded. The new cases include 88 children, a health official told news agency ANI. Of Monday's case count, Aizwal saw the highest at 310 infections, followed by followed by Mamit (74) and Kolasib (15), the official added.Neemuch incident: 5 people held so far, says MP home ministerArrests have been made in recent incidents in Rewa, Neemuch. So far, five people have been arrested, another person to be arrested today in the Neemuch incident. No criminal is being spared: Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on law and order situation in the state pic.twitter.com/qhI2xsbSUZMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday that five people have been arrested in the Neemuch incident so far, adding, another person will be arrested today.Delhi govt issues guidelines for reopening of schools in CapitalThe DDMA on Monday issued guidelines for reopening of schools in the national capital from September. Read moreThe guidelines are as follows:> Maximum 50% students per classroom may be called depending upon capacity.> Students and teachers living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend schools.> Schools, colleges will be required to set up quarantine room for emergency use.White House confirms Kabul airport rocket attack, says operations 'uninterrupted'Hours after as many as five rockets were fired at the Kabul airport on Monday with just a day left for the United States to pull out its troops from Afghanistan, the White House confirmed the attack and said operations continue to remain uninterrupted at the airport. Read more2 killed, 5 buried under debris due to landslide in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh, says CM Dhamiपिथौरागढ़ जनपद के जुम्मा गांव के पास भूस्खलन की वजह से 2 लोगों की दुखद मौत एवं 5 अन्य की मलबे में दबे होने की खबर है।इस विषय में जिलाधिकारी से बात कर रेस्क्यू मिशन तेज करने का निर्देश दिया है। मैं वहां फंसे लोगों की सलामती के लिए ईश्वर से प्रार्थना करता हूँ।Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami tweeted on Monday that two people have died while five others are buried under debris due to a landslide in the state's Pithoragarh district. Read moreIndia reports marginal dip in new Covid-19 cases at 42,909India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a marginal dip on Monday as 42,909 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 32,737,939, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. As many as 34,763 patients recovered and 380 succumbed to the viral disease in the said period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 31,923,405 and 438,210 respectively. The active cases stand at 376,324. Read moreOn Janmashtami, President Kovind and PM Modi extend wishesPresident Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who on Monday wished people on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami, which celebrates the birth of Lord Krishna. Read moreSeveral rockets heard flying over Kabul, targets unclearNews agency AFP reported on Monday that several rockets were heard flying over Afghanistan's capital Kabul, adding the targets were unclear.Uttar Pradesh to relax night curfew for 2 days in view of JanmashtamiThe Uttar Pradesh government has allowed relaxation in the ongoing night curfew across the state on Monday and Tuesday due to Janmashtami, according to a report by HT’ sister publication, Live Hindustan. Read moreN.Korea appears to have restarted nuclear reactor, says UN agencyThe United Nations' atomic agency said on Monday that North Korea appeared to have restarted its plutonium-producing reprocessing reactor in a "deeply troubling" development. According to news agency AFP, the development on the reactor comes as talks between North Korea and the United States remain at a standstill. Union minister Muraleedharan to begin 3-day visit to Bahrain from todayUnion minister of state (MoS) for external affairs V Muraleedharan will visit the kingdom of Bahrain from Monday till Wednesday and hold talks with the country’s ministers and dignitaries. Read moreBengaluru Metro's extended Purple Line to open for commuters from todayBengaluru Metro’s extended Purple Line on Mysuru road will open for commuters from Monday, a day after the 7.53-km long stretch was inaugurated by Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. Read moreHave capacity to evacuate remaining Americans from Afghanistan: White HouseThe Biden administration said on Sunday that the United States has the capacity to evacuate the approximately 300 Americans remaining in Afghanistan who want to leave before the August 31 deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-30-2021-101630281478119.html
31-08-2021||Today's||CAA is inadequate and flawed. Devise a new refugee policy, set up a commission||Recent developments in Afghanistan, with the withdrawal of American troops and rise of the Taliban, have led to a grave humanitarian crisis. This has serious implications for India. True to its ancient maxim of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family), India’s soil has historically been a home away from home for persecuted minorities. But India does not have a singular policy for dealing with refugees and crises of this nature.The June 2021 factsheet of the United Nations Human Rights Committee (UNHCR) states that 208,065 refugees reside in Indian territory at present. Of these, 95,829 Sri Lankan refugees and 73,404 Tibetan refugees are registered and assisted by the Government of India. Meanwhile, refugees and asylum-seekers from Myanmar (22,459), Afghanistan (15,217) and other areas (3,639) are registered with UNHCR India. The agency plays a significant part in verification, registration and resettlement of refugees in India.The Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) of 2019 is the closest that India has come to enacting a policy on refugees and illegal immigrants. But the Act is highly inadequate for refugees and is severely flawed. It neither offers a definition for who is a refugee nor applies universally to refugees from all countries. In addition to being discriminatory on the basis of religion and country of origin, CAA also has a cut-off date of December 31, 2014. It offers no guidelines on how to deal with future refugee or immigration issues. The Act is also in clear violation of the right to equality and the right against discrimination, enshrined in Articles 14 and 15 of the Indian Constitution.Meanwhile, India is not party to international best practices either. It is not a signatory to the 1951 UN Refugee Convention or its 1967 Protocol. Even though there are no official explanations as to why India has not signed the Convention, the country’s porous borders and resultant security concerns are cited as a major reason. There is also the conventional logic that India’s reputation of being open towards refugees negates the need for signing any formal international agreement.Also Read | The political battle over reformsIf existing international refugee laws do not cater to the particular needs of our country, it is necessary that we draft a refugee policy inspired by the best practices included in those laws. As a first step towards drafting India’s refugee policy, I recommend that the Union Government set up a National Commission for Refugees at the earliest.This commission should draft an inclusive policy on refugees with respect for the rule of law. It should grant refugees legal protection and should be based on the principles of non-refoulement and non-discrimination. The policy should also account for physical protection such as secure accommodation and access to food and sanitation, and ensure that family unity among refugees is prioritised. Provisions for durable solutions for refugees such as voluntary repatriation, local integration, or resettlement in a third country must be incorporated into the policy.The people of Afghanistan have historically enjoyed a good relationship with India. Several Afghan students are enrolled in universities across the country. At a time of crisis, they must be treated with dignity. They shouldn’t have to wait at the mercy of an ad hoc policy that discriminates on the basis of religion. The Government of India should act promptly and come up with a refugee law that supports the people of Afghanistan and promotes India’s reputation as a champion of human rights. A policy that addresses Indian concerns and, at the same time, offers respite to refugees is, without doubt, the need of the hour.Gaurav Gogoi is deputy leader of the Congress in the Lok SabhaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/caa-is-inadequate-and-flawed-devise-a-new-refugee-policy-set-up-a-commission-101630408066391.html
31-08-2021||Today's||As states roll out NEP, address its twin deficits||As states begin rolling out the 2020 National Education Policy (NEP), they need to engage with two important issues that NEP did not address. One, Muslims, India’s most educationally disadvantaged group, were not mentioned in the 2020 NEP. Two, the use of English merited only a few lines of scant attention, despite the massive bottom-up demand for English skills.Muslims comprise about 15% of India’s population, and are among the most economically, socially and politically disadvantaged groups in India. What makes their omission even more striking in the 2020 NEP is that their education participation rates in schools and colleges are the lowest in India, more so than even Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. However, while Dalits and tribals were highlighted in the 2020 NEP as requiring special attention, as indeed they should be, Muslims were not.Also Read | With a climate action plan, Mumbai shows the wayAmong other reasons, this omission does not bode well for achieving one of the main goals of the 2020 NEP — that all Indian students should receive 15 years of quality school education. Without special attention to vulnerable groups, especially Muslims, achieving this goal even by the end of this century will be impossible.In the case of English, the 2020 NEP avoided discussing the English-medium schooling tsunami in India, where both government and private schools are increasingly teaching all school subjects in English. More importantly, it failed to address why improving the teaching and learning of English as a subject in government regional-medium schools needs to be prioritised, and did not articulate what pedagogical initiatives are required.With new employment opportunities that reward English skills, the importance of English-medium education has increased significantly in the last three decades. Earlier restricted to upper and middle classes, poor and disadvantaged groups have been at the forefront of the new and unprecedented demand for English-medium schooling. This resulted in low-fee, English-medium private schools mushrooming in India’s villages and towns.To stem the unabated migration of the poor from regional-medium government schools to private low-cost English-medium alternatives, all government schools in Kashmir, Nagaland and Andhra Pradesh have either begun, or will soon start, teaching all subjects in English. Other states are selectively expanding such English-medium government schools. Now more than 20% of all Indian students, which comes to roughly 50 million students, are attending low-cost private and government English-medium schools.The tragic irony is that several studies, including an NCERT report, indicate that the vast majority of students, mostly from poor- and lower- middle class families, acquire very limited English skills in these schools. This is principally because their teachers’ own knowledge of English was significantly substandard too. The standards of teaching and learning in regional-medium government schools, where English is taught as a subject in most states from Class 1 onwards, are equally depressing.Nearly all schools in countries where English is not the main language teach in their own languages. Similarly, reinforcing previous policy recommendations, the 2020 NEP correctly advocated the teaching of all school subjects in the mother tongue and regional language. What it failed to highlight was that if regional-medium government schools had to survive, let alone flourish, the teaching of English as a subject had to be improved significantly. The alternative is the continued precipitous decline in government school enrolment and the recent spectacular rise of private schools, as highlighted in the recent Central Square Foundation report on private schooling.Therefore, in the rollout of the 2020 NEP by states, an important focus of educational reforms should be the teaching of English as a subject in regional-medium government schools, still attended by the majority of Indian students. The top priority should be to ensure that their English teachers have a basic command over English and know how to teach it.A sustainable solution to declining enrolment in regional-medium government schools is improving their quality of teaching and learning in all subjects in general, and the standards of English in particular, and not expanding English-medium instruction, as is currently practised by all states. It may be desirable to curtail English-medium schooling, but politically unfeasible given the enormous public demand.However, states such as Uttar Pradesh should, at the very least, reverse their retrograde decision to convert existing government preschool centres, teaching in local languages and Hindi, to kindergarten classes conducted in English. The guaranteed outcome of such an early start is not better English, but the stifling of children’s language skills, foundational development and creativity.States must, thus, comprehensively address both the glaring omissions of NEP — pay special attention to provide all Muslim students with 15 years of quality school education and strengthen the standards of English in regional-medium schools. Both are critical to any agenda for transformational educational reform.John Kurrien has been working in the field of education for disadvantaged groups for four decadesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-states-roll-out-nep-address-its-twin-deficits-101630406806390.html
31-08-2021||Today's||Hindutva is Hindu modernity||With the rise of a medieval Taliban regime, some liberals have argued that the return of the Islamic Emirate to Afghanistan is somewhat akin to the rise of Hindutva in India. This is a mischievous and illiterate comparison. Unlike the undemocratic and violent Taliban, Hindutva envisages a democratic society based on equality and universal rights. Hindutva dreams of a modern future, the Taliban dreams of a regressive past. Hindutva works within a constitutional framework, while even the Taliban, unlike its apologists, won’t describe itself as constitutionalists.But fundamentally, the comparison is based on ignorance of the roots, evolution, and values of Hindutva.One of the most important developments of the last century is what Girilal Jain termed as “The Hindu Phenomenon”. It was a widely held belief that destiny of the Hindus was to fade away in the modern era and their homeland absorbed within the Islamic and Christian world. Yet, despite repeated attempts at ethnic cleansing over recent centuries, Hindus not only survived, but also created a powerful polity and State. While India had been invaded and colonised in the past, the challenge posed by British colonialism was unique. We often discount the traumatic and terrifying experience of the non-western world in its encounter with western colonialism, which was backed by modern industry, a new economic structure of capitalism, and a new political structure of nations and nation-States. Coupled with emerging modern academia, it also posed a formidable intellectual challenge.Also Read | The rise of the proud, global HinduHindu response to western imperialism emerged in the 19th century in the form of social and religious reform movements and political mobilisation seeking to draw inspiration from antiquity and Hindu philosophy. But reformers were not only imagining the future but also re-imagining the past. They argued that modern values such as social equality, political democracy, liberty, the idea of the nation are all rooted in Hindu tradition and philosophy. Hence, Hindu society and polity are naturally at home in the modern era.These views were propagated by Hindu thinkers, writers, poets, religious leaders, and social and political leaders throughout the Indian subcontinent. The fact that these views found rapid and widespread acceptance demonstrate that these ideas were not alien to the Hindu society and changing social and economic structures favoured them.The tantra movement in the medieval period and the Bhakti movement in the early modern period infused Hindu society with the ideas of social and gender equality. From the Nath Sampradaya and Vachana Sahitya to Ravidas and Kabir, Hindu society already had what could be called proto-modernity. Popular and highly symbolic oral epics such as Manteswamy Kavya even argued how technology must ultimately be liberated from its hereditary practitioners, i.e the practice of a birth-based caste system determining occupation needed to go for the progress of civilisation.In the absence of corresponding social and economic conditions, these ideas remained largely confined to the respective Hindu sects. But under colonial rule, with changing socio-economic structures and the import of newly emerging western, modern ideas, such views entered the mainstream of Hindu political thought.It is striking that all segments of the Hindu polity, from the Left to the Right, argued for a modern nation despite rooting their positions in the civilisational antiquity of India. None of them wanted a return to the past, unlike their counterparts in the Muslim polity, but wanted to learn from the values of a past and reinterpret it in a modern image. If one side was looking towards the West or the Soviet Union, the other was looking towards Japan and Korea to create a modern Hindu nation.Hindutva was the Hindu response to western colonialism and resurgent Islamic imperialism in the Indian subcontinent, and emerged under the new economic order based on industry and capitalism. Hindutva inherited the legacy of the Hindu proto-modernity and contemporary social and religious reform movements to imagine a modern-industrial Hindu nation. It sought to dismantle the caste system, and create a democratic State with individual rights, freedom of expression and religion. Hindutva argued for a modern Hindu nation with primacy to science and technology. It imagined a centralised State with strong defence capabilities, yet part of the world commonwealth in pursuit of stability and peace. Hindutva always confined itself to the aim of a Hindu Rashtra (nation), and, at no point, did it argue for a Hindu Rajya (State). Even the Hindu Mahasabha proposed a secular State based on the principle of one-man, one-vote.The main intellectual challenge for Hindus was to justify their existence as a society. Who were they? Tamil, Bengali, Punjabi, Marathi, Jat, Brahmins, Ahirs, Pasi, Rajputs, Vokkaligas? The coming together of various pagan traditions under the umbrella of Hinduism is a centuries-old process. But Hindutva consolidated it by welding Hindus into a political community and as a nation by emphasising the commonalities of a highly diverse Hindu society.Hindutva is both a product of the modern world and an argument for Hindu modernity. It sees itself as the protector of India’s religious and cultural diversity, which has been decimated in areas no longer part of India. Economic transformation dilutes caste and regional lines. Industrialisation and urbanisation are the precursors of modernity. And since Hindutva embodies the modern values and modern vision of Hindu society, the appeal and legitimacy of Hindutva have been increasing as India becomes more industrial and urbanised. The rise of a “Hindu Rashtra” and an industrial-urban developed India are two sides of the same coin. And this phenomenon is the opposite of what the new rulers of Afghanistan have envisioned for their Emirate.Abhinav Prakash Singh is assistant professor of economics at SRCC and national vice-president, Bharatiya Janata Yuva MorchaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/hindutva-is-hindu-modernity-101630406266372.html
31-08-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Who are the best PMs India never had?||Since last week’s ‘what if’ column (on what would have happened if Rajiv Gandhi had not been assassinated) evoked such a robust response, here is another ‘what if’. As we know, the best men and women do not always get to be Prime Minister (PM). Getting the top job is often just a matter of luck. (As HD Deve Gowda will tell you.)So what about those who lost out? Who are the best PMs India never had? I don’t have the historical perspective to tell you how good Sardar Patel would have been (though my guess is: very good), but here are some I watched closely while covering politics over the last few decades.Sharad Pawar: There is talk of Sharad Pawar being pushed as the Opposition candidate for PM at the next election. I don’t think anything will come of this move, but it does tell us how long Pawar has been around for.In 1991, after Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated, Pawar declared his candidacy for PM and pushed for an election for the post. At that time, Pawar’s image was that of a real estate-obsessed, crooked billionaire-politician who was surrounded by businessmen cronies. So the Congress panicked. Sonia Gandhi was asked to put her weight behind Narasimha Rao and Pawar only backed down when it became clear that he would lose an election to the post.If Sonia had not backed Rao and Pawar had won an election, what kind of PM would he have made?Oddly enough, I think he might have been very good.ALSO READ: Opinion | What kind of PM would Rajiv Gandhi have made in second term?Two big events took place during the Narasimha Rao era. The first was liberalisation. If Pawar had been in charge, he would have followed the process through to its logical conclusion (unlike Rao who chickened out eventually) because he believed in the market unlike Rao who had spent his life devoted to socialist objectives.The second was the fall of the Babri Masjid. Unlike Rao, I don’t think Pawar would have accepted the mealy-mouthed assertions of Kalyan Singh that no harm would come to the structure and would have acted to prevent the demolition. Pawar, unlike Rao, was always respected for his strong, decisive streak.Of course if Pawar had remained PM for five years, he would have left behind a very different Congress. But I doubt if he would have left it in the unelectable mess that Rao did in 1996.Arjun Singh: Throughout the Narasimha Rao regime there were always suggestions that Arjun Singh would topple him. And Arjun Singh did have his big chance. If he had resigned on the day that the Babri Masjid came down, he would have emerged as an alternative to Rao and got the top job.But he did not because in many ways, he was a lot like Rao: Devious, laconic, conspiratorial and indecisive. Plotters don’t always make leaders. For that you need courage and openness. Sadly, Arjun Singh had neither.Jyoti Basu: Few people can have been as frustrated by their failure to become PM as Basu was. The CPM regularly refused to join any government at the Centre, preferring to offer support from outside (which Basu called ‘a historic blunder’) thus denying an eager Jyoti Basu the chance to become PM even though many Third Front chieftains (such as Mulayam Singh) enthusiastically endorsed his candidacy.In my view, he would have been an utter and complete disaster as PM. I saw, firsthand, how the CPM, under Basu, destroyed Bengal, driving out industry while promoting the interests of a coterie of industrialists and encouraging a lazy, union-led work culture.India is lucky that Basu never got the top job.LK Advani: He probably came closer to the top job than anyone else. Advani was Vajpayee’s deputy PM when the BJP called the 2004 election which it thought it would win easily. The plan then was for Vajpayee to serve out a year or so before handing the keys to Race Course Road to Advani.It did not work because Sonia Gandhi surprised everyone by defeating the BJP and a United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was formed. When Advani tried again, on his own, five years later, the Congress was too strong for him.If it had all worked out, what kind of PM would he have made?I think he might have been rather good. He knew what the job entailed having been deputy PM and had demonstrated, while he was in office, a capacity to deliver steady governance.The only thing that was held against him in those days was his role as a Hindutva proponent compared to the moderate Vajpayee. In retrospect, that now seems like a joke. In today’s BJP, he is regarded as a dangerous, secular radical.Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj: In the days before Narendra Modi emerged as the unquestioned leader of the BJP, it was widely believed that the Vajpayee-Advani generation would give way to a Jaitley-Swaraj dispensation and that one of them would become PM.Of the two, Swaraj had the advantage of being a mass politician who had fought elections in difficult circumstances and had pulled off electoral upsets.Jaitley, on the other hand, was basically a Rajya Sabha politician (no bad thing; so was Manmohan Singh) whose great strengths were his formidable intellect and his ability to win friends across the political spectrum.Both would, I think, have made good PMs though Swaraj, because of her mass base, may have been more daring. On the other hand, the BJP would probably not have won an overall majority under either leader, so Jaitley's skills at winning over allies and the Opposition may have been more relevant.Pranab Mukherjee: If the Congress had needed the support of the Left in 2009, then Pranab would have become PM. The Left would not have accepted Manmohan Singh as PM again, (after the nuclear deal) while Pranab would have been acceptable to all parties.As PM, he would have had the advantage of being a far better administrator than Manmohan Singh. He would have surrounded himself with better civil servants. He would not have let the CAG run riot and he would have been a visible, aggressive presence unlike Manmohan Singh who hid himself away when things began to go wrong.On the minus side, he would have been stubborn and unreasonable on matters of policy (his baffling, if not suspicious, insistence on retrospective tax is just one example) and would not have embraced the reforms process with Manmohan Singh’s passion and skill.So it is a toss-up. But for better or worse, I do believe if Pranab Mukherjee had been PM during UPA-II, history could have been very different.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/opinion-the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-who-are-the-best-pms-india-never-had-101630395461537.html
31-08-2021||Editorials||Lessons for India from Kerala’s Covid experience||Many held Kerala up as a national and global example on how to manage Covid-19 during the first wave of the pandemic. But, as a regular Covid column HT ran for a little over a year pointed out, even in those early days, this was more smart PR than anything else. Now, Kerala accounts for 68% of India’s cases (in terms of the 7-day daily case average on August 30). And the state is understandably coming in for criticism for its handling of the pandemic. There are multiple theories about what’s happening in the southern state with the best social development indicators in the country. Based on statistical and scientific evidence on hand, it can be safely surmised that Kerala’s crisis is caused by a mutant strain of the original virus, and an extremely poor containment and home quarantine policy.Also Read | Sero survey, new testing strategy: How Kerala is battling rising Covid-19 casesAs evident from Delhi’s experience during the peak of the country’s second wave (and the city-state’s fourth), a localised lockdown, stringent restrictions, and an effective containment policy are all that are needed to sharply reduce the number of cases. If Kerala is unable to do so, it is because the state doesn’t have adequate restrictions; it is ineffective at monitoring even what restrictions are in place; and people in the state are not self-isolating when they test positive (again, there’s inadequate monitoring of this). As India opens up even more, and as many states reopen schools, it is important that everyone learn from Kerala’s experience.If there is a silver lining, it’s Kerala’s case fatality rate, which currently stands at 0.5% in comparison to the country’s 1.3%. Clearly, the state’s superior quality of public health care has helped – another lesson for other states. A good public health care system can lessen the impact of even an enduring wave of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/lessons-for-india-from-kerala-s-covid-experience-101630415151217.html
31-08-2021||Editorials||The political battle over reforms||With the Haryana government deploying force to crack down on farm protests in Karnal on Saturday, a movement that was alive but relatively passive has assumed a new lease of life. As this newspaper reported on Tuesday, farm unions plan to hold a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar in western Uttar Pradesh on September 5 to broaden their agenda. From opposing the new farm laws, these unions will now oppose the government’s economic policies, including the recently unveiled asset monetisation programme. There is politics, economics and geography enmeshed in the new round of farm activism.First, the politics. A simple rule in dealing with a mass movement — and there is no doubt that the farm agitation is a mass movement — is not to do anything to aggravate it. The central government has been clear that it will not revoke the farm laws, but it has also been careful in not using force even when farm protesters choked Delhi’s entry points or a segment turned violent on Republic Day.Also Read | ‘Can think of a middle ground if govt invites farmers for talks with open mind’This is because in a volatile situation, there is always possibility of excessive force; this alienates protesting groups, adds to anger, and makes a resolution harder. Given the fusion of class and identity (Sikhs and Jats are at the forefront of the protests), using force is also an invitation to social turmoil. That is why the video of a Haryana bureaucrat (Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha) telling policemen to “break the heads” of protesters — an unacceptable instruction by any standard — has become an instrument for further mobilisation.This moment then has got enmeshed with geography and electoral calculations. The expansion of the farm movement from Punjab to Haryana and then to west UP, and from primarily Sikh farmers to Jat farmers, lent it more weight. Now, in the run-up to the UP elections, expect an anti-government offensive in west UP in a bid to mobilise farmers in general, and Jats in particular. But beyond the political calculus, there is an underlying political economy battle developing in India now. The government is committed to economic reforms — agricultural laws, privatisation, asset monetisation are all examples of this push. And while this newspaper believes that these are sound ideas, it is but natural that they will invite a backlash from those stakeholders who feel they will lose out as a result of the reforms. The farm groups are attempting to weave a wider narrative to collaborate with the Opposition, trade unions, and others. All of this makes it even more important for the government to stay the course on reforms, but with sensitivity, not high-handedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-political-battle-over-reforms-101630405726625.html
